library_id: 100000002
citation: Gambling and Racing Control Act 1999
type: primary_legislation
version_id: R35|2025-12-16
jurisdiction: australian_capital_territory
url: https://www.legislation.act.gov.au/a/1999-46/
content_format: docx

Australian Capital Territory
Gambling and Racing Control Act 1999
A1999-46
Republication No 35
Effective: 16 December 2025
Republication date: 16 December 2025
Last amendment made by A202529

About this republication
The republished law
This is a republication of the Gambling and Racing Control Act 1999 (including any amendment made under the Legislation Act 2001, part 11.3 (Editorial changes)) as in force on 16 December 2025. It also includes any commencement, amendment, repeal or expiry affecting this republished law to 16 December 2025.
The legislation history and amendment history of the republished law are set out in endnotes 3 and 4.
Kinds of republications
The Parliamentary Counsel’s Office prepares 2 kinds of republications of ACT laws (see the ACT legislation register at www.legislation.act.gov.au):
authorised republications to which the Legislation Act 2001 appliesunauthorised republications.
The status of this republication appears on the bottom of each page.
Editorial changes
The Legislation Act 2001, part 11.3 authorises the Parliamentary Counsel to make editorial amendments and other changes of a formal nature when preparing a law for republication. Editorial changes do not change the effect of the law, but have effect as if they had been made by an Act commencing on the republication date (see Legislation Act 2001, s 115 and s 117). The changes are made if the Parliamentary Counsel considers they are desirable to bring the law into line, or more closely into line, with current legislative drafting practice.
This republication does not include amendments made under part 11.3 (see endnote 1).
Uncommenced provisions and amendments
If a provision of the republished law has not commenced, the symbol  U  appears immediately before the provision heading. Any uncommenced amendments that affect this republished law are accessible on the ACT legislation register (www.legislation.act.gov.au). For more information, see the home page for this law on the register.
Modifications
If a provision of the republished law is affected by a current modification, the symbol  M  appears immediately before the provision heading. The text of the modifying provision appears in the endnotes. For the legal status of modifications, see the Legislation Act 2001, section 95.
Penalties
At the republication date, the value of a penalty unit for an offence against this law is $160 for an individual and $810 for a corporation (see Legislation Act 2001, s 133).

Australian Capital Territory
Gambling and Racing Control Act 1999

Contents
Page

Part 1 Preliminary 2

1 Name of Act 2

2 Dictionary 2

3 Notes 2

4 Gaming laws 2

Part 2 The commission 4

Division 2.1 Establishment and functions of commission 4

5 Establishment of gambling and racing commission 4

6 Functions of commission 4

7 How commission must exercise its functions 6

8 Community consultation 6

10 Delegation 6

Division 2.2 Governing board 7

11 Establishment of governing board 7

12 Governing board members 7

13 Chief executive officer of commission 8

14 Commission’s staff 8

15 Consultants and contractors 8

Part 3 Role of commission in dealing with social effects of gambling 9

Division 3.1 Monitoring and research 9

17 Monitoring and research 9

Division 3.2 Dealing with social effects of gambling 9

18 Code of practice 9

19 Education and counselling 11

Part 4 Powers of investigation 12

Division 4.1 Authorised officers 12

20 Authorised officers 12

21 Identity cards for authorised officers 12

Division 4.2 Powers of investigation 13

22 Power to require information, instruments or records or attendance for examination 13

22A Commission may require records to be kept 14

23 Powers of entry and inspection 15

24 Search warrant 16

25 Use and inspection of documents and records produced or seized 17

26 Use of goods produced or seized 17

27 Self-incrimination 18

28 Failing to comply with requirement of authorised officer 18

30 Access to public records without fee 19

31 Investigation of complaints 19

Division 4.3 Cooperation with other jurisdictions 20

32 Cooperative agreements 20

33 Investigation at request of reciprocating jurisdiction 20

Division 4.4 Secrecy 20

34 Meaning of gaming officer in div 4.4 20

35 Gaming officers must respect confidentiality 20

36 Permitted disclosures of a general nature 21

37 Permitted disclosures to particular people 22

37A Permitted disclosures—enforceable undertakings 23

37B Public register—disciplinary actions and enforceable undertakings 24

38 Prohibition on secondary disclosures of information 25

39 Further restrictions on disclosure 25

Part 5 Inquiries 26

40 Starting an inquiry 26

41 Interested people may make submissions 26

42 Hearings to be in public 26

43 Adjournments 26

44 Record of proceedings 26

45 Evidence 26

46 Report and recommendations 27

47 Rules of commission 27

Part 6 Tax administration 28

48 Provisions of Taxation Administration Act apply 28

49 Commission may exercise functions under Commonwealth Act 28

Part 6A Authorisation numbers for electronic gaming 29

50 Cap on number of authorisations for electronic gaming in ACT 29

50A Review of cap on number of authorisations 32

Part 6B Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies 33

51 Definitions—pt 6B 33

52 Licences and authorisation certificates—register 35

53 Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisation schedules—replacement copies 36

Part 7 Miscellaneous 38

53C Acts and omissions of representatives 38

53CA Protection for authorised officers 39

53D Approved forms 39

54 Regulation-making power 40
Dictionary 41
Endnotes 45

1 About the endnotes 45

2 Abbreviation key 45

3 Legislation history 46

4 Amendment history 52

5 Earlier republications 59

6 Expired transitional or validating provisions 62
Australian Capital Territory
Gambling and Racing Control Act 1999

An Act to provide for the administration of certain Acts relating to gambling and racing and to create the gambling and racing commission

Part 1 Preliminary

1 Name of Act
This Act is the Gambling and Racing Control Act 1999.

2 Dictionary
The dictionary at the end of this Act is part of this Act.
Note 1 The dictionary at the end of this Act defines certain terms used in this Act.
Note 2 A definition in the dictionary (including a signpost definition) applies to the entire Act unless the definition, or another provision of the Act, provides otherwise or the contrary intention otherwise appears (see Legislation Act, s 155 and s 156 (1)).

3 Notes
A note included in this Act is explanatory and is not part of this Act.
Note See the Legislation Act, s 127 (1), (4) and (5) for the legal status of notes.

4 Gaming laws
For this Act, the following are gaming laws:
(a) this Act;
(b) the Casino Control Act 2006;
(c) the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017;
(d) the Gaming Machine Act 2004;
(e) the Interactive Gambling Act 1998;
(f) the Lotteries Act 1964;
(g) the Pool Betting Act 1964;
(h) the Race and Sports Bookmaking Act 2001;
(i) the Racing Act 1999;
(j) the Totalisator Act 2014;
(k) the Unlawful Gambling Act 2009.
Note A reference to an Act includes a reference to the statutory instruments made or in force under the Act, including regulations (see Legislation Act, s 104).

Part 2 The commission

Note for pt 2
The governance of territory authorities, including the commission, is regulated by the Financial Management Act 1996 (the FMA), pt 9 as well as the Act that establishes them.
The FMA, pt 9 deals, for example, with the corporate status of territory authorities and their powers, the make-up of governing boards, the responsibilities of the governing board and board members, how governing board positions can be ended, meetings of governing boards and conflicts of interest.

Division 2.1 Establishment and functions of commission

5 Establishment of gambling and racing commission
The ACT Gambling and Racing Commission (the commission) is established.

6 Functions of commission
(1) The functions of the commission are—
(a) to administer the gaming laws; and
(b) to control, supervise and regulate gaming in the ACT; and
(c) to exercise any other function given to the commission under this Act or any other territory law.
Note A provision of a law that gives a function to an entity also gives the entity the powers necessary and convenient to exercise the function (see Legislation Act, s 196).
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the functions of the commission include the following:
(a) regulating—
(i) the activities of casinos; and
(ii) machine gaming; and
(iii) lotteries; and
(iv) racing, as provided in the Racing Act 1999; and
(v) betting; and
(vi) interactive gambling;
(b) approving gaming and racing activities;
(c) monitoring and researching the social effects of gambling and of gambling harm;
(d) providing education and counselling services;
(e) engaging in community consultation, as appropriate, on matters related to its functions;
(f) reviewing legislation and policies related to gaming and racing and making recommendations to the Minister on those matters;
(g) monitoring, researching and funding activities relating to gaming and racing;
(h) investigating and conducting inquiries into—
(i) issues related to gaming and racing; and
(ii) activities of people in relation to gaming and racing, for the purpose of exercising functions under a gaming law;
(i) collecting taxes, fees and charges imposed or authorised by or under gaming laws.
(3) The Minister may direct the commission by way of—
(a) guidelines directing the way the commission is to exercise any of its functions; or
(b) directions in writing relating to particular matters.
(4) A guideline under subsection (3) (a) is a disallowable instrument.

7 How commission must exercise its functions
The commission must exercise its functions in the way that best promotes the public interest, and in particular, as far as practicable—
(a) promotes consumer protection; and
(b) minimises the possibility of criminal or unethical activity; and
(c) reduces the risks and costs, to the community and to the individuals concerned, of gambling harm.

8 Community consultation
In exercising its functions of reviewing legislation and policies to make recommendations to the Minister, the commission must engage in community consultation.

10 Delegation
The commission may delegate the commission’s functions under this Act or another territory law to a public servant.
Note For the making of delegations and the exercise of delegated functions, see the Legislation Act, pt 19.4.

Division 2.2 Governing board

11 Establishment of governing board
The commission has a governing board.
Note An appointment of a governing board member is an appointment under this section (see Financial Management Act 1996, s 78 (7) (b)).

12 Governing board members
(1) The governing board has 5 members, of whom 1 must have knowledge, experience or qualifications related to providing counselling services to people experiencing gambling harm.
Note 1 The chair and deputy chair of the governing board must be appointed under the Financial Management Act 1996, s 79.
Note 2 The chief executive officer of the authority is a member of the board (see Financial Management Act 1996, s 80 (4)).
(2) A person is not eligible to be a member if—
(a) the person or the person’s domestic partner has an interest in a business subject to a gaming law; or
Note For the meaning of domestic partner, see the Legislation Act, s 169.
(b) the person would be unlikely to be able to properly exercise the functions of a member because of the person’s business association, financial association or close personal association with someone else; or
(c) the person has been convicted or found guilty of an offence against a gaming law or a corresponding law; or
(d) within 5 years before the proposed appointment, the person has been convicted, or found guilty, of an offence in Australia punishable by imprisonment for at least 1 year; or
(e) within 5 years before the proposed appointment, the person has been convicted, or found guilty, of an offence outside Australia that, if it had been committed in the ACT, would have been punishable by imprisonment for at least 1 year.
Note Found guilty—see the Legislation Act, dictionary, pt 1.
(3) In this section:
corresponding law means a law of another jurisdiction, whether in or outside Australia, that regulates gaming or racing.

13 Chief executive officer of commission
The chief executive officer of the commission must be a public servant.
Note A chief executive officer must be appointed under the Financial Management Act 1996, s 80 (2) and (3).

14 Commission’s staff
(1) The chief executive officer may employ staff for the commission on behalf of the Territory.
(2) The commission’s staff must be employed under the Public Sector Management Act 1994.
Note The Public Sector Management Act 1994, div 8.2 applies to the chief executive officer in relation to the employment of staff (see Public Sector Management Act 1994, s 152).

15 Consultants and contractors
(1) The commission may engage consultants and contractors.
(2) However, the commission must not enter into a contract of employment under this section.

Part 3 Role of commission in dealing with social effects of gambling

Division 3.1 Monitoring and research

17 Monitoring and research
(1) The commission must monitor the social and economic effects of gambling and gambling harm in the ACT, including the need for counselling and other services.
(2) The commission may conduct or sponsor research into the social and economic effects of gambling in the ACT.
(3) The Minister, or a resolution of the Assembly, may require the commission to address particular matters when exercising its functions under this section.
(4) The commission must, at intervals of not less than 12 months, provide reports to the Minister on the results of its activities under this section.
(5) The Minister must present a report under this section to the Assembly within 14 sitting days after receiving it.

Division 3.2 Dealing with social effects of gambling

18 Code of practice
(1) A regulation may prescribe 1 or more codes of practice to apply in relation to the following:
(a) a person who is licensed or has a function under a gaming law;
(b) a licensee’s executives or members of a licensee’s board or management committee;
(c) a licensee’s premises or a worker at a licensee’s premises;
(d) commitments under the National Consumer Protection Framework.
(2) A code of practice may include, but is not limited to, guidelines about the following:
(a) advertising, promotional practices and the offering of inducements;
(b) providing objective and accurate information about losing and winning;
(c) limiting facilities that make it easy for a gambler to spend more than the gambler originally intended;
Examples—facilities
 automatic teller machines
 credit facilities
 allowing people to pay by cheque or credit card
(d) providing mechanisms to allow people experiencing gambling harm to exclude themselves using a licensee’s facilities for gambling;
(e) training staff or executives or members of a licensee’s board or management committee to recognise and deal appropriately with people who are experiencing gambling harm or are at risk;
(f) developing methods of dealing with staff or clients who are experiencing gambling harm or are at risk;
(g) protection of privacy;
(h) providing workplace rights training for workers at premises of club licensees;
(i) providing training in corporate governance to a club licensee’s executives or members of a club licensee’s board or management committee.
(3) A code of practice may include powers of direction for the commission to ensure compliance with the code.
(4) The commission must, for each licence under a gaming law that permits the licensee to conduct gambling, develop and review a code of practice to apply to the licensees and make recommendations to the Minister for appropriate regulations.
(5) In this section:
National Consumer Protection Framework means the National Consumer Protection Framework for Online Wagering in Australia, National Policy Statement of Australian Governments, as in force from time to time.

19 Education and counselling
(1) The commission may carry out or sponsor—
(a) counselling for people who are experiencing gambling harm; or
(b) publicity and education programs—
(i) providing consumer information for different kinds of gambling; or
(ii) about the risks of gambling; or
(iii) about gambling harm.
(2) The Minister, or a resolution of the Assembly, may require the commission to address particular matters when exercising its functions under this section.

Part 4 Powers of investigation

Division 4.1 Authorised officers

20 Authorised officers
(1) The members of the governing board are authorised officers.
(2) The chief executive officer may appoint a person to be an authorised officer.
Note 1 For the making of appointments (including acting appointments), see the Legislation Act, pt 19.3.
Note 2 In particular, a person may be appointed for a particular provision of a law (see Legislation Act, s 7 (3)) and an appointment may be made by naming a person or nominating the occupant of a position (see s 207).
(3) The directorgeneral may, in writing, recognise a person engaged in the administration or enforcement of a gaming law of a reciprocating jurisdiction as an authorised officer for this subsection.
(4) If the directorgeneral recognises a person for subsection (3), the person is an authorised officer for the period and purpose stated in the recognition of the person.
(5) A gaming officer to whom the chief executive officer delegates functions under division 4.2 is an authorised officer.

21 Identity cards for authorised officers
(1) An authorised officer must be issued with an identity card in a form approved by the commission—
(a) containing the person’s name and a photograph of the person; and
(b) stating that the person is an authorised officer for the gaming laws.
(2) When recognising an officer of a reciprocating jurisdiction for section 20 (3), the commission may approve the use of the identity card issued by that jurisdiction for subsection (1).
(3) A person who has been issued with an identity card under subsection (1) and ceases to be an authorised officer must return the card to the commission as soon as practicable.
Maximum penalty: 1 penalty unit.

Division 4.2 Powers of investigation

22 Power to require information, instruments or records or attendance for examination
(1) The commission may, for a purpose related to the administration or enforcement of a gaming law, by written notice served on a person, require the person—
(a) to provide to the commission (either orally or in writing) information that is described in the notice; or
(b) to attend and give evidence before the commission or an authorised officer; or
(c) to produce to the commission a record or other document described in the notice that is in the person’s custody or control.
Note For how documents may be served, see the Legislation Act, pt 19.5.
(2) If a notice to a person under subsection (1) is made to determine that person’s tax liability, the notice must state that the requirement is made for that purpose, but the commission is not otherwise required to identify a person in relation to whom any information, evidence, record or other document is required under this section.
(3) The commission—
(a) may specify whether information or evidence to be provided or given under this section must be given orally or in writing; and
(b) may require any information or evidence given orally to be given on oath or affirmation.
Note It is an offence to make a false or misleading statement, give false or misleading information or produce a false or misleading document (see Criminal Code, pt 3.4).
(4) A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail—
(a) to comply with the requirements of a notice under this section within the period specified in the notice or any further period allowed by the commission; or
(b) to comply with any other requirement of the commission about the giving of evidence or how information or evidence is to be provided or given under this section.
Maximum penalty: 50 penalty units.
(5) A person required to attend before an authorised officer to give oral evidence must be paid expenses in accordance with the scale of allowances determined under the Taxation Administration Act 1999, section 139 for that Act, section 82 (5).
(6) Subsection (5) does not apply to a person, or a representative of a person, giving evidence in relation to the person’s own obligations under a gaming law.

22A Commission may require records to be kept
(1) For the administration or enforcement of a gaming law, the commission may require a stated class of people to keep records of the kind, and in the way, stated in the instrument.
(2) A person to whom a requirement under subsection (1) applies must comply with the requirement.
Maximum penalty: 50 penalty units.
(3) An instrument under this section is a disallowable instrument.

23 Powers of entry and inspection
(1) An authorised officer may, for a purpose related to the administration or enforcement of a gaming law, enter and inspect any premises at any reasonable time and do any of the following:
(a) remain on the premises;
(b) examine all documents and remove, or take copies of or extracts from, any document on behalf of the commission;
(c) inspect any gaming equipment and remove any gaming equipment that the officer believes on reasonable grounds to be connected with an offence against a gaming law;
(d) remove any thing that the officer believes on reasonable grounds might be used as evidence in a prosecution for an offence against a gaming law;
(e) require any person on the premises to answer questions or otherwise give information, including information about the identity of the person or another person;
(f) require any person on the premises to give access to any document in the person’s custody or control, and to—
(i) produce or display the document; or
(ii) provide a copy of the document or a version of it in some form other than that in which it is normally kept;
in any printed, electronic or other form that it is reasonably practicable to provide;
(g) require any person on the premises to produce any gaming equipment in the person’s custody or control;
(h) require the owner or occupier of the premises to provide the officer with the assistance and facilities that are reasonably necessary to enable the officer to exercise powers under this part.
(2) An authorised officer who enters premises under subsection (1) and is requested by the occupier to identify themself is not authorised to remain on the premises unless the officer produces the officer’s identity card to the occupier.
(3) The powers of entry and inspection under this section must not be exercised in relation to premises, or a part of premises, used for residential purposes except with the consent of the owner or occupier of the premises or part.
(4) In this section:
occupier, in relation to premises, includes a person apparently in charge or responsible for the premises.

24 Search warrant
(1) If a magistrate is satisfied, on the application of the chief executive officer supported by an affidavit or other sworn evidence, that there is a reasonable ground for suspecting that a document or gaming equipment relevant to an investigation into a possible offence against a gaming law, or any other thing constituting evidence of an offence against a gaming law, may be found in certain premises, the magistrate may issue a warrant authorising an authorised officer together with any assistants named or described in the warrant—
(a) to enter those premises, using the force that is necessary for the purpose; and
(b) to search the premises and to break open and search anything in the premises in which a document or any gaming equipment may be stored or concealed; and
(c) to seize and remove, on behalf of the commission—
(i) any document that appears to be relevant to the obligations of a person under a gaming law; or
(ii) any gaming equipment that the officer believes on reasonable grounds to be connected with an offence against a gaming law; or
(iii) any other thing that the officer believes on reasonable grounds might be used as evidence in a prosecution for an offence against a gaming law.
(2) The powers given by this section are in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other powers given by law.

25 Use and inspection of documents and records produced or seized
(1) This section applies to a document that has been produced to the commission or seized and removed by an authorised officer.
(2) The document may be kept for as long as is reasonably necessary to enable it to be inspected, copies of, or extracts or notes from it to be made, and for a decision to be made about whether subsection (3) applies.
(3) If the document is required by the commission as evidence for a legal proceeding, it may be kept until the proceeding is finally decided.
(4) The commission must permit a person who would be entitled to inspect the document if it were not in the possession of the commission to inspect the document at any reasonable time.
(5) Nothing in this section prejudices a lien a person has on the document.

26 Use of goods produced or seized
(1) This section applies to any thing, other than a document, that has been produced to the commission or seized and removed by an authorised officer.
(2) The thing may be kept for as long as is reasonably necessary to enable it to be inspected and for a decision to be made about whether subsection (3) applies.
(3) If the thing is required by the commission as evidence for a legal proceeding, it may be kept until the proceeding is finally decided.
(4) If the owner of the thing is convicted as a result of the legal proceedings, the court may direct that the thing be forfeited to the Territory, and in that case it may be disposed of as the Minister directs.
(5) If the thing is no longer required by the commission, but the commission cannot return it to the owner within 12 months despite reasonable efforts to do so (for example, because the owner has left the ACT), the commission may direct that the thing be disposed of by auction and the proceeds held for the owner instead of the thing.
(6) Nothing in this section prejudices a lien a person has on the thing.

27 Self-incrimination
(1) A person is not excused from answering a question, providing information or producing a document, when required to do so under this Act, on the ground that to do so might tend to incriminate the person or make the person liable to a penalty.
(2) If the person objects to answering the question, providing the information or producing the document on that ground, the answer, information or document is not admissible against the person in any criminal proceedings other than—
(a) proceedings for an offence in relation to false or misleading statements, information or records; or
(b) proceedings for an offence in the nature of perjury.

28 Failing to comply with requirement of authorised officer
(1) A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with a requirement of an authorised officer under this division.
Maximum penalty: 50 penalty units.
(2) A person does not commit an offence against this section arising from the entry of an authorised officer onto premises unless it is established that, at the material time, the authorised officer—
(a) identified themself as an authorised officer; and
(b) warned the person that a refusal or failure to comply with the requirement constituted an offence.

30 Access to public records without fee
The commission is entitled to inspect and take copies of any public record kept under an Act or law of the Territory without payment of any fee that would otherwise be payable.

31 Investigation of complaints
(1) A person may lodge a complaint with the commission, in a form approved by the commission, about compliance with a gaming law.
(2) If the commission investigates the complaint, the commission or an authorised officer may give the complainant information about the status or results of the investigation if satisfied that—
(a) the complainant has a legitimate interest in the information; and
(b) giving the information to the complainant would not unreasonably do any of the following:
(i) prejudice another person’s privacy or other interests;
(ii) deny another person procedural fairness;
(iii) adversely affect the conduct of the investigation.

Division 4.3 Cooperation with other jurisdictions

32 Cooperative agreements
The commission may make agreements with the responsible authorities of reciprocating jurisdictions governing cooperation under this division.

33 Investigation at request of reciprocating jurisdiction
(1) The commission may authorise a gaming officer of the Territory or of a reciprocating jurisdiction to investigate a matter that relates to the administration or enforcement of a gaming law of that jurisdiction, on the written request of an officer of that jurisdiction who exercises functions in relation to a gaming law of that jurisdiction.
(2) This Act applies in relation to an investigation under this section as if it were an investigation into a matter relating to the administration or enforcement of a gaming law of the Territory.

Division 4.4 Secrecy

34 Meaning of gaming officer in div 4.4
In this division:
gaming officer includes any person who has acquired a confidential document or confidential information under a gaming law or as a result of exercising functions under or in relation to a gaming law.

35 Gaming officers must respect confidentiality
(1) A person who is or has been a gaming officer must not, otherwise than in the performance of the person’s duties as a gaming officer, make a record of any confidential information about another person.
Maximum penalty: 50 penalty units, imprisonment for 6 months or both.
(2) A person who is or has been a gaming officer must not disclose any information obtained under or in relation to the administration of a gaming law, except as permitted by this part.
Maximum penalty: 50 penalty units, imprisonment for 6 months or both.
(3) The commission may require a gaming officer to make an oath or affirmation, in a way specified by the commission in writing, to maintain secrecy in accordance with this section.
(4) For subsection (2), information disclosed to the commission by a person exercising a function under a law of the Commonwealth, a State or another Territory in relation to gaming or racing is information obtained under this Act.

36 Permitted disclosures of a general nature
(1) The commission may disclose information obtained under or in relation to the administration of a gaming law that does not and is not likely to—
(a) directly or indirectly identify a particular person; or
(b) disclose matters about the personal affairs of a particular person.
(2) The commission may disclose statistical information that does not satisfy subsection (1) if—
(a) the reason that a person or the person’s affairs might be identified is that there are few people in particular categories; and
(b) the commission is satisfied that it is in the public interest to disclose that information.

37 Permitted disclosures to particular people
A gaming officer may disclose information obtained under or in relation to the administration of a gaming law—
(a) with the consent of the person to whom the information relates or at the request of a person acting on behalf of the person to whom the information relates; or
(b) in connection with the administration or execution of a gaming law (including for the purpose of any legal proceedings arising out of a gaming law or a report of any such proceedings); or
(c) in accordance with a requirement imposed under an Act; or
(d) to any of the following, or to a person authorised to receive the information by any of the following:
(i) for the purpose of the administration or enforcement of a gaming law of a reciprocating jurisdiction—a person who, or authority that, exercises functions under that law;
(ii) for the purpose of advising or assisting an administrative unit, the Minister or any other Minister on policy matters or the operation of a gaming law—the administrative unit responsible for this Act, the commission or the Minister;
(iii) for the purpose of administering the Gaming Machine Act 2004, part 2A (Reducing cap on authorisations to 3 500 or fewer)—the administrative unit responsible for this Act, the commission, the Minister or a tax officer under the Taxation Administration Act 1999;
(iv) for the purpose of administering the Gaming Machine Act 2004, division 11.3 (Diversification and sustainability support fund)—a member of the advisory board under that division, a public servant, the commission or the Minister;
(v) the auditor-general;
(vi) the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission;
(vii) the Australian Crime Commission;
(viii) the Australian Federal Police;
(ix) the Australian Securities and Investments Commission;
(x) the Australian statistician;
(xi) the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC);
(xii) the chief police officer;
(xiii) the commissioner for revenue;
(xiv) the Commissioner of Taxation of the Commonwealth;
(xv) the Department of Home Affairs (Cwlth);
(xvi) the Commonwealth Services Delivery Agency (Centrelink);
(xvii) the ombudsman;
(xiii) the police force or service of a State;
Note State includes the Northern Territory (see Legislation Act, dict, pt 1).
(xix) the integrity commission;
(xx) an authority or agency of a State that is responsible for collecting or receiving taxation revenue of the State;
(xxi) a person prescribed by regulation; or
(e) in accordance with section 31.

37A Permitted disclosures—enforceable undertakings
The commission may disclose information relating to a person as agreed with the person in an enforceable undertaking under the Gaming Machine Act 2004, part 3A.

37B Public register—disciplinary actions and enforceable undertakings
(1) The commission must keep a public register that lists—
(a) the business or trading names of licensees that have had disciplinary action taken against them under the Gaming Machine Act 2004, part 4; and
(b) a description of the—
(a) disciplinary action taken; and
(b) disciplinary ground for which the action was taken.
(2) The commission may enter any details agreed with a licensee on the register if the licensee has entered into an enforceable undertaking under the Gaming Machine Act 2004, part 3A.
(3) The commission must not enter details relating to disciplinary action on the register—
(a) if the details contain any references to the names of individuals; and
(b) unless—
(i) the time for any appeal or review in relation to the disciplinary action has not ended; and
(ii) any appeal or review in relation to the disciplinary action has not been decided or withdrawn.

38 Prohibition on secondary disclosures of information
A person must not disclose any information provided to the person by a gaming officer in accordance with this Act unless the disclosure is made with the consent of the commission or to enable the person to exercise a function given to the person by law for the purpose of the enforcement of a law for protecting the public revenue.
Maximum penalty: 50 penalty units, imprisonment for 6 months or both.

39 Further restrictions on disclosure
(1) A person who is or has been a gaming officer must not be required—
(a) to produce a confidential document in court; or
(b) to disclose any confidential information to a court;
unless the court considers that it is necessary to do so for the administration or execution of a gaming law.
(2) In this section:
court includes any tribunal, authority or person having power to require documents to be produced or questions to be answered.

Part 5 Inquiries

40 Starting an inquiry
(1) The commission must inquire into any matter referred to it by the Minister or under a gaming law.
(2) The commission may inquire into any other matter as it considers appropriate.

41 Interested people may make submissions
The commission must give any entity directly affected by or interested in the subject matter of an inquiry an opportunity to make submissions.

42 Hearings to be in public
An inquiry by the commission must be heard in public unless the commission, for good reason, decides otherwise.

43 Adjournments
The commission may at any time adjourn an inquiry as it considers appropriate.

44 Record of proceedings
The commission must keep a record of its proceedings.

45 Evidence
The commission may inform itself in any way it considers appropriate.

46 Report and recommendations
(1) The commission must report its findings in an inquiry, other than an inquiry mentioned in subsection (2), to the Minister and may make recommendations on its findings.
(2) If a gaming law requires the commission to make an inquiry before taking a specified action, the commission must report its findings in the annual report.
(3) The Minister must present any reports and recommendations before the Legislative Assembly within 14 sitting days after receiving them.

47 Rules of commission
(1) The commission may make rules for the procedure of the commission in an inquiry.
(2) A rule made under subsection (1) is a disallowable instrument.

Part 6 Tax administration

48 Provisions of Taxation Administration Act apply
The provisions of the Taxation Administration Act 1999, except for part 9 (Taxation officers, investigation and secrecy provisions), apply in relation to a gaming law as if—
(a) a reference to an authorised officer were a reference to an authorised officer under this Act; and
(b) a reference to the commissioner were a reference to the commission under this Act; and
(c) a reference to the Minister were a reference to the Minister in relation to this Act; and
(d) a reference to a tax law were a reference to a gaming law under this Act; and
(e) a reference to a tax officer were a reference to a gaming officer under this Act.

49 Commission may exercise functions under Commonwealth Act
The commission may exercise the functions of a State taxation officer under the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cwlth), part 3A.

Part 6A Authorisation numbers for electronic gaming

50 Cap on number of authorisations for electronic gaming in ACT
(1) The cap on the number of authorisations for electronic gaming for all authorised premises in the ACT is worked out as follows:
SN (NS + NC + NF)
NC means the total number of authorisations cancelled after the relevant day.
NF means the total number of authorisations forfeited to the Territory after the relevant day.
NS means the total number of authorisations surrendered after the relevant day.
SN means the number notified by the commission under subsection (3).
(2) The total number of authorisations for electronic gaming under all authorisation schedules issued under a gaming law must not exceed the cap on the number worked out under subsection (1).
Note An authorisation schedule is included in an authorisation certificate (see Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017, s 12 (1) (e) and s 15 (1) (e) and Gaming Machine Act 2004, s 27 (1) (h) and s 30 (3) (j)).
(3) As soon as practicable after each time the cap on the number of authorisations for electronic gaming changes, the commission must prepare a notice stating the new cap on the number and the date of the change.
(4) A notice under subsection (3) is a notifiable instrument.
(5) In this section:
authorisation, for electronic gaming, means—
(a) an authorisation for a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004; and
(b) an authorisation for a casino gaming machine or casino FATG terminal under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017.
authorised premises—
(a) see the Gaming Machine Act 2004, dictionary; and
(b) includes the casino.
cancelled—
(a) an authorisation for a gaming machine is cancelled if—
(i) the authorisation is cancelled under either of the following sections of the Gaming Machine Act 2004:
(A) section 62 (Commission may take disciplinary action against licensee);
(B) section 64 (Cancellation of authorisation certificate because of cancellation etc of general and on licences); and
(ii) the cancellation has become final; and
(b) an authorisation for a casino gaming machine or casino FATG terminal is cancelled if—
(i) the authorisation is cancelled under—
(A) the Casino Control Act 2006, section 34 (Disciplinary action against casino licensee); or
(B) the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017, section 41 (Cancellation of authorisation certificates and authorisations on surrender of casino licence); and
(ii) the cancellation has become final.
casino—see the Casino Control Act 2006, dictionary.
casino FATG terminal—see the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017, dictionary.
casino gaming machine—see the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017, dictionary.
electronic gaming means gaming machines, casino gaming machines, casino FATG terminals and fully-automated table game machines.
final—a cancellation of an authorisation becomes final when—
(a) the time for any appeal or review in relation to the decision has ended; or
(b) any appeal or review in relation to the decision has been decided or withdrawn.
forfeited—an authorisation is forfeited if the authorisation is forfeited under—
(a) the Gaming Machine Act 2004, section 127F (Trading authorisations—forfeiture requirement); or
(b) the following sections of the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017:
(i) section 17 (Acquiring authorisations—forfeiture requirement);
(ii) section 23 (Status of restricted authorisations if development approval ends under Planning Act 2023, s 211 or because no approval given);
(iii) section 24 (Status of restricted authorisations if development approval ends in other circumstances);
(iv) section 42 (Cancellation of authorisation certificates and authorisations—forfeiture).
gaming machine means a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004, dictionary.
relevant day means the date of the change stated in the notice prepared by the commission under subsection (3).
surrendered—
(a) an authorisation for a gaming machine is surrendered if the licensee, under the Gaming Machine Act 2004, section 37F (1) (c) (Surrender of licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations), surrenders the authorisation and the surrender takes effect under that Act, section 173E (Notifiable actions—date of effect); and
(b) an authorisation for a casino gaming machine or casino FATG terminal is surrendered if the casino licensee, under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017, section 43 (Surrender of authorisation certificates and authorisations), surrenders the authorisation and the surrender takes effect under that Act, section 50 (Notifiable actions—date of effect).

50A Review of cap on number of authorisations
(1) Before 31 December 2026, the Minister must—
(a) review the operation of section 50; and
(b) present a report of the review to the Legislative Assembly.
(2) This section expires on 31 December 2027.

Part 6B Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies

51 Definitions—pt 6B
In this part:
authorisation, for electronic gaming, means—
(a) an authorisation for a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004; and
(b) an authorisation for a casino gaming machine or casino FATG terminal under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017.
authorisation certificate, for electronic gaming, means—
(a) an authorisation certificate for a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004; and
(b) an authorisation certificate for a casino gaming machine or casino FATG terminal under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017.
authorisation number, for electronic gaming, means—
(a) an authorisation number for a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004; and
(b) an authorisation number for a casino gaming machine or casino FATG terminal under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017.
authorisation schedule, for electronic gaming, means—
(a) an authorisation schedule for an authorisation certificate for a licence for a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004; and
(b) an authorisation schedule for an authorisation certificate for a casino gaming machine or casino FATG terminal under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017.
casino FATG terminal—see the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017, dictionary.
casino gaming machine—see the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017, dictionary.
electronic gaming means gaming machines, casino gaming machines, casino FATG terminals and fully-automated table game machines.
gaming machine means a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004, dictionary.
general purpose, for a storage permit—see the Gaming Machine Act 2004, dictionary.
interim purpose, for a storage permit—see the Gaming Machine Act 2004, dictionary.
licence means—
(a) a casino licence granted under the Casino Control Act 2006, section 21; or
(b) a licence for a class B or class C gaming machine issued under the Gaming Machine Act 2004.
Note Licensee has a meaning corresponding to the meaning of licence (see Legislation Act, s 157).
maximum number, of authorisations—
(a) for gaming machines—see the Gaming Machine Act 2004, dictionary; and
(b) for casino gaming machines—means the maximum number of authorisations for casino gaming machines the casino licensee is allowed under an authorisation certificate; and
(c) for casino FATG terminals—means the maximum number of authorisations for casino FATG terminals the casino licensee is allowed under an authorisation certificate.
storage permit—see the Gaming Machine Act 2004, section 127L.

52 Licences and authorisation certificates—register
(1) The commission must keep a register of licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations.
(2) The register must include the following details:
(a) the date of issue, amendment or transfer of a licence or authorisation certificate;
(b) the date of the suspension or cancellation of a licence or authorisation certificate;
(c) for each authorisation certificate included in the register—
(i) for an authorisation certificate in relation to gaming machines—the maximum number of authorisations for gaming machines the licensee may have under the authorisation certificate; and
(ii) for an authorisation certificate in relation to casino gaming machines or casino FATG terminals—the maximum number of authorisations for casino gaming machines or casino FATG terminals the licensee is allowed under the authorisation certificate; and
(iii) the authorisation number for each authorisation; and
(iv) details of any gaming machine, casino gaming machine or casino FATG terminal under each authorisation;
(d) if a licensee holds a storage permit—
(i) whether the permit is for a general purpose or an interim purpose; and
(ii) the serial number of each gaming machine to be stored under the permit; and
(iii) for a storage permit for a general purpose—the authorisation number for each gaming machine’s associated authorisation;
(e) anything else prescribed by regulation.
(3) The register may be kept in any form, including electronically, that the commission decides.
(4) The commission may correct an error or omission in the register.
(5) A licensee may ask the commission, in writing, to correct an error or omission in the register.
(6) The commission may change a detail included in the register to keep the register up-to-date.
Example
A detail in the register may be changed as a consequence of receiving notification under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017, s 49 or the Gaming Machine Act 2004, s 173D about a notifiable action.

53 Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisation schedules—replacement copies
(1) This section applies if a licensee’s licence, authorisation certificate or authorisation schedule is lost, stolen or destroyed.
(2) The licensee must give the commission a statement verifying the loss, theft or destruction of the licence, authorisation certificate or authorisation schedule as soon as practicable after becoming aware of the loss, theft or destruction.
Note It is an offence to make a false or misleading statement, give false or misleading information or produce a false or misleading document (see Criminal Code, pt 3.4).
(3) If the commission receives a statement under subsection (2), the commission must give the licensee a replacement licence, replacement authorisation certificate or replacement authorisation schedule.

Part 7 Miscellaneous

53C Acts and omissions of representatives
(1) In this section:
person means an individual.
Note See the Criminal Code, pt 2.5 for provisions about corporate criminal responsibility.
representative, of a person, means an employee or agent of the person.
state of mind, of a person, includes—
(a) the person’s knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose; and
(b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief or purpose.
(2) This section applies to a prosecution for any offence against this Act.
(3) If it is relevant to prove a person’s state of mind about an act or omission, it is enough to show—
(a) the act was done or omission made by a representative of the person within the scope of the representative’s actual or apparent authority; and
(b) the representative had the state of mind.
(4) An act done or omitted to be done on behalf of a person by a representative of the person within the scope of the representative’s actual or apparent authority is also taken to have been done or omitted to be done by the person.
(5) However, subsection (4) does not apply if the person establishes that reasonable precautions were taken and appropriate diligence was exercised to avoid the act or omission.
(6) A person who is convicted of an offence cannot be punished by imprisonment for the offence if the person would not have been convicted of the offence without subsection (3) or (4).

53CA Protection for authorised officers
(1) This section applies to an authorised officer who is not a member of the governing board.
Note Members of governing boards are protected from liability under the Financial Management Act 1996, s 90.
(2) The authorised officer is not civilly liable for anything done or omitted to be done honestly and without recklessness—
(a) for the purpose of administering or enforcing a territory gaming law; or
(b) for the purpose of administering or enforcing a gaming law of a reciprocating jurisdiction under division 4.3; or
(c) in the reasonable belief that the act or omission was for a purpose mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b).
(3) Any liability that would, apart from this section, attach to the authorised officer attaches instead to the commission.

53D Approved forms
(1) The commission may approve forms for a gaming law.
(2) If the commission approves a form for a particular purpose, the approved form must be used for that purpose.
(3) An approved form is a notifiable instrument.

54 Regulation-making power
(1) The Executive may make regulations for this Act.
(2) A regulation may prescribe offences for contraventions of a regulation and prescribe maximum penalties of not more than 30 penalty units for offences against a regulation.

Dictionary
(see s 2)
Note 1 The Legislation Act contains definitions and other provisions relevant to this Act.
Note 2 For example, the Legislation Act, dict, pt 1 defines the following terms:
 ACT
 administrative unit
 Australian statistician
 directorgeneral (see s 163)
 exercise
 found guilty
 function
 integrity commission
 Minister (see s 162)
 public servant
 under.
annual report means the report that the commission is required to prepare under the Annual Reports (Government Agencies) Act 2004.
authorisation, for electronic gaming, for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies)—see section 51.
authorisation certificate, for electronic gaming, for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies)—see section 51.
authorisation number, for electronic gaming, for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies)—see section 51.
authorisation schedule, for electronic gaming, for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies)—see section 51.
authorised officer means a person who is an authorised officer under section 20.
casino means the casino under the Casino Control Act 2006.
casino FATG terminal, for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies)—see the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017, dictionary.
casino gaming machine, for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies)—see the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017, dictionary.
chief executive officer means the chief executive officer of the commission.
club licensee means a licensee that is a club under the Gaming Machine Act 2004.
code of practice—see section 18.
commission means the ACT Gambling and Racing Commission established under section 5.
electronic gaming, for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies)—see section 51.
gaming means conducting or playing a game of chance, or of mixed chance and skill, in which money or any other valuable thing is offered as a prize or is staked or risked (by a participant or someone else) on an event or contingency.
gaming equipment means any electrical, electronic or mechanical device or any other thing (other than chips) used, or suitable for use, in connection with gaming.
gaming law—
(a) in relation to the Territory—see section 4; and
(b) in relation to the Commonwealth, a State, another Territory, or a foreign country, (the other jurisdiction)—means a law of the other jurisdiction that relates to gaming or racing.
gaming machine, for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies)—see section 51.
gaming officer—
(a) for this Act generally—means any of the following:
(i) a member of the governing board;
(ii) any other authorised officer;
(iii) anyone else engaged (whether as an officer or employee or otherwise) in the administration or enforcement of a gaming law; and
(b) for division 4.4 (Secrecy)—see section 34.
general purpose, for a storage permit, for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies)—see the Gaming Machine Act 2004, dictionary.
governing board means the governing board of the commission.
inquiry means an inquiry conducted under part 5.
interim purpose, for a storage permit, for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies)—see the Gaming Machine Act 2004, dictionary.
licence, for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies)—see section 51.
maximum number, of authorisations, for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies)—see section 51.
racing means racing conducted for the purpose of betting.
reciprocating jurisdiction means a jurisdiction, being the Commonwealth, a State, another Territory or New Zealand, under a law of which an officer of the jurisdiction is authorised to give to the commission, for the purposes of the administration of a gaming law, information within the knowledge of the officer.
storage permit, for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copies)—see the Gaming Machine Act 2004, section 127L.
workplace rights training means training on rights and obligations under laws in force in the ACT that apply in relation to workers at premises of club licensees.
Examples—rights and obligations
 employment agreements
 minimum wages and employment conditions
 termination of employment agreements
 workplace safety

Endnotes

1 About the endnotes
Amending and modifying laws are annotated in the legislation history and the amendment history. Current modifications are not included in the republished law but are set out in the endnotes.
Not all editorial amendments made under the Legislation Act 2001, part 11.3 are annotated in the amendment history. Full details of any amendments can be obtained from the Parliamentary Counsel’s Office.
Uncommenced amending laws are not included in the republished law. The details of these laws are underlined in the legislation history. Uncommenced expiries are underlined in the legislation history and amendment history.
If all the provisions of the law have been renumbered, a table of renumbered provisions gives details of previous and current numbering.
The endnotes also include a table of earlier republications.

2 Abbreviation key
A = Act
NI = Notifiable instrument
AF = Approved formo = orderam = amendedom = omitted/repealedamdt = amendmentord = ordinance
AR = Assembly resolutionorig = originalch = chapterpar = paragraph/subparagraph
CN = Commencement noticepres = presentdef = definitionprev = previous
DI = Disallowable instrument
(prev...) = previouslydict = dictionarypt = partdisallowed = disallowed by the Legislativer = rule/subrule
Assemblyreloc = relocateddiv = divisionrenum = renumberedexp = expires/expired
R[X] = Republication No
Gaz = gazette
RI = reissuehdg = headings = section/subsection
IA = Interpretation Act 1967
sch = scheduleins = inserted/addedsdiv = subdivision
LA = Legislation Act 2001
SL = Subordinate law
LR = legislation registersub = substituted
LRA = Legislation (Republication) Act 1996
underlining = whole or part not commencedmod = modified/modificationor to be expired

3 Legislation history
Gambling and Racing Control Act 1999 A199946
notified 17 September 1999 (Gaz 1999 No S54)
s 1, s 2 commenced 17 September 1999 (s 2 (1))
remainder commenced 1 December 1999 (s 2 (2) and Gaz 1999 No S63)
as amended by
Gambling Legislation Amendment Act 1999 A199956 sch 3 (as am by A200080 amdt 3.5)
notified 10 November 1999 (Gaz 1999 No 45)
s 1, s 2 commenced 10 November 1999 (s 2 (1))
sch 3 commenced 1 December 1999 (s 2 (2) and Gaz 1999 No S63)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2000 A200080 amdt 1.1
notified 21 December 2000 (Gaz 2000 No S69)
s 1, s 2 commenced 21 December 2000 (IA s 10B)
amdt 1.1 taken to have commenced 1 December 1999 (s 2 (2), amdt 1.1)
Legislation (Consequential Amendments) Act 2001 A2001-44 pt 161
notified 26 July 2001 (Gaz 2001 No 30)
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 July 2001 (IA s 10B)
pt 161 commenced 12 September 2001 (s 2 and see Gaz 2001 No S65)
Race and Sports Bookmaking Act 2001 A200149 sch 2 pt 3
notified 12 July 2001 (Gaz 2001 No 28)
s 1, s 2 commenced 12 July 2001 (IA s 10B)
sch 2 pt 3 commenced 7 September 2001 (s 2 and Gaz 2001 No S68)
Legislation (Gay, Lesbian and Transgender) Amendment Act 2003 A2003-14 sch 1 pt 1.17
notified LR 27 March 2003
s 1, s 2 commenced 27 March 2003 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.17 commenced 28 March 2003 (s 2)
Australian Crime Commission (ACT) Act 2003 A2003-58 sch 1 pt 1.2
notified LR 17 December 2003
s 1, s 2 commenced 17 December 2003 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.2 commenced 17 June 2004 (s 2 and LA s 79)
Annual Reports Legislation Amendment Act 2004 A2004-9 sch 1 pt 1.16
notified LR 19 March 2004
s 1, s 2 commenced 19 March 2004 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.16 commenced 13 April 2004 (s 2 and see Annual Reports (Government Agencies) Act 2004 A2004-8, s 2 and CN2004-5)
Criminal Code (Theft, Fraud, Bribery and Related Offences) Amendment Act 2004 A2004-15 sch 1 pt 1.18, sch 2 pt 2.40
notified LR 26 March 2004
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 March 2004 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.18, sch 2 pt 2.40 commenced 9 April 2004 (s 2 (1))
Gaming Machine Act 2004 A2004-34 sch 2
notified LR 9 July 2004
s 1, s 2 commenced 9 July 2004 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 2 commenced 1 November 2004 (s 2 and CN2004-14)
Financial Management Legislation Amendment Act 2005 A200552 sch 1 pt 1.8
notified LR 26 October 2005
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 October 2005 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.8 commenced 1 January 2006 (s 2 (2))
Casino Control Act 2006 A2006-2 sch 1 pt 1.1
notified LR 22 February 2006
s 1, s 2 commenced 22 February 2006 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.1 commenced 1 May 2006 (s 2 and CN2006-6)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2007 A2007-3 sch 3 pt 3.51
notified LR 22 March 2007
s 1, s 2 taken to have commenced 1 July 2006 (LA s 75 (2))
sch 3 pt 3.51 commenced 12 April 2007 (s 2 (1))
Statute Law Amendment Act 2007 (No 2) A2007-16 sch 3 pt 3.16
notified LR 20 June 2007
s 1, s 2 taken to have commenced 12 April 2007 (LA s 75 (2))
sch 3 pt 3.16 commenced 11 July 2007 (s 2 (1))
Statute Law Amendment Act 2008 A2008-28 sch 3 pt 3.28
notified LR 12 August 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 12 August 2008 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 3 pt 3.28 commenced 26 August 2008 (s 2)
Unlawful Gambling Act 2009 A2009-39 sch 2 pt 2.1
notified LR 17 November 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 17 November 2009 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 2 pt 2.1 commenced 22 March 2010 (s 2 and CN2010-2)
Administrative (One ACT Public Service Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2011 A2011-22 sch 1 pt 1.70
notified LR 30 June 2011
s 1, s 2 commenced 30 June 2011 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.70 commenced 1 July 2011 (s 2 (1))
Statute Law Amendment Act 2013 A2013-19 sch 3 pt 3.22
notified LR 24 May 2013
s 1, s 2 commenced 24 May 2013 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 3 pt 3.22 commenced 14 June 2013 (s 2)
Totalisator Act 2014 A2014-4 sch 2 pt 2.1
notified LR 26 March 2014
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 March 2014 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 2 pt 2.1 commenced 27 March 2014 (s 2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2014 A201418 sch 3 pt 3.9
notified LR 20 May 2014
s 1, s 2 commenced 20 May 2014 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 3 pt 3.9 commenced 10 June 2014 (s 2 (1))
Annual Reports (Government Agencies) Amendment Act 2015 A201516 sch 1 pt 1.12
notified LR 27 May 2015
s 1, s 2 commenced 27 May 2015 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.12 commenced 3 June 2015 (s 2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2015 (No 2) A201550 sch 3 pt 3.18
notified LR 25 November 2015
s 1, s 2 commenced 25 November 2015 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 3 pt 3.18 commenced 9 December 2015 (s 2)
Red Tape Reduction Legislation Amendment Act 2016 A201618 sch 3 pt 3.24
notified LR 13 April 2016
s 1, s 2 commenced 13 April 2016 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 3 pt 3.24 commenced 27 April 2016 (s 2)
Public Sector Management Amendment Act 2016 A2016-52 sch 1 pt 1.30
notified LR 25 August 2016
s 1, s 2 commenced 25 August 2016 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.30 commenced 1 September 2016 (s 2)
Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017 A2017-42 sch 3 pt 3.2, sch 4 pt 4.1 (as am by A201845 sch 1 pt 1.1)
notified LR 13 November 2017
s 1, s 2 commenced 13 November 2017 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 3 pt 3.2 commenced 13 May 2018 (s 2 (1) and LA s 79)
sch 4 pt 4.1 om before commenced (see A201845 sch 1 amdt 1.1)
Casino and Other Gaming Legislation Amendment Act 2018 A2018-21 pt 4
notified LR 14 June 2018
s 1, s 2 commenced 14 June 2018 (LA s 75 (1))
pt 4 commenced 15 June 2018 (s 2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2018 A2018-42 sch 3 pt 3.16
notified LR 8 November 2018
s 1, s 2 taken to have commenced 1 July 2018 (LA s 75 (2))
sch 3 pt 3.16 commenced 22 November 2018 (s 2 (1))
Gaming Legislation Amendment Act 2018 A2018-45 pt 2, sch 1 pt 1.1, sch 2
notified LR 4 December 2018
pt 1 taken to have commenced 15 June 2015 (s 2 (1))
pt 2 commenced 11 December 2018 (s 2 (6))
sch 1 pt 1.1 taken to have commenced 13 November 2017 (s 2 (3))
sch 2 commenced 1 May 2020 (s 2 (5))
Note This Act also amends the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017 A2017-42.
Integrity Commission Act 2018 A2018-52 sch 1 pt 1.11 (as am by
A2019-18 s 4)
notified LR 11 December 2018
s 1, s 2 commenced 11 December 2018 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.11 commenced 1 December 2019 (s 2 (2) (a) as am by
A2019-18 s 4)
Gaming Legislation Amendment Act 2019 A2019-14 pt 2
notified LR 23 May 2019
s 1, s 2 commenced 23 May 2019 (s 2 (1))
pt 2 commenced 1 July 2019 (s 2 and see Gaming Legislation Amendment Act 2018 A2018-45 s 2)
Integrity Commission Amendment Act 2019 A2019-18 s 4
notified LR 14 June 2019
s 1, s 2 commenced 14 June 2019 (LA s 75 (1))
s 3, s 4 commenced 15 June 2019 (s 2 (1))
Note This Act only amends the Integrity Commission Act 2018
A2018-52.
Statute Law Amendment Act 2022 A2022-14 sch 3 pt 3.17
notified LR 10 August 2022
s 1, s 2 commenced 10 August 2022 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 3 pt 3.17 commenced 24 August 2022 (s 2)
Planning (Consequential Amendments) Act 2023 A2023-36 sch 1 pt 1.28
notified LR 29 September 2023
s 1, s 2 commenced 29 September 2023 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.28 commenced 27 November 2023 (s 2 (1) and see Planning Act 2023 A2023-18, s 2 (2) and CN2023-10)
Gaming Machine (Compulsory Surrender) Amendment Act 2024 A202450 sch 1 pt 1.1
notified LR 19 September 2024
s 1, s 2 commenced 19 September 2024 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.1 commenced 20 September 2024 (s 2)
Justice and Community Safety Legislation Amendment Act 2025 A20252 pt 3
notified LR 20 February 2025
s 1, s 2 commenced 20 February 2025 (LA s 75 (1))
pt 3 commenced 27 February 2025 (s 2 (1))
Justice and Community Safety Legislation Amendment Act 2025 (No 2) A20253 sch 1 pt 1.4
notified LR 14 March 2025
s 1, s 2 commenced 14 March 2025 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.4 commenced 21 March 2025 (s 2)
Gaming Legislation Amendment Act 2025 A202519 pt 2
notified LR 27 June 2025
s 1, s 2 commenced 27 June 2025 (LA s 75 (1))
pt 2 commenced 1 July 2025 (s 2 and CN2025-3)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2025 A2025-29 sch 4 pt 4.80
notified LR 6 November 2025
s 1, s 2 commenced 6 November 2025 (LA s 75 (1))
sch 4 pt 4.80 commenced 16 December 2025 (s 2 (6))

4 Amendment history
Name of Acts 1 sub A200552 amdt 1.111
Dictionarys 2 om A200144 amdt 1.1866
ins A200552 amdt 1.114
Notess 3 defs reloc to dict A200552 amdt 1.113
sub A200552 amdt 1.114
def casino om A200552 amdt 1.112
def commission om A200552 amdt 1.112
def gaming officer om A200552 amdt 1.112
def penalty unit om A200149 amdt 2.20
Gaming lawss 4 am A200144 amdts 1.1867-1.1869; A200149 amdts 2.212.23; A200434 amdt 2.3; A20062 amdt 1.1; A200939 amdt 2.1, amdt 2.2; pars renum R13 LA; A20144 amdt 2.1, amdt 2.2; pars renum R16 LA; A201742 amdt 3.10; pars renum R22 LA
The commissionpt 2 hdg am A200552 amdt 1.115
Establishment and functions of commissiondiv 2.1 hdg (prev pt 2 div 2 hdg) renum R1 LAsub A200552 amdt 1.116
Establishment of gambling and racing commissions 5 sub A200552 amdt 1.117
Functions of commissions 6 am A200144 amdt 1.1870, amdt 1.1871; A200552 amdt 1.118; A201319 amdt 3.163; A201516 amdt 1.16; A201845 s 4; A202529 amdt 4.80
How commission must exercise its functionss 7 am A201845 s 5
Community consultations 8 am A201516 amdt 1.16
Powers of commissions 9 om A200552 amdt 1.119
Delegations 10 sub A200716 amdt 3.65
Governing boarddiv 2.2 hdg (prev pt 2 div 2 hdg) renum R1 LAsub A200552 amdt 1.121
Establishment of governing boards 11 om A200552 amdt 1.120
ins A200552 amdt 1.122
am A200828 amdt 3.92; A201319 amdt 3.164
Governing board memberss 12 sub A200552 amdt 1.122
am A201319 amdt 3.165; A201845 s 6
Chief executive officer of commissions 13 om A200552 amdt 1.123
ins A200552 amdt 1.122
Commission’s staffs 14 sub A200552 amdt 1.124
am A20073 amdt 3.283; A201122 amdt 1.216
sub A201652 amdt 1.92
Consultants and contractorss 15 sub A200552 amdt 1.124
Annual reports 16 om A20049 amdt 1.24
Monitoring and researchdiv 3.1 hdg (prev pt 3 div 1 hdg) renum R1 LA
Monitoring and researchs 17 am A201845 s 7
Dealing with social effects of gamblingdiv 3.2 hdg (prev pt 3 div 2 hdg) renum R1 LA
Code of practices 18 am A201319 amdt 3.166; A201845 s 8, s 9; A2019-14 ss 48, ss renum R26 LA
Education and counsellings 19 am A201845 s 10, s 11; A2019-14 s 9
Authorised officersdiv 4.1 hdg (prev pt 4 div 1 hdg) renum R1 LA
Authorised officerss 20 sub A200552 amdt 1.125
am A201122 amdt 1.217
Powers of investigationdiv 4.2 hdg (prev pt 4 div 2 hdg) renum R1 LA
Power to require information, instruments or records or attendance for examinations 22 am A201418 amdt 3.37, amdt 3.38; A201618 amdt 3.107, amdt 3.108; pars renum R20 LA
Commission may require records to be kepts 22A ins A200149 amdt 2.24
am A201319 amdt 3.167; A202529 amdt 4.80
Powers of entry and inspections 23 am A202214 amdt 3.98, amdt 3.99
Search warrants 24 am A200554 amdt 1.126
Failing to comply with requirement of authorised officers 28 hdg sub A200415 amdt 2.89
s 28 am A200415 amdt 2.90; ss renum R4 LA (see A200415 amdt 2.91); A202214 amdt 3.100
Impersonating authorised officers 29 om A200415 amdt 2.92
Investigation of complaintss 31 am A201516 amdt 1.16; A202519 s 4
Cooperation with other jurisdictionsdiv 4.3 hdg (prev pt 4 div 3 hdg) renum R1 LA
Secrecydiv 4.4 hdg (prev pt 4 div 4 hdg) renum R1 LA
Gaming officers must respect confidentialitys 35 am A200144 amdt 1.1872, amdt 1.1873; A202529 amdt 4.80
Permitted disclosures of a general natures 36 am A202214 amdt 3.101
Permitted disclosures to particular peoples 37 am A200358 amdt 1.2; A200939 amdt 2.3; A201550 amdt 3.109; A201842 amdt 3.47; A201845 s 12; pars renum R25 LA; A2019-14 s 10; pars renum R26 LA; A201852 amdt 1.78; pars renum R27 LA; A2024-50 amdt 1.1; A202519 s 5
Permitted disclosures—enforceable undertakingss 37A ins A201845 s 13
Public register—disciplinary actions and enforceable undertakingss 37B ins A201845 s 13
Rules of commissions 47 am A200144 amdt 1.1874, amdt 1.1875; A201319 amdt 3.167; A202529 amdt 4.80
Provisions of Taxation Administration Act applys 48 am A200149 amdt 2.25
Authorisation numbers for electronic gamingpt 6A hdg ins A201742 amdt 3.11
Cap on number of authorisations for electronic gaming in ACTs 50 hdg sub A201845 s 14
s 50 om A20062 amdt 1.2
ins A201742 amdt 3.11
am A201845 s 15, s 16, amdt 2.1; A2023-36 amdt 1.157; A202529 amdt 4.80
Review of cap on number of authorisationss 50A ins A201845 amdt 2.2
am A2025-2 s 6, s 7
exp 31 December 2027 (s 50A (2))
Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations—register and replacement copiespt 6B hdg ins A201821 s 24
Definitions—pt 6Bs 51 am A199956 s 90 sch 3 (as am A200080 amdt 3.5)
om A20062 amdt 1.2
ins A201821 s 24
def authorisation ins A201821 s 24
def authorisation certificate ins A201821 s 24
def authorisation number ins A201821 s 24
def authorisation schedule ins A201821 s 24
def casino FATG terminal ins A201821 s 24
def casino gaming machine ins A201821 s 24
def electronic gaming ins A201821 s 24
def gaming machine ins A201821 s 24
def general purpose ins A201821 s 24
def interim purpose ins A201821 s 24
def licence ins A201821 s 24
def maximum number ins A201821 s 24
def permit ins A201821 s 24
om A20253 amdt 1.10
def quarantine permit ins A201821 s 24
om A20253 amdt 1.10
def storage permit ins A201821 s 24
Licences and authorisation certificates—registers 52 om A20062 amdt 1.2
ins A201821 s 24
am A201845 s 17
Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisation schedules—replacement copiess 53 om A20062 amdt 1.2
ins A201821 s 24
Miscellaneouspt 7 hdg orig pt 7 hdg om A20062 amdt 1.2
(prev pt 9 hdg) renum A20062 amdt 1.3
Racingpt 8 hdg om A20062 amdt 1.2
Service of documentspt 8A hdg ins A200149 amdt 2.26
om A20062 amdt 1.2
Service of documents etc on people generallys 53A ins A200149 amdt 2.26
om A20062 amdt 1.2
Serving documents etc on commissions 53B ins A200149 amdt 2.26
om A20062 amdt 1.2
Miscellaneouspt 9 hdg renum as pt 7 hdg
Acts and omissions of representativess 53C ins A200149 amdt 2.27
sub A200415 amdt 1.22
Protection for authorised officerss 53CA ins A200552 amdt 1.127
Approved formss 53D ins A200144 amdt 1.1876
(4) -(7) exp 12 September 2002 (s 53D (7))
am A201319 amdt 3.167; A202529 amdt 4.80
Regulation-making powers 54 sub A200144 amdt 1.1876
am A201845 s 18; A202529 amdt 4.80
Appointment and terms of office of members of commissionsch 1 om A200552 amdt 1.128
Transitional—Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
pt 20 hdg ins A201742 amdt 3.12
om R28 LA
Transitional—Gaming Machine Act 2004, s 10 (3) instrumentss 100 ins A201742 amdt 3.12
om R28 LA
Expiry—pt 20
s 101 ins A201742 amdt 3.12
am A201845 amdt 2.3
om R28 LA
Appointment of ordinary memberss 1.2 am A200314 amdt 1.60, amdt 1.61
om A200552 amdt 1.128
Term of offices 1.5 am A200080 amdt 1.1
om A200552 amdt 1.128
Meetingssch 2 om A200552 amdt 1.128
Meetingss 2.7 am A200434 amdt 2.4
om A200552 amdt 1.128
Dictionarydict ins A200552 amdt 1.129
am A201122 amdt 1.218; A201319 amdt 3.168; A201418 amdt 3.39; A201652 amdt 1.93; A201845 s 19; A201852 amdt 1.79
def annual report ins A20049 amdt 1.23
reloc from s 3 A200552 amdt 1.113
def authorisation ins A201821 s 25
def authorisation certificate ins A201821 s 25
def authorisation number ins A201821 s 25
def authorisation schedule ins A201821 s 25
def authorised officer ins A200552 amdt 1.129
def casino ins A200552 amdt 1.129
sub A20062 amdt 1.4
def casino FATG terminal ins A201821 s 25
def casino gaming machine ins A201821 s 25
def chief executive officer ins A200552 amdt 1.129
def club licensee ins A2019-14 s 11
def code of practice reloc from s 3 A200552 amdt 1.113
def commission ins A200552 amdt 1.129
sub A201319 amdt 3.169
def electronic gaming ins A201821 s 25
def executive officer ins A200149 amdt 2.19
reloc from s 3 A200552 amdt 1.113
om A201319 amdt 3.170
def gaming reloc from s 3 A200552 amdt 1.113
sub A200939 amdt 2.4
def gaming equipment reloc from s 3 A200552 amdt 1.113
def gaming law am A200434 amdt 2.1
reloc from s 3 A200552 amdt 1.113
def gaming machine ins A201821 s 25
def gaming officer ins A200552 amdt 1.129
sub A200828 amdt 3.93
def general purpose ins A201821 s 25
def governing board ins A200552 amdt 1.129
def inquiry reloc from s 3 A200552 amdt 1.113
def interim purpose ins A201821 s 25
def licence ins A201821 s 25
def maximum number ins A201821 s 25
def permit ins A201821 s 25
om A20253 amdt 1.11
def quarantine permit ins A201821 s 25
om A20253 amdt 1.11
def racing reloc from s 3 A200552 amdt 1.113
def reciprocating jurisdiction am A200434 amdt 2.2
reloc from s 3 A200552 amdt 1.113
def storage permit ins A201821 s 25
def workplace rights training ins A2019-14 s 12

5 Earlier republications
Some earlier republications were not numbered. The number in column 1 refers to the publication order.
Since 12 September 2001 every authorised republication has been published in electronic pdf format on the ACT legislation register. A selection of authorised republications have also been published in printed format. These republications are marked with an asterisk (*) in column 1. Electronic and printed versions of an authorised republication are identical.

Republication No and date
Effective
Last amendment made by
Republication for
R0A

13 Feb 2006

1 Dec 1999–

20 Dec 2000
A199956
amendments by A199956
R0B

13 Feb 2006

21 Dec 2000–

6 Sept 2001
A200080
amendments by A200080
R1

2 Nov 2001

12 Sept 2001–

12 Sept 2002
A200149
amendments by A200144 and A200149
R2

13 Sept 2002

13 Sept 2002–

27 Mar 2003
A200149
commenced expiry
R3

28 Mar 2003

28 Mar 2003–

8 Apr 2004
A200314
amendments by A200314
R4

9 Apr 2004

9 Apr 2004–

12 Apr 2004
A200415
amendments by A200415
R5

13 Apr 2004

13 Apr 2004–

16 June 2004
A200415
amendments by A20049
R6

17 June 2004

17 June 2004–

31 Oct 2004
A200415
amendments by A200358
R7

1 Nov 2004

1 Nov 2004–

31 Dec 2005
A200434
amendments by A200434
R8

1 Jan 2006

1 Jan 2006–

30 Apr 2006
A200552
amendments by A200552
R9

1 May 2006

1 May 2006–

11 Apr 2007
A20062
amendments by A20062
R10

12 Apr 2007

12 Apr 2007–

10 July 2007
A20073
amendments by A20073
R11

11 July 2007

11 July 2007–

25 Aug 2008
A200716
amendments by A200716
R12*

26 Aug 2008

26 Aug 2008–

21 Mar 2010
A200828
amendments by A200828
R13

22 Mar 2010

22 Mar 2010–

30 June 2011
A200939
amendments by A200939
R14

1 July 2011

1 July 2011–

13 June 2013
A201122
amendments by A201122
R15

14 June 2013

14 June 2013–

26 March 2014
A201319
amendments by A201319
R16

27 Mar 2014

27 Mar 2014–

9 June 2014
A20144
amendments by A20144
R17

10 June 2014

10 June 2014–

2 June 2015
A201418
amendments by A201418
R18

3 June 2015

3 June 2015–

8 Dec 2015
A201516
amendments by A201516
R19

9 Dec 2015

9 Dec 2015–

26 Apr 2016
A2015-50
amendments by A2015-50
R20

27 Apr 2016

27 Apr 2016–

31 Aug 2016
A2016-18
amendments by A2016-18
R21

1 Sept 2016

1 Sept 2016–

12 May 2018
A201652
amendments by A201652
R22

13 May 2018

13 May 2018–

14 June 2018
A201742
amendments by A201742
R23

15 June 2018

15 June 2018–

21 Nov 2018
A201821
amendments by A201821
R24

22 Nov 2018

22 Nov 2018–

10 Dec 2018
A201842
amendments by A201842
R25

11 Dec 2018

11 Dec 2018–

30 June 2019
A201845
amendments by A201845
R26

1 July 2019

1 July 2019–

30 Nov 2019
A201914
amendments by A201914
R27

1 Dec 2019

1 Dec 2019–

30 Apr 2020
A201918
amendments by A201852 as amended by A201918
R28

1 May 2020

1 May 2020–

23 Aug 2022
A201918
amendments by A2018-45 and expiry of transitional provisions (pt 20)
R29

24 Aug 2022

24 Aug 2022–

26 Nov 2023
A202214
amendments by A202214
R30

27 Nov 2023

27 Nov 2023–

19 Sept 2024
A202336
amendments by A202336
R31

20 Sept 2024

20 Sept 2024–

26 Feb 2025
A202450
amendments by A202450
R32

27 Feb 2025

27 Feb 2025–

20 Mar 2025
A20252
amendments by A20252
R33

21 Mar 2025

21 Mar 2025–

30 June 2025
A20253
amendments by A20253
R34

1 July 2025

1 July 2025–

15 Dec 2025
A202519
amendments by A202519

6 Expired transitional or validating provisions
This Act may be affected by transitional or validating provisions that have expired. The expiry does not affect any continuing operation of the provisions (see Legislation Act 2001, s 88 (1)).
Expired provisions are removed from the republished law when the expiry takes effect and are listed in the amendment history using the abbreviation ‘exp’ followed by the date of the expiry.
To find the expired provisions see the version of this Act before the expiry took effect. The ACT legislation register has point-in-time versions of this Act.

© Australian Capital Territory 2025
