Acts Interpretation Act 1931
Jurisdiction: tasmania
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/tas/consol_act/aia1931230/
Register: https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-1931-059
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/tas/consol_act/aia1931230.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-29T22:53:52.284700Z

Acts Interpretation Act 1931

   An Act to provide certain rules for the interpretation of Acts of
   Parliament; to define certain terms commonly used therein; and to
   facilitate the shortening of their phraseology

   Be it enacted by His Excellency the Governor of Tasmania, by and with
   the advice and consent of the Legislative Council and House of
   Assembly, in Parliament assembled, as follows:

   1.   Short title

     This Act may be cited as the Acts Interpretation Act 1931 .

   2.   Repeal

     The Interpretation Act 1906 , the Interpretation Act 1916 , and the
     Northern and Southern Divisions Act 1903 , are hereby repealed.

   2A.   Meaning of "regulation"

     In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears,

     regulation includes rule and by-law.

   3.   Acts to be construed subject to legislative powers of State

     Every Act shall be read and construed subject to the limits of the
     legislative powers of the State and so as not to exceed such powers,
     to the intent that, where any enactment thereof, but for this
     provision, would be construed as being in excess of such powers, it
     shall nevertheless be a valid enactment to the extent to which it is
     not in excess of such powers.

   4.   Application of Act

     (1)  Except where otherwise expressly provided, the provisions of
     this Act shall be applied in the interpretation and construction of
     every Act whenever passed (including this Act) and of all
     regulations made under any Act, except in so far as -

     (a) any provision of this Act is inconsistent with or repugnant to
     the true intent and object of the particular Act or regulation to be
     interpreted; or, in case of a regulation, with the true intent and
     object of the Act under which such regulation purports to have been
     made;

     (b) the interpretation which any provision of this Act would give to
     anything contained in such particular Act or regulation is
     inconsistent with the context thereof or with any definition or
     interpretation contained in such particular Act or regulation or in
     the Act under which such regulation is made.

     (1A)  For the purposes of applying this Act in the interpretation
     and construction of regulations made under an Act -

     (a) a reference in this Act to the passing of an Act, or to the time
     of the passing of an Act, shall be construed as a reference to the
     making of the regulations or the time when the regulations are made,
     as the case may be;

     (b) a reference in this Act to the Minister of the Crown for the
     time being administering an Act or enactment shall be construed as a
     reference to the Minister of the Crown administering the Act or
     enactment under which the regulations are made; and

     (c) a reference in this Act to a section or other division of an Act
     or to a subsection or other division of a section shall be construed
     as a reference to -

     (i) in the case of regulations, a regulation or other division of
     the regulations or, as the case may be, a subregulation or other
     division of such a regulation;

     (ii) in the case of rules, a rule or other division of the rules or,
     as the case may be, a subrule or other division of such a rule; or

     (iii) in the case of by-laws, a clause or other division of the
     by-laws or, as the case may be, a subclause or other division of
     such a clause.

     (2)  Where in this Act reference is made to an Act passed after any
     specified date, such reference shall include every such Act, whether
     passed before or after the commencement of this Act.

     (3)  This Act shall be binding on the Crown.

     (4)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

   5.   Meaning of word "Act"

     (1)  The word

     Act used in relation to a legislative enactment, shall include all
     Acts and ordinances which have been duly made and passed by the
     Parliament of Tasmania or by any council or authority empowered to
     make and pass laws in Tasmania, and to which assent has been duly
     given by or on behalf of the Sovereign.

     (2)  In any Act, including this Act, a reference to an Act
     (including a reference to the Act in which the reference occurs) or
     to an Imperial Act or a Commonwealth Act includes a reference to any
     regulation made under that Act, Imperial Act, or Commonwealth Act.

   6.   General provisions as to legislative enactments

     (1)  Every section of an Act shall have effect as a substantive
     enactment without introductory words.

     (2)  The headings of the parts, divisions, and subdivisions, into
     which any Act is divided shall be deemed to be part of the Act.

     (3)  Every schedule and appendix to an Act (including any heading of
     such a schedule or appendix or of any part, division or subdivision
     into which such a schedule or appendix is divided) shall be deemed
     to be part thereof.

     (4)  Except as provided in subsections (2) and (3)  -

     (a) a heading to a provision of an Act; or

     (b) a marginal note, footnote or endnote in an Act (other than a
     footnote appended to a prescribed form) -

     shall not be taken to be part of the Act.

     (5)  An Act may be altered, amended, or repealed in the same session
     of Parliament as that in which it was passed.

     (6)  No Act shall be binding on the Crown or derogate from any
     prerogative right of the Crown unless express words are included
     therein for that purpose.

     (7)  Every Act passed after 5th August 1853 shall be a public Act
     and shall be judicially noticed as such unless the contrary is
     expressly provided by that Act.

   7.   Meaning of "prescribed"

     In any Act, the expression prescribed -

     (a) means prescribed by, or by regulations made under, the Act in
     which the word appears; and

     (b) where reference is made to anything prescribed by an Act other
     than the Act in which the word appears, includes anything prescribed
     by any regulation made under that other Act.

   7A.   Construction of references to provisions of Acts, &c.

     (1)  Where in an Act reference is made to a Part, division, section,
     Schedule, or form without anything in the context to indicate that a
     reference to a Part, division, section, Schedule, or form of some
     other Act is intended, the reference shall be construed as a
     reference to a Part, division, section, Schedule, or form of the Act
     in which the reference is made.

     (2)  Where in a section of an Act reference is made to a subsection,
     paragraph, subparagraph, or other division without anything in the
     context to indicate that a reference to a subsection, paragraph,
     subparagraph, or other division of some other section or provision
     is intended, the reference shall be construed as a reference to a
     subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, or other division of the
     section in which the reference is made.

     (2A)  For the purposes of the application of subsections (1) and (2)
     to regulations, "section" and "subsection" shall be read as
     "regulation" and "subregulation", respectively.

     (3)  Where in a Schedule or part of a Schedule to an Act reference
     is made to a clause, subclause, paragraph, subparagraph, or other
     division without anything in the context to indicate that a
     reference to a clause, subclause, paragraph, subparagraph, or other
     division of some other provision is intended, the reference shall be
     construed as a reference to the clause, subclause, paragraph,
     subparagraph, or other division of the Schedule or the part of the
     Schedule in which the reference is made.

   8.   Acts amending other Acts to be incorporated therewith

     (1)  Every Act passed for the purpose and with the object of
     amending a previous Act shall be read and construed with, and
     subject to the provisions of, the amended Act, as modified by the
     amending Act, and shall be deemed to be incorporated therewith, and
     with every Act amending the same, unless the contrary is expressly
     provided therein.

     (2)  Where any Act is amended as aforesaid, the expression

     the Principal Act in any such amending Act, unless the contrary is
     expressly provided, shall mean the Act so amended, and shall be
     deemed to apply to the earliest of the series of Acts upon the same
     subject, even though the amendment consists only of some alteration
     in, or modification of, a previous amending Act.

   8A.   Regard to be had to purpose or object of Act

     (1)  In the interpretation of a provision of an Act, an
     interpretation that promotes the purpose or object of the Act is to
     be preferred to an interpretation that does not promote the purpose
     or object.

     (2)  Subsection (1) applies whether or not the purpose or object is
     expressly stated in the Act.

   8B.   Use of extrinsic material in interpretation

     (1)  Subject to subsection (2) , in the interpretation of a
     provision of an Act, consideration may be given to extrinsic
     material capable of assisting in the interpretation -

     (a) if the provision is ambiguous or obscure, to provide an
     interpretation of it; or

     (b) if the ordinary meaning of the provision leads to a result that
     is manifestly absurd or is unreasonable, to provide an
     interpretation that avoids such a result; or

     (c) in any other case, to confirm the interpretation conveyed by the
     ordinary meaning of the provision.

     (2)  In determining whether consideration should be given to
     extrinsic material, and in determining the weight to be given to
     extrinsic material, regard is to be given to -

     (a) the desirability of a provision being interpreted as having its
     ordinary meaning; and

     (b) the undesirability of prolonging legal or other proceedings
     without compensating advantage; and

     (c) other relevant matters.

     (3)  In this section -

     extrinsic material in relation to a provision of an Act, means
     material not forming part of the Act, including -

     (a) material that is set out in the document containing the text of
     the Act as printed by the Government Printer; and

     (b) a relevant report of a Royal Commission, Law Reform Commission
     or Commissioner, board or committee of inquiry, or a similar body,
     that was laid before either House of Parliament before the provision
     concerned was enacted; and

     (c) a relevant report of a committee of Parliament or of either
     House of Parliament that was made to Parliament or that House of
     Parliament before the provision was enacted; and

     (d) a treaty or other international agreement that is mentioned in
     the Act; and

     (e) any explanatory note, clause note or memorandum relating to the
     Bill that contained the provision, or any other relevant document,
     that was laid before, or given or otherwise made available to the
     members of, either House of Parliament by the member bringing in the
     Bill before the provision was enacted; and

     (f) the speech made to a House of Parliament by a member of the
     House in moving a motion that the Bill be read a second time; and

     (g) relevant material in the Votes and Proceedings of either House
     of Parliament or in any official record of debates in Parliament or
     either House of Parliament; and

     (h) a document that is declared by an Act to be a relevant document
     for the purposes of this section;

     ordinary meaning means the ordinary meaning conveyed by a provision
     having regard to its context in the Act and to the purpose or object
     of the Act.

   9.   Commencement

     (1)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

     (2)  Every Act to which the Royal Assent has been given by the
     Governor for or on behalf of the Sovereign before the commencement
     of section 8 of the Acts Interpretation Amendment Act 1981 shall,
     unless the contrary intention appears in the first-mentioned Act, be
     deemed to have come into operation on the day on which that Act
     received the Royal Assent.

     (3)  Every Act to which the Royal Assent is given by the Governor
     for and on behalf of the Sovereign on or after the date of
     commencement of section 8 of the Acts Interpretation Amendment Act
     1981 shall, unless the contrary intention appears in the
     first-mentioned Act, come into operation on the fourteenth day after
     the day on which that Act receives the Royal Assent.

     (3A)  Despite subsection (3) , if a provision of an Act provides
     that the Act or a portion of the Act commences on a day, or a day or
     days, to be proclaimed, that provision and the provision providing
     for the short title of the Act come into operation on the day on
     which the Act receives the Royal Assent unless the Act expressly
     provides otherwise.

     (4)  Every Act reserved for the signification of the Sovereign's
     pleasure after the commencement of section 8 of the Acts
     Interpretation Amendment Act 1981 shall, unless the contrary
     intention appears in that Act, come into operation on the day after
     the day on which a proclamation of the Governor signifying the
     Sovereign's assent is published or notified in the Gazette.

     (5)  Where an Act, or a regulation or other instrument or document
     made, issued, or granted under an Act, is expressed to commence,
     come into operation, or take effect on a particular day, it shall
     commence, come into operation, or take effect immediately on the
     expiration of the last preceding day.

   10.   Evidence of commencement

     The date appearing on the copy of an Act produced under section
     6(10) of the Legislation Publication Act 1996 and purporting to be
     the date on which the Governor assented thereto, or made known the
     Sovereign's assent thereto, shall be evidence that such date was the
     date on which the Governor so assented or made known such assent,
     and shall be judicially noticed.

   10A.   Meaning of "must", "is to" and "may"

     (1)  In any Act -

     (a) the word "must" is to be construed as being mandatory; and

     (b) the words "is to" and "are to" are to be construed as being
     directory; and

     (c) the word "may" is to be construed as being discretionary or
     enabling, as the context requires.

     (2)  Subsection (1) applies only in respect of a provision of an Act
     if that provision is passed after the commencement of the Justice
     Legislation (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2000 .

   11.   Anticipatory exercise of powers

     (1)  Where a provision of an Act does not commence on the passing of
     the Act and that provision would, if it had commenced, confer power
     to -

     (a) make an instrument of a legislative or administrative character;

     (b) give or serve a notice or other document;

     (c) appoint a person to a specified office;

     (d) establish a specified body of persons, whether incorporated or
     not; or

     (e) do any other thing for the purposes of the Act -

     then, unless the contrary intention appears, the power may,
     notwithstanding that that provision has not commenced, but subject
     to subsections (3) and (4) , be exercised at any time after the
     passing of the Act to the extent that it is necessary or expedient
     for the purpose of bringing the Act, or specified provisions of the
     Act, into operation, or giving full effect to the Act, or specified
     provisions of the Act, when or after that provision commences.

     (2)  Where -

     (a) a provision of an Act does not commence on the passing of the
     Act and the provision would, if it had commenced, amend another Act;
     and

     (b) a provision of that other Act would, if the first-mentioned
     provision had commenced, confer power to -

     (i) make an instrument of a legislative or administrative character;

     (ii) give or serve a notice or other document;

     (iii) appoint a person to a specified office;

     (iv) establish a specified body of persons, whether incorporated or
     not; or

     (v) do any other thing for the purposes of that other Act -

     then, unless the contrary intention appears, the power may,
     notwithstanding that the first-mentioned provision has not
     commenced, but subject to subsections (3) and (4) , be exercised at
     any time after the passing of the Act in which the first-mentioned
     provision is contained to the extent that it is necessary or
     expedient for the purpose of giving full effect to that other Act,
     or specified provisions of that other Act, when or after the
     first-mentioned provision commences.

     (3)  Where a power to make an instrument of a legislative or
     administrative character, or to give or serve a notice or other
     document, is exercised as provided in subsection (1) or in
     subsection (2) , that instrument, notice, or document shall take
     effect -

     (a) on the day on which the provision referred to in subsection (1)
     or, as the case may be, the provision first-mentioned in subsection
     (2) commences; or

     (b) on the day on which it would have taken effect, if at the time
     when the instrument was made or the notice or document was served,
     the provision so mentioned or first-mentioned had commenced -

     whichever is the later.

     (4)  Where a power to appoint a person to a specified office, or to
     establish a specified body of persons, is exercised as provided in
     subsection (1) or subsection (2) , the person so appointed may act
     in that office, or, as the case may be, the body so established may
     meet and perform and exercise its functions, duties, and powers, but
     only for a purpose referred to in subsection (1) or subsection (2)
     (whichever of those subsections is applicable).

   12.   Reference to Acts

     (1)  An Act passed by the Parliament of Tasmania may, in any Act,
     instrument, or document, be referred to by the word "Act" alone.

     (2)  An Act passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom or the
     Parliament of England, as the case may be, may, in any Act,
     instrument, or document, be referred to by the term "Imperial Act".

     (3)  An Act passed by the Parliament of the Commonwealth may, in any
     Act, instrument, or document, be referred to by the term
     "Commonwealth Act" or "Act of the Commonwealth".

   13.   Citation of Acts

     (1)  In any Act, instrument, or document -

     (a) an Act may be cited -

     (i) by its short title or by reference to the regnal year or
     calendar year in which it is passed; and

     (ii) by its number;

     (b) any Imperial Act may be cited by its short title, if any, or by
     reference to the regnal year in which it was passed and its chapter,
     together with a reference to the United Kingdom; and

     (c) any Commonwealth Act may be cited by its short title, if any, or
     by reference to the calendar year in which it was passed and its
     number, together with a reference to the Commonwealth; and

     (d) any Act or Ordinance of another State or Territory may be
     cited -

     (i) by its short title, if any; or

     (ii) in such other manner as is sufficient in an Act or Ordinance of
     that State or Territory -

     together with a reference to that State or Territory.

     (2)  Any enactment may be cited by reference to the Part, section,
     subsection, or other division of the Act, Imperial Act, Commonwealth
     Act or Act or Ordinance of the State or Territory in which it is
     contained.

     (3)  Any reference referred to in subsections (1) and (2) is to be
     made -

     (a) in the case of an Act of this State on the database, within the
     meaning of the Legislation Publication Act 1996 , according to a
     copy of the Act produced or purporting to be produced under section
     6(10) of the Legislation Publication Act 1996 ; and

     (b) in the case of any other Act of this State, according to a copy
     of the Act printed or purporting to be printed by the Government
     Printer; and

     (c) in the case of any other Act or Ordinance, according to a copy
     of the Act or Ordinance printed by the official printer for the
     Government of the United Kingdom, the Commonwealth or the State or
     Territory.

     (4)  A description or citation in any Act of a portion of another
     Act shall be construed as including the words, sections, or other
     parts mentioned or referred to as forming the beginning and the end
     respectively of the portion comprised in the description or
     citation.

     (5)  In any Act any reference to or citation of an Act shall be
     deemed to include a reference to or citation of all subsequent
     enactments passed in amendment or substitution of the Act so
     referred to or cited, whether those subsequent enactments are, or
     any of them is, passed before or after the passing of the Act in
     which the reference or citation occurs.

     (6)  In any Act, a reference to or citation of an Imperial Act, a
     Commonwealth Act or an Act or Ordinance of another State or
     Territory shall be deemed to include a reference to or citation of
     all subsequent enactments passed in amendment or substitution of the
     Imperial Act, Commonwealth Act or Act or Ordinance of the State or
     Territory so referred to or cited, whether those subsequent
     enactments are, or any of them is, passed before or after the
     passing of the Act in which the reference occurs.

   14.   Repeal of repealing Act not to revive prior enactments

     (1)  Where an Act, passed after 5th August 1853, repeals an
     enactment by which any former enactment was repealed, it shall not
     have the effect of reviving such former enactment unless express
     words for that purpose are included in such repealing Act.

     (2)  Where an enactment is expressed to expire, or to cease to
     operate, on a specified day, or to remain in force until a specified
     day, the operation thereof shall continue until the last moment of
     the day so specified.

   15.   Continuance of provisions pending operation of those substituted
   and continuance of existing regulations

     (1)  Where an Act repeals, wholly or in part, a former Act and
     substitutes provisions in lieu thereof, the repealed provisions
     shall remain in force until the substituted provisions come into
     operation.

     (2)  Where the repealing Act contains power to make any regulations,
     all regulations made under the repealed Act, so far as the same are
     not inconsistent with the repealing Act, shall remain in force until
     rescinded under the repealing Act, and shall be deemed to have been
     made for the purposes of the repealing Act and may be altered,
     amended, or rescinded under that Act.

     (3)  Where regulations made under a repealed Act have remained in
     force after the repeal of such Act, any general regulations made
     under any Act which has been substituted for the repealed Act shall
     supersede and have the effect of rescinding those made under the
     repealed Act, unless the contrary is expressly provided.

   16.   Effect of repeal, expiry, &c.

     (1)  Where an Act repeals any other enactment then, unless the
     contrary is expressly provided, such repeal shall not -

     (a) revive anything not in force or existing at the time such repeal
     took, or shall take, effect;

     (b) affect the previous operation of any enactment so repealed or
     anything duly done or suffered under any enactment so repealed;

     (c) affect any right, privilege, obligation, or liability acquired,
     accrued, or incurred under any enactment so repealed;

     (d) affect any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in
     respect of any offence committed against any enactment so repealed;
     or

     (e) affect any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect
     of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty,
     forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid -

     and any such investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy may be
     instituted, continued, or enforced, and any such penalty,
     forfeiture, or punishment may be imposed as if the repealing Act had
     not been passed.

     (2)  Where an enactment expires or has expired, then, unless the
     contrary is expressly provided, the expiry shall not -

     (a) revive anything not in force or existing at the time the expiry
     took, or takes, effect;

     (b) affect the previous operation of any enactment so expired or
     anything duly done or suffered under any enactment so expired;

     (c) affect any right, privilege, obligation, or liability acquired,
     accrued, or incurred under any enactment so expired;

     (d) affect any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in
     respect of any offence committed against any enactment so expired;
     or

     (e) affect any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect
     of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty,
     forfeiture, or punishment -

     and any such investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy may be
     instituted, continued, or enforced, and any such penalty,
     forfeiture, or punishment may be imposed as if the enactment had not
     expired.

     (3)  Subsections (1) and (2) apply to and in relation to any
     regulations that -

     (a) are rescinded or expire; or

     (b) cease to have effect owing to the repeal or expiry of the
     enactment under which the regulations are made -

     in the same way as those subsections apply to and in relation to
     enactments that are or have been repealed or, as the case may be,
     that expire or have expired.

     (4)  Where an Act, or a regulation or other instrument or document
     made, issued, or granted under an Act, is expressed to expire or
     cease to have effect on a particular day, it shall expire or cease
     to have effect at the end of that day.

   17.   References to repealed provisions

     Where an Act repeals and re-enacts, with or without modification,
     any provisions of a former Act, references in any other Act to the
     provisions so repealed shall be construed as references to the
     provisions so re-enacted.

   18.   Effect of repeal by consolidating Acts

     Where an Act repeals and consolidates, with or without amendment,
     enactments relating to any subject and enacts provisions
     substantially corresponding to those so repealed, for -

     (a) the constitution or setting up of -

     (i) any districts, areas, or local divisions;

     (ii) councils, corporations, boards, trusts, or other executive
     bodies; or

     (iii) any office;

     (b) the appointment of officers or the appointment or election of
     members of any body constituted as aforesaid; or

     (c) the making or issuing of proclamations, orders, warrants,
     certificates, or other documents of authority -

     everything done under such repealed provisions, and existing or in
     force at the time of such repeal, shall continue in force, so far as
     is not inconsistent with the repealing Act, and all such districts,
     areas, divisions, bodies, offices, officers, and documents in
     existence, in office, or in force shall be deemed to have been
     constituted, elected, appointed, made, or issued respectively under
     and for the purposes of the repealing Act.

   18A.   Continuing Act to operate from expiration of continued Act

     When a Bill for continuing a temporary enactment has been introduced
     into Parliament, and, at the date of the expiration of the temporary
     enactment, has not been passed, that Bill, upon receiving the
     Governor's assent for and on behalf of the Sovereign (or, if
     reserved for the signification of the Sovereign's pleasure, upon the
     Sovereign's assents thereto being proclaimed by the Governor) shall,
     unless the contrary intention appears therein, be deemed to have
     taken effect in continuing the temporary enactment on and from the
     date of the expiration thereof; but no person is liable, or shall be
     subjected, to any punishment, penalty, or forfeiture for or in
     respect of anything done or omitted to be done by him, contrary to
     any provision of the temporary enactment, between the date of its
     expiration and the date of that assent.

   19.   Construction of statutory instruments

     Where an Act confers power to make, grant, or issue any regulation
     or other instrument, all expressions used in any such instrument
     shall have the same respective meanings as in the Act conferring the
     power.

   20.   Exercise of powers and performance of duties

     Where an Act confers a power or imposes a duty, the power may be
     exercised and the duty shall be performed -

     (a) from time to time as occasion may require; and

     (b) if conferred or imposed on the holder of any office, position or
     appointment as such, by the holder for the time being of such
     office, position or appointment.

   21.   Power to appoint includes power to remove, &c.

     (1)  Where an Act confers a power to make any appointment to an
     office or a position, the power includes a power -

     (a) to suspend or remove a person appointed under that power;

     (b) to reinstate or reappoint any person so suspended or removed;

     (c) to appoint some other person, temporarily, in the place of the
     person so suspended or removed; or

     (d) to appoint some other person, temporarily, to the office or
     position -

     (i) where a person previously appointed is, for any reason, unable
     to carry out the duties of the office or position; or

     (ii) where the office or position is vacant.

     (1A)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

     (1B)  Where the power to appoint a person to an office or position
     is exercisable only on the recommendation, or with the approval or
     consent, of some other person, the powers conferred by subsection
     (1) are exercisable only on such a recommendation or, as the case
     may be, with such an approval or consent.

     (2)  Any person appointed under a power referred to in subsection
     (1) , by writing under his hand, addressed to the person who
     appointed him, may resign the office or position to which he was so
     appointed, and on acceptance of such resignation by the appointing
     person the office or position shall be vacated.

     (3)  Where, under a power conferred by an Act, a person is appointed
     to an office or place for a fixed term, then, unless the contrary is
     expressly provided in that Act -

     (a) he may be reappointed to that office or place at the expiration
     of that term if he is still qualified as prescribed by that Act; or

     (b) if he is not so reappointed and no other person is appointed in
     his stead, the first-mentioned person may, until -

     (i) the date on which some other person is appointed in his stead;
     or

     (ii) a date not later than 6 months after the expiration of that
     term -

     whichever is the earlier date, continue to exercise and perform all
     the powers, authorities, functions, and duties conferred or imposed
     upon, or appertaining to, the holder of that office or place as
     validly and effectually for all purposes as if he had been duly
     reappointed thereto.

   21A.   Performance of duties, &c., in absence

     (1)  Where -

     (a) by any enactment, instrument, contract or agreement, any duty,
     obligation, right or power is imposed or conferred on the holder of
     an office, position or appointment -

     (i) arising from the appointment or employment of a person under the
     State Service Act 2000 ; or

     (ii) being the office or position of a member, officer or employee
     of a State authority within the meaning of that Act; or

     (iii) being a statutory office or any other office or position in
     the service of the Crown; and

     (b) for any reason -

     (i) the holder of that office, position or appointment is unable to
     perform or exercise the duty, obligation, right or power; or

     (ii) that office, position or appointment is vacant -

     that duty, obligation, right or power may be performed or exercised
     by any eligible person so directed in writing by the appointing
     authority in the same manner and to the same extent in all respects
     as if that eligible person were the holder of that office, position
     or appointment.

     (2)  In this section -

     appointing authority, in relation to an office, position or
     appointment, means -

     (a) in the case of an office, position or appointment to which
     appointments are required by or under an enactment to be made by the
     Governor - the Minister administering that enactment; and

     (b) in any other case - the person by whom appointments to that
     office, position or appointment are authorized to be made;

     eligible person, in relation to an office, position or appointment,
     means a person who possesses the qualifications required by law to
     be possessed by the holder of that office, position or appointment;

     enactment means -

     (a) an Act; or

     (b) any other instrument of a legislative character; or

     (c) any provision of an Act or of an instrument referred to in
     paragraph (b) .

   22.   Power to make regulations, &c., includes power to rescind, &c.

     Where an Act confers a power to make any proclamations, rules,
     orders, regulations, or other instruments of a like nature, the
     power shall be construed as including a power exercisable in the
     like manner and subject to the like consent and conditions, if any,
     to rescind, revoke, amend, or vary any such instrument.

   22A.   Power to grant right includes power to vary or revoke

     A power in an Act to grant a right includes a power exercisable in a
     like manner and subject to the same consent and conditions, if any,
     to vary or revoke the right.

   23.   Power to determine includes power to administer an oath

     Any court, judge, justice, officer, commissioner, arbitrator, or
     other person authorized by law or by consent of parties to hear and
     determine any matter, shall have authority to receive evidence, and
     examine witnesses, and to administer an oath to, or take an
     affirmation from, all witnesses lawfully called before them
     respectively.

   23AA.   Delegation

     (1)  If an Act confers a power on a person to delegate a function or
     power, the person may, in accordance with the Act, delegate the
     function or power to -

     (a) a person by name; or

     (b) the holder of a particular office or position by reference to
     the title of the office or position concerned, whether or not the
     office or position is vacant at the time of the delegation.

     (2)  A delegation -

     (a) may be general or limited; and

     (b) must be in, or evidenced by, writing signed by the delegator or,
     if the delegator is a body, by a person authorized by the body for
     that purpose; and

     (c) may be revoked, wholly or partly, by the delegator.

     (3)  A delegated function or power may be exercised only in
     accordance with any conditions to which the delegation is subject.

     (4)  A delegated function or power that is duly exercised by a
     delegate is to be taken to have been exercised by the delegator.

     (5)  If a function or power is delegated to a particular officer or
     the holder of a particular office or position -

     (a) the delegation does not cease to have effect merely because the
     person who was the particular officer or the holder of the
     particular office or position when the function or power was
     delegated ceases to be that officer or the holder of that office or
     position; and

     (b) the function or power may be performed or exercised by the
     person for the time being occupying or acting in the office or
     position concerned.

     (5A)  If a function or power is delegated by a particular officer or
     the holder of a particular office or position -

     (a) the delegation does not cease to have effect merely because the
     person who was the particular officer or the holder of the
     particular office or position when the function or power was
     delegated ceases to be that officer or the holder of that office or
     position; and

     (b) the authority of the delegate to exercise that power or perform
     that function continues until that authority is terminated by notice
     in writing by the particular officer or the holder for the time
     being of the relevant office or position.

     (6)  A function or power that has been delegated may,
     notwithstanding the delegation, be exercised by the delegator.

     (7)  This section applies to a sub-delegation of a function or power
     in the same way as it applies to a delegation of a function or
     power, but only so far as the Act that authorizes the delegation of
     the function or power also authorizes the sub-delegation of the
     function or power.

     (8)  In all courts and before all persons acting judicially, an
     instrument purporting to be executed by a delegate in the capacity
     as a delegate is to be received in evidence as if it were an
     instrument executed by the delegator and is to be taken to be an
     instrument executed by the delegator.

   23AAB.   Power to delegate includes power to authorise

     If in an Act a power to delegate a function or power is conferred on
     a person, the power to delegate the function or power includes a
     power to authorise another person to perform the function or
     exercise the power on behalf of the person giving the authorisation
     and sections 23AA and 23A apply in respect of the authorisation as
     if it were a delegation.

   23A.   Exercise of certain powers and functions by a delegate

     (1)  Where, under an Act, the exercise of a power or function by a
     person is dependent upon the opinion, belief, or state of mind of
     that person in relation to a matter and that power or function has
     been delegated in pursuance of that Act, that power or function may
     be exercised by the delegate upon the opinion, belief, or state of
     mind of the delegate in relation to that matter.

     (2)  Where the operation of a provision of an Act is dependent upon
     the opinion, belief, or state of mind in relation to a matter of a
     person specified in that Act and any of the powers or functions of
     that person have been delegated, in pursuance of that Act, to some
     other person, that provision may operate upon the opinion, belief,
     or state of mind of the delegate in relation to that matter.

   23AB.   Formation of statutory bodies

     Where, by or under any Act, there is required to be, or there may
     be, established, constituted, or appointed any board, commission,
     committee, or other body of persons (whether incorporated or
     unincorporated) and the Governor is satisfied that it is necessary
     for that body to enter upon its functions forthwith but that it is
     not practicable for the full number of members of the Board to be
     elected or appointed within a reasonable time he may declare that
     Board to be duly established, constituted, or appointed if there are
     sufficient persons appointed or elected as members thereof to
     constitute a quorum at a meeting of that body; and on the making of
     that declaration that body shall, accordingly, be deemed to be duly
     constituted, established, or appointed.

   23B.   Temporary appointments to vacancies on boards, &c.

     (1)  Where -

     (a) by or under an Act, there is established, constituted, or
     appointed any board, commission, committee, or other body of persons
     (whether incorporated or unincorporated) consisting of or including
     any members to whose appointment nomination by any person or
     election by any persons is a condition precedent; and

     (b) it becomes necessary for any reason to replace a member of the
     board, commission, committee, or body and it appears to the Governor
     that it is not practicable for a nomination or an election to be
     made or held within a reasonable time -

     the Governor may, by proclamation setting out the circumstances
     requiring action, appoint some person to hold office as a member of
     the board, commission, committee, or body until the vacancy can be
     regularly filled; but, where the nomination or election is required
     to be made by a body of persons having a general committee,
     committee of management, executive committee, or other like
     institution that can conveniently be consulted, the Governor shall,
     if it is reasonably practicable so to do, obtain the assent of that
     committee or institution to the appointment.

     (2)  No proclamation under this section shall be questioned in any
     court except by an order of review made under the Judicial Review
     Act 2000 ; and if on the hearing of the information judgment of
     ouster is given, all the acts of the person ousted purporting to be
     done by virtue of his appointment before the date of judgment shall,
     notwithstanding the judgment of ouster, be deemed to be as valid for
     all purposes as if he had been lawfully appointed to the board,
     commission, committee, or body of persons.

   23C.   Power of statutory bodies to act during vacancies in membership

     Where pursuant to any Act there is established, constituted, or
     appointed any board, commission, committee, or other body of persons
     (whether incorporated or unincorporated) comprising 2 or more
     members that Act shall, unless the contrary intention appears
     therein, be deemed to empower that board, commission, committee, or
     other body to function, and the members, or persons empowered to act
     as members thereof, to act, notwithstanding any vacancies in the
     membership thereof, so long as there are sufficient members to
     constitute a quorum at a meeting of that board, commission,
     committee, or other body.

   23D.   Payment of persons appointed before commencement of Act

     Where a person is appointed to any office or place under or for the
     purposes of an Act before the commencement of that Act that person
     may, during the period between the date of his appointment to that
     office or place and the date of the commencement of that Act, be
     paid such remuneration and such sums by way of reimbursement of
     expenses as he could have been paid if the Act had commenced on the
     date of his appointment.

   23E.   Exercise of power of Governor to approve, &c., remuneration of
   office holders

     Where an Act provides the Governor with the power to approve,
     determine or otherwise fix the remuneration, expenses or other
     emoluments payable to the holder of an office, that power may also
     be exercised by -

     (a) a Minister; or

     (b) any other person authorised in writing by the Governor for that
     purpose.

   24.   Construction of certain references, expressions, and words

     In any Act -

     (a) references to the Sovereign reigning at the time of the passing
     of that Act, or to the Crown, shall be construed as references to
     the Sovereign for the time being;

     (b) expressions referring to writing shall be construed as including
     references to any mode of representing or reproducing words,
     figures, or symbols in a visible form;

     (ba) expressions referring to printing shall be construed as
     including references to typewriting and writing reproduced by
     lithography or by any mechanical, electrical or electronic means;

     (bb) references to a document shall be construed as including
     references to -

     (i) any paper or other material on which there is printing or
     writing or on which there are marks, symbols, or perforations having
     a meaning for persons qualified to interpret them; and

     (ii) a disc, tape, or other article from which sounds, images,
     writing, or messages are capable of being reproduced; and

     (c) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

     (d) words in the singular shall include the plural and words in the
     plural shall include the singular -

     and where any word is defined every derivative of that word shall
     have a meaning corresponding with such definition.

   24A.   Genders

     (1)  A word or expression that indicates one or more particular
     genders is taken to include every other gender.

     (2)  A word in either the masculine or feminine gender includes a
     body corporate or unincorporate.

   25.   References to Minister

     Where in any Act any Minister is referred to, such reference, unless
     the contrary intention appears, shall be deemed to include any
     Minister for the time being acting for and on behalf of such
     Minister.

   26.   References to an officer in general terms

     Where in any Act reference is made in general terms to any person
     holding a particular office or position, such reference shall be
     deemed to include all persons who at any time occupy for the time
     being such office or position.

   27.   References to particular officers, &c.

     In any Act -

     (a) references to any officer or office shall be construed as
     references to such officer or office in and for this State;

     (ab) references to any employee, position or appointment shall be
     construed as references to such employee, position or appointment in
     and for this State; and

     (b) references to localities, jurisdictions, and other matters and
     things shall be construed as references to such localities,
     jurisdictions, and other matters and things in and of this State.

   28.   Measurement of distance

     In the measurement of any distance for the purposes of any Act, that
     distance, unless the contrary is expressly provided, shall be
     measured in a straight line on a horizontal plane.

   29.   Reckoning of time

     (1)  Where by or under any Act any period of time, dated or reckoned
     from a given day, act, or event, is prescribed or allowed for any
     purpose that period of time shall be reckoned exclusively of that
     day, or of the day of that act or event, as the case may be.

     (2)  Where by or under an Act a period is expressed to be a
     specified number of clear days or a specified number of days at
     least, that period shall be reckoned exclusively both of the given
     day or of the day of the specified act or event and also of the day
     on which the purpose is to be fulfilled.

     (3)  Where any time, or the first or last day (according as it is
     reckoned backwards or forwards) of any period of time, prescribed or
     allowed for the doing of any act or thing falls on a Sunday or on
     any day which is a statutory holiday as defined in the Statutory
     Holidays Act 2000 or a public holiday throughout the State or in
     that part of the State where the act or thing is to be, or may be,
     done (which days are in this section referred to as excluded days)
     the act or thing -

     (a) if the time or period of time is reckoned forwards, shall be
     considered as done in due time if it is done on the next day
     afterwards, not being an excluded day; and

     (b) if the time or period of time is reckoned backwards, shall not
     be considered as done in due time unless it is done on the next day
     before, not being an excluded day.

     (4)  Where the last day of the period prescribed or allowed for the
     filing or registration of a document or instrument falls on a day on
     which the office in which the filing or registration is to be
     effected is not open, the document or instrument may be filed or
     registered on the next ensuing day on which the office is open.

     (5)  Where any act or proceeding is directed or allowed to be done
     on a particular day so fixed or prescribed that subsection (3) is
     not applicable, then if that day happens to be an excluded day, the
     act or proceeding shall be considered as done or taken in due time
     if it is done or taken on the next day afterwards, not being an
     excluded day.

     (6)  When an act or proceeding is directed or allowed to be done or
     taken within any time not exceeding 6 days, excluded days shall not
     be reckoned in the computation of time.

   29A.   Application of national standards of weights and measures

     (1)  On and after the date from which, by virtue of the operation of
     the Commonwealth Act , the Commonwealth legal units of measurement
     of a physical quantity are the sole legal units of measurement of
     that physical quantity, a reference in any Act to a unit of
     measurement of that physical quantity shall, if there is a
     Commonwealth legal unit of measurement of that physical quantity of
     the same name and unless the contrary intention appears, be read as
     a reference to that Commonwealth legal unit of measurement.

     (2)  In this section -

     Commonwealth Act means the National Measurement Act 1960 of the
     Commonwealth, and includes that Act as amended from time to time and
     any Commonwealth Act passed in substitution for that Act;

     Commonwealth legal unit of measurement means a unit of measurement
     prescribed under the Commonwealth Act .

   29AB.   Service of notices and other documents

     (1)  If an Act authorizes, requires or permits a notice or other
     document to be served on a person, whether the expression "serve",
     "deliver", "give" or "send" or any other expression is used, without
     directing it to be served in a particular manner, the notice or
     document may be served -

     (a) on a natural person -

     (i) by giving it to the person; or

     (ii) by leaving it at, or sending it by post to, the person's
     residential or postal address or place or address of business or
     employment whichever is last known to the server of the notice or
     other document; or

     (b) on any other person by leaving it at, or sending it by post to,
     the person's principal or registered office or principal place of
     business.

     (2)  Nothing in subsection (1)  -

     (a) affects the operation of any other law that authorizes or
     requires the service of a notice or document otherwise than as
     provided by that subsection; or

     (b) affects the power of a court or person acting judicially to
     authorize service of a notice or document otherwise than as provided
     in that subsection.

   30.   Effecting service by post

     (1)  Where any Act, including this Act, authorizes or requires any
     notice or other document to be given, sent, served, or delivered by
     post, such giving, sending, serving, or delivery shall be deemed to
     be effected by properly addressing and posting the document as a
     letter and paying for that postage (whether before or after the
     letter is posted) and, unless the contrary is proved, shall be
     deemed to have been effected at the time when the letter would be
     delivered in the ordinary course of post.

     (2)  When an Act authorizes or requires any notice or other document
     to be given, sent, served, or delivered by registered post, the
     giving, sending, serving, or delivery thereof shall be deemed to be
     effected by properly addressing and posting the notice or document
     as a letter and paying for that postage (whether before or after the
     letter is posted) -

     (a) duly registered; or

     (b) unless the contrary intention appears in that Act, sent by means
     of the certified mail service -

     as provided by the postal regulations as in force for the time
     being, and, unless the contrary is proved, shall be deemed to have
     been effected at the time when the letter would be delivered in the
     ordinary course of post.

     (3)  Except where otherwise provided any such letter as aforesaid
     may be addressed to the usual or last known address of the person to
     whom it is to be sent.

   30A.   Electronic service of infringement notices

     An infringement notice -

     (a) may be served electronically if the intended recipient of the
     notice consents to such service; and

     (b) is taken to have been served on the intended recipient if it is
     sent electronically to an address or number provided for that
     purpose.

   31.   Public notices and advertising

     (1)  Where by any Act it is provided that public notification or
     notice shall be given of any matter not required by law to be
     published in full, such provision shall be construed to mean that a
     notice comprising the essential features of such matter shall be
     published in the Gazette or in a newspaper, or in both, as may be
     indicated by the context.

     (2)  Where by any Act it is provided that any matter shall be
     advertised, then, unless the contrary intention appears, such matter
     shall be published in such publications, if any, as may be specified
     by such provision, and if no particular publication is specified
     therein, the same shall be published in a newspaper.

     (3)  Where no number of publications is prescribed in any such
     provision as aforesaid, it shall be sufficient to publish the
     prescribed matter once in each of the ways prescribed by such
     provision, or, if no other way is prescribed, in a newspaper.

     (4)  For the purposes of this section and of any such provisions as
     aforesaid, the term

     newspaper shall mean a daily newspaper generally circulating in the
     district or place to which the matter required to be published
     relates or in which it arises.

   32.   Alternative procedure in respect of offences

     Except as otherwise provided by the Criminal Code Act 1924 , where
     an act or omission constitutes an offence under each of 2 or more
     Acts or both under an Act and at common law, the offender shall be
     liable to be prosecuted and punished under either or any of such
     Acts or at common law, but shall not be liable to be punished twice
     for the same offence.

   33.

   34.   Attempt to commit any offence to be an offence

     Where by any Act an offence is constituted, any attempt to commit
     such offence shall be an offence and be punishable in the same
     manner as the offence constituted by such Act.

   35.   Corporations

     (1)  Every provision of an Act relating to offences punishable upon
     indictment or upon summary conviction shall be construed to apply to
     bodies corporate as well as to individual persons.

     (2)  Where under any Act any forfeiture or penalty is payable to a
     party aggrieved, it shall be payable to a body corporate where such
     body is the party aggrieved.

   36.   Crimes and offences where similar to be similarly dealt with

     (1)  Where an act or omission constitutes a crime under the
     provisions of any Act and the like act or omission constitutes an
     offence punishable summarily under the provisions of some other Act,
     the principles of criminal responsibility applicable in relation to
     such crime shall be applied in relation to such offence, and all
     terms and expressions used in relation to such offence shall have
     the same meaning and construction as when similarly used in relation
     to such crime.

     (2)  In any such case as aforesaid, the provisions of the Criminal
     Code, so far as the same are applicable and to the extent
     hereinbefore provided, shall be applied in relation to any such
     offence.

   37.   Effect of specifying penalties in Acts

     (1)  Where in an Act a penalty is specified in respect of a
     contravention of, or a failure to comply with, that Act or a
     provision of that Act, then, unless the contrary is expressly
     provided, that specification indicates that the contravention or
     failure to comply is an offence punishable by a penalty not
     exceeding that so specified.

     (2)  Where in an Act a penalty is specified in respect of an offence
     against that Act, or a provision of that Act, then, unless the
     contrary is expressly provided, that specification indicates that
     the offence is punishable by a penalty not exceeding that so
     specified.

     (3)  Where in an Act a penalty -

     (a) is specified without qualification at the foot of a section of
     an Act;

     (b) is specified at the foot of a subsection of a section of the
     Act, but not at the foot of the section; or

     (c) is specified at the foot of a section of the Act and expressed
     to apply to a specified subsection or specified subsections of the
     section -

     then, unless the contrary is expressly provided, that specification
     indicates that a contravention of, or failure to comply with, the
     section or subsection, or, as the case may be, any of the
     subsections, is an offence and that the offence is punishable by a
     penalty not exceeding that so specified.

     (4)  Where in an Act a maximum penalty and a minimum penalty are
     specified in respect of an offence against the Act or a provision of
     the Act, that specification indicates that the offence is punishable
     by a penalty not less than that minimum nor greater than that
     maximum.

     (5)  Where in an Act a penalty or a fine specified in respect of an
     offence against the Act, or a provision of the Act, is referred to
     as being a daily penalty or a daily fine, that reference indicates
     that a penalty or a fine not exceeding that daily penalty or daily
     fine may, in addition to any other penalty or fine that may be
     imposed in respect of the offence, be imposed for each day or part
     of a day during which the offence continues.

     (5A)  Where in an Act a penalty specified in respect of an offence
     against the Act or a provision of the Act is a fine or term of
     imprisonment, the offence is, unless the contrary is expressly
     provided, punishable by the fine, or by the term of imprisonment, or
     both.

     (6)  Nothing in the Penalty Units and Other Penalties Act 1987
     affects or prejudices the application of this section in respect of
     the specification of a penalty in an Act, whether or not that
     penalty was so specified before, or that penalty is so specified on
     or after, the day on which the Penalty Units and Other Penalties Act
     1987 receives the Royal Assent.

   38.   Summary proceedings, proceedings by indictment, &c.

     (1)  Where a provision of an Act expressly or by implication
     provides -

     (a) that any matter or proceeding is to be heard and determined, or
     dealt with, summarily or by or before justices or a court of summary
     jurisdiction; or

     (b) that an offence is punishable on summary conviction or that a
     person is liable on summary conviction to a specified penalty or to
     a penalty not exceeding a specified penalty -

     the matter or proceeding shall be heard and determined, or shall be
     dealt with, or, as the case may be, the proceedings in respect of
     the offence shall be taken, in accordance with the Justices Act 1959
     , and any penalty imposed in respect of the matter, proceeding, or
     offence may be enforced and recovered as provided by the Sentencing
     Act 1997 .

     (2)  Where a provision of an Act -

     (a) constitutes a crime;

     (b) makes an offence punishable on indictment; or

     (c) makes an offence punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding
     3 years without specifying or indicating that the offence is to be
     dealt with summarily -

     proceedings in respect of the crime or offence shall be by
     indictment in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code .

     (3)  Subject to subsection (2) , where -

     (a) by a provision of an Act an offence not declared expressly or by
     implication to be a crime is constituted or made punishable, or any
     penalty or forfeiture may be imposed in respect of any matter; and

     (b) that Act does not contain provisions relating to the manner in
     which proceedings in respect of the offence shall be taken, or the
     matter shall be heard and determined -

     the proceedings in respect of the offence shall be taken, or, as the
     case may be, the matter shall be heard and determined, in accordance
     with the Justices Act 1959 , and any penalty or forfeiture which may
     be imposed in respect of the offence or matter may be enforced and
     recovered as provided by that Act.

     (4)  Where a provision of an Act provides that an infringement
     notice may be issued for an offence, any such infringement notice is
     to be dealt with in accordance with the Monetary Penalties
     Enforcement Act 2005 .

   38A.   Publication, &c., of proclamations, orders-in-council, and other
   instruments

     (1)  Except as provided in subsection (3) , the provisions
     prescribed in subsection (2) apply in respect of -

     (a) every proclamation or order-in-council made in the exercise of a
     prerogative right of the Crown;

     (b) every proclamation or order-in-council made under an Act or
     Imperial Act; and

     (c) every prescribed instrument made under an Act.

     (2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , the following provisions
     are prescribed as the provisions that apply in respect of every
     proclamation or order-in-council referred to in that subsection and
     in respect of every prescribed instrument:

     (a) if the proclamation, order-in-council, or prescribed instrument
     is not a statutory rule within the meaning of the Rules Publication
     Act 1953 or is exempted from the operation of that Act, the
     proclamation, order-in-council, or prescribed instrument shall be
     published in the Gazette;

     (b) if the proclamation, order-in-council, or prescribed instrument
     is a statutory rule within that meaning, the making of the
     proclamation, order-in-council, or prescribed instrument shall be
     notified in the Gazette;

     (c) in the case of -

     (i) a proclamation made under an Act that fixes the day of the
     commencement of that Act or a provision of that Act;

     (ii) an order-in-council made under an Act that fixes the day of the
     commencement of a provision of that Act; or

     (iii) a prescribed instrument that fixes the day of the commencement
     of a provision of an Act -

     the day so fixed shall be a day on or after the date of publication
     of the proclamation, order-in-council, or prescribed instrument in
     the Gazette or, as the case may be, a day on or after the date of
     notification in the Gazette of the making of the proclamation,
     order-in-council, or prescribed instrument;

     (d) except in the case of any proclamation, order-in-council, or
     prescribed instrument to which paragraph (c) applies, the
     proclamation, order-in-council, or prescribed instrument shall take
     effect -

     (i) on or from a day or date that is specified for the purpose in
     the proclamation, order-in-council, or prescribed instrument or that
     is ascertainable by reference to a period of time reckoned
     prospectively or retrospectively from the date of publication of the
     proclamation, order-in-council, or prescribed instrument in the
     Gazette or, as the case may be, the date of notification in the
     Gazette of the making of the proclamation, order-in-council, or
     prescribed instrument; or

     (ii) if no such day or date is so specified or ascertainable, on the
     date of publication of the proclamation, order-in-council, or
     prescribed instrument in the Gazette or, as the case may be, on the
     date of notification in the Gazette of the making of the
     proclamation, order-in-council, or prescribed instrument -

     but the proclamation, order-in-council, or prescribed instrument
     shall not be expressed to take effect on or from a day or date
     preceding that date of publication or notification in the Gazette
     where, if the proclamation, order-in-council, or prescribed
     instrument were so to take effect -

     (iii) the rights or privileges of a person (other than the Crown in
     right of the State, or any department, instrumentality, authority,
     or agency of the State) existing at the date of that publication or
     notification would be prejudiced; or

     (iv) liabilities or obligations would be imposed on any person
     (other than the Crown in right of the State, or any department,
     instrumentality, authority, or agency of the State) in respect of
     anything done or omitted to be done on or before that date of
     publication or notification.

     (3)  The provisions prescribed in subsection (2) do not apply in
     respect of any proclamation or order-in-council made under an Act or
     Imperial Act or in respect of a prescribed instrument made under an
     Act where that Act or Imperial Act expressly provides otherwise.

     (4)  In this section,

     prescribed instrument means an instrument of a legislative
     character, other than any proclamation or order-in-council referred
     to in subsection (1) or a regulation.

   39.   Proclamations, &c., to be judicially noticed

     Judicial notice shall be taken of every proclamation and
     order-in-council by the Governor made or purporting to be made in
     pursuance of any Act or Imperial Act and published in the Gazette.

   39A.   Regulations to be judicially noticed

     (1)  Subject to subsection (2) , judicial notice shall be taken of
     regulations made or purporting to be made under an Act -

     (a) that are published in the Gazette, in the case of regulations
     that are not statutory rules within the meaning of the Rules
     Publication Act 1953 ; or

     (b) the making of which is notified in the Gazette, in the case of
     regulations that are statutory rules within that meaning.

     (2)  Notwithstanding subsection (1) , a court, judge, or justice may
     require proof of the making of any regulations referred to in that
     subsection or of their publication in the Gazette, or, as the case
     may be, of the notification in the Gazette of their making.

   39B.   Judicial notice of orders

     (1)  Subject to subsection (2) , judicial notice is to be taken of
     any order made under an Act by a Minister -

     (a) that is published in the Gazette, in the case of an order that
     is not a statutory rule within the meaning of the Rules Publication
     Act 1953 ; or

     (b) the making of which is notified in the Gazette, in the case of
     an order that is a statutory rule within the meaning of that Act.

     (2)  A court, judge or justice may require proof of -

     (a) the making of an order; or

     (b) the publication of an order in the Gazette; or

     (c) the notification in the Gazette of the making of an order.

   40.   Conditions precedent need not be recited

     (1)  In this section,

     statutory authority means an incorporated or unincorporated body
     which is established, constituted or continued by or under an Act or
     under the royal prerogative, being a body which, or of which the
     governing authority, wholly or partly comprises a person or persons
     appointed by the Governor, a Minister of the Crown or another
     statutory authority.

     (2)  If by any Act the Governor, a Minister, a statutory authority,
     a rule-making authority or any specified officer is empowered to
     make or issue any proclamation, order-in-council, order, warrant or
     other instrument, it is sufficient to cite in the proclamation,
     order-in-council, order, warrant or instrument the Act authorising
     its making or issuing, and it is not necessary to recite or set
     forth any facts or circumstances or the performance of any
     conditions precedent upon which that power depends or may be
     exercised.

   40A.   Changes in names of bodies and offices

     If a body referred to in an Act changes its name, a reference in the
     Act to the former name of the body is to be read as a reference to
     the changed name of the body.

   41.   Connotation of certain phrases

     (1)  In any Act the expressions person and party respectively shall
     include any body of persons, corporate or unincorporate, other than
     the Crown.

     (2)  The expression

     committed for trial, used in any Act in relation to a person, shall
     mean committed to prison with the view of being tried as for a crime
     or admitted to bail and be so tried.

     (3)  The words oath and affidavit, used in any Act in relation to a
     person allowed by law to affirm in lieu of swearing, shall include
     affirmation and declaration, and the word swear in the like case
     shall include affirm and declare.

   42.

   43.   Meaning of certain titles, &c.

     (1)  In any Act -

     Australia means the Commonwealth of Australia and, when used in a
     geographical sense, does not include an external Territory;

     British possession shall mean any part of the Sovereign's dominions,
     exclusive of the United Kingdom, and, where parts of such dominions
     are under both a central and a local legislature, all parts under
     such central legislature shall be deemed, for the purposes of this
     definition, to be one possession;

     Central Plan Register means the central plan register established
     under the Survey Co-ordination Act 1944 ;

     coastal waters, when used in relation to Tasmania, has the same
     meaning as the expression "coastal waters of the State" has in
     relation to Tasmania under the Coastal Waters (State Powers) Act
     1980 of the Commonwealth;

     external Territory means a Territory, other than an internal
     Territory, for the government of which as a Territory, provision is
     made by a Commonwealth Act;

     foreign country means any country, whether or not an independent
     sovereign State, outside Australia and the external Territories;

     Government Printer includes a person -

     (a) authorised by the Government of this State to print any matter;
     or

     (b) approved by the Chief Parliamentary Counsel under section 6(10)
     of the Legislation Publication Act 1996 ;

     internal Territory means the Australian Capital Territory, the
     Jervis Bay Territory or the Northern Territory;

     Jervis Bay Territory means the Territory referred to in the Jervis
     Bay Territory Acceptance Act 1915 of the Commonwealth;

     Northern Division, or words of similar import, used in relation to
     this State, shall be deemed to refer to all that part of the State
     situate or lying to the north of the forty-second parallel of
     latitude;

     Northern Territory means the Northern Territory of Australia;

     Southern Division or words of similar import, used in relation to
     this State, shall be deemed to refer to all that part of the State
     situate or lying to the south of the forty-second parallel of
     latitude;

     State means a State of the Commonwealth;

     Territory means a Territory of the Commonwealth;

     the Commonwealth shall mean the Commonwealth of Australia;

     the Governor shall mean the Governor of this State, or the person
     for the time being administering the government of this State,
     acting with the advice of the Executive Council;

     the United Kingdom shall mean the United Kingdom of Great Britain
     and Northern Ireland.

     (1A)  In any Act, a reference to the State, this State or Tasmania
     is a reference to the State of Tasmania and its dependencies.

     (2)  In any Act -

     northern area or northern region means that part of the State
     comprising the city of Launceston and the municipal areas of Break
     O'Day, Dorset, Flinders, George Town, Meander Valley, Northern
     Midlands and West Tamar;

     north-western area or north-western region means that part of the
     State comprising the cities of Burnie and Devonport and the
     municipal areas of Central Coast, Circular Head, Kentish, King
     Island, Latrobe, Waratah-Wynyard and West Coast;

     southern area or southern region means that part of the State
     comprising the cities of Hobart, Clarence and Glenorchy and the
     municipal areas of Brighton, Central Highlands, Glamorgan-Spring
     Bay, Huon Valley, Kingborough, New Norfolk, Sorell, Southern
     Midlands and Tasman.

     (3)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

   44.   Legislative references

     In any Act -

     Australia Acts means -

     (a) the Australia Act 1986 of the Commonwealth; and

     (b) the Australia Act 1986 of the United Kingdom;

     Commonwealth Parliament shall mean the Parliament of the
     Commonwealth of Australia;

     Imperial Parliament shall mean the Parliament of the United Kingdom
     of Great Britain and Ireland or the Parliament of the United Kingdom
     of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, according as it relates to a
     matter before or since 12th April 1927;

     Parliament shall mean the Parliament of this State;

     sitting-days, used in relation to either House of Parliament, shall
     mean days on which the House to which the term relates actually
     sits, whether or not all such days, to which, in any case, reference
     is made, occur in the same session of Parliament.

   45.   Administrative terms

     (1)  In an enactment -

     Appropriation Act means an Act which authorizes the issue and
     application of any money from the Public Account to meet -

     (a) the cost of the ordinary annual services of the Government; or

     (b) expenditure on public works or any property required for public
     purposes; or

     (c) the making of a loan authorized by law;

     commencement, in relation to an enactment, means the time of coming
     into operation, or taking effect, of that enactment;

     the Department means the department that is responsible, in relation
     to the administration of the enactment in which the expression
     occurs, to the Minister to whom the administration of that enactment
     is assigned;

     Financial Agreement shall mean the agreement made between the
     Commonwealth and the States and ratified by the Financial Agreement
     Act 1927 , and includes that agreement as varied from time to time
     and any agreement made in substitution therefor;

     financial year, in respect of any matter relating to the Public
     Account, or to money provided by Parliament, or to the Treasury, or
     to taxes or finance, or to accounting or reporting to the Treasurer
     as to public money, shall mean the period of 12 months terminating
     on the last day of June;

     Gazette, Hobart Town Gazette, Hobart Gazette, Government Gazette, or
     Tasmanian Government Gazette, respectively shall mean the Tasmanian
     Government Gazette published, or purporting to be published, by or
     under the authority of the Government of this State;

     gazetted shall mean published in the Gazette;

     the Minister shall mean the Minister of the Crown for the time being
     administering the enactment in which, or in respect of which, the
     expression is used;

     order-in-council shall mean an order made by the Governor in
     Council;

     proclaim means fix, declare or specify by proclamation;

     proclamation shall mean a proclamation made by the Governor and
     published or notified in the Gazette;

     the Public Account means the Public Account established under the
     Financial Management Act 2016 ;

     the responsible Department, in relation to an enactment other than
     the enactment in which the expression occurs, means the department
     that is responsible, in relation to the administration of that other
     enactment, to the Minister to whom the administration of that other
     enactment is assigned.

     (2)  Where -

     (a) the administration of an enactment (in this subsection referred
     to as "the relevant enactment") is assigned, in different respects,
     to separate Ministers; and

     (b) reference is made -

     (i) in the relevant enactment to the Minister or to the Department;
     or

     (ii) in another enactment to the Minister administering the relevant
     enactment or to the responsible Department in relation to the
     relevant enactment; and

     (c) that reference relates to the respects in which the
     administration of the relevant enactment is assigned to a particular
     Minister -

     that reference shall be interpreted accordingly.

     (3)  For the purposes of this section -

     assigned means assigned by order under section 4 of the
     Administrative Arrangements Act 1990 ;

     department has the same meaning as in the Administrative
     Arrangements Act 1990 ;

     enactment means -

     (a) an Act; or

     (b) any other instrument of a legislative character; or

     (c) any provision or part of an Act or of an instrument referred to
     in paragraph (b) .

   45A.

   46.   Definitions of certain common phrases

     In any Act -

     Australian lawyer has the same meaning as in the Legal Profession
     Act 2007 ;

     Australian legal practitioner has the same meaning as in the Legal
     Profession Act 2007 ;

     authorised deposit-taking institution means a body corporate that is
     an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of the
     Banking Act 1959 of the Commonwealth;

     Building Regulations has the same meaning as in the Building Act
     2016 ;

     commissioned police officer means a commissioned police officer as
     defined in the Police Service Act 2003 ;

     Commissioner of Police means the Commissioner of Police as defined
     in the Police Service Act 2003 ;

     contravene includes fail to comply with;

     council means a council within the meaning of the Local Government
     Act 1993 ;

     crime shall mean an offence punishable upon indictment as provided
     by the Criminal Code , and where in any Act any offence is declared
     to be a felony or is made punishable upon information, the same
     shall be deemed to be a crime;

     enrolled nurse means a person registered under the Health
     Practitioner Regulation National Law (Tasmania) in the nursing
     profession whose name is entered on Division 2 of the Register of
     Nurses, kept under that Law, as an enrolled nurse;

     estate, used in reference to land, shall include any estate or
     interest, easement, right, title, claim, demand, charge, lien, or
     encumbrance in, over, to, or in respect of such land;

     fail to comply with includes contravene;

     Federal Court means the Federal Court of Australia;

     fee unit has the same meaning as in the Fee Units Act 1997 ;

     High Court means the High Court of Australia;

     infringement notice means an infringement notice within the meaning
     of the Monetary Penalties Enforcement Act 2005 ;

     instigate, used in relation to any offence, shall mean counsel,
     procure, or command;

     Integrity Commission means the Integrity Commission established
     under the Integrity Commission Act 2009 ;

     judge means -

     (a) in relation to a specified court, a judge of that court; or

     (b) in any other case, a judge of the Supreme Court;

     justice shall mean a justice of the peace;

     land shall include messuages, tenements, and hereditaments, houses,
     and buildings of any tenure and any estate or interest therein;

     local authority means the council exercising jurisdiction in the
     locality to which the context relates;

     Magistrates Court means the Magistrates Court of Tasmania;

     medical practitioner means a person registered under the Health
     Practitioner Regulation National Law (Tasmania) in the medical
     profession;

     mental disorder means mental illness, within the meaning of the
     Mental Health Act 2013 , arrested or incomplete development of mind,
     psychopathic disorder and any other disorder or disability of mind;

     month shall mean calendar month;

     municipal area means a municipal area within the meaning of the
     Local Government Act 1993 ;

     newspaper shall mean a newspaper as defined by the Printers and
     Newspapers Act 1911 ;

     offence means any contravention of, or failure to comply with, a law
     for which a person is liable to be punished, whether summarily or
     otherwise;

     paramedic means a person registered under the Health Practitioner
     Regulation National Law (Tasmania) in the paramedicine profession;

     pharmacist means a person registered under the Health Practitioner
     Regulation National Law (Tasmania) in the pharmacy profession;

     Plumbing Regulations has the same meaning as in the Building Act
     2016 ;

     police officer means a police officer as defined in the Police
     Service Act 2003 ;

     Police Service means the Police Service established under the Police
     Service Act 2003 ;

     psychopathic disorder means a persistent disorder or disability of
     mind (whether or not including subnormality of intelligence) that
     results in abnormally aggressive or seriously irresponsible conduct
     on the part of a person and requires or is susceptible to medical
     treatment;

     public place shall mean any place to which, at the relevant time,
     the public have access, whether on payment of money for admission
     thereto or otherwise;

     registered nurse means a person registered under the Health
     Practitioner Regulation National Law (Tasmania) in the nursing
     profession whose name is entered on Division 1 of the Register of
     Nurses, kept under that Law, as a registered nurse;

     State Service means the State Service constituted by the State
     Service Act 2000 ;

     State Service Agency means an Agency within the meaning of the State
     Service Act 2000 ;

     State Service employee means an employee within the meaning of the
     State Service Act 2000 ;

     State Service employment means employment pursuant to an appointment
     as an officer or employee under the State Service Act 2000 ;

     State Service officer means an officer within the meaning of the
     State Service Act 2000 ;

     statutory declaration or solemn declaration shall mean a declaration
     made and taken -

     (a) in this State, in accordance with the Oaths Act 2001 ;

     (b) in the United Kingdom or any British possession beyond this
     State, before a justice, notary public, or other person authorized
     by law to take a declaration therein;

     (c) in any other place, before a British consul or vice-consul or
     other person having authority under any Act or Imperial Act to take
     a declaration;

     Supreme Court shall mean the Supreme Court of Tasmania, and shall
     include the Supreme Court as first constituted under letters patent
     under the Great Seal of the United Kingdom, dated 13th October 1823;

     Tasmanian Civil and Administrative Tribunal means the Tasmanian
     Civil and Administrative Tribunal established by section 8 of the
     Tasmanian Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2020 ;

     town shall mean any place proclaimed or declared to be a town under
     any law authorizing such proclamation or declaration;

     will shall include a codicil.

   46AA.   References to Corporations Law and ASIC Law

     In any Act -

     ASC Law has the same meaning as "ASIC Law";

     ASC Regulations has the same meaning as "ASIC Regulations" has when
     ASIC Regulations is used in relation to the ASIC Law;

     ASIC Law has the meaning provided for by Part 11 of the Corporations
     (Tasmania) Act 1990 ;

     ASIC Act means the Australian Securities and Investments Commission
     Act 2001 of the Commonwealth;

     ASIC Regulations, when used in relation to -

     (a) the ASIC Law, has the meaning provided for by Part 11 of the
     Corporations (Tasmania) Act 1990 ; and

     (b) the ASIC Act, means regulations made, or that have effect as if
     they were made, under the ASIC Act;

     Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 of the
     Commonwealth;

     Corporations Law has the meaning provided for by Part 3 of the
     Corporations (Tasmania) Act 1990 ;

     Corporations legislation means the Corporations legislation to which
     Part 1.1A of the Corporations Act applies;

     Corporations Regulations, when used in relation to -

     (a) the Corporations Law, has the meaning provided for by Part 3 of
     the Corporations (Tasmania) Act 1990 ; and

     (b) the Corporations Act, means regulations made, or that have
     effect as if they were made, under the Corporations Act.

   46A.   References in laws of the State to Australian citizens

     (1)  Subject to subsection (2) , a reference in a law of the State -

     (a) to an Australian citizen, shall be read as a reference to a
     person who is an Australian citizen within the meaning of the
     Commonwealth Act ; and

     (b) to an alien, shall be read as a reference to a person who is not
     an Australian citizen within the meaning of the Commonwealth Act.

     (2)  Where a rule of law applies to or in relation to, or has effect
     with respect to an alien, that rule of law applies to or in relation
     to, or has effect with respect to, a person who is not an Australian
     citizen within the meaning of the Commonwealth Act.

     (3)  In this section -

     Commonwealth Act means the Australian Citizenship Act 1948 of the
     Commonwealth;

     law of the State means -

     (a) an Act and any other law in force in the State;

     (b) an instrument (including regulations) having effect by virtue of
     such an Act; and

     (c) an instrument having effect by virtue of an instrument to which
     paragraph (b) of this definition relates.

   46B.

   46BA.

   46C.   Declaration of validity of certain laws

     (1)  In this section, written law means -

     (a) an Act; or

     (b) any other instrument of a legislative character.

     (2)  Each provision of a written law enacted or made or purporting
     to have been enacted or made before the commencement of the
     Australia Acts  -

     (a) has the same effect as it would have had; and

     (b) is as valid as it would have been -

     if the Australia Acts had been in force at the time of its enactment
     or making or purported enactment or making.

   47.   Regulations

     (1)  Where in any Act it is provided that the Governor or any
     specified authority may make regulations under or for the purposes
     thereof, those regulations may prescribe -

     (a) any matter or thing not inconsistent with the provisions of that
     Act and not repugnant to any express enactment in force, which -

     (i) that Act expressly or by implication empowers or directs to be
     prescribed; or

     (ii) is necessary or convenient for giving effect to the provisions
     or objects of that Act;

     (b) any forms to be used for the purposes of that Act;

     (c) the duties of any officers or employees appointed by or under
     that Act and directions for the administration of the provisions
     thereof;

     (d) as an offence any specified contravention of, or failure to
     comply with, any of the regulations; and

     (e) a penalty or a fine in respect of any such offence of an amount
     not exceeding such maximum as may be specified in that Act or, where
     no maximum amount is so specified, not exceeding 20 penalty units
     and, if the offence is of a continuing nature, a daily fine of such
     maximum amount as may be specified in that Act or, where no such
     maximum amount is so specified, not exceeding 5 penalty units.

     (2)  Where forms are prescribed by or under any Act, it shall be
     intended that any document in the prescribed form or to the like
     effect shall be a sufficient compliance with such Act, provided that
     any deviation therein from the prescribed form shall not be
     calculated to mislead or prejudice any person concerned.

     (3)  The following provisions apply to regulations made under the
     authority of an Act unless the authorizing Act expressly provides
     otherwise:

     (a) if the regulations are not statutory rules within the meaning of
     the Rules Publication Act 1953 or are exempted from the operation of
     that Act, the regulations shall be published in the Gazette within
     21 days after the day on which they are made;

     (b) if the regulations are statutory rules within that meaning, the
     making of the regulations shall be notified in the Gazette within 21
     days after the day on which they are made;

     (c) the regulations shall be laid before each House of Parliament
     within the first 10 sitting days of the House after the regulations
     are so published or, as the case may be, the making of the
     regulations is so notified;

     (d) the regulations shall take effect -

     (i) on or from a day or date that is specified for the purpose in
     the regulations or that is ascertainable by reference to a period of
     time reckoned prospectively or retrospectively from the date of
     publication of the regulations in the Gazette or, as the case may
     be, the date of notification in the Gazette of the making of the
     regulations; or

     (ii) if no such day or date is so specified or ascertainable, on the
     date of publication of the regulations in the Gazette or, as the
     case may be, on the date of notification in the Gazette of the
     making of the regulations -

     but the regulations shall not be expressed to take effect on or from
     a day or date preceding that date of publication or notification in
     the Gazette where, if the regulations were so to take effect -

     (iii) the rights or privileges of a person (other than the Crown in
     right of the State, or any department, instrumentality, authority,
     or agency of the State) existing at the date of that notification or
     publication would be prejudiced; or

     (iv) liabilities or obligations would be imposed on any person
     (other than the Crown in right of the State, or any department,
     instrumentality, authority, or agency of the State) in respect of
     anything done or omitted to be done on or before that date of
     notification or publication.

     (3A)  Where -

     (a) regulations are not published in the Gazette as required by
     subsection (3) (a) ;

     (b) the making of regulations is not notified in the Gazette as
     required by subsection (3) (b) ; or

     (c) regulations in relation to a matter referred to in subsection
     (3) (d) (iii) or (iv) are expressed to take effect on or from a day
     or date preceding the date of publication of those regulations in
     the Gazette or, as the case may be, on or from a day or date
     preceding the date of the notification in the Gazette of the making
     of those regulations -

     those regulations are void.

     (4)  If either House of Parliament passes a resolution, of which
     notice has been given within the first 15 sitting days of such House
     after any regulation is laid before it, that such regulation be
     disallowed, such regulation thereupon shall be void and thenceforth
     shall cease to have effect except as regards anything done
     thereunder prior to the passing of such resolution.

     (5)  Notice of the passing of every such resolution shall be
     gazetted forthwith by the Clerk of the House by which the same was
     passed.

     (6)  Where in any such resolution any section, division, or part of
     a regulation is expressed to be disallowed, the resolution shall
     have the effect of annulling only such section, division, or part,
     and in every other case such disallowance shall extend to the whole
     of such regulation.

     (7)  Where a regulation, or any part thereof, has been disallowed as
     aforesaid by either House of Parliament, no regulation to the same,
     or substantially the same, effect made within 12 months after such
     disallowance shall take effect until the same has been laid upon the
     table of such House and 30 sitting days of such House have elapsed
     after the same was so laid, unless such House shall have sooner
     passed a resolution allowing the same.

     (8)  Where by any Act it is provided that regulations may be made
     thereunder, and the authority by whom the same are to be made is not
     specified, the same shall be made by the Governor.

     (9)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

     (10)  Every regulation made after the passing of this Act and before
     the commencement of the Legislation Publication Act 1996 shall be
     filed and recorded in the office of the Attorney-General, but no
     regulation shall be challenged, or the validity thereof impugned, on
     the ground of the non-observance of this provision, nor shall it be
     necessary to prove compliance therewith in any proceedings under or
     in relation to such regulation.

     (11)  Every regulation made on or after the commencement of the
     Legislation Publication Act 1996 is to be filed and recorded by the
     Chief Parliamentary Counsel in the responsible Department in
     relation to the Legislation Publication Act 1996 .

     (12)  A regulation may not be challenged, or its validity may not be
     impugned, on the ground of the non-observance of subsection (11) and
     it is not necessary to prove compliance with that subsection in any
     proceedings under or in relation to that regulation.

   48.   Rules of court

     (1)  In any Act the expression

     rules of court, used in relation to any Court, shall mean rules made
     by the authority having, for the time being, power to make rules or
     orders regulating the practice and procedure of such court.

     (2)  The power of such authority to make rules of court shall
     include power to make rules of court for the purposes of any Act
     which directs or authorizes anything to be done by rules of court.

   48A.   Savings and transitional provisions

     Schedule 1 has effect.

   49.

     SCHEDULE 1 - Savings and transitional provisions

     1.   Savings and transitional - section 4

     Section 4 as amended by section 4 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1981 applies in the interpretation and construction of
     regulations that -

     (a) are in operation at the commencement of the lastmentioned
     section; or

     (b) take effect after that commencement.

     2.   Savings and transitional - section 5

     Section 5 as amended by section 5 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1981 applies to a reference to an Act that -

     (a) is in operation at the commencement of the lastmentioned
     section; or

     (b) comes into operation at that commencement -

     and whether the reference is contained in an Act passed before or
     after that commencement.

     3.   Savings and transitional - section 7

     Section 7 as substituted by section 6 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1981 applies to a reference to the expression
     "prescribed" where the expression appears in an Act -

     (a) passed before and in force at the commencement of the
     lastmentioned section; or

     (b) passed after that commencement.

     4.   Savings and transitional - section 7A

     Section 7A as substituted by section 7 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1981 applies to and in relation to an Act that -

     (a) is in operation at the commencement of the lastmentioned
     section; or

     (b) comes into operation after that commencement.

     5.   Savings and transitional - section 11

     A power conferred by section 11 , as substituted by section 9 of the
     Acts Interpretation Amendment Act 1981 , the exercise of which is
     dependent on the existence of a provision of a kind referred to in
     section 11 (1) or, as the case may be, first referred to in section
     11 (2) , is exercisable where the Act in which the provision is
     contained -

     (a) is passed after the commencement of section 9 of the Acts
     Interpretation Amendment Act 1981 ; and

     (b) was passed before that commencement but the provision had not
     come into operation before that commencement.

     6.   Savings and transitional - section 13

     Section 13 as amended by section 11 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1981  -

     (a) applies to a reference to an Imperial Act or a Commonwealth Act
     that -

     (i) is in operation at the commencement of the lastmentioned
     section; or

     (ii) comes into operation after that commencement -

     and whether the reference is contained in an Act passed before or
     after that commencement; and

     (b) applies, in the case of a reference contained in an Act that
     came into operation before the commencement of the lastmentioned
     section, whether or not the reference is followed by words
     indicating that the reference includes subsequent amendments of the
     Imperial or Commonwealth Act referred to.

     7.   Savings and transitional - section 16

     Section 16 as amended by section 12 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1981 applies only -

     (a) to an Act, whether passed before or after the commencement of
     the lastmentioned section, which expires after that commencement;
     and

     (b) to regulations, whether made before or after that commencement,
     which are rescinded, expire or cease to have effect after that
     commencement; and

     (c) to any other instrument or document, whether made before or
     after that commencement, which expires or ceases to have effect
     after that commencement.

     8.   Savings and transitional - section 21

     (1) Section 21 as amended by section 13 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1981 applies to an Act which confers a power to
     appoint a person to an office or position where the Act conferring
     the power -

     (a) is in operation at the commencement of the lastmentioned
     section; or

     (b) comes into operation after that commencement.

     (2) Section 21 (1) as amended by section 5 of the Acts
     Interpretation Amendment Act 1985 applies to an Act which confers a
     power to appoint a person to any office or position where the Act
     conferring the power -

     (a) is in operation at the commencement of the lastmentioned
     section; or

     (b) comes into operation after that commencement.

     9.   Savings and transitional - section 24

     Section 24 as amended by section 14 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1981 applies to and in relation to the interpretation
     and construction of expressions and references referred to in
     section 24 whether the Act in which those expressions or references
     are contained was passed before or after the commencement of section
     14 of the Acts Interpretation Amendment Act 1981 .

     10.   Savings and transitional - section 37

     Section 37 as substituted by section 16 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1981 applies to and in relation to a penalty specified
     in an Act that -

     (a) is in operation at the commencement of the lastmentioned
     section; or

     (b) comes into operation after that commencement.

     11.   Savings and transitional - section 38

     Section 38 as substituted by section 17 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1981 applies to a provision of an Act that -

     (a) is in operation at the commencement of the lastmentioned
     section; or

     (b) comes into operation after that commencement.

     12.   Savings and transitional - section 38A

     (1) Section 38A as substituted by section 18 of the Acts
     Interpretation Amendment Act 1981 applies to a proclamation or an
     order-in-council that -

     (a) is made after the commencement of the lastmentioned section; or

     (b) has been made before that commencement but has not taken effect
     before that commencement -

     and, where made under an Act or Imperial Act, so applies whether the
     Act or Imperial Act was passed before or after that commencement.

     (2) Section 38A as substituted by section 6 of the Acts
     Interpretation Amendment Act 1985 applies to any proclamation or
     order-in-council or to a prescribed instrument within the meaning of
     section 38A that -

     (a) is made after the commencement of section 6 of the Acts
     Interpretation Amendment Act 1985 ; or

     (b) has been made before that commencement but has not taken effect
     before that commencement -

     and, in the case of -

     (c) a proclamation or order-in-council was made under an Act or
     Imperial Act, so applies, whether the Act or Imperial Act was passed
     before or after that commencement; or

     (d) a prescribed instrument, so applies, whether the Act under which
     the instrument is made was passed before or after that commencement.

     13.   Savings and transitional - section 39A

     Section 39A as inserted by section 7 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1985 applies to regulations referred to in subsection
     (1) of section 39A that -

     (a) are in force at the commencement of section 7 of the Acts
     Interpretation Amendment Act 1985 ; or

     (b) come into force after that commencement.

     14.   Savings and transitional - section 40A

     Section 40A as inserted by section 8 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1985 applies to a reference in an Act within the
     meaning of section 40A that -

     (a) is in operation at the commencement of section 8 of the Acts
     Interpretation Amendment Act 1985 ; or

     (b) comes into operation after that commencement.

     15.   Savings and transitional - section 46

     Section 46 as amended by section 20 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1981 applies to and in relation to the interpretation
     and construction of the expression "offence" whether the Act in
     which that expression occurs was passed before or after the
     commencement of the lastmentioned section.

     16.   Savings and transitional - section 47

     (1) Section 47 as amended by section 21 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1981 applies to regulations made after the
     commencement of the lastmentioned section and so applies whether the
     Act under which they are made was passed before or after that
     commencement, and section 47 (as in force before that commencement)
     continues to apply to regulations made before that commencement as
     if section 21 of the Acts Interpretation Amendment Act 1981 had not
     been enacted.

     (2) Section 47 as amended by section 9 of the Acts Interpretation
     Amendment Act 1985 applies to regulations made after the
     commencement of the lastmentioned section and so applies whether the
     Act under which they are made was passed before or after that
     commencement.
