Duties Act 2001
Jurisdiction: tasmania
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/tas/consol_act/da200193/
Register: https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-2001-015
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/tas/consol_act/da200193.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-29T23:44:52.553528Z

Duties Act 2001
   An Act to create and charge a number of duties
   Be it enacted by His Excellency the Governor of Tasmania, by and with
   the advice and consent of the Legislative Council and House of
   Assembly, in Parliament assembled, as follows:
     Chapter 1 - Preliminary
     PART 1 - Administration
   1.   Short title
     This Act may be cited as the Duties Act 2001 .
   2.   Commencement
     This Act commences on 1 July 2001.
     PART 2 - General
   3.   Interpretation
     In this Act -
     Act imposing duty means -
     (a) a corresponding Act; or
     (b) an Act to which the Taxation Administration Act 1997 applies;
     advance means an advance referred to in section 140 ;
     annuity has the meaning given by section 174(6) ;
     application to register a motor vehicle means -
     (a) an application under the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 to
     register a motor vehicle; and
     (b) an application under the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 to
     transfer the registration of a motor vehicle;
     approved means approved by the Commissioner;
     associated person means a person who is associated with another
     person in accordance with any of the following provisions:
     (a) persons are associated persons if they are related persons;
     (b) natural persons are associated persons if they are partners in a
     partnership to which the Partnership Act 1891 applies;
     (c) private companies are associated persons if common shareholders
     have a significant interest, within the meaning given by section 66
     , in each private company;
     (d) trustees are associated persons if any person is a beneficiary
     common to the trusts (not including a public unit trust scheme) of
     which they are trustees;
     (e) a private company and a trustee are associated persons if a
     related body corporate of the company (within the meaning of the
     Corporations Act) is a beneficiary of the trust (not including a
     public unit trust scheme) of which the trustee is a trustee;
     (ea) public companies are associated persons if common shareholders
     have a majority shareholding in each company;
     (f) a public company and another person are associated persons if
     the person is a subsidiary of that public company;
     (fa) a company and the trustee of a unit trust scheme are associated
     persons if the shares in the company and the units in the unit trust
     scheme cannot be traded except as a single security;
     (fb) trustees of 2 or more unit trust schemes are associated persons
     if the units in the unit trust schemes cannot be traded except as a
     single security;
     (g) persons are associated persons if they are acting in concert;
     Australian jurisdiction means a State or Territory of the
     Commonwealth;
     Australian register has the same meaning as in the Corporations Act;
     Australian Stock Exchange means the Australian Stock Exchange
     Limited;
     bankrupt includes applying to take the benefit of any law for the
     relief of bankrupt or insolvent debtors, compounding with creditors
     or making an assignment of remuneration for their benefit;
     beneficiary of a discretionary trust means a person referred to in
     section 77(1) ;
     building includes -
     (a) a part of a building; and
     (b) a building attached to or conjoined with another building; and
     (c) a flat or home unit;
     call option means a right, conferred by an agreement or arrangement,
     to acquire dutiable property;
     call option assignment means the assignment of a right, under a put
     and call option, to acquire dutiable property;
     caring partner, in relation to a person, means the person who is in
     a caring relationship with that person, being a caring relationship
     that -
     (a) is the subject of a deed of relationship registered under Part 2
     of the Relationships Act 2003 ; or
     (b) is declared to exist by virtue of a declaration of the Supreme
     Court in force under Part 7 of that Act;
     certificate of premium paid means a certificate referred to in
     section 221(1) ;
     charge includes impose;
     Commissioner means the Commissioner of State Revenue appointed as
     such under the Taxation Administration Act 1997 ;
     company title dwelling means a separate dwelling in a building
     containing more than one separate dwelling situated on land in
     Tasmania owned or leased by a company in which shares issued by the
     company are owned by persons who, by virtue of the ownership of
     their shares, have an exclusive right to occupy a part of the
     building;
     complying approved deposit fund means an entity that is a complying
     approved deposit fund in accordance with section 43 of the
     Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 of the Commonwealth;
     complying superannuation fund means -
     (a) an entity that is a complying superannuation fund in accordance
     with section 42 of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act
     1993 of the Commonwealth; and
     (b) an exempt public sector superannuation scheme;
     corporation means a body corporate, whether incorporated in this
     jurisdiction or elsewhere;
     corresponding Act means an Act of another Australian jurisdiction
     that corresponds to this Act;
     day-procedure centre means premises at which a person is admitted
     for medical treatment and discharged on the same day, but does not
     include -
     (a) such premises conducted by or on behalf of the State or the
     Commonwealth; or
     (b) a hospital or other health service conducted by or on behalf of
     the State or the Commonwealth; or
     (c) a private hospital; or
     (d) a residential care service;
     declaration of trust means a declaration of trust referred to in
     section 6(3) ;
     de facto relationship has the same meaning as in the Family Law Act
     1975 of the Commonwealth;
     de facto relationship property means -
     (a) property of the parties to a de facto relationship or of either
     of them; or
     (b) property held by a related person of the parties to a de facto
     relationship or of either of them; or
     (c) any estate or interest in the property referred to in
     paragraph (a) or (b) of this definition;
     discretionary trust means a trust under which the vesting of the
     whole or any part of the capital of the trust estate, or the whole
     or any part of the income from that capital, or both -
     (a) is required to be determined by a person either in respect of
     the identity of the beneficiaries, or the quantum of interest to be
     taken, or both; or
     (b) will occur if a discretion conferred under the trust is not
     exercised; or
     (c) has occurred but under which the whole or any part of that
     capital or the whole or any part of that income, or both, will be
     divested from any person or persons in whom it is vested if a
     discretion conferred under the trust is exercised;
     dutiable property has the meaning given by section 9 ;
     dutiable proportion means a proportion referred to in section 149(2)
     ;
     dutiable transaction has the meaning given by section 6(2) ;
     dutiable value, in relation to dutiable property, has the meaning
     given by section 18 ;
     dutiable value, in relation to a motor vehicle, has the meaning
     given by section 198 ;
     eligible rollover fund means an entity that is an eligible rollover
     fund in accordance with section 242 of the Superannuation Industry
     (Supervision) Act 1993 of the Commonwealth and includes an entity
     the trustee of which is satisfied will be an eligible rollover fund
     within 12 months after the date on which a liability to duty arises
     (or would otherwise arise);
     exemption certificate means a certificate of exemption in force
     under Part 3 of Chapter 8 ;
     farming company means a company -
     (a) the shares of which are not quoted on the Australian Stock
     Exchange or a recognised stock exchange; and
     (b) that has assets including farming property;
     farming property means -
     (a) land used solely or principally for the business of primary
     production; or
     (b) personal property which is used solely or principally in
     connection with the business of primary production;
     financial corporation has the meaning given by section 154(4) ;
     foreign corporation - see section 4A ;
     foreign natural person means a natural person who is not any of the
     following:
     (a) an Australian citizen within the meaning of the Australian
     Citizenship Act 2007 of the Commonwealth;
     (b) the holder of a permanent visa within the meaning of the
     Migration Act 1958 of the Commonwealth;
     (c) a New Zealand citizen who is the holder of a special category
     visa within the meaning of the Migration Act 1958 of the
     Commonwealth;
     foreign person means the following:
     (a) a foreign corporation (other than as a trustee acting in its
     capacity as trustee);
     (b) a foreign natural person (other than as a trustee acting in its
     capacity as trustee);
     (c) a foreign trustee acting in its capacity as trustee;
     foreign trust - see section 4B ;
     foreign trustee means a person who holds, agrees to hold, or has
     acquired, dutiable property on trust for a foreign trust;
     general insurance has the meaning given by section 163 ;
     general insurer means a person referred to in section 178(2) ;
     GST has the same meaning as in the A New Tax System (Goods and
     Services Tax) Act 1999 of the Commonwealth except that it includes
     notional GST of the kind for which payments may be made under
     section 7 of the National Taxation Reform (Commonwealth-State
     Relations) Act 1999 by a person who is a State entity within the
     meaning of that Act;
     heavy vehicle has the same meaning as in the Heavy Vehicle National
     Law (Tasmania) Act 2013 , but does not include a camper van within
     the meaning of that Act;
     home -
     (a) subject to paragraph (b), means a private dwelling and includes
     a private dwelling which is a company title dwelling and a farming
     property on which a private dwelling is erected; and
     (b) for the purposes of Divisions 2A and 2B of Part 5 of Chapter 2 ,
     and Division 2 of Part 6 of Chapter 2 , has the same meaning as in
     the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000 ;
     instrument includes a written document and a written statement;
     insurance includes assurance;
     insurance against accident means insurance referred to in
     section 172(2) ;
     insurance intermediary means -
     (a) a person who arranges contracts of insurance in Tasmania -
     (i) for reward; or
     (ii) as an agent for a person carrying on a business of insurance;
     or
     (b) a financial services licensee (as defined in section 761A of the
     Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth) whose licence covers the
     arrangement of contracts of insurance as an agent for a person
     carrying on a business of insurance; or
     (c) a regulated principal (as defined in section 1430 of the
     Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth) when carrying on business
     as an insurance broker as regulated by Subdivision D of Division 1
     of Part 10.2 of that Act;
     insurer has the meaning given by section 178(1) ;
     interest includes an estate or proprietary right;
     land includes a stratum;
     land use entitlement means an entitlement to occupy land within
     Tasmania conferred through an ownership of shares in a company or an
     ownership of units in a unit trust scheme, or a combination of a
     shareholding or ownership of units together with a lease or licence;
     lease means -
     (a) a lease of land in Tasmania or an agreement for a lease of land
     in Tasmania; or
     (b) an agreement (such as a licence) by which a right to use land in
     Tasmania at any time and for any purpose is conferred on or acquired
     by a person;
     licensed motor vehicle trader means a person who holds a motor
     vehicle trader licence under the Motor Vehicle Traders Act 2011 ;
     life company has the same meaning as in the Life Insurance Act 1995
     of the Commonwealth;
     life insurance has the meaning given by section 172(1) ;
     loan-backed security means -
     (a) an instrument or property creating, conferring or comprising a
     right or interest (whether described as a unit, bond or otherwise)
     of, or on, a beneficiary in a scheme under which any profit,
     distribution of capital or income in which beneficiaries participate
     arises from the acquisition, holding, management or disposal of a
     pool of loans, or any instrument which evidences such a right or
     interest; or
     (b) a debt security -
     (i) the payments under which by the person that issues or makes the
     instrument are derived substantially from the acquisition, holding,
     management or disposal of a pool of loans; and
     (ii) that is secured by a mortgage or charge over a pool of loans;
     or
     (c) an instrument of a class or description of instruments or
     property of a class or description of property prescribed to be a
     loan-backed security;
     majority shareholder in a company means -
     (a) in the case of a company the voting shares in which are not
     divided into classes, a person entitled to not less than 50% of
     those shares; and
     (b) in the case of a company the voting shares in which are divided
     into classes, a person entitled to not less than 50% of the shares
     in one of those classes;
     managed investment scheme means a managed investment scheme within
     the meaning of Chapter 5C of the Corporations Act, and includes a
     public unit trust scheme;
     market value, in relation to a motor vehicle, means the amount for
     which the motor vehicle might reasonably be sold, free of
     encumbrances, on the open market;
     marriage includes a purported marriage that is void;
     matrimonial property means -
     (a) property of the parties to a marriage or of either of them; or
     (b) property held by a related person of the parties to a marriage
     or of either of them; or
     (c) any estate or interest in the property referred to in
     paragraph (a) or (b) of this definition;
     medical establishment means -
     (a) a day-procedure centre; or
     (b) a private hospital; or
     (c) a residential care service;
     mineral tenement has the meaning it has in the Mineral Resources
     Development Act 1995 ;
     mortgage  -
     (a) subject to paragraph (b) , has the meaning given by section 139
     ; and
     (b) for the purposes of sections 227A and 227C and the definitions
     of "mortgage-backed security" and "pool of mortgages", means a
     mortgage of any estate or interest in land, including a leasehold
     estate or interest in land, whether the land is situated in Tasmania
     or elsewhere, and includes a charge over any such land;
     mortgage-backed security means -
     (a) an interest in a trust that entitles the holder of, or
     beneficial owner under, the interest -
     (i) to the whole or any part of the rights or entitlements of a
     mortgagee and any other rights or entitlements in respect of a
     mortgage or any money payable by the mortgagor under the mortgage
     (whether the money is payable to the holder or beneficial owner on
     the same terms and conditions as under the mortgage or not); or
     (ii) to the whole or any part of the rights or entitlements of a
     mortgagee and any other rights or entitlements in respect of a pool
     of mortgages or any money payable by mortgagors under those
     mortgages (whether the money is payable to the holder or beneficial
     owner on the same terms and conditions as under the mortgages or
     not); or
     (iii) to payments that are derived substantially or to any
     prescribed extent from the income or receipts of a pool of
     mortgages -
     and that, in addition, may entitle the holder or beneficial owner to
     a transfer or assignment of the mortgage or mortgages; or
     (b) a debt security (whether or not in writing), the payments under
     which by the person who issues or makes the debt security are
     derived substantially or to a prescribed extent from the income or
     receipts of a pool of mortgages; or
     (c) any of the following:
     (i) an interest in a trust creating, conferring or comprising a
     right or interest (whether described as a unit, bond or otherwise)
     of, or on, a beneficiary in a scheme under which any profit or
     income in which the beneficiaries participate arises from the
     acquisition, holding, management or disposal of prescribed property,
     or any instrument that evidences such a right or interest;
     (ii) a security (whether or not in writing), the payments under
     which by the person who issues or makes the security are derived
     substantially from the income or receipts of prescribed property;
     (iii) an interest in a trust, a debt security (whether or not in
     writing), an instrument or property that creates an interest in or
     charge over an interest in a trust, a debt security (whether or not
     in writing) or other instrument or property to which paragraph (a)
     or (b) or subparagraph (i) or (ii) of this paragraph applies -
     but does not include an instrument or property comprising -
     (d) a mortgage; or
     (e) the transfer of a mortgage; or
     (f) a declaration of trust; or
     (g) an instrument of a class or description of instruments or
     property of a class or description of property prescribed not to be
     a mortgage-backed security;
     motor dealer means a person carrying on the business of dealing in
     motor vehicles;
     motor vehicle means a motor vehicle or trailer within the meaning of
     the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 ;
     motor vehicle trader licence has the same meaning as in the Motor
     Vehicle Traders Act 2011 ;
     new motor vehicle means a motor vehicle that has not previously been
     registered under the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 or the law of
     another Australian jurisdiction;
     partnership interest has the meaning given by section 9(1)(i) ;
     party to a de facto relationship means a person who lives, or has
     lived, in a de facto relationship;
     party to a marriage includes a person who was a party to a marriage
     that was dissolved or annulled in Australia or elsewhere;
     passenger vehicle means a passenger vehicle referred to in
     section 197(4) ;
     personal relationship has the same meaning as in the Relationships
     Act 2003 ;
     policy of mortgage insurance means a policy of mortgage insurance
     referred to in section 171(3) ;
     pool of mortgages means a pool or collection of assets -
     (a) that is comprised solely of mortgages; or
     (b) that is comprised substantially or to a prescribed extent of
     mortgages or of money paid pursuant to mortgages (whether or not
     that money has been invested in prescribed property) or of money
     (whether or not that money has been invested in prescribed property)
     if the primary investment policy is to invest in mortgages, but that
     may also contain either or both of the following:
     (i) prescribed property;
     (ii) any other property that forms part of the pool or collection of
     assets for the purpose of issuing or making a mortgage-backed
     security in relation to the pool of mortgages;
     pooled superannuation trust means an entity that is a pooled
     superannuation trust in accordance with section 44 of the
     Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 of the Commonwealth;
     premium, in relation to general insurance, means a premium referred
     to in section 164 ;
     primary production means -
     (a) the cultivation of land for the purpose of selling the produce
     of the cultivation; or
     (b) the maintenance of animals for the purpose of selling them or
     their natural increase or bodily produce; or
     (c) the keeping of bees for the purpose of selling their honey; or
     (d) the production from a nursery; or
     (e) the propagation for sale of mushrooms or flowers; or
     (f) an undertaking relating to planting or tending trees with a view
     to selling the trees or timber obtained from those trees; or
     (g) the breeding of horses;
     private company means a company -
     (a) that is not limited by shares; or
     (b) whose shares are not quoted on the Australian Stock Exchange or
     a recognised stock exchange;
     private hospital means premises at which a person is provided for
     fee, gain or reward with medical, surgical or other treatment, or
     accommodation for the purposes of such treatment, and with ancillary
     nursing care but does not include -
     (a) such premises conducted by or on behalf of the State or the
     Commonwealth; or
     (b) a day-procedure centre; or
     (c) a residential care service;
     private unit trust scheme means a unit trust scheme that is not a
     public unit trust scheme;
     property means real property and personal property;
     property transferred includes property referred to in Column 2 of
     the table in section 7 ;
     public company means a public company within the meaning of the
     Corporations Act;
     public unit trust scheme means a unit trust scheme -
     (a) any of the units of which are listed for quotation on the
     Australian Stock Exchange or on a recognised stock exchange; or
     (b) that is an undertaking to which Division 11 of Part 11.2 of the
     Corporations Law (as continued in effect by section 1408 of the
     Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth) applies and in respect of
     which -
     (i) some or all of the units have been offered to the public; and
     (ii) no fewer than 50 persons hold units in it; or
     (c) that was (or would have been) exempted from the requirements of
     Part 7.12 of the Corporations Law (as in force immediately before
     its repeal) and in respect of which -
     (i) some or all of the units have been offered to the public; and
     (ii) no fewer than 50 persons hold units in it; or
     (d) that is a managed investment scheme within the meaning of
     Chapter 5C of the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth and in
     respect of which -
     (i) some or all of the units have been offered to the public; and
     (ii) no fewer than 50 persons hold units in it; or
     (e) that, in the opinion of the Commissioner, will satisfy
     paragraph (a) , (b) , (c) or (d) within 12 months after the
     Commissioner gives written notice of that opinion to a person who
     has requested the Commissioner to express that opinion in relation
     to the unit trust scheme;
     put and call option means an agreement or arrangement that provides
     for both a call option and a put option in respect of the same
     dutiable property;
     put option means a right, conferred by an agreement or arrangement,
     to require a person to acquire dutiable property;
     recognised stock exchange means -
     (a) a stock exchange that is a member of the World Federation of
     Exchanges; or
     (b)
     (c) a stock exchange declared to be a recognised stock exchange
     under section 254 ;
     Recorder of Titles means the person appointed as Recorder of Titles
     under section 4(1) of the Land Titles Act 1980 ;
     registered insurer means an insurer registered under Part 3 of
     Chapter 7 ;
     related body corporate has the same meaning as in the Corporations
     Act;
     related corporation has the meaning given by section 154(4) ;
     related person means a person who is related to another person in
     accordance with any of the following provisions:
     (a) natural persons are related persons if -
     (i) one is the spouse or caring partner of the other; or
     (ii) the relationship between them is that of a grandparent and
     grandchild, a parent and child, brothers, sisters, or brother and
     sister;
     (b) private companies are related persons if they are related bodies
     corporate within the meaning of the Corporations Act;
     (c) a natural person and a private company are related persons if
     the natural person is a majority shareholder or director of the
     company or of another private company that is a related body
     corporate of the company within the meaning of the Corporations Act;
     (d) a natural person and a trustee are related persons if the
     natural person is a beneficiary of the trust (not being a public
     unit trust scheme) of which the trustee is a trustee;
     (e) a private company and a trustee are related persons if the
     company, or a majority shareholder or director of the company, is a
     beneficiary of the trust (not being a public unit trust scheme) of
     which the trustee is a trustee;
     relationship property, in relation to a personal relationship,
     means -
     (a) property of the parties to the personal relationship or of
     either of them; or
     (b) property held by a related person of the parties to the personal
     relationship or of either of them; or
     (c) any estate or interest in the property referred to in
     paragraph (a) or (b) of this definition;
     relative means a person referred to in section 225(3) ;
     replica has the meaning given by section 220(4) ;
     residential care service means premises where accommodation and
     personal care or nursing are provided to an elderly person who is
     not a member of the immediate family of the proprietor of the
     service, but does not include a service providing accommodation for
     persons otherwise living independently, even though the provision of
     accommodation may or may not include domestic services such as the
     preparation of meals, cleaning services and laundry services;
     responsible entity, in relation to a managed investment scheme, has
     the same meaning as in the Corporations Act;
     right, in relation to shares or units, means any right (whether
     actual, prospective or contingent) of a person to have shares or
     units issued by a company or trust to the person, whether or not on
     payment of money or for other consideration, but does not include a
     convertible note;
     shares includes rights to shares;
     significant relationship has the same meaning as in the
     Relationships Act 2003 ;
     special disability trust has the meaning it has in section 1209L of
     the Social Security Act 1991 of the Commonwealth;
     spouse, in relation to a person, includes the person who is in a
     significant relationship with that person;
     surrogate child, in relation to another person, means a person -
     (a) who is a child of the other person by virtue of the operation of
     section 26(1) of the Surrogacy Act 2012 , or a law, of another State
     or a Territory or a foreign country, that corresponds to that Act;
     and
     (b) who has not ceased to be a child of the other person under that
     Act or law;
     Tasmanian company means -
     (a) a company incorporated or taken to be incorporated under the
     Corporations Act that is taken to be registered in Tasmania; or
     (b) any other body corporate that is incorporated under a Tasmanian
     Act;
     trailer means a trailer as defined in the Vehicle and Traffic Act
     1999 ;
     transferee includes a person referred to in Column 3 of the table in
     section 7 ;
     unencumbered value has the meaning given by section 20 ;
     unit, in relation to a unit trust scheme, means -
     (a) a right or interest (whether described as a unit or a sub-unit
     or otherwise) of a beneficiary under the scheme; or
     (b) a right to any such right or interest;
     unit trust scheme means any arrangements made for the purpose, or
     having the effect, of providing, for persons having funds available
     for investment, facilities for the participation by them, as
     beneficiaries under a trust, in any profits, income or distribution
     of assets arising from the acquisition, holding, management or
     disposal of any property whatever pursuant to the trust;
   4.   Meaning of child for purpose of definition of related person
     For the purpose of the definition of related person in section 3 , a
     person is the child of another person if the person is -
     (a) a natural child of the other person who has not ceased to be a
     child of the person by virtue of the operation of section 26(1) of
     the Surrogacy Act 2012 or a law, of another State or a Territory or
     a foreign country, that corresponds to that Act; or
     (b) a step-child of the person; or
     (c) an adopted child of the person; or
     (d) a surrogate child of the person.
   4A.   Meaning of foreign corporation
     (1)  In this section -
     potential voting power has the same meaning as in section 22 of the
     Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 of the Commonwealth;
     voting power has the same meaning as in the Foreign Acquisitions and
     Takeovers Act 1975 of the Commonwealth.
     (2)  For the purposes of this Act, a corporation is a foreign
     corporation if it is -
     (a) incorporated outside Australia; or
     (b) a corporation in which foreign persons have a significant
     interest.
     (3)  For the purposes of subsection (2)(b) , foreign persons have a
     significant interest in a corporation if, taking their interests in
     aggregate, one or more foreign persons -
     (a) are in a position to control 50% or more of the voting power in
     the corporation; or
     (b) are in a position to control 50% or more of the potential voting
     power in the corporation; or
     (c) have an interest in 50% or more of the issued shares in the
     corporation.
     (4)  For the purposes of subsection (3) , a reference to control of
     the voting power in a corporation is a reference to control that is
     direct or indirect, including control that is exercisable as a
     result, or by means, of arrangements or practices, whether or not
     having legal or equitable force, and whether or not based on legal
     or equitable rights.
     (5)  For the purposes of subsection (3) , to determine how much
     potential voting power a person is in a position to control at a
     particular time, section 22(3) of the Foreign Acquisitions and
     Takeovers Act 1975 of the Commonwealth is to be applied.
   4B.   Meaning of foreign trust
     (1)  For the purposes of this Act, a foreign trust is a trust in
     which foreign persons have a substantial interest in the trust
     estate.
     (2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , foreign persons have a
     substantial interest in a trust estate if, taking their interests in
     aggregate, one or more foreign persons have a beneficial interest of
     50% or more in the capital of the estate of the trust.
     (3)  If, under the terms of a trust, a trustee has a power or
     discretion as to the distribution of the capital of the trust estate
     to a person or a member of a class of persons, any such person is
     taken to have a beneficial interest in the maximum percentage of the
     capital of the trust estate that the trustee is empowered to
     distribute to that person.
     (4)  If a trust is a self managed superannuation fund, within the
     meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 of the
     Commonwealth, then, for the purposes of subsection (1) , a member of
     the fund is taken to have a beneficial interest in the capital of
     the fund, to be calculated as the amount to which the member would
     be entitled on transfer of the member's membership to another self
     managed superannuation fund.
     (5)  For the purposes of subsection (4) , a reference to a member of
     a superannuation fund includes a reference to a beneficiary of the
     fund.
     (6)  If a trust is established by a testamentary instrument, then,
     for the purposes of subsection (1) , a beneficiary of the trust is
     taken to have a beneficial interest in the capital of the trust, to
     be calculated as the amount to which the beneficiary would be
     entitled were the estate fully administered.
   4C.   Presumption in respect of corporations and trusts
     For the purposes of the definition of foreign person -
     (a) all corporations are taken to be foreign corporations; and
     (b) all trusts are taken to be foreign trusts -
     unless the Commissioner is satisfied under section 4A , 4B , 30HB ,
     30L or 30M that the corporation or trust is not a foreign
     corporation or a foreign trust.
   5.   Act read together with Taxation Administration Act 1997
     This Act is to be read together with the Taxation Administration Act
     1997 .
     Chapter 2 - Transactions concerning dutiable property
     PART 1 - Introduction and overview
   6.   Imposition of duty on certain transactions concerning dutiable
   property
     (1)  This Chapter charges duty on -
     (a) a transfer of dutiable property; and
     (b) the following transactions:
     (i) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (ii) a declaration of trust;
     (iii) a grant or surrender of an interest in land in Tasmania;
     (iv) a foreclosure of a mortgage over dutiable property;
     (v) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (vi) any other transaction that results in a change of beneficial
     ownership of dutiable property; and
     (c) a vesting of dutiable property -
     (i) by, or expressly authorised under, a statute of this State or
     any other jurisdiction, whether in Australia or elsewhere; or
     (ii) by, or under, an order of a court of this State or any other
     jurisdiction, whether in Australia or elsewhere.
     (2)  Such a transfer, transaction or vesting is a dutiable
     transaction for the purposes of this Act.
     (2A)  For the purposes of, but without limiting,
     subsection (1)(c)(i)  -
     (a) property is vested by or under a statute if the statute vests
     the property in an entity that is the successor in law to or
     continuation of, or the same entity as, the entity in which the
     property was formerly vested; but
     (b) property is not vested by or under a statute on the registration
     of a company under Part 5B.1 of Chapter 5B of the Corporations Act.
     (3)  In this Chapter -
     declaration of trust means any declaration (other than by a will or
     testamentary instrument) that any identified property vested or to
     be vested in the person making the declaration is or is to be held
     in trust for the person or persons, or the purpose or purposes,
     mentioned in the declaration although the beneficial owner of the
     property, or the person entitled to appoint the property, may not
     have joined in or assented to the declaration;
     transfer includes an assignment and an exchange.
   7.   Imposition of duty on dutiable transactions that are not transfers
     (1)  The duty charged by this Chapter on a dutiable transaction
     referred to in section 6(1)(b) or (c) is to be charged as if each
     such dutiable transaction were a transfer of dutiable property.
     (2)  Accordingly, for the purpose of charging duty under this
     Chapter, in relation to a dutiable transaction specified in Column 1
     of the following Table -
     (a) the property specified opposite the dutiable transaction in
     Column 2 is taken to be the property transferred (and a reference in
     this Act to property transferred includes a reference to such
     property); and
     (b) the person specified opposite the dutiable transaction in Column
     3 is taken to be the transferee of the dutiable property (and a
     reference in this Act to a transferee includes a reference to such a
     person); and
     (c) the transfer of the dutiable property is taken to have occurred
     at the time specified opposite the dutiable transaction in Column 4
     (and a reference in this Act to the time at which a transfer occurs
     includes a reference to such a time).
   Column 1 Dutiable transaction
   Column 2 Property transferred
   Column 3 Transferee
   Column 4 When transfer occurs
   declaration of trust
   the property vested or to be vested in the declarant
   the person declaring the trust
   when the declaration is made
   grant or surrender
   the granted or surrendered property
   the person to whom the property is granted or surrendered
   when the grant or surrender takes place
   foreclosure
   the mortgaged property
   the mortgagee
   when the foreclosure order is made
   vesting by or as a consequence of court order
   the vested property
   the person in whom the property is vested
   when the vesting occurs
   vesting by or as a consequence of statute
   the vested property
   the person in whom the property is vested
   when the vesting occurs
   giving, granting or issue of licence
   the licence
   the person to whom the licence is issued
   when the licence is issued
   any other transaction that results in a change in beneficial ownership
   of dutiable property
   the property the beneficial ownership of which is changed (but only to
   the extent of the change in beneficial ownership)
   the person who obtains the beneficial ownership or whose beneficial
   ownership is increased
   when beneficial ownership changes
   8.   What form must a dutiable transaction take?
     It is immaterial whether or not a dutiable transaction is effected
     by a written instrument or by any other means, including electronic
     means.
   9.   What is dutiable property?
     (1)  Dutiable property is any of the following:
     (a) land in Tasmania;
     (b) a mineral tenement;
     (c) fixtures to land or a mineral tenement;
     (d) a land use entitlement;
     (e) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (f) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (g) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (h) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (i) a partnership interest, being an interest in a partnership that
     has partnership property that is dutiable property elsewhere
     referred to in this section;
     (j) goods in Tasmania, if the subject of an arrangement that
     includes a dutiable transaction over any dutiable property elsewhere
     referred to in this section, not including the following:
     (i) goods that are stock-in-trade;
     (ii) materials held for use in manufacture;
     (iii) goods under manufacture;
     (iv) livestock;
     (v) a registered motor vehicle that is not exempted from motor tax
     under the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 or the Transport Act 1981 ;
     (k) an option to purchase dutiable property;
     (l) an interest in any dutiable property referred to in the
     preceding paragraphs of this section, except to the extent that -
     (i) it arises as a consequence of the ownership of a unit in a unit
     trust scheme and is not a land use entitlement; or
     (ii) it is, or is attributable to, an option over dutiable property.
     (iii) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (2)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (3)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   10.   When does a liability for duty arise?
     A liability for duty charged by this Chapter arises when a dutiable
     transaction occurs.
   11.   Who is liable to pay the duty?
     Duty charged by this Chapter is payable by the transferee, unless
     this Chapter requires another person to pay the duty.
   12.   The liability of joint tenants
     For the purpose of assessing duty charged by this Chapter, joint
     tenants of dutiable property are taken to hold the dutiable property
     as tenants in common in equal shares.
   13.   Necessity for written instrument or written statement
     (1)  If a dutiable transaction that is liable to ad valorem duty
     under this Chapter is not effected by a written instrument, the
     transferee must make a written statement in a form approved by the
     Commissioner.
     (2)  The written statement must be made within 3 months after the
     liability arises.
     (3)  Subject to a special arrangement approved under Part 6 of the
     Taxation Administration Act 1997 , if a dutiable transaction is
     completed or evidenced by a written instrument within 3 months after
     the date on which the dutiable transaction occurs, the requirement
     to lodge a statement and pay duty in respect of the statement may be
     satisfied by the lodgment of and payment of duty on the written
     instrument within 3 months after the date on which the dutiable
     transaction occurs.
   14.   Lodging written instrument or written statement with Commissioner
     Subject to a special arrangement approved under Part 6 of the
     Taxation Administration Act 1997 , a transferee who is liable to pay
     duty in respect of a dutiable transaction must, within 3 months
     after the liability arises, lodge with the Commissioner -
     (a) the written instrument that effects the dutiable transaction or,
     if there is more than one such written instrument, each one of them
     as provided by section 16(1) ; or
     (b) the written statement made in compliance with section 13 .
   15.   When must duty be paid?
     A tax default does not occur for the purposes of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 if duty is paid within 3 months after the
     liability to pay the duty arises.
   16.   No double duty
     (1)  If a dutiable transaction is effected by more than one
     instrument, one instrument is to be stamped with the duty payable on
     the dutiable transaction and each other instrument is to be stamped
     with nil duty payable.
     (2)  If a dutiable transaction is effected electronically (in
     accordance with the Electronic Transactions Act 2000 ) in whole or
     in part and duty has been paid, no further duty is payable in
     respect of an instrument or electronic transaction that forms part
     of the dutiable transaction.
     (3)  No duty is chargeable under this Chapter on a transfer to a
     trustee of dutiable property subject to a declaration of trust if ad
     valorem duty has been paid on the declaration of trust in respect of
     the same dutiable property.
     (4)  No duty is chargeable under this Chapter on a declaration of
     trust that declares the same trusts as those upon and subject to
     which the same dutiable property was transferred to the person
     declaring the trust if ad valorem duty has been paid on the
     transfer.
   17.   What is the rate of duty?
     Duty is charged on the dutiable value of the dutiable property
     subject to the dutiable transaction at the relevant rate set out in
     Part 3 .
     PART 2 - Dutiable value
   18.   What is the dutiable value of dutiable property?
     (1)  The dutiable value of dutiable property that is subject to a
     dutiable transaction is the greater of -
     (a) the consideration (if any) for the dutiable transaction (being
     the amount of a monetary consideration or the value of a
     non-monetary consideration, or both); and
     (b) the unencumbered value of the dutiable property.
     (2)  The dutiable value of dutiable property transferred by way of
     foreclosure is the unencumbered value of the dutiable property and
     not the value of the debt secured by the mortgaged property.
     (3)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (4)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   19.   What is the consideration for the transfer of dutiable property?
     (1)  The consideration for the transfer of dutiable property is
     taken to include the amount or value of all encumbrances, whether
     certain or contingent, subject to which the dutiable property is
     transferred.
     (2)  Subject to the grant of an application under subsection (5) ,
     if, as part of an arrangement involving a dutiable transaction over
     dutiable property agreed by an agreement for sale (the relevant
     agreement) -
     (a) the transferor or an associated person of the transferor effects
     improvements (the relevant improvements) to the dutiable property
     after the relevant agreement was entered into; and
     (b) the relevant improvements -
     (i) involve the construction on the dutiable property of a single
     home (other than a flat, home unit or other similar building) that -
     (A) may be lawfully occupied as a place of residence; and
     (B) is intended for occupation as a place of residence; and
     (ii) are, or will be, work within the meaning of the Building Act
     2016 ; and
     (c) there is not, at the time of the relevant agreement, a building
     on the dutiable property that may be lawfully occupied as a place of
     residence -
     the consideration for the dutiable transaction does not include the
     consideration relating to the relevant improvements performed on the
     dutiable property after the relevant agreement but before the
     dutiable transaction.
     (3)  For the purposes of subsection (2) , the following do not
     constitute improvements in relation to a dutiable property:
     (a) works that are -
     (i) necessary for, or related to, preparation of the site, on which
     a single home is to be constructed on the dutiable property, to
     enable the construction to occur; and
     (ii) preliminary to the construction of the single home -
     including but not limited to works consisting of excavation (other
     than excavation for the purposes of enabling footings for the single
     home to be established), levelling of land or the removal of
     vegetation;
     (b) underground infrastructure, and the installation of underground
     infrastructure, on the dutiable property, including but not limited
     to underground infrastructure for the purposes of the provision of
     electricity, water, sewerage or telecommunications services.
     (4)  A transferee in respect of a dutiable transaction may apply, in
     the approved form, to the Commissioner to determine that
     consideration for the dutiable transaction does not include the
     consideration relating to the relevant improvements performed on the
     dutiable property after the relevant agreement but before the
     dutiable transaction.
     (5)  If the Commissioner is satisfied that the requirements of
     subsection (2)(a) , (b) and (c) have been met in relation to the
     dutiable property that is the subject of the dutiable transaction,
     the Commissioner may grant the application made under subsection (4)
     in relation to that transaction.
     (6)  Despite the Commissioner granting an application under
     subsection (5) , the transferee in relation to the application may
     apply to the Commissioner to have the grant of the application
     revoked.
   20.   What is the unencumbered value of dutiable property?
     (1)  The unencumbered value of dutiable property is the amount for
     which the property might reasonably have been sold in the open
     market or as calculated by sections 247 and 248(2) and (2A) , as may
     be appropriate -
     (a) in the case of a transfer of dutiable property on a sale of the
     property, at the time the agreement for sale was entered into; or
     (b) in any other case, at the time the dutiable transaction
     occurred -
     free from any encumbrance to which the property was subject at that
     time.
     (2)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (3)  If, before land is transferred to a transferee, the transferee
     has made improvements to the land, the unencumbered value of the
     land is to be determined as if those improvements had not been made.
   21.   Arrangements that reduce the dutiable value
     (1)  In determining the dutiable value of dutiable property under
     this Part, any interest, agreement or arrangement (other than an
     encumbrance) granted or made in respect of the dutiable property
     that has the effect of reducing the dutiable value is to be
     disregarded, subject to subsection (2) .
     (2)  An interest, agreement or arrangement is not to be disregarded
     if the Commissioner is satisfied that it was not granted or made as
     part of an arrangement or scheme with a collateral purpose of
     reducing the duty otherwise payable on the dutiable transaction.
     (3)  In considering whether or not he or she is satisfied for the
     purposes of subsection (2) , the Commissioner may have regard to -
     (a) the duration of the interest, agreement or arrangement before
     the dutiable transaction; and
     (b) whether the interest, agreement or arrangement has been granted
     to or made with an associated person; and
     (c) whether there is any commercial efficacy to the granting of the
     interest or the making of the agreement or arrangement other than to
     reduce duty; and
     (d) any other matters the Commissioner considers relevant.
   22.   Aggregation of dutiable transactions
     (1)  Dutiable transactions relating to separate items of dutiable
     property, or separate parts of, or interests in, dutiable property
     are to be aggregated and treated as a single dutiable transaction
     if -
     (a) either -
     (i) in the case of dutiable transactions that are transfers on a
     sale of an item or part of dutiable property, the agreements for
     sale are entered into within 12 months; or
     (ii) in any other case, the dutiable transactions occur within 12
     months; and
     (b) the transferee is the same or the transferees are associated
     persons; and
     (c) the dutiable transactions together form, evidence, give effect
     to or arise from what is, substantially, one arrangement relating to
     all of the items or parts of, or interests in, the dutiable
     property.
     (2)  Dutiable transactions are not to be aggregated under this
     section if the Commissioner is satisfied that it would not be just
     and reasonable to do so in the circumstances.
     (2A)  In considering whether or not he or she is satisfied for the
     purposes of subsection (2) , it is just and reasonable for the
     Commissioner to determine that it is appropriate to aggregate a gift
     that is interdependent with, or forms substantially part of one
     arrangement with, a transaction of value.
     (3)  The dutiable value of aggregated dutiable property is the sum
     of the dutiable values of the items or parts of, or the interests
     in, the dutiable property as at the time at which each dutiable
     transaction occurs.
     (4)  The amount of duty payable in accordance with this section is
     to be reduced by the amount of any ad valorem duty paid on a prior
     dutiable transaction that is, or prior dutiable transactions that
     are, aggregated in accordance with this section.
     (5)  Duty may be apportioned to the instruments effecting or
     evidencing the dutiable transactions, or may be charged in
     accordance with section 16(1) , as determined by the Commissioner.
     (6)  Subject to a special arrangement approved under Part 6 of the
     Taxation Administration Act 1997 , a transferee to whom this section
     applies must disclose to the Commissioner, in writing, at or before
     the time at which an instrument or statement relating to the
     dutiable transactions is lodged for stamping, details known to the
     transferee of -
     (a) all of the items or parts of, or interests in, the dutiable
     property included or to be included in the arrangement referred to
     in subsection (1) ; and
     (b) the consideration for each item or part of, or interest in, that
     dutiable property.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (7)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   23.   Apportionment - dutiable property and other property
     (1)  If a dutiable transaction relates to dutiable property and
     property that is not dutiable property, it is chargeable with duty
     under this Chapter only to the extent that it relates to dutiable
     property.
     (2)  If a dutiable transaction relates to different types of
     dutiable property for which different rates of duty are chargeable
     under this Chapter, the dutiable transaction is chargeable with duty
     under this Chapter as if a separate dutiable transaction had
     occurred in relation to each such type of dutiable property.
   24.   Certain transactions concerning leases of commercial property
     (1)  The Commissioner, if satisfied that it would not be just and
     reasonable in the circumstances to charge duty on the dutiable value
     of all the dutiable property in a dutiable transaction, which
     transaction -
     (a) consists of a grant, surrender or transfer of a lease of a
     commercial property; and
     (b) involves goods that are dutiable property in accordance with
     section 9(1)(j)  -
     may disregard the value of all or any of the goods in determining
     the dutiable value of the property.
     (2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , a lease of a commercial
     property is a lease in respect of real property that is to be used
     for the purposes of a business, whether or not there are premises on
     the property that may be used in whole or in part as a residence.
     (3)  The Commissioner may only exercise the discretion referred to
     in subsection (1) if satisfied that the dutiable transaction was not
     structured for the purpose of reducing or avoiding the payment of
     duty.
   25.   Partnership interests
     (1)  The dutiable value of a partnership interest is to be
     determined in accordance with the following formula:
   graphic image
     where -
     DV is the dutiable value;
     A is the value of the partnership interest, or so much of the
     consideration for the dutiable transaction as relates to the
     partnership interest, whichever is the greater;
     X is the unencumbered value of all dutiable property of the
     partnership;
     Y is the unencumbered value of all assets of the partnership.
     (2)  If the property of a partnership includes a land-related asset
     and an interest in the land-related asset is transferred as a result
     of the transfer of a partnership interest, the unencumbered value of
     all dutiable property of the partnership ("X" in subsection (1) ) is
     to be reduced by the unencumbered value of the land-related asset,
     but only if ad valorem duty has been paid or is payable on the
     transfer of the interest in the land-related asset or if the
     transfer of the interest in the land-related asset is exempt from
     duty.
     (3)  For the purposes of subsection (2) , each of the following
     items of dutiable property is a land-related asset:
     (a) land in Tasmania;
     (b) a land use entitlement;
     (c) an interest in an item of dutiable property referred to in
     paragraph (a) or (b) .
   26.   Partitions
     (1)  For the purposes of this section, a partition occurs when
     property (some or all of which is dutiable property) that is held by
     persons jointly (as joint tenants or tenants in common) and
     beneficially is transferred or agreed to be transferred to one or
     more of those persons.
     (2)  For the purposes of this section and sections 14 and 16 , a
     partition is taken to be a single dutiable transaction.
     (3)  The dutiable value of a partition is to be determined in
     accordance with the following formula:
   graphic image
     where -
     DV is the dutiable value;
     A is the sum of the amounts by which the unencumbered value of the
     property transferred or agreed to be transferred to a person exceeds
     the unencumbered value of the interest held by the person in that
     property immediately before the partition, or the sum of any
     consideration for the partition paid by any of the parties,
     whichever is the greater;
     X is the unencumbered value of all dutiable property the subject of
     the partition;
     Y is the unencumbered value of all property the subject of the
     partition.
     (4)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (5)  The minimum duty chargeable on a transaction that effects a
     partition is $50.
     (6)  Duty charged by this section is payable by the persons making
     the partition or any one or more of them.
   27.   Effect of alteration in purchase price
     If, after an agreement for the sale of dutiable property is entered
     into and before the property is transferred -
     (a) the consideration under the agreement is reduced and the reduced
     consideration is not less than the unencumbered value of the
     dutiable property when the consideration was reduced; or
     (b) the consideration under the agreement is reduced because the
     parties have agreed not to transfer some of the dutiable property
     previously agreed to be transferred and the reduced consideration is
     not less than the unencumbered value of the dutiable property that
     remained to be transferred when the consideration was reduced; or
     (c) the consideration under the agreement is increased and the
     dutiable value when the consideration was increased is greater than
     the dutiable value when the agreement was entered into -
     the Commissioner must assess or reassess the liability to duty of
     the transfer in accordance with the change in the consideration.
   28.   Entitlements of joint purchasers
     (1)  If any property is agreed to be purchased by 2 or more persons
     otherwise than as joint tenants, the agreement for the purchase is
     to specify the part to be taken by each purchaser.
     (2)  In the absence of such a specification referred to in
     subsection (1) , the purchasers are taken to have purchased the
     property in equal shares.
     PART 3 - Rates of duty
   29.   General rate
     (1)  The rate of duty chargeable on a dutiable transaction is as
     follows:
   The dutiable value of the dutiable property subject to the dutiable
   transaction
   Rate of duty
   Not more than $3 000
   $50
   More than $3 000 but not more than $25 000
   $50 plus $1.75 for every $100, or part, by which the dutiable value
   exceeds $3 000
   More than $25 000 but not more than $75 000
   $435 plus $2.25 for every $100, or part, by which the dutiable value
   exceeds $25 000
   More than $75 000 but not more than $200 000
   $1 560 plus $3.50 for every $100, or part, by which the dutiable value
   exceeds $75 000
   More than $200 000 but not more than $375 000
   $5 935 plus $4 for every $100, or part, by which the dutiable value
   exceeds $200 000
   More than $375 000 but not more than $725 000
   $12 935 plus $4.25 for every $100, or part, by which the dutiable value
   exceeds $375 000
   More than $725 000
   $27 810 plus $4.50 for every $100, or part, by which the dutiable value
   exceeds $725 000
     (2)  This rate applies unless other provision is made by this
     Chapter.
     PART 3A - Additional duty on certain dutiable transactions involving
     foreign persons
   30.   Meaning of primary production property
     For the purposes of this Part, primary production property means the
     following:
     (a) land in Tasmania that -
     (i) is capable of being lawfully used solely or primarily for
     primary production purposes; or
     (ii) a person intends to develop so the land is capable of being
     lawfully used solely or primarily for primary production purposes;
     (b) an option to purchase land, to the extent that the option to
     purchase land relates to land referred to in paragraph (a) ;
     (c) a land use entitlement, to the extent that the land use
     entitlement relates to land referred to in paragraph (a) ;
     (d) a partnership interest, being an interest in a partnership that
     has partnership property, to the extent that the partnership
     property relates to -
     (i) land referred to in paragraph (a) ; or
     (ii) an option to purchase land referred to in paragraph (b) ; or
     (iii) a land use entitlement referred to in paragraph (c) ;
     (e) goods in Tasmania on which duty is chargeable under Part 1 if -
     (i) those goods are dutiable property in accordance with
     section 9(1)(j) ; and
     (ii) those goods are part of an arrangement involving a dutiable
     transaction over land referred to in paragraph (a) ; and
     (iii) the use of the goods can be directly linked to, or is
     incidental to the use, or intended use, for primary production
     purposes, of, all or part of the land referred to in paragraph (a) .
   30A.   Meaning of residential property
     (1)  For the purposes of this Part, residential property means the
     following:
     (a) land in Tasmania -
     (i) which is vacant land on which a building may be lawfully built
     and occupied as a place of residence so that the land is capable of
     being lawfully used solely or primarily for residential purposes; or
     (ii) which is capable of being lawfully used solely or primarily for
     residential purposes; or
     (iii) which includes a building, or part of a building, that a
     person intends to have refurbished or extended so the land is
     capable of being lawfully used solely or primarily for residential
     purposes; or
     (iv) on which a person intends to have a building constructed so the
     land is capable of being lawfully used solely or primarily for
     residential purposes; or
     (v) in respect of which a person has undertaken or intends to
     undertake land development for the purposes of -
     (A) constructing a building so the land is capable of being lawfully
     used solely or primarily for residential purposes; or
     (B) enabling another person to construct a building so the land is
     capable of being lawfully used solely or primarily for residential
     purposes;
     (b) an option to purchase land, to the extent that the option to
     purchase land relates to land referred to in paragraph (a) ;
     (c) a land use entitlement, to the extent that the land use
     entitlement relates to land referred to in paragraph (a) ;
     (d) a partnership interest, being an interest in a partnership that
     has partnership property, to the extent that the partnership
     property relates to -
     (i) land referred to in paragraph (a) ; or
     (ii) an option to purchase land referred to in paragraph (b) ; or
     (iii) a land use entitlement referred to in paragraph (c) ;
     (e) goods in Tasmania on which duty is chargeable under Part 1 if -
     (i) those goods are dutiable property in accordance with
     section 9(1)(j) ; and
     (ii) those goods are part of an arrangement involving a dutiable
     transaction over land referred to in paragraph (a) ; and
     (iii) the use of the goods can be directly linked to, or is
     incidental to the use, or intended use, for residential purposes,
     of, all or part of the land referred to in paragraph (a) .
     (2)  Despite subsection (1) , residential property does not include
     land on which a building is being lawfully used solely, or
     primarily, as one of the following premises:
     (a) a commercial establishment whose primary purpose is to offer
     short-term accommodation, or lodging, to persons for consideration;
     (b) a hostel or boarding house;
     (c) premises that are primarily used, to provide residential
     accommodation, by or on behalf of -
     (i) a school, within the meaning of the Education Act 2016 ; or
     (ii) TasTAFE, within the meaning of the Education Act 2016 ; or
     (iii) an institution within the meaning of the Higher Education
     Funding Act 1988 of the Commonwealth;
     (d) a residential care service, within the meaning of the Land Tax
     Act 2000 ;
     (e) a retirement village, within the meaning of the Land Tax Act
     2000 .
     (3)  For the purposes of subsection (2) , premises that are short
     stay premises, within the meaning of the Short Stay Accommodation
     Act 2019 , are not commercial establishments.
   30AA.   Determinations in relation to use of land
     (1)  The Commissioner may make a determination that, for the
     purposes of section 30 , land is, or will be, capable of being
     lawfully used primarily for primary production purposes if the
     Commissioner is satisfied, on reasonable grounds, that at least 50%
     of the land is, or will be, capable of being used for such a
     purpose, whether or not the land is, or will be, capable of use for
     another purpose.
     (2)  The Commissioner may make a determination that, for the
     purposes of section 30A , land is, or will be, capable of being
     lawfully used primarily for residential purposes if the Commissioner
     is satisfied, on reasonable grounds, that at least 50% of the land
     is, or will be, capable of being used for such a purpose, whether or
     not the land is, or will be, capable of use for another purpose.
   30B.   Dutiable transactions relating to more than one parcel of land
     For the purposes of calculating duty under this Part, if a dutiable
     transaction relates to more than one parcel of land, each parcel of
     land is taken to be a separate item of dutiable property.
   30C.   Additional duty chargeable for foreign purchasers of residential
   property
     (1)  This section applies to a dutiable transaction if -
     (a) the dutiable transaction relates to dutiable property that is
     residential property; and
     (b) a transferee who is liable to pay duty in respect of the
     dutiable transaction is a foreign person.
     (2)  In addition to the duty otherwise chargeable under Part 1 ,
     duty is also chargeable on the dutiable transaction at a rate of 8%
     of the dutiable value of the residential property.
     (2A)  Despite subsection (2) , if -
     (a) duty is chargeable under this section on a dutiable transaction;
     and
     (b) the dutiable transaction is the result of a written agreement
     for sale that was entered into before 1 April 2020 -
     the duty chargeable on the dutiable transaction under subsection (2)
     is chargeable at a rate of 3% of the dutiable value of the
     residential property.
     (3)  Duty under subsection (2) is to be charged only on the
     proportion of the dutiable value of the residential property that is
     the same as the proportion of the interest acquired in the
     residential property by a foreign person or foreign persons.
     (4)  Except as provided by Division 11 of Part 9 of the Local
     Government Act 1993 , if a liability to duty arises under this
     section on a dutiable transaction that relates to land that is
     residential property in accordance with section 30A(a) , that
     liability is a first charge on that land in priority to all
     mortgages, rates, charges, liens and encumbrances.
   30D.   Duty in respect of change of land to residential property
     (1)  This section applies to a dutiable transaction if -
     (a) duty was charged on the dutiable transaction under Chapter 2 ;
     and
     (b) a transferee who was liable to pay duty in respect of the
     dutiable transaction -
     (i) was a foreign person at the time of the dutiable transaction; or
     (ii) became a foreign person within the 3-year period after the
     dutiable transaction; and
     (c) within the 3-year period after the dutiable transaction,
     dutiable property that was the subject of the dutiable transaction
     became residential property.
     (2)  This section does not apply to a dutiable transaction if, at
     the time the dutiable property referred to in subsection (1)(c)
     became residential property, the transferee referred to in
     subsection (1)(b) did not own an interest in the dutiable property.
     (3)  A transferee referred to in subsection (1)(b) must, within 14
     days of the dutiable property referred to in subsection (1)(c)
     becoming residential property, notify the Commissioner in an
     approved form of that fact, if the dutiable property has become
     residential property within the period specified in
     subsection (1)(c) .
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (4)  If the Commissioner becomes aware that dutiable property
     referred to in subsection (1)(c) has become residential property
     within the period specified in that subsection, the Commissioner
     must reassess the duty payable on the dutiable transaction as if, at
     the time the dutiable transaction occurred, that dutiable property
     was residential property.
     (5)  If -
     (a) the dutiable property referred to in subsection (1)(c) was
     primary production property; and
     (b) as a consequence of a reassessment under subsection (4) , duty
     is chargeable on that property under this section -
     the amount of duty payable under this section on the dutiable
     transaction is to be reduced by the amount of duty (if any)
     previously paid in respect of that property under section 30E .
     (6)  Despite section 10 , if duty is charged as a consequence of a
     reassessment under subsection (4) , liability for that duty arises
     when the dutiable property referred to in subsection (1)(c) becomes
     residential property.
   30DA.   Reassessment of duty if premises cease to be residential
   premises
     (1)  This section applies to the transferee for a dutiable
     transaction in relation to dutiable property if -
     (a) at the time of the dutiable transaction, the dutiable property
     was dutiable property to which subsection (2) applies; and
     (b) within 12 months after the dutiable transaction, the dutiable
     property ceases to be residential property because premises situated
     on the dutiable property become premises to which section 30A(2)
     relates.
     (2)  This subsection applies to dutiable property at the time of a
     dutiable transaction if, at that time, the dutiable property was
     residential property only by reason that a building on the dutiable
     property that had, within the 12-month period before that time, been
     used solely, or primarily, as premises to which section 30A(2)
     relates,was not being used solely, or primarily, as such premises.
     (3)  A transferee to whom this section applies may apply to the
     Commissioner, in writing, to reassess the duty payable under this
     Part on a dutiable transaction in relation todutiable property as
     if, at the time at which the dutiable transaction occurred, the
     dutiable property was not residential property because premises
     situated on the dutiable property were premises to which
     section 30A(2) applies.
     (4)  A transferee may only apply for a reassessment under
     subsection (3) if the transferee has not transferred all, or any
     part, of the property that was the subject of the dutiable
     transaction.
     (5)  If the Commissioner receives an application under
     subsection (3) in respect of a dutiable transaction in relation to
     dutiable property and the Commissioner is satisfied that the
     transferee is a transferee to whom this section applies, the
     Commissioner must -
     (a) reassess the duty payable under this Part on the dutiable
     transaction as if, at the time at which the dutiable transaction
     occurred, the dutiable property was not residential property because
     premises situated on the dutiable property were premises to which
     section 30A(2) applies; and
     (b) refund any amount of duty paid in respect of the dutiable
     transaction that is in excess of the amount so reassessed.
     (6)  If dutiable property to which this section applies becomes
     residential property again within the 3-year period after the
     relevant dutiable transaction, section 30D(2) , (3) , (4) and (6)
     apply to the dutiable transaction as if a reference to subsection
     (1)(c) were a reference to this subsection.
   30E.   Additional duty chargeable for foreign purchasers of primary
   production property
     (1)  This section applies to a dutiable transaction if -
     (a) the dutiable transaction relates to dutiable property that is
     primary production property; and
     (b) a transferee who is liable to pay duty in respect of the
     dutiable transaction is a foreign person.
     (2)  In addition to the duty otherwise chargeable under Part 1 ,
     duty is also chargeable on the dutiable transaction at a rate of
     1.5% of the dutiable value of the primary production property.
     (2A)  Despite subsection (2) , if -
     (a) duty is chargeable under this section on a dutiable transaction;
     and
     (b) the dutiable transaction is the result of a written agreement
     for sale that was entered into before 1 April 2020 -
     the duty chargeable on the dutiable transaction under subsection (2)
     is chargeable at a rate of 0.5% of the dutiable value of the primary
     production property.
     (3)  Duty under subsection (2) is to be charged only on the
     proportion of the dutiable value of the primary production property
     that is the same as the proportion of the interest acquired in the
     primary production property by a foreign person or foreign persons.
     (4)  Except as provided by Division 11 of Part 9 of the Local
     Government Act 1993 , if a liability to duty arises under this
     section on a dutiable transaction that relates to land that is
     primary production property in accordance with section 30(a), that
     liability is a first charge on that land in priority to all
     mortgages, rates, charges, liens and encumbrances.
   30F.   Duty in respect of change of land to primary production property
     (1)  This section applies to a dutiable transaction if -
     (a) duty was charged on the dutiable transaction under Chapter 2 ;
     and
     (b) a transferee who was liable to pay duty in respect of the
     dutiable transaction -
     (i) was a foreign person at the time of the dutiable transaction; or
     (ii) became a foreign person within the 3-year period after the
     dutiable transaction; and
     (c) within the 3-year period after the dutiable transaction,
     dutiable property that was the subject of the dutiable transaction
     became primary production property.
     (2)  This section does not apply to a dutiable transaction if the
     dutiable property referred to in subsection (1)(c) was residential
     property at the time of the dutiable transaction.
     (3)  This section does not apply to a dutiable transaction if, at
     the time the dutiable property referred to in subsection (1)(c)
     became primary production property, the transferee referred to in
     subsection (1)(b) did not own an interest in the dutiable property.
     (4)  A transferee referred to in subsection (1)(b) must, within 14
     days of the dutiable property referred to in subsection (1)(c)
     becoming primary production property, notify the Commissioner in an
     approved form of that fact, if the dutiable property has become
     primary production property within the period specified in
     subsection (1)(c) .
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (5)  If the Commissioner becomes aware that dutiable property
     referred to in subsection (1)(c) has become primary production
     property within the period specified in that subsection, the
     Commissioner must reassess the duty payable on the dutiable
     transaction as if, at the time the dutiable transaction occurred,
     that dutiable property was primary production property.
     (6)  Despite section 10, if duty is charged as a consequence of a
     reassessment under subsection (5) , liability for that duty arises
     when the dutiable property referred to in subsection (1)(c) becomes
     primary production property.
   30G.   Concessions
     (1)  Duty is not chargeable on a dutiable transaction under this
     Part if the dutiable transaction attracted a duty concession under
     Part 5 .
     (2)  Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of a dutiable
     transaction if the dutiable transaction attracted a duty concession
     under section 50 .
   30H.   Reassessment of duty if transferee becomes a foreign person
     (1)  This section applies to a dutiable transaction if -
     (a) the dutiable transaction related to dutiable property that was
     residential property or primary production property; and
     (b) a transferee who was liable to pay duty in respect of the
     dutiable transaction became a foreign person within the 3-year
     period after the dutiable transaction.
     (2)  This section does not apply to a dutiable transaction if, at
     the time the transferee referred to in subsection (1)(b) became a
     foreign person, the transferee referred to in subsection (1)(b) did
     not own an interest in the dutiable property.
     (3)  A transferee to whom subsection (1)(b) applies must, within 14
     days after becoming a foreign person, give notice of that fact to
     the Commissioner in an approved form.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (4)  If the Commissioner becomes aware that a transferee referred to
     in subsection (1)(b) has become a foreign person within the period
     specified in that subsection, the Commissioner must reassess the
     duty payable on the dutiable transaction as if, at the time the
     dutiable transaction occurred, that transferee was a foreign person.
     (5)  Despite section 10 , if duty is charged as a consequence of a
     reassessment under subsection (4) , liability for that duty arises
     when the transferee referred to in subsection (1)(b) becomes a
     foreign person.
   30HA.   Reassessment of duty if natural person transferee is no longer
   foreign person
     (1)  This section applies to the transferee for a dutiable
     transaction if -
     (a) at the time of the dutiable transaction, the transferee was a
     foreign natural person; and
     (b) within 6 months after the dutiable transaction, the transferee
     ceases to be a foreign natural person.
     (2)  A transferee to whom this section applies may apply to the
     Commissioner, in writing, to reassess the duty payable under this
     Part on a dutiable transaction as if, at the time the dutiable
     transaction occurred, the transferee was not a foreign person.
     (3)  A transferee may only apply for a reassessment under
     subsection (2) if the transferee has not transferred all, or any
     part, of the property that was the subject of the dutiable
     transaction.
     (4)  If the Commissioner receives an application under
     subsection (2) in respect of a dutiable transaction and the
     Commissioner is satisfied that the transferee is a transferee to
     whom this section applies, the Commissioner must -
     (a) reassess the duty payable under this Part on the dutiable
     transaction as if, at the time the dutiable transaction occurred,
     the transferee was not a foreign person; and
     (b) refund any amount of duty paid in respect of the dutiable
     transaction that is in excess of the amount so reassessed.
     (5)  If a transferee to whom this section applies becomes a foreign
     person again within the 3-year period after the relevant dutiable
     transaction, section 30H(2) , (3) , (4) and (5) apply to the
     dutiable transaction as if a reference to subsection (1)(b) in
     section 30H were a reference to this subsection.
   30HB.   Reassessment of duty if trust is taken to not be foreign trust
     (1)  Despite section 4B , a trust is not a foreign trust in respect
     of a dutiable transaction if -
     (a) at the time of the dutiable transaction the trust was a foreign
     trust; and
     (b) under the terms of the trust deed, a trustee has a power or
     discretion referred to in section 4B(3) in respect of the
     distribution of the capital of the trust estate; and
     (c) a trustee of the trust, in his or her capacity as trustee, was a
     transferee in respect of the dutiable transaction; and
     (d) the trust deed for the trust is amended -
     (i) if the dutiable transaction occurred before the Duties Amendment
     Act 2020 received the Royal Assent, no later than 6 months after
     that Royal Assent; or
     (ii) if the dutiable transaction occurred on or after the Duties
     Amendment Act 2020 received the Royal Assent, within 6 months after
     the dutiable transaction; and
     (e) as a result of the amendment to the trust deed, the trust is not
     a foreign trust; and
     (f) a trustee of the trust has not -
     (i) transferred or distributed to a foreign person; or
     (ii) entered into an agreement to transfer or distribute to a
     foreign person -
     all, or any part of, the dutiable property that was the subject of
     the dutiable transaction.
     (2)  If a trust is not a foreign trust in respect of a dutiable
     transaction by virtue of subsection (1) , the transferee may apply
     to the Commissioner, in writing, to reassess the duty payable under
     this Part on the dutiable transaction.
     (3)  If the Commissioner receives an application under
     subsection (2) in respect of a dutiable transaction and the
     Commissioner is satisfied that the relevant trust is not a foreign
     trust in respect of the dutiable transaction, the Commissioner
     must -
     (a) reassess the duty payable under this Part on the dutiable
     transaction as if, at the time the dutiable transaction occurred,
     the trust was not a foreign trust; and
     (b) refund any amount of duty paid in respect of the dutiable
     transaction that is in excess of the amount so reassessed.
     (4)  If -
     (a) a trust is not a foreign trust in respect of a dutiable
     transaction by virtue of subsection (1) ; and
     (b) the trust becomes a foreign trust again within the 3-year period
     after the dutiable transaction -
     section 30H(2) , (3) , (4) and (5) apply to the dutiable transaction
     as if a reference in section 30H to a transferee referred to in
     subsection (1)(b) were a reference to each trustee of the trust.
   30HC.   Reassessment of duty for certain developers of property
     (1)  In this section -
     occupancy permit has the same meaning as in the Building Act 2016 ;
     relevant dwelling means a dwelling where -
     (a) the dwelling is situated on land, within Tasmania, that is
     acquired by a person (the relevant person) on or after 1 July 2022;
     and
     (b) on or after that date -
     (i) the laying of the foundations of the dwelling occurred; or
     (ii) if no foundations are to be laid in respect of the dwelling, an
     equivalent act determined by the Commissioner occurred in respect of
     the dwelling; and
     (c) the completed dwelling is capable of being lawfully used solely,
     or primarily, for residential purposes; and
     (d) an occupancy permit is first issued, to the relevant person, in
     respect of the dwelling within 3 years after the relevant person
     acquired the land on which the dwelling is situated;
     Tasmania-based foreign developer, in respect of a financial year,
     means a foreign person who operates a business -
     (a) that acquires land within Tasmania with the aim of developing
     the land; and
     (b) of which at least 80% of the wages of management and
     administration staff of the business are taxable wages within the
     meaning of the Payroll Tax Act 2008 , in that year; and
     (c) that operates in Tasmania for the majority of its business hours
     in that year.
     (2)  A person may apply to the Commissioner, in writing, to reassess
     the duty payable by the person under this Part, for a specified
     financial year, in relation to a dutiable transaction consisting of
     an acquisition of land, if -
     (a) the person is a Tasmania-based foreign developer in respect of
     the financial year; and
     (b) the person, or the business by virtue of which the person is a
     Tasmania-based foreign developer for the purposes of this section,
     has -
     (i) been issued with occupancy permits, in that year, in respect of
     at least 50 relevant dwellings on the land; and
     (ii) paid duty under this Part in respect of the dutiable
     transaction consisting of the acquisition of the land on which one
     or more of those relevant dwellings are situated.
     (3)  If the Commissioner receives an application under
     subsection (2) from a person in respect of a financial year, in
     relation to a dutiable transaction consisting of an acquisition of
     land, the Commissioner must -
     (a) reassess the duty payable under this Part by the person, in
     respect of the dutiable transaction, as at the time at which the
     transaction was made, as if the person were not a foreign person;
     and
     (b) refund any amount of duty paid by the person under this Part, in
     respect of the dutiable transaction, that is in excess of the amount
     so reassessed in relation to that dutiable transaction.
     (4)  If a Tasmania-based foreign developer has paid duty under this
     Part in relation to a dutiable transaction consisting of an
     acquisition of a parcel of land and a relevant dwelling is situated
     on a portion, of that land, that -
     (a) is recorded in a single certificate of title within the meaning
     of the Land Tax Act 2000 ; or
     (b) is a lot or area of common property, of a strata scheme within
     the meaning of the Strata Titles Act 1998 ; or
     (c) was created by the division of the land in a manner that is
     identified, or recognised, in another way -
     the Commissioner is to reassess, under subsection (3) , in
     accordance with subsection (5) , the amount of duty payable.
     (5)  The reassessment under subsection (3) of duty payable in
     respect of a dutiable transaction consisting of an acquisition of
     land is, if subsection (4) applies in relation to one or more
     portions of the land, to be determined by -
     (a) reassessing the duty payable under this Part in respect of all
     of the land of which the portion of land is, or the portions of land
     are, part; and
     (b) calculating the percentage, of all of the land, that consists of
     the portion of land or portions of land; and
     (c) reducing the amount of duty payable in respect of the land under
     this Part by the percentage calculated under paragraph (b) for the
     portion of land or the portions of land.
     (6)  The Commissioner may only refund, under subsection (3) , an
     amount of duty paid by a Tasmania-based foreign developer if the
     Commissioner is satisfied that the developer complied with all of
     the relevant requirements of the Foreign Investment Review Board,
     established by the Commonwealth Government, that apply in respect of
     the acquisition of the land for which duty is being reassessed under
     subsection (3) .
   30I.   Dutiable transactions before 1 July 2018
     For the avoidance of doubt, duty is not chargeable on a dutiable
     transaction under this Part if the dutiable transaction occurred
     before 1 July 2018.
   30J.   Exemption relating to dwellings used as principal residences in
   certain circumstances
     (1)  Duty is not chargeable under this Part on a dutiable
     transaction if -
     (a) the dutiable transaction is the acquisition of property which is
     residential land that has an existing dwelling on it; and
     (b) as a result of the dutiable transaction, the whole of the
     property is or will be held by the parties to a marriage or
     significant relationship, or by caring partners, as joint tenants or
     as tenants in common in equal shares; and
     (c) only one transferee for the transaction is a foreign natural
     person; and
     (d) the property is to be the principal place of residence for both
     transferees for the dutiable transaction within the 6-month period
     after the transaction.
     (2)  If a dutiable transaction meets the requirements of
     subsection (1) , and duty has been paid under this Part on the
     transaction, the Commissioner must -
     (a) reassess the duty payable under this Part on the dutiable
     transaction; and
     (b) refund any amount of duty paid in respect of the dutiable
     transaction that is in excess of the amount so reassessed.
     (3)  Despite subsection (1) , a transferee must notify the
     Commissioner, in writing, as soon as practicable after becoming
     aware that -
     (a) a transferee is not intending, or both transferees are not
     intending, to use the property as a principal place of residence; or
     (b) a transferee has not, or both transferees have not, used the
     property as a principal place of residence -
     within the 6-month period after the relevant dutiable transaction.
     (4)  If the Commissioner becomes aware that a transferee, for a
     dutiable transaction referred to in subsection (1) , has not used
     the property acquired under the dutiable transaction as a principal
     place of residence within the 6-month period after the dutiable
     transaction, the Commissioner must reassess the duty payable on the
     dutiable transaction under this Part as if, at the time the dutiable
     transaction occurred, this section did not apply to the dutiable
     transaction.
     (5)  Despite subsection (4) , a transferee for a dutiable
     transaction to be reassessed under that subsection may apply to the
     Commissioner, in writing, for the duty on the dutiable transaction
     not to be so reassessed.
     (6)  After considering an application under subsection (5) , the
     Commissioner may decide that there are reasonable grounds not to
     reassess duty on a dutiable transaction in accordance with
     subsection (4) .
     (7)  Despite section 10 , if duty is charged as a consequence of a
     reassessment under subsection (4) , liability for that duty arises 6
     months after the dutiable transaction occurred.
   30K.   Refund relating to duty paid on vacant land where principal
   residences are built in certain circumstances
     (1)  If -
     (a) a dutiable transaction is for the acquisition of residential
     land that is vacant land; and
     (b) duty was paid under this Part on the dutiable transaction; and
     (c) as a result of the dutiable transaction, the whole of the
     property is or will be held by the parties to a marriage or
     significant relationship, or by caring partners, as joint tenants or
     as tenants in common in equal shares; and
     (d) only one transferee for the transaction is a foreign person; and
     (e) within 2 years after the dutiable transaction -
     (i) a dwelling is built on the property; and
     (ii) the dwelling is the principal place of residence for both
     transferees for the dutiable transaction; and
     (f) once the property is held by both transferees as joint tenants,
     or as tenants in common in equal shares, as required under
     paragraph (c) , the property is so held by the transferees until the
     dwelling becomes the principal place of residence for both
     transferees in accordance with paragraph (e)(ii)  -
     a transferee may apply to the Commissioner, in writing, for a refund
     of the amount of duty paid under this Part on the dutiable
     transaction.
     (2)  If the Commissioner receives an application under
     subsection (1) and the Commissioner is satisfied that the dutiable
     transaction meets the requirements of that subsection, the
     Commissioner must -
     (a) reassess the duty payable under this Part on the dutiable
     transaction as if, at the time the dutiable transaction occurred,
     both transferees were not a foreign person; and
     (b) refund any amount of duty paid in respect of the dutiable
     transaction that is in excess of the amount so reassessed.
   30L.   Determination that transferee not a foreign person
     (1)  A transferee who -
     (a) is a foreign person for the purposes of this Part; and
     (b) as a result of being a foreign person, is liable to pay duty
     under this Part on a dutiable transaction -
     may apply to the Commissioner, in writing, for the Commissioner to
     determine that the transferee is not to be taken to be a foreign
     person for the purposes of this Part.
     (2)  After considering an application under subsection (1) , the
     Commissioner may -
     (a) determine that the transferee is not a foreign person, for the
     purposes of this Part, in respect of the relevant dutiable
     transaction; or
     (b) refuse the application.
     (3)  If the Commissioner determines under subsection (2)(a) that a
     transferee is not a foreign person in respect of a dutiable
     transaction and duty has been paid under this Part in respect of the
     transaction, the Commissioner must -
     (a) reassess the duty payable under this Part on the dutiable
     transaction as if, at the time the dutiable transaction occurred,
     the transferee was not a foreign person; and
     (b) refund any amount of duty paid in respect of the dutiable
     transaction that is in excess of the amount so reassessed.
     (4)  A decision of the Commissioner under subsection (2) is a
     non-reviewable decision within the meaning of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 .
     (5)  If a determination under subsection (2)(a) , in relation to a
     dutiable transaction, was made based on false or misleading
     information provided as part of an application under subsection (1)
     , the Commissioner -
     (a) may revoke the determination; and
     (b) if the determination was revoked under paragraph (a) , is to
     reassess the relevant dutiable transaction as if the determination
     had not been made.
   30M.   Circumstances in which transferee not a foreign person
     (1)  The Commissioner may publish, in a manner that is freely
     available to members of the public, circumstances in which a
     transferee is not to be taken to be a foreign person for the
     purposes of this Part.
     (2)  While the circumstances published by the Commissioner under
     subsection (1) , and in force in accordance with subsection (3) ,
     apply in relation to a transferee, the transferee is not a foreign
     person for the purposes of this Part.
     (3)  For the purposes of this section, circumstances published by
     the Commissioner under subsection (1) are only in force while they
     remain so published.
     (4)  If -
     (a) the circumstances published by the Commissioner under
     subsection (1) , and in force in accordance with subsection (3) ,
     apply in relation to a transferee in respect of a dutiable
     transaction; and
     (b) the transferee has paid duty under this Part in respect of the
     dutiable transaction -
     the transferee may apply to the Commissioner, in writing, for a
     refund of the amount of duty paid by the transferee under this Part
     in respect of the dutiable transaction.
     (5)  If the Commissioner receives an application under
     subsection (4) and the Commissioner is satisfied that the
     circumstances published by the Commissioner under subsection (1) ,
     and in force in accordance with subsection (3) , apply in relation
     to a transferee, the Commissioner must -
     (a) reassess the duty payable under this Part on the dutiable
     transaction as if, at the time the dutiable transaction occurred,
     the transferee was not a foreign person; and
     (b) refund any amount of duty paid in respect of the dutiable
     transaction that is in excess of the amount so reassessed.
     PART 4 - Special provisions
   31.   Interim payment of duty
     (1)  If the full dutiable value of dutiable property subject to a
     dutiable transaction cannot, in the Commissioner's opinion, be
     immediately ascertained, the Commissioner may make an assessment by
     way of estimate under section 21(2) of the Taxation Administration
     Act 1997 .
     (2)  The written instrument or the written statement required by
     section 13 may be stamped "interim stamp only".
     (3)  The person liable to pay duty is to obtain and provide to the
     Commissioner, within 3 months of the date of the interim assessment
     of duty, evidence acceptable to the Commissioner of the dutiable
     value of the dutiable property and -
     (a) is to resubmit the written instrument or written statement to
     the Commissioner for further assessment; and
     (b) the Commissioner must reassess the duty payable on the dutiable
     transaction.
     (4)  If no further duty is payable, the interim stamp is to be
     cancelled and any amount paid in excess of the amount assessed is to
     be refunded.
     (5)  If further duty is payable, liability for the further duty
     arises when the notice of assessment issues, despite section 10 .
     (6)  On payment of the balance of the duty (and any interest or
     penalty tax), the written instrument or the written statement
     required by section 13 is to be stamped with the amount of the
     balance and marked to indicate that duty has been duly paid.
     (7)  The Commissioner may extend the time or period for ascertaining
     the dutiable value and resubmitting a transaction for further
     assessment.
     (8)  A tax default is taken to have occurred for the purposes of the
     Taxation Administration Act 1997 if the person liable to pay duty
     fails to obtain evidence acceptable to the Commissioner of the
     dutiable value of the dutiable property and resubmit the transaction
     to the Commissioner for further assessment within 3 months of the
     date of the interim assessment of duty, subject to subsection (7) .
   32.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   33.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   34.   Transfer arising from mortgage of land
     If a mortgage also operates as a conveyance of the equity, right of
     redemption or reversion of the property comprised in the instrument
     to or in trust for, and according to the direction of, the
     purchaser, it is chargeable with duty as a transfer under this
     Chapter, but, if the equity or right of redemption or reversion is
     thereby conveyed or limited in any other manner, it is not
     chargeable with duty under this Chapter.
   35.   Vesting order
     (1)  Subject to subsection (4) , a vesting order under the Land
     Titles Act 1980 is chargeable with the same duty as a transfer of
     the land the subject of the application as if the dutiable value of
     the land was the value calculated by multiplying the capital value
     of the real property as determined under the Valuation of Land Act
     2001 by an amount representing the latest estimated trend in capital
     values as advised by the Valuer-General before the date of the
     dutiable transaction relating to that property.
     (2)  Subsection (1) does not apply if the person applying for the
     vesting order has paid ad valorem duty in respect of the acquisition
     of land to which the vesting order relates or the acquisition by the
     person applying was exempt from duty.
     (3)  The person liable to pay the duty is the applicant.
     (4)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , if, before land is vested
     in the person applying for the vesting order, the applicant has made
     improvements to the land, the dutiable value of the land is to be
     determined as if those improvements had not been made.
   36.   Applications to bring land under Land Titles Act 1980
     (1)  An application to bring land under the Land Titles Act 1980 is
     chargeable with the same duty as on a vesting order under that Act
     if the applicant has not paid ad valorem duty on a transfer of the
     land.
     (2)  The person liable to pay the duty is the applicant.
     PART 4A - Transactions Treated as Subsales of Land
     Division 1 - Introduction
   36A.   Definitions
     (1)  In this Part -
     associate of a person means an associated person of that person;
     consideration means the amount of a monetary consideration or the
     value of a non-monetary consideration;
     excluded costs means -
     (a) legal costs or other fees or charges, including reasonable
     selling agents' fees and any statutory fees or charges; and
     (b) survey or valuation payments; and
     (c) GST other than in circumstances where an input tax credit or
     reduced input tax credit is available; and
     (d) any other costs that, in the Commissioner's opinion, were
     reasonably incurred -
     (i) if the subsequent purchaser obtained the transfer right from the
     first purchaser, by the first purchaser as part of the sale
     contract; or
     (ii) if the subsequent purchaser obtained the transfer right from
     another subsequent purchaser, by that other subsequent purchaser or
     an associate of that other subsequent purchaser in order for that
     other subsequent purchaser to obtain a transfer right;
     first purchaser -
     (a) for the purposes of Division 2 , has the meaning given in
     section 36B(1)(a) ; and
     (b) for the purposes of Division 3 , has the meaning given in
     section 36I(1)(a) ;
     sale agreement has the meaning given in section 36B(1)(a) ;
     subsequent purchaser has the meaning given in section 36B(1)(b) ;
     subsequent transaction has the meaning given in section 36B(3) ;
     transfer right has the meaning given in section 36B(1)(b) ;
     vendor -
     (a) for the purposes of Division 2 , has the meaning given in
     section 36B(1)(a) ; and
     (b) for the purposes of Division 3 , has the meaning given in
     section 36I(1)(a) .
     (2)  For the purposes of this Part -
     (a) if a person who has a transfer right obtains an increased
     transfer right by a subsequent transaction, the person is a
     subsequent purchaser in relation to that subsequent transaction only
     to the extent of the increase in the transfer right; and
     (b) if, by a subsequent transaction, a person retains a transfer
     right and another person obtains a transfer right, that other person
     is a subsequent purchaser in relation to that subsequent transaction
     only to the extent of the transfer right obtained by that other
     person.
     Division 2 - Transfers involving additional consideration
   36B.   Application of Division
     (1)  This Division applies to a transfer of dutiable property
     referred to in section 9 if -
     (a) a person (the "vendor") enters into an agreement (the "sale
     agreement") to sell or transfer the property to another person (the
     "first purchaser"); and
     (b) any of the following persons (a "subsequent purchaser") obtains
     the right (a "transfer right") to have the property or any part of
     it transferred, on completion of the sale agreement, to the
     subsequent purchaser:
     (i) a person other than the first purchaser;
     (ii) the first purchaser and a person other than the first
     purchaser;
     (iii) if there is more than one first purchaser, one or more of the
     first purchasers in different proportions from those in the sale
     agreement; and
     (c) a subsequent purchaser or an associate of the subsequent
     purchaser gives or agrees to give additional consideration in order
     for the subsequent purchaser to obtain the transfer right; and
     (d) the vendor transfers the property or any part of it to a
     subsequent purchaser.
     (2)  It is immaterial whether a subsequent purchaser obtains a
     transfer right -
     (a) by way of an assignment, nomination, novation or otherwise; or
     (b) from the first purchaser or from another subsequent purchaser.
     (3)  Each assignment, nomination, novation or other arrangement by
     which a subsequent purchaser obtains a transfer right is called a
     "subsequent transaction".
     (4)  In this section -
     additional consideration for a transfer right means any
     consideration given or agreed to be given by a subsequent purchaser
     or an associate of the subsequent purchaser in order for the
     subsequent purchaser to obtain the transfer right, other than
     reimbursement of excluded costs, and -
     (a) if the subsequent purchaser obtained the transfer right from the
     first purchaser, the additional consideration is the amount that
     exceeds the consideration given or agreed to be given to the vendor
     by the first purchaser under the sale agreement in respect of the
     property that is the subject of the transfer right; or
     (b) if the subsequent purchaser obtained the transfer right from
     another subsequent purchaser, the additional consideration is the
     amount that exceeds the consideration given or agreed to be given by
     that other subsequent purchaser or an associate of that other
     subsequent purchaser in order for that other subsequent purchaser to
     obtain a transfer right, to the extent that the consideration
     relates to the first-mentioned transfer right.
   36BA.   Application to put and call options
     (1)  This Division applies to a put and call option as if -
     (a) the put and call option were a sale agreement under
     section 36B(1)(a) ; and
     (b) the person who enters the put and call option as the person who
     has the right to purchase the dutiable property were the first
     purchaser under section 36B(1)(a) ; and
     (c) the person who enters the put and call option as the person who
     has the right to sell the dutiable property were the vendor under
     section 36B(1)(a) ; and
     (d) where a right to acquire dutiable property, or part of dutiable
     property, under a put and call option is obtained by another person,
     that other person were a subsequent purchaser under paragraph (b) of
     section 36B(1) and that right were a transfer right under that
     paragraph.
     (2)  For the purposes of section 36B(1)(b) , the completion of the
     put and call option is upon the transfer of the dutiable property
     following the exercise of either the put or call rights under the
     option.
     (3)  For the purposes of section 36D(1)(a) , the consideration given
     or agreed to be given under the put and call option includes the
     consideration given or agreed to be given to obtain the put and call
     option and any consideration payable on the exercise of the put and
     call option.
     (4)  For the purposes of section 36D(2)(a) , the consideration given
     or agreed to be given to obtain the transfer right includes any
     consideration payable on the exercise of the put and call option.
   36C.   How duty is charged on transfer
     (1)  Duty on a transfer to which this Division applies is not
     charged in respect of the transfer from the vendor to the
     transferee, but is charged separately and distinctly on -
     (a) the dutiable value of the sale agreement as if it had been
     completed by the first purchaser; and
     (b) the dutiable value of the subsequent transaction by which the
     final subsequent purchaser obtained the transfer right; and
     (c) if there were any other subsequent transactions, the dutiable
     value of each of those transactions.
     (2)  Duty is charged at the rate set out in Part 3 on the dutiable
     value referred to in section 36D .
     (3)  If a subsequent purchaser or an associate of a subsequent
     purchaser has not given or agreed to give additional consideration
     in order to obtain a transfer right and -
     (a) if the subsequent purchaser obtained the transfer right from the
     first purchaser, duty is not chargeable under this Division on the
     sale agreement to the extent of the transfer right obtained by the
     subsequent purchaser; or
     (b) in the case of a subsequent transaction referred to in
     subsection (1)(c) , duty is not chargeable under this Division on
     the subsequent transaction, by which the subsequent purchaser
     obtained the transfer right, to the extent of the transfer right
     obtained by the subsequent purchaser.
     (4)  Subsection (3)(b) applies only where a subsequent purchaser
     obtained a transfer right from another subsequent purchaser.
   36D.   Dutiable value of transactions
     (1)  For the purposes of this Division, the dutiable value of the
     sale agreement referred to in section 36C(1)(a) is the greater of -
     (a) the consideration given or agreed to be given under the sale
     agreement; and
     (b) the amount for which the property might reasonably have been
     sold if it had been sold, free from encumbrances, in the open market
     on the date on which the sale agreement was entered into, or as
     calculated by sections 247 and 248(2) and (2A) , as may be
     appropriate.
     (2)  For the purposes of this Division, the dutiable value of a
     subsequent transaction referred to in section 36C(1)(b) or (c) is
     the greater of the following:
     (a) the consideration given or agreed to be given by the subsequent
     purchaser or an associate of the subsequent purchaser in order for
     the subsequent purchaser to obtain the transfer right under the
     transaction, other than excluded costs;
     (b) the amount for which the property might reasonably have been
     sold if it had been sold, free from encumbrances, in the open market
     on the date on which the sale agreement was entered into or as
     calculated by sections 247 and 248(2) and (2A) , as may be
     appropriate.
     (3)  If a subsequent purchaser has obtained a transfer right in the
     circumstances referred to in section 36A(2) , the value of the
     subsequent transaction for the purposes of subsection (2)(b) is to
     be calculated only to the extent of the transfer right obtained by
     the subsequent purchaser under that subsequent transaction.
   36E.   When does liability to duty arise?
     A liability for duty charged by this Division arises when the
     transfer occurs.
   36F.   Who is liable to pay duty?
     (1)  Duty charged by this Division is payable -
     (a) in the case of duty referred to in section 36C(1)(a) , by the
     first purchaser; or
     (b) in the case of duty referred to in section 36C(1)(b) or (c) , by
     the subsequent purchaser who obtains a transfer right under the
     relevant subsequent transaction.
     (2)  A transferee who pays duty payable by another person under this
     Division may recover the amount of that duty as a debt due to the
     transferee from the other person.
   36G.   Exemptions and concessions
     (1)  Duty is not chargeable under section 36C(1)(a) if the sale
     agreement would be exempt from duty under this Chapter if it were a
     transfer of dutiable property to the first purchaser.
     (2)  If the first purchaser would be entitled to a concession under
     this Chapter if the sale agreement were a transfer to the first
     purchaser, the first purchaser is entitled to that concession in
     respect of duty charged under section 36C(1)(a) .
     (3)  Duty is not chargeable under section 36C(1)(b) or (c) if the
     subsequent transaction would be exempt from duty under this Chapter
     if it were a transfer of dutiable property to the subsequent
     purchaser who obtains the transfer right under the subsequent
     transaction.
     (4)  If a subsequent purchaser would be entitled to a concession
     under this Chapter if the subsequent transaction were a transfer to
     the subsequent purchaser, the subsequent purchaser is entitled to
     that concession in respect of duty charged under section 36C(1)(b)
     or (c) .
     Division 3 - Miscellaneous
   36H.   Provisions for determining consideration
     (1)  This section applies for the purpose of determining in Division
     2  -
     (a) the consideration given or agreed to be given under a sale
     agreement; or
     (b) the consideration given or agreed to be given to obtain a
     transfer right under a subsequent transaction.
     (2)  The consideration is taken to include the amount or value of
     all encumbrances, whether certain or contingent, subject to which
     the property would be transferred in accordance with, or as
     contemplated by, the relevant transaction.
   36I.   Parties required to provide information to Commissioner
     (1)  This section applies if -
     (a) a person (the "vendor") enters into an agreement to sell or
     transfer any dutiable property referred to in section 9 to another
     person (the "first purchaser"), or an option is granted in respect
     of that property to or by the first purchaser; and
     (b) the transfer executed by the vendor transfers the property or
     any part of it not to the first purchaser but to another person (the
     "transferee").
     (2)  The transferee must give the Commissioner a statutory
     declaration in the approved form, containing the details required by
     the Commissioner for the purposes of determining any liability of
     the transferee or any other person to duty under this Chapter.
     (3)  If the Commissioner considers it necessary for the purposes of
     determining liability to duty under this Chapter, the Commissioner
     may require any person he or she reasonably believes may be liable
     to duty to give the Commissioner a statutory declaration in the
     approved form, containing the details required by the Commissioner.
     PART 5 - Concessional rates of duty
     Division 1 - Trusts
   37.   Change in trustees
     (1)  In this section -
     new trustee means a trustee appointed in substitution for a trustee
     or a trustee appointed in addition to a trustee or trustees;
     responsible entity means a responsible entity within the meaning of
     the Corporations Act;
     special trustee means -
     (a) The Public Trustee; and
     (b) a trustee company within the meaning of the Trustee Companies
     Act 1953 ; and
     (c) a corporation constituted under the law of another Australian
     jurisdiction that, in the Commissioner's opinion, corresponds in
     that jurisdiction to The Public Trustee or a trustee company
     referred to in paragraph (b) ; and
     (d) the trustees of a fund that is a complying superannuation fund
     within the meaning of section 267 of the Income Tax Assessment Act
     1936 of the Commonwealth or that, in the opinion of the trustees,
     will become a complying superannuation fund within 12 months after
     the execution of -
     (i) an instrument appointing a new trustee; or
     (ii) an instrument by which a trustee retires without a new trustee
     being appointed in place of the retiree.
     (2)  Duty of $50 is chargeable in respect of a transfer of dutiable
     property to a special trustee as a consequence of the retirement of
     a trustee or the appointment of a new trustee.
     (3)  Duty of $50 is chargeable in respect of a transfer of dutiable
     property to a person other than a special trustee if the
     Commissioner is satisfied that the transfer is made solely -
     (a) because of the retirement of a trustee, the appointment of a new
     trustee or other change in trustees; and
     (b) in order to vest the property in the trustees for the time being
     entitled to hold it.
     (4)  If the Commissioner becomes aware that a transfer in respect of
     which duty was chargeable under subsection (3) was not a transfer of
     the kind referred to in that subsection, the Commissioner may
     reassess that transfer for the duty that would otherwise be payable.
     (5)  Duty of $50 is chargeable in respect of a transfer of property
     as a consequence of the retirement of a responsible entity of a
     managed investment scheme or the appointment of a new responsible
     entity of a managed investment scheme if the Commissioner is
     satisfied that the only beneficial interest acquired by a person in
     relation to the property as a result of the transfer is a beneficial
     interest acquired by the replacement or new responsible entity
     solely because of its appointment as responsible entity for the
     scheme.
     (6)  Duty of $50 is chargeable in respect of a transfer of dutiable
     property to a responsible entity if the Commissioner is satisfied
     that the transfer is necessary to enable an undertaking that existed
     before the commencement of Chapter 5C of the Corporations Law to
     become a registered scheme within the meaning of Division 11 of Part
     11.2 of the Corporations Law (as continued in effect by section 1408
     of the Corporations Act).
   38.   Transfers in relation to managed investment schemes
     (1)  Duty of $50 is chargeable in respect of a transfer of dutiable
     property from -
     (a) a responsible entity of a managed investment scheme; or
     (b) a person who held the dutiable property as a trustee of a
     prescribed interest scheme within the meaning of the Corporations
     Law as in force immediately before 1 July 1998 when the scheme
     became a registered scheme within the meaning of Division 11 of Part
     11.2 of the Corporations Law (as continued in effect by section 1408
     of the Corporations Act) -
     to a custodian or agent of the responsible entity as custodian or
     agent of the scheme in which the transferor held the dutiable
     property.
     (2)  Duty of $50 is chargeable in respect of a transfer of dutiable
     property from the custodian of the responsible entity of a managed
     investment scheme to the responsible entity.
   39.   Property vested in an apparent purchaser
     (1)  Duty of $50 is chargeable in respect of -
     (a) a declaration of trust made by an apparent purchaser in respect
     of identified dutiable property -
     (i) vested in the apparent purchaser upon trust for the real
     purchaser who provided the consideration for the purchase of the
     dutiable property; or
     (ii) to be vested in the apparent purchaser upon trust for the real
     purchaser, if the Commissioner is satisfied that the consideration
     for the purchase of the dutiable property has been or will be
     provided by the real purchaser; or
     (b) a transfer of dutiable property from an apparent purchaser to
     the real purchaser if -
     (i) the dutiable property is property, or part of property, vested
     in the apparent purchaser upon trust for the real purchaser; and
     (ii) the real purchaser provided the consideration for the purchase
     of the dutiable property and for any improvements made to the
     dutiable property after the purchase.
     (2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , consideration provided by
     a person other than the real purchaser is taken to have been
     provided by the real purchaser if the Commissioner is satisfied that
     the consideration was provided as a loan and has been or will be
     repaid by the real purchaser.
     (3)  This section applies whether or not there has been a change in
     the legal description of the dutiable property between the purchase
     of the property by the apparent purchaser and the transfer to the
     real purchaser.
   Note: For example, if the dutiable property is land, this section
   continues to apply if there is a change in the legal description of the
   dutiable property as a consequence of the subdivision of the land.
     (4)  In this section -
     purchase includes an allotment.
   40.   Transfers back from a nominee
     (1)  If -
     (a) dutiable property that was transferred to a person to be held by
     that person as trustee for the transferor is transferred back to the
     transferor by the trustee; and
     (b) no person other than the transferor has had a beneficial
     interest in the dutiable property (other than the trustee's right of
     indemnity) between its transfer to the trustee and its transfer back
     to the transferor -
     the duty chargeable on the transfer of the dutiable property back to
     the transferor is $50.
     (2)  If duty of $50 has been paid on a transfer under subsection (1)
     , the initial transfer to the trustee is also chargeable with duty
     of $50.
     (3)  The Commissioner must reassess the initial transfer and refund
     any duty paid in excess of $50 if an application for a refund is
     made within -
     (a) 3 years after the initial assessment; or
     (b) 12 months after the transfer back to the original transferor; or
     (c) 3 years after the payment of duty pursuant to a special
     arrangement for the lodging of returns and payment of tax under Part
     6 of the Taxation Administration Act 1997  -
     whichever is the later.
     (4)  In this section,
     trustee includes a trustee appointed in substitution for a trustee
     or a trustee appointed in addition to a trustee or trustees.
   41.   Property passing to beneficiaries
     Duty of $50 is chargeable under this Chapter in respect of a
     transfer of dutiable property that is subject to a trust ("the
     principal trust") to a beneficiary of the principal trust if -
     (a) the beneficiary was a beneficiary when the property, or what was
     substantially the same property, was first vested in a trustee of
     the principal trust; and
     (b) the transfer is -
     (i) to the beneficiary absolutely; or
     (ii) to the beneficiary as trustee of another trust ("the second
     trust") of which all the beneficiaries are natural persons who were
     beneficiaries of the second trust when the property, or what was
     substantially the same property, was first vested in a trustee of
     the principal trust; and
     (c) the duty charged by this Act in respect of the first vesting of
     the property, or what was substantially the same property, in a
     trustee of the principal trust has been paid.
   42.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   43.   Instrument relating to managed investment scheme
     (1)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (2)  Duty of $50 is chargeable in respect of a declaration of
     trust -
     (a) made by a trustee in respect of dutiable property that,
     immediately before the trust is declared, is held by the trustee as
     trustee of the prescribed interest scheme within the meaning of the
     Corporations Law as in force immediately before 1 July 1998; and
     (b) to hold the dutiable property on trust for the responsible
     entity of the managed investment scheme.
     Division 2 - Superannuation
   44.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   45.   Transfer of property from one superannuation fund to another
     (1)  This section applies to the transfer of dutiable property from
     one superannuation fund to another where -
     (a) the transfer is made from a complying superannuation fund or
     from a fund that was a complying superannuation fund within the
     period of 12 months before the transfer was made; and
     (b) the transfer is made to a complying superannuation fund or to a
     superannuation fund that, in the opinion of the trustees, will be a
     complying superannuation fund within 12 months after the transfer is
     made; and
     (c) the transfer occurs in connection with a person's ceasing to be
     a member of, or otherwise ceasing to be entitled to benefits in
     respect of, the fund from which the dutiable property is transferred
     and the person's becoming a member of, or otherwise becoming
     entitled to benefits in respect of, the fund to which the dutiable
     property is transferred.
     (2)  The duty chargeable on a transfer to which this section applies
     is $50.
     (3)  An application for an assessment of duty in accordance with
     this section is to be accompanied by the following:
     (a) a brief explanation of the background to the transfer and the
     entitlements to be extinguished and created;
     (b) copies of the governing rules of the complying superannuation
     funds concerned;
     (c) a statement of the property to be transferred;
     (d) a copy of each instrument relating to the transfer;
     (e) a statutory declaration from a trustee (or a director of a
     corporate trustee) of each of the superannuation funds concerned
     stating that, in the opinion of the trustee (or director), the fund
     will be a complying superannuation fund within 12 months after the
     transfer occurs.
     (4)  The Commissioner may require further information.
     (5)  In this section,
     complying superannuation fund includes a complying approved deposit
     fund and an eligible rollover fund.
   46.   Transfers between trustees and custodians of superannuation funds
   or trusts
     (1)  This section applies to the following dutiable transactions:
     (a) a transfer of, or an agreement to transfer, dutiable property
     from a trustee of -
     (i) a complying superannuation fund; or
     (ii) a pooled superannuation trust; or
     (iii) a fund or trust that, in the opinion of the trustees, will be
     a complying superannuation fund or a pooled superannuation trust
     within 12 months after the transfer takes effect -
     to a custodian of the trustee of the fund or trust, where there is
     no change in the beneficial ownership of the property;
     (b) a transfer of, or an agreement to transfer, dutiable property
     from a custodian of a trustee of -
     (i) a complying superannuation fund; or
     (ii) a pooled superannuation trust; or
     (iii) a fund or trust that, in the opinion of the trustees, will be
     a complying superannuation fund or a pooled superannuation trust
     within 12 months after the transfer takes effect -
     to a trustee of the fund or trust, where there is no change in the
     beneficial ownership of the property;
     (c) a transfer of, or an agreement to transfer, dutiable property
     from a custodian of a trustee of -
     (i) a complying superannuation fund; or
     (ii) a pooled superannuation trust; or
     (iii) a fund or trust that, in the opinion of the trustees, will be
     a complying superannuation fund or a pooled superannuation trust
     within 12 months after the transfer takes effect -
     to another custodian of the trustee of the fund or trust, where
     there is no change in the beneficial ownership of the property.
     (2)  The duty chargeable on a dutiable transaction to which this
     section applies is $50.
     (3)  In this section,
     complying superannuation fund includes a complying approved deposit
     fund and an eligible rollover fund.
     Division 2A - First home buyer duty concession
   46A.   Interpretation of Division 2A
     In this Division -
     eligible first home buyer - see section 46C ;
     eligible period means the period commencing on 7 February 2018 and
     ending on 30 June 2024;
     eligible transaction - see section 46D ;
     established home means a home other than a new home;
     new home has the same meaning as in the First Home Owner Grant Act
     2000 ;
     owner has the same meaning as in the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000
     ;
     residence requirement means a requirement that a person occupy an
     established home as his or her principal place of residence in
     accordance with section 46F(1) .
   46B.   Extension of eligible period
     (1)  The Minister, by order and on one or more occasions, may extend
     the eligible period by omitting the date on which the period ends
     and substituting a new date.
     (2)  Section 47(3), (3A), (4), (5), (6) and (7) of the Acts
     Interpretation Act 1931 apply to an order under subsection (1) as if
     the order were regulations within the meaning of that Act.
     (3)  An order under subsection (1)  -
     (a) is a statutory rule for the purposes of the Rules Publication
     Act 1953 ; and
     (b) is not an instrument of a legislative character for the purposes
     of the Subordinate Legislation Act 1992 .
   46C.   Eligible first home buyer
     (1)  For the purposes of this Division, a person is an eligible
     first home buyer if the Commissioner is satisfied that the person -
     (a) is a natural person; and
     (b) has attained the age of 18 years; and
     (c) subject to subsection (3) , is an Australian citizen or a
     permanent resident.
     (2)  The Commissioner may exempt a person from the requirement in
     subsection (1)(b) , in respect of a transfer of land on which an
     established home is situated, if the Commissioner is satisfied
     that -
     (a) the person will comply with the residence requirement in
     relation to that home; and
     (b) the transfer of land to the person does not form part of a
     scheme to circumvent requirements affecting eligibility for a duty
     concession under section 46E .
     (3)  If, in respect of an eligible transaction, there is more than
     one transferee and one of the transferees is an Australian citizen
     or a permanent resident, it is not necessary for the other
     transferees to be Australian citizens or permanent residents.
     (4)  A person is not an eligible first home buyer if -
     (a) the person or the person's spouse has previously been the owner
     of a home in Tasmania or a home in any other State or a Territory;
     or
     (b) the person or the person's spouse has previously been paid a
     first home owner grant under the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000 ;
     or
     (c) a previous transfer of property to that person or to the
     person's spouse attracted a duty concession under this Division.
   46D.   Eligible transaction
     (1)  For the purposes of this Division, an eligible transaction
     means a transfer of land on which an established home is situated if
     that transfer meets the following requirements:
     (a) the transfer occurs within the eligible period;
     (b) each of the transferees is an eligible first home buyer;
     (c) the Commissioner is satisfied that each of the transferees
     intends to meet the residence requirement in relation to the
     established home;
     (d) the dutiable value of the dutiable property does not exceed the
     prescribed amount or, if no amount is prescribed, $600 000.
     (2)  Subsection (1)(b) does not apply in relation to a transfer of
     land on which an established home is situated if the Commissioner is
     satisfied that there are good reasons why a transferee is not an
     eligible first home buyer.
   46E.   First home buyer duty concession
     The duty chargeable on an eligible transaction is 50% of the duty
     that would be chargeable, at the rate specified in section 29 , on a
     transfer of the dutiable property.
   46F.   Residence requirements
     (1)  If duty was charged on a transfer of land in accordance with
     section 46E , each transferee must occupy the established home
     situated on that land as his or her principal place of residence for
     a continuous period of at least 6 months (or any lesser period
     approved by the Commissioner under subsection (2) ) commencing -
     (a) within the 12-month period immediately after the eligible
     transaction; or
     (b) within such longer period as is approved by the Commissioner.
     (2)  The Commissioner may approve a lesser period of occupation of
     an established home under subsection (1) if the Commissioner is
     satisfied that there are good reasons why the transferee cannot
     comply with the requirement to occupy the home for 6 months.
     (3)  A decision to approve a lesser period of occupation of an
     established home under subsection (2) , or to approve a longer
     period before occupation is commenced under subsection (1)(b) , may
     be made at any time before the Commissioner makes a reassessment of
     duty under section 46G(2) on the transfer of the land on which that
     established home is situated.
     (4)  The Commissioner may, in respect of an eligible transaction,
     exempt a transferee (the non-complying transferee) from the
     requirements of this section if -
     (a) the transferee is one of 2 or more joint transferees; and
     (b) at least one of the transferees complies with the residence
     requirement; and
     (c) there are, in the Commissioner's opinion, good reasons to exempt
     the non-complying transferee from the residence requirement.
     (5)  If duty was charged on a transfer of land in accordance with
     section 46E , each transferee must retain his or her interest in
     that land until the residence requirement has been satisfied.
     (6)  If -
     (a) duty was charged on a transfer of land in accordance with
     section 46E ; and
     (b) a transferee fails to comply with subsection (1) or (5)  -
     the transferee must give written notice of that fact to the
     Commissioner within 14 days after the failure to comply.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
   46G.   Reassessment of duty
     (1)  If the Commissioner becomes aware that a dutiable transaction
     in respect of which duty was charged in accordance with section 46E
     did not satisfy the requirements of section 46D , the Commissioner
     may reassess the duty that would otherwise be payable in respect of
     that transaction, having regard to the amount of duty that may
     already have been paid.
     (2)  If -
     (a) duty was charged on a transfer of land in accordance with
     section 46E ; and
     (b) the Commissioner becomes aware that a transferee failed to
     comply with the requirements of section 46F  -
     the Commissioner may reassess the duty that would otherwise be
     payable in respect of that dutiable transaction as if the
     transaction was not an eligible transaction, having regard to the
     amount of duty that may already have been paid.
   46H.   Refund provisions
     If the Commissioner is satisfied that a dutiable transaction
     attracts a duty concession under section 46E , the Commissioner is
     to refund any amount of duty paid in relation to the relevant
     dutiable transaction that exceeds the amount of the duty payable
     taking into account that duty concession.
   46I.   Anticipatory duty concessions
     (1)  An eligible first home buyer is not entitled to a refund under
     section 46H in respect of an eligible transaction if, before the day
     on which the Taxation Related Legislation (Housing Availability and
     Payroll Relief) Act 2018 receives the Royal Assent -
     (a) the eligible first home buyer received a refund of duty or a
     payment or benefit in relation to that dutiable transaction; and
     (b) the refund of duty, payment or benefit was made under a deed of
     grant in anticipation of this Division applying to that dutiable
     transaction.
     (2)  For the avoidance of doubt, if, before the day on which the
     Taxation Related Legislation (Housing Availability and Payroll
     Relief) Act 2018 receives the Royal Assent, a refund of duty,
     payment or benefit was made under a deed of grant in anticipation of
     this Division applying to a dutiable transaction, that refund of
     duty, payment or benefit is taken to be a duty concession under this
     Division, attracted to an eligible transaction to which this
     Division applies.
     Division 2B - Pensioner duty concession
   46J.   Interpretation of Division 2B
     In this Division -
     eligible pensioner - see section 46L ;
     eligible period means the period commencing on 10 February 2018 and
     ending on 30 June 2025;
     eligible property, in relation to an eligible transaction, means the
     dutiable property that is the subject of the eligible transaction;
     eligible transaction - see section 46M ;
     former property, in relation to a person, means land in Tasmania on
     which was situated a home that the person occupied as his or her
     principal place of residence;
     owner has the same meaning as in the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000
     .
   46K.   Extension of eligible period
     (1)  The Minister, by order and on one or more occasions, may extend
     the eligible period by omitting the date on which the period ends
     and substituting a new date.
     (2)  Section 47(3), (3A), (4), (5), (6) and (7) of the Acts
     Interpretation Act 1931 apply to an order under subsection (1) as if
     the order were regulations within the meaning of that Act.
     (3)  An order under subsection (1)  -
     (a) is a statutory rule for the purposes of the Rules Publication
     Act 1953 ; and
     (b) is not an instrument of a legislative character for the purposes
     of the Subordinate Legislation Act 1992 .
   46L.   Eligible pensioner
     (1)  For the purposes of this Division, a person is an eligible
     pensioner if the Commissioner is satisfied that -
     (a) the person has attained the age of 60 years; and
     (b) the person is -
     (i) the holder of a Pensioner Concession Card under a relevant Act
     of the Commonwealth; or
     (ii) the holder of a Seniors Health Card within the meaning of the
     Social Security Act 1991 of the Commonwealth; or
     (iii) in receipt of a special rate pension under the Veterans'
     Entitlements Act 1986 of the Commonwealth.
     (2)  A person is not an eligible pensioner if a previous transfer of
     dutiable property to that person, or to that person's spouse,
     attracted a duty concession under this Division.
   46M.   Eligible transaction
     For the purposes of this Division, an eligible transaction means a
     transfer of land on which a home is situated if that transfer meets
     the following requirements:
     (a) a transferee is an eligible pensioner;
     (b) the Commissioner is satisfied that the eligible pensioner
     intends to occupy the home as his or her principal place of
     residence for a continuous period of at least 6 months commencing
     within -
     (i) the 12-month period immediately after the transfer; or
     (ii) such longer period as is approved by the Commissioner;
     (c) the dutiable value of the dutiable property does not exceed the
     prescribed amount or, if no amount is prescribed, $600 000.
   46N.   Pensioner duty concession if home sold before eligible
   transaction
     (1)  This section applies in relation to an eligible transaction
     if -
     (a) a transferee who is an eligible pensioner transferred a former
     property within -
     (i) the 6-month period immediately before the eligible transaction;
     and
     (ii) the eligible period; and
     (b) the former property referred to in paragraph (a) was the
     eligible pensioner's principal place of residence for the 6-month
     period (or any lesser period approved by the Commissioner under
     subsection (2)) immediately before he or she transferred that former
     property; and
     (c) the dutiable value of the former property referred to in
     paragraph (a) (as at the time of its transfer) is greater than the
     dutiable value of the eligible property (as at the time of the
     eligible transaction); and
     (d) the ownership of the eligible property is in the same name or
     names as the ownership of the former property of the transferee,
     referred to in paragraph (a) , before its transfer as referred to in
     that paragraph.
     (2)  The Commissioner may approve a lesser period under
     subsection (1) (b) if the Commissioner is satisfied that there are
     good reasons why the former property was not the principal place of
     residence for the eligible pensioner for the 6-month period
     immediately before he or she transferred the former property.
     (3)  The duty chargeable on the eligible transaction is 50% of the
     duty that would be chargeable, at the rate specified in section 29 ,
     on a transfer of the dutiable property.
     (4)  Subsection (1)(d) does not apply in relation to an eligible
     transaction if the Commissioner is satisfied that there are good
     reasons why the ownership of the eligible property is not in the
     same name or names as the ownership of the former property.
     (5)  This section does not apply to an eligible transaction if the
     eligible pensioner, or the eligible pensioner's spouse, at the time
     of the eligible transaction was the owner of a home in Tasmania or a
     home in any other State or a Territory (other than the eligible
     property).
   46O.   Pensioner duty concession if home sold after eligible
   transaction
     (1)  This section applies in relation to an eligible transaction
     if -
     (a) a transferee who is an eligible pensioner transferred a former
     property within -
     (i) the 6-month period immediately after the eligible transaction;
     and
     (ii) the eligible period; and
     (b) the former property referred to in paragraph (a) was the
     eligible pensioner's principal place of residence for the 6-month
     period (or any lesser period approved by the Commissioner under
     subsection (2) ) immediately before -
     (i) he or she transferred that former property; or
     (ii) the eligible transaction; and
     (c) the dutiable value of the former property referred to in
     paragraph (a) (as at the time of its transfer) is greater than the
     dutiable value of the eligible property (as at the time of the
     eligible transaction); and
     (d) the ownership of the eligible property is in the same name or
     names as the ownership of the former property of the transferee
     referred to in paragraph (a) , before its transfer as referred to in
     that paragraph.
     (2)  The Commissioner may approve a lesser period under
     subsection (1)(b) if the Commissioner is satisfied that there are
     good reasons why the former property was not the eligible
     pensioner's principal place of residence for the period specified in
     that subsection.
     (3)  The duty chargeable on the eligible transaction is 50% of the
     duty that would be chargeable, at the rate specified in section 29 ,
     on a transfer of the dutiable property.
     (4)  Subsection (1)(d) does not apply in relation to an eligible
     transaction if the Commissioner is satisfied that there are good
     reasons why the ownership of the eligible property is not in the
     same name or names as the ownership of the former property.
     (5)  This section does not apply to an eligible transaction if the
     eligible pensioner, or the eligible pensioner's spouse, at the time
     of the eligible transaction was the owner of a home in Tasmania or a
     home in any other State or a Territory (other than the former
     property or the eligible property).
   46P.   Reassessment of duty
     If the Commissioner becomes aware that a dutiable transaction, in
     respect of which duty was charged in accordance with this Division,
     did not satisfy the requirements of this Division in relation to
     that dutiable transaction, the Commissioner may reassess the duty
     that would otherwise be payable in respect of that transaction,
     having regard to the amount of duty that may already have been paid.
   46Q.   Refund provisions
     If the Commissioner is satisfied that an eligible transaction
     attracts a duty concession under section 46N(3) or section 46O(3) ,
     the Commissioner is to refund any amount of duty paid in relation to
     the relevant dutiable transaction that exceeds the amount of the
     duty payable taking into account that rate of duty.
   46R.   Anticipatory duty concessions
     (1)  An eligible pensioner is not entitled to a refund under
     section 46Q in respect of an eligible transaction if, before the day
     on which the Taxation Related Legislation (Housing Availability and
     Payroll Relief) Act 2018 receives the Royal Assent -
     (a) the eligible pensioner received a refund of duty or a payment or
     benefit in relation to that dutiable transaction; and
     (b) the refund of duty, payment or benefit was made under a deed of
     grant in anticipation of this Division applying to that dutiable
     transaction.
     (2)  For the avoidance of doubt, if, before the day on which the
     Taxation Related Legislation (Housing Availability and Payroll
     Relief) Act 2018 receives the Royal Assent, a refund of duty,
     payment or benefit was made under a deed of grant in anticipation of
     this Divisionapplying to a dutiable transaction, that refund of
     duty, payment or benefit is taken to be a duty concession under this
     Division, attracted to an eligible transaction to which this
     Division applies.
     Division 2C - Pre-completion duty concession
   46S.   Interpretation of Division 2C
     In this Division -
     eligible buyer - see section 46U ;
     eligible dwelling - see section 46V ;
     eligible period means the period commencing on 1 July 2024 and
     ending on 30 June 2026;
     eligible transaction - see section 46W .
   46T.   Extension of eligible period
     (1)  The Minister, by order and on one or more occasions, may extend
     the eligible period by omitting the date on which the period ends
     and substituting a new date.
     (2)  Sections 47(3) , (3A) , (4) , (5) , (6) and (7) of the Acts
     Interpretation Act 1931 apply to an order under subsection (1) as if
     the order were regulations within the meaning of that Act.
     (3)  An order under subsection (1)  -
     (a) is a statutory rule for the purposes of the Rules Publication
     Act 1953 ; and
     (b) is not an instrument of a legislative character for the purposes
     of the Subordinate Legislation Act 1992 .
   46U.   Eligible buyer
     (1)  For the purposes of this Division, a person is an eligible
     buyer if the Commissioner is satisfied that the person -
     (a) is a natural person; and
     (b) has attained the age of 18 years; and
     (c) subject to subsection (3) , is an Australian citizen or
     permanent resident.
     (2)  The Commissioner may exempt a person from the requirement in
     subsection (1)(b) , in respect of a transfer of land on which an
     eligible dwelling is situated, if the Commissioner is satisfied that
     the transfer of land to the person does not form part of a scheme to
     circumvent requirements affecting eligibility for a duty concession
     under section 46X .
     (3)  If, in respect of an eligible transaction, there is more than
     one transferee and at least one of the transferees is an Australian
     citizen or permanent resident, it is not necessary for the other
     transferees to be Australian citizens or permanent residents.
   46V.   Eligible dwelling
     (1)  In this section -
     conjoined, in respect of a dwelling, means a dwelling that shares,
     with another dwelling, a wall that -
     (a) forms part of both dwellings; and
     (b) separates the dwellings;
     Register has the same meaning as in the Land Titles Act 1980 ;
     strata scheme has the same meaning as in the Strata Titles Act 1998
     .
     (2)  For the purposes of this Division, the following dwellings are
     eligible dwellings:
     (a) a dwelling that is situated on land that comprises a lot in a
     strata scheme;
     (b) a dwelling which is situated on land described in a folio of the
     Register that is conjoined with one or more other dwellings that are
     all situated on land described in one or more other folios of the
     Register;
     (c) a dwelling in relation to which the Commissioner has made a
     determination under subsection (3) that the dwelling is an eligible
     dwelling.
     (3)  Despite subsection (2)(a) and (b) , the Commissioner may
     determine, for the purposes of this Division -
     (a) that a dwelling is an eligible dwelling; or
     (b) that a dwelling is not an eligible dwelling.
     (4)  A decision of the Commissioner under subsection (3) is a
     non-reviewable decision within the meaning of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 .
   46W.   Eligible transaction
     (1)  In this section -
     occupancy permit means an occupancy permit, within the meaning of
     the Building Act 2016 , for the purposes of residential occupancy of
     a dwelling.
     (2)  For the purposes of this Division, an eligible transaction
     means a transfer of land on which an eligible dwelling is situated
     if that transfer meets the following requirements:
     (a) each transferee is an eligible buyer;
     (b) the transfer is in relation to an eligible dwelling in respect
     of which an application for an occupancy permit has not been granted
     at the time at which the agreement for sale is executed in relation
     to the eligible dwelling;
     (c) the agreement for sale of the eligible dwelling is executed
     during the eligible period;
     (d) the dutiable value of the transfer does not exceed the
     prescribed amount or, if no amount is prescribed, $750 000;
     (e) the transfer of the land on which the eligible dwelling is
     situated occurs before the fifth anniversary of the end of the
     eligible period;
     (f) the transfer is not a transfer to which section 19(2) has been
     applied in determining the dutiable value of the transfer of the
     dutiable property;
     (g) the transfer has not attracted another duty concession, or duty
     exemption, under this Chapter;
     (h) a grant authorised under the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000 has
     not been paid in relation to the agreement for sale in respect of
     the transfer.
   46X.   Pre-completion duty concession
     (1)  The duty chargeable on an eligible transaction is 50% of the
     duty that would be chargeable, at the rate specified in section 29 ,
     on a transfer of the dutiable property.
     (2)  If a duty concession is applied in respect of a transfer under
     this Division, a grant under the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000 is
     not payable in relation to the agreement for sale in respect of the
     transfer.
   46Y.   Reassessment of duty
     If the Commissioner becomes aware that a dutiable transaction, in
     respect of which duty was charged in accordance with section 46X ,
     did not satisfy the requirements of section 46W in relation to that
     dutiable transaction, the Commissioner may reassess the duty that
     would otherwise be payable in respect of that transaction, having
     regard to the amount of duty that may already have been paid.
   46Z.   Refund provisions
     If the Commissioner is satisfied that an eligible transaction
     attracts a duty concession under section 46X , the Commissioner is
     to refund any amount of duty paid in relation to the relevant
     dutiable transaction that exceeds the amount of the duty payable
     taking into account that duty concession.
     Division 3 - Miscellaneous
   47.   Deceased estates
     (1)  Subject to section 53(j) , duty of $50 is chargeable in respect
     of a transfer of dutiable property not made for valuable
     consideration by the legal personal representative of a deceased
     person to a beneficiary, being -
     (a) a transfer made under and in conformity with the trusts
     contained in the will of the deceased person or arising on an
     intestacy; or
     (b) a transfer of property the subject of a trust for sale contained
     in the will of the deceased person; or
     (c) a transfer of property in accordance with an order made under
     the Testator's Family Maintenance Act 1912 .
     (1A)  Subject to section 53(j) , if -
     (a) a transfer of dutiable property is made to a beneficiary by the
     legal personal representative of a deceased person; and
     (b) the transfer is made under, but only partially in conformity
     with, a trust contained in the will of the deceased person -
     the dutiable value of the dutiable property is to be reduced by the
     value of so much of the transfer as is made in conformity with the
     trust and is not made for valuable consideration.
     (1B)  Despite subsection (1A) , the minimum amount payable on a
     transfer to which the subsection applies is $50.
     (2)  No duty is payable in respect of -
     (a) a consent by a legal personal representative of a deceased
     person to a transmission application by a beneficiary; or
     (b) a transmission application to a devisee who is also the sole
     legal personal representative.
   48.   Conversion of lots to strata title
     The duty chargeable on the transfer of a lot within the meaning of
     the Strata Titles Act 1998 is $50 if the Commissioner is satisfied
     that -
     (a) the transferee, immediately before registration of the strata
     plan, held a land use entitlement in respect of the land or part of
     the land the subject of the strata plan; and
     (b) the transfer is part of an arrangement under which the
     transferee will take an interest in the lot similar in effect to and
     in substitution for the interest the transferee had under the land
     use entitlement immediately before registration of the strata plan.
   49.   Duty where no change of beneficial ownership
     The duty chargeable on a transfer of dutiable property is $50 if the
     Commissioner is satisfied there is no change in the beneficial
     ownership of the property.
   50.   Adjustment of dutiable value of transfer on a company wind-up
     (1)  If a transfer of dutiable property is made to a shareholder in
     the course of a distribution of assets of a company because of the
     winding-up of the company, the dutiable value of the dutiable
     property is to be reduced by -
     (a) if the shareholder is not a creditor of the company, the value
     of the shareholder's entitlement in the undistributed assets of the
     company immediately before the transfer; or
     (b) if the shareholder is a creditor of the company, the amount (if
     any) by which the value of the shareholder's entitlement in the
     undistributed assets of the company immediately before the transfer
     exceeds the amount owed by the company to the shareholder as a
     creditor.
     (2)  Notwithstanding subsection (1) , the minimum amount payable on
     the transfer of dutiable property to a shareholder is $50.
     (3)  Subsection (1) does not apply to the extent of any debt owed by
     the company to the shareholder that was converted to equity in the
     company within a 12 month period before the winding-up of the
     company.
     (4)  The provisions of this section do not apply to a distribution
     to a shareholder who was not a shareholder for at least 12 months
     immediately prior to the notice of appointment of liquidator being
     given under section 537 of the Corporations Act.
   51.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     PART 6 - Exemptions
     Division 1 - Exemptions in general
   52.   Exemptions from duty
     A dutiable transaction is exempt from duty under this Chapter if it
     is, or occurs as a consequence of any of the following:
     (a) the appointment of a receiver or trustee in bankruptcy;
     (b) the appointment of a liquidator;
     (c) the transfer of dutiable property for no consideration to a
     former bankrupt from the estate of the former bankrupt;
     (d) a dutiable transaction over dutiable property arising from the
     discharge or transfer of a mortgage or declaration of trust over a
     mortgage (and a reference in this paragraph to a mortgage includes a
     reference to a charge and an interest in a mortgage);
     (e) a dutiable transaction comprising -
     (i) a transfer by way of discharge of mortgage; or
     (ii) a transfer by way of mortgage (not being a transfer by way of
     mortgage of land, or an estate or interest in land, under the Land
     Titles Act 1980 ), if duty as on a mortgage has been paid in respect
     of an instrument evidencing the mortgage or the instrument is exempt
     from, or is not liable to, duty;
     (f) subject to section 34 , the grant of a mortgage.
   53.   Exemptions relating to various transactions
     Duty is not chargeable under this Chapter on the following:
     (a) a transfer of dutiable property to give effect to the
     incorporation of an association or the amalgamation of 2
     associations pursuant to the Associations Incorporation Act 1964 ;
     (b) a transfer of dutiable property consequent on an incorporated
     association under the Associations Incorporation Act 1964 becoming a
     prescribed body corporate as provided for by that Act;
     (c) a transfer of dutiable property as specified in section 9(1)(i)
     or (j) but does not include land, made between persons who are
     relatives if the relative is -
     (i) a child or grandchild; or
     (ii) a parent or grandparent; or
     (iii) a brother or sister; or
     (iv) a spouse or caring partner; or
     (v) a spouse or caring partner of a child, grandchild, brother or
     sister;
     (d) a lease, excluding premiums of more than $3 000 paid for or in
     connection with the grant, transfer or surrender of the lease;
     (e) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (f) a transfer of personal property to a gallery conducted by a
     council or to the Board of Trustees of the Tasmanian Museum and Art
     Gallery, for the purpose of exhibiting, free of charge to the
     public, that property as a work of art in that gallery;
     (g) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (h) any instrument relating to the vesting of land in the Aboriginal
     Land Council of Tasmania under section 27(1) of the Aboriginal Lands
     Act 1995 ;
     (ha) any instrument relating to the transfer of land to the
     Aboriginal Land Council of Tasmania by way of gift, bequest or
     devise and declared to be Aboriginal land under section 35A of the
     Aboriginal Lands Act 1995 ;
     (i) any instrument required as a result of any variation or change
     made to any folio of the Register pursuant to section 12 of the Abt
     Railway Development Act 1999 ;
     (j) an assent given under section 36(1) of the Administration and
     Probate Act 1935 in relation to the vesting of real estate;
     (k) the transfer of any property pursuant to section 18 of the Crime
     (Confiscation of Profits) Act 1993 ;
     (l) any gift, bequest or devise acquired by the Allport Library and
     Museum of Fine Arts Management Committee under section 20 of the
     Libraries Act 1984 or by the State Library and Archives Trust under
     section 17 of the Libraries Act 1984 ;
     (m) any gift, bequest or devise accepted or acquired by the Minister
     responsible for the administration of the Archives Act 1983 or the
     State Archivist under section 9 of that Act;
     (n) a dutiable transaction for no consideration that is solely -
     (i) in furtherance of any charitable, religious or educational
     purpose; or
     (ii) to or in favour of any corporation or association that is
     incorporated or associated for any such purpose;
     (o) an endorsement of a grant consequent on the surrender of land
     under section 59 of the Crown Lands Act 1976 ;
     (p) a surrender of a forestry right, within the meaning of the
     Forestry Rights Registration Act 1990 .
   54.   Exemptions relating to special disability trusts
     Duty is not chargeable under this Chapter on -
     (a) a declaration of trust over property that is to be held by the
     trustee in the trustee's capacity as trustee for a special
     disability trust; or
     (b) a transfer of dutiable property to the trustee of a special
     disability trust for the purpose of the trust -
     if the Commissioner is satisfied that -
     (c) the property is land on which is situated a dwelling that is to
     be used by the beneficiary of the trust as his or her main place of
     residence; or
     (d) the property is goods that are situated on land referred to in
     paragraph (c) or that are to be used on such land by the beneficiary
     of the trust.
   55.   Exemptions - transfers to partners in a marriage or relationship
     (1)  No duty is chargeable under this Chapter on a transfer, or an
     agreement for the sale or transfer, of dutiable property if it is
     proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that -
     (a) as a result of the transfer or agreement, the whole of the
     property is or will be held by the parties to a marriage or
     significant relationship, or by caring partners, as joint tenants or
     as tenants in common in equal shares; and
     (b) the dutiable property -
     (i) is land that has erected on it a private dwelling house and was
     solely or principally used, as at the date of transfer, as the
     principal place of residence of the parties to the marriage or
     significant relationship, or of the caring partners; or
     (ii) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (iii) is shares that confer an entitlement to exclusive possession
     of a company title dwelling that was solely or principally used, as
     at the date of transfer, as the principal place of residence of the
     parties to the marriage or significant relationship, or of the
     caring partners; and
     (c) both the transferor and the transferee are the parties to the
     marriage or significant relationship, or are the caring partners, or
     one of them and no other person is a party to the transfer.
     (1A)  If -
     (a) ad valorem duty was paid on a transfer of vacant land; and
     (b) as a result of the transfer, the whole of the property is held
     by the parties to a marriage or significant relationship, or by
     caring partners, as joint tenants or as tenants in common in equal
     shares; and
     (c) the parties to the marriage or significant relationship, or the
     caring partners, within 2 years from the date of the transfer
     referred to in paragraph (a) , use the land as the site of a private
     dwelling house that is solely or principally used as their principal
     place of residence; and
     (d) both the transferor and the transferee are the parties to the
     marriage or significant relationship, or are the caring partners, or
     one of them and no other person is a party to the transfer -
     the Commissioner must reassess the transfer and refund the duty
     paid.
     (2)  In this section -
     private dwelling house includes a lot, within the meaning of the
     Strata Titles Act 1998 , used as a place of residence.
   56.   Exemptions - break-down of marriages
     (1)  No duty is chargeable under this Chapter on a transfer, or an
     agreement for the sale or transfer, of matrimonial property if -
     (a) the property is transferred, or agreed to be sold or
     transferred, to the parties to a marriage that is dissolved or
     annulled (or in the opinion of the Commissioner has irretrievably
     broken down) or to either of them, or to a child of the marriage
     under the age of 18; and
     (b) the transfer or agreement is effected by or in accordance with -
     (i) a document registered or approved under the Family Law Act 1975
     of the Commonwealth; or
     (ia) a financial agreement made under section 90B, 90C or 90D of
     that Act; or
     (ii) an order of a court under that Act; or
     (iii) a purchase at public auction of property that, immediately
     before the auction, was matrimonial property where the public
     auction is held to comply with any such document or order.
     (2)  No duty is chargeable under this Chapter on a dutiable
     transaction to the extent that -
     (a) for the purposes of or ancillary to a transfer referred to in
     subsection (1) , it transfers a share that is matrimonial property
     to a person not a party to the relevant marriage in order to comply
     with a requirement of or prescribed under the Corporations Act; or
     (b) it is a declaration of trust, by the transferee of a share
     transferred as referred to in paragraph (a) , for the benefit of a
     party to the marriage.
     (3)  If -
     (a) ad valorem duty was paid on a transfer, or agreement for the
     sale or transfer, of matrimonial property to the parties to a
     marriage or to either of them, or to a child of the marriage under
     the age of 18; and
     (b) the transfer or agreement for the sale or transfer of
     matrimonial property is effected by or in accordance with -
     (i) a document registered or approved under the Family Law Act 1975
     of the Commonwealth; or
     (ia) a financial agreement made under section 90B, 90C or 90D of
     that Act; or
     (ii) an order of the court under that Act; or
     (iii) a purchase, at public auction, of property that, immediately
     before the auction, was matrimonial property, where the public
     auction is held to comply with any such document or order; and
     (c) the marriage was dissolved or annulled or the Commissioner is
     satisfied that the marriage has irretrievably broken down -
     the Commissioner must reassess the transfer or agreement and refund
     the duty paid.
     (4)  In this section -
     child of the marriage includes -
     (a) a child of either or both of the parties to the marriage; and
     (b) a trustee of such a child.
   56A.   Exemptions - break-down of de facto relationships
     (1)  No duty is chargeable under this Chapter on a transfer, or an
     agreement for the sale or transfer, of de facto relationship
     property if -
     (a) the property is transferred, or agreed to be sold or
     transferred, to the parties to a de facto relationship that has been
     terminated, or to either of them, or to a child of the relationship
     who is under the age of 18; and
     (b) the transfer or agreement is effected by or in accordance with -
     (i) a document registered or approved under the Family Law Act 1975
     of the Commonwealth; or
     (ii) a financial agreement made under section 90UB, 90UC or 90UD of
     that Act; or
     (iii) an order of a court under that Act; or
     (iv) a purchase at public auction of property that, immediately
     before the auction, was de facto relationship property, where the
     public auction is held to comply with any such document, financial
     agreement or order.
     (2)  No duty is chargeable under this Chapter on a dutiable
     transaction to the extent that -
     (a) for the purposes of or ancillary to a transfer referred to in
     subsection (1) , it transfers a share that is de facto relationship
     property to a person not a party to the relevant de facto
     relationship in order to comply with a requirement of or prescribed
     under the Corporations Act; or
     (b) it is a declaration of trust, by the transferee of a share
     transferred as referred to in paragraph (a) , for the benefit of a
     party to the de facto relationship.
     (3)  If -
     (a) ad valorem duty was paid on a transfer, or agreement for the
     sale or transfer, of de facto relationship property to the parties
     to a de facto relationship or to either of them, or to a child of
     the relationship who is under the age of 18; and
     (b) the transfer or agreement for the sale or transfer of de facto
     relationship property is effected by or in accordance with -
     (i) a document registered or approved under the Family Law Act 1975
     of the Commonwealth; or
     (ia) a financial agreement made under section 90UB, 90UC or 90UD of
     that Act; or
     (ii) an order of the court under that Act; or
     (iii) a purchase, at public auction, of property that, immediately
     before the auction, was de facto relationship property, where the
     public auction is held to comply with any such document or order;
     and
     (c) the Commissioner is satisfied that the de facto relationship has
     been terminated -
     the Commissioner must reassess the transfer or agreement and refund
     the duty paid.
     (4)  In this section -
     child of the relationship includes -
     (a) a child of either or both of the parties to the relationship;
     and
     (b) a trustee of such a child.
   57.   Exemptions - personal relationships
     (1)  No duty is chargeable under this Chapter on a transfer, or an
     agreement for the sale or transfer, of relationship property if -
     (a) the property is transferred or agreed to be sold or transferred
     to the partners to a personal relationship that is terminated, or to
     either of them, or to a child of the relationship who is under the
     age of 18; and
     (b) the transfer or agreement -
     (i) is effected by or in accordance with an order made under the
     Relationships Act 2003 or a prescribed agreement; or
     (ii) is executed for the purpose of, or in accordance with, such an
     order or prescribed agreement; or
     (iii) effects the purchase, at public auction, of property, that
     immediately before the auction, was relationship property, where the
     auction is held to comply with any such order or prescribed
     agreement.
     (2)  No duty is chargeable under this Chapter on a dutiable
     transaction to the extent that -
     (a) for purposes of or ancillary to a transfer referred to in
     subsection (1) , it transfers a share that is relationship property
     to a person not a party to the relevant personal relationship in
     order to comply with a requirement of or prescribed under the
     Corporations Act; or
     (b) it is a declaration of trust, by the transferee of a share
     transferred as referred to in paragraph (a) , for the benefit of a
     party to the personal relationship.
     (2A)  If -
     (a) ad valorem duty was paid on a transfer, or agreement for the
     sale or transfer, of relationship property to the parties to a
     personal relationship or to either of them, or to a child of the
     relationship who is under the age of 18; and
     (b) the transfer or agreement for the sale or transfer of
     relationship property is effected by or in accordance with -
     (i) a document registered or approved under the Relationships Act
     2003 ; or
     (ii) an order of the court under that Act; or
     (iii) a prescribed agreement; or
     (iv) a purchase, at public auction, of property that, immediately
     before the auction, was relationship property, where the public
     auction is held to comply with any such document, prescribed
     agreement or order; and
     (c) the Commissioner is satisfied that the personal relationship has
     been terminated -
     the Commissioner must reassess the transfer or agreement and refund
     the duty paid.
     (3)  In this section -
     child of the relationship means -
     (a) a child of either or both of the parties to the relationship;
     and
     (b) a trustee of such a child;
     prescribed agreement means an agreement that is -
     (a) a personal relationship agreement or separation agreement within
     the meaning of the Relationships Act 2003 ; and
     (b) in accordance with paragraphs (b) , (c) , (d) and (e) of section
     62(1) of the Relationships Act 2003 .
   57A.   Partial exemptions
     (1)  No duty is chargeable under this Chapter on a transfer to a
     council of real property that is -
     (a) a public road; or
     (b) a park or garden used for recreational purposes for which the
     council will normally provide free public access.
     (2)  However, if any part of the real property so transferred is not
     to be used as -
     (a) a public road; or
     (b) a park or garden for recreational purposes for which the council
     will normally provide free public access -
     the dutiable value of the transfer is to be reduced by the value of
     the real property, inclusive of capital improvements, used for the
     purposes referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) .
   57AA.   Exemptions - certain vestings
     No duty is chargeable under this Chapter on a vesting of dutiable
     property if -
     (a) it is a vesting of dutiable property in a legal personal
     representative of a deceased person or under section 12 of the
     Administration and Probate Act 1935 ; or
     (b) it is a vesting, under the Associations Incorporation Act 1964 ,
     of dutiable property in an incorporated association; or
     (c) it is a vesting, under the Strata Titles Act 1998 , of common
     property in a body corporate on the registration of a strata plan
     under that Act; or
     (d) it is a vesting of dutiable property under section 28 of the
     Strata Titles Act 1998 by virtue of the cancellation of a strata
     plan.
   57B.   Exemptions - certain financing arrangements
     (1)  No duty is chargeable under this Chapter in respect of a
     transaction, relating to dutiable property, that is a second
     transaction within the meaning of subsection (2) or (3) .
     (2)  This subsection applies if a natural person and an authorised
     deposit-taking institution enter into an agreement where -
     (a) the natural person, acting as agent for the authorised
     deposit-taking institution, and a third party enter into an
     agreement for sale in relation to real property (the relevant
     property); and
     (b) in accordance with the agreement for sale referred to in
     paragraph (a) , the relevant property is transferred from the third
     party to the authorised deposit-taking institution (the first
     transaction); and
     (c) at the same time as the first transaction, the authorised
     deposit-taking institution and the natural person enter into an
     agreement for sale in relation to the relevant property; and
     (d) in accordance with the agreement for sale referred to in
     paragraph (c) , the authorised deposit-taking institution transfers
     the relevant property to the natural person for consideration (the
     second transaction).
     (3)  This subsection applies if a natural person and an authorised
     deposit-taking institution enter into an agreement where -
     (a) the natural person, acting as agent for the authorised
     deposit-taking institution, and a third party enter into an
     agreement for sale in relation to real property (the relevant
     property); and
     (b) in accordance with the agreement for sale referred to in
     paragraph (a) , the relevant property is transferred from the third
     party to both the authorised deposit-taking institution and the
     natural person (the first transaction) in the percentages specified
     in the agreement; and
     (c) at the same time as the first transaction, the authorised
     deposit-taking institution and the natural person enter into an
     agreement where the natural person is to purchase such percentage of
     the relevant property as is owned by the authorised deposit-taking
     institution; and
     (d) in accordance with the agreement referred to in paragraph (c) ,
     the authorised deposit-taking institution transfers, in one or more
     transactions, the relevant property to the natural person for
     consideration (the second transaction).
     (4)  No duty is chargeable under this Chapter in respect of a
     transaction, relating to dutiable property, that is a first
     transaction, or a second transaction, within the meaning of
     subsection (5) .
     (5)  This subsection applies if -
     (a) a natural person and an authorised deposit-taking institution
     enter into any of the agreements referred to in subsection (2) or
     (3) (the relevant agreement); and
     (b) the authorised deposit-taking institution transfers the dutiable
     property to another authorised deposit-taking institution (the first
     transaction) on the condition that the other authorised
     deposit-taking institution complies with the terms of the relevant
     agreement; and
     (c) in accordance with the relevant agreement, the other authorised
     deposit-taking institution transfers the dutiable property to the
     natural person (the second transaction).
     (6)  No duty is chargeable under this Chapter in respect of a
     transfer (the relevant transfer), of an interest, held by an
     authorised deposit-taking institution in accordance with an
     agreement referred to in subsection (2) , (3) or (5) , if -
     (a) before the agreement has been completed, a natural person,
     referred to in subsection (2) , (3) or (5) , respectively, who held
     an interest under the agreement, has died; and
     (b) the relevant transfer is made to another natural person, to whom
     the interest, under the agreement, of the natural person has been
     transferred by virtue of -
     (i) a testamentary gift; or
     (ii) the right of survivorship; or
     (iii) the Administration and Probate Act 1935 .
     Division 2 - First home buyer duty exemption
   57C.   Interpretation of Division 2
     In this Division -
     eligible first home buyer - see section 57E ;
     eligible period means the period commencing on 18 February 2024 and
     ending on 30 June 2026;
     eligible transaction - see section 57F ;
     established home means a home other than a new home;
     new home has the same meaning as in the First Home Owner Grant Act
     2000 ;
     owner has the same meaning as in the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000
     ;
     residence requirement means a requirement that a person occupy an
     established home as the person's principal place of residence in
     accordance with section 57H(1) .
   57D.   Extension of eligible period
     (1)  The Minister, by order and on one or more occasions, may extend
     the eligible period by omitting the date on which the period ends
     and substituting a new date.
     (2)  Sections 47(3) , (3A) , (4) , (5) , (6) and (7) of the Acts
     Interpretation Act 1931 apply to an order under subsection (1) as if
     the order were regulations within the meaning of that Act.
     (3)  An order under subsection (1)  -
     (a) is a statutory rule for the purposes of the Rules Publication
     Act 1953 ; and
     (b) is not an instrument of a legislative character for the purposes
     of the Subordinate Legislation Act 1992 .
   57E.   Eligible first home buyer
     (1)  For the purposes of this Division, a person is an eligible
     first home buyer if the Commissioner is satisfied that the person -
     (a) is a natural person; and
     (b) has attained the age of 18 years; and
     (c) subject to subsection (3) , is an Australian citizen or a
     permanent resident.
     (2)  The Commissioner may exempt a person from the requirement in
     subsection (1)(b) , in respect of a transfer of land on which an
     established home is situated, if the Commissioner is satisfied
     that -
     (a) the person will comply with the residence requirement in
     relation to that home; and
     (b) the transfer of land to the person does not form part of a
     scheme to circumvent requirements affecting eligibility for duty not
     to be chargeable under section 57G .
     (3)  If, in respect of an eligible transaction, there is more than
     one transferee and at least one of the transferees is an Australian
     citizen or a permanent resident, it is not necessary for the other
     transferees to be Australian citizens or permanent residents.
     (4)  A person is not an eligible first home buyer if -
     (a) the person or the person's spouse has previously been the owner
     of a home in Tasmania or a home in any other State or a Territory;
     or
     (b) the person or the person's spouse has previously been paid a
     first home owner grant under the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000 ;
     or
     (c) a previous transfer of property to that person or to the
     person's spouse attracted a duty concession under Division 2A of
     Part 5 ; or
     (d) no duty was charged on a previous transfer of property to that
     person or to the person's spouse under this Division.
   57F.   Eligible transaction
     (1)  For the purposes of this Division, an eligible transaction
     means a transfer of land on which an established home is situated if
     that transfer meets the following requirements:
     (a) the transfer occurs within the eligible period;
     (b) each of the transferees is an eligible first home buyer;
     (c) the Commissioner is satisfied that each of the transferees
     intends to meet the residence requirement in relation to the
     established home;
     (d) the dutiable value of the dutiable property does not exceed the
     prescribed amount or, if no amount is prescribed, $750 000.
     (2)  Subsection (1)(b) does not apply in relation to a transfer of
     land on which an established home is situated if the Commissioner is
     satisfied that there are good reasons why a transferee is not an
     eligible first home buyer.
   57G.   First home buyer duty exemption
     Duty is not chargeable under this Chapter on an eligible
     transaction.
   57H.   Residence requirements
     (1)  If duty is not chargeable on a transfer of land in accordance
     with section 57G , each transferee must occupy the established home
     situated on that land as the person's principal place of residence
     for a continuous period of at least 6 months (or any lesser period
     approved by the Commissioner under subsection (2) ) commencing -
     (a) within the 12-month period immediately after the eligible
     transaction; or
     (b) within such longer period as is approved by the Commissioner.
     (2)  The Commissioner may approve a lesser period of occupation of
     an established home under subsection (1) if the Commissioner is
     satisfied that there are good reasons why the transferee cannot
     comply with the requirement to occupy the home for 6 months.
     (3)  A decision to approve a lesser period of occupation of an
     established home under subsection (2) , or to approve a longer
     period before occupation is commenced under subsection (1)(b) , may
     be made at any time before the Commissioner makes a reassessment of
     duty under section 57I on the transfer of the land on which that
     established home is situated.
     (4)  The Commissioner may, in respect of an eligible transaction,
     exempt a transferee (the non-complying transferee) from the
     requirements of this section if -
     (a) the transferee is one of 2 or more joint transferees; and
     (b) at least one of the transferees complies with the residence
     requirement; and
     (c) there are, in the Commissioner's opinion, good reasons to exempt
     the non-complying transferee from the residence requirement.
     (5)  If duty is not chargeable on a transfer of land in accordance
     with section 57G , each transferee must retain the person's interest
     in that land until the residence requirement has been satisfied.
     (6)  If -
     (a) duty is not chargeable on a transfer of land in accordance with
     section 57G ; and
     (b) a transferee fails to comply with subsection (1) or (5)  -
     the transferee must give written notice of that fact to the
     Commissioner within 14 days after the failure to comply.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
   57I.   Reassessment of exemption
     (1)  If the Commissioner becomes aware that a dutiable transaction
     for a transfer of land, in respect of which duty was not chargeable
     in accordance with section 57G , did not satisfy the requirements of
     section 57F , the Commissioner may reassess the duty that would
     otherwise be payable in respect of that transaction.
     (2)  If -
     (a) duty is not chargeable on a transfer of land in accordance with
     section 57G ; and
     (b) the Commissioner becomes aware that a transferee failed to
     comply with the requirements of section 57H -
     the Commissioner may reassess the duty that would otherwise be
     payable in respect of that dutiable transaction as if the
     transaction was not an eligible transaction.
   57J.   Refund provisions
     If the Commissioner is satisfied that no duty is payable in respect
     of a dutiable transaction under section 57G , the Commissioner is to
     refund any amount of duty paid in relation to the relevant dutiable
     transaction.
     Chapter 3 - Certain transactions treated as transfers
     PART 1 - Preliminary
   58.   Overview
     (1)  This Chapter charges duty on certain transactions that are not
     dutiable transactions.
     (2)  Duty is chargeable under this Chapter on a relevant acquisition
     in a landholder at the rate, or a portion of the rate, specified
     under section 29 , for a transfer of dutiable property.
   59.   Interpretation of Chapter 3
     (1)  In this Chapter -
     acquisition statement means a statement prepared and lodged in
     accordance with section 68 ;
     acquisition statement period means the 3-year period of an
     acquisition statement referred to in section 68(6) or the longer
     period referred to in section 68(7) , as appropriate;
     concessional acquisition means a concessional acquisition within the
     meaning of section 84A ;
     exempt acquisition means an exempt acquisition within the meaning of
     section 83 or 84 ;
     goods, of a landholder, has the meaning given by section 63 ;
     interest, in a landholder, has the meaning given by section 66 ;
     land holding has the meaning given by section 62 ;
     linked entity has the meaning given by -
     (a) section 76(2) in relation to a private unit trust scheme or
     private company; or
     (b) section 76(3) in relation to a public unit trust scheme or
     listed company;
     listed company means a company any of the shares of which are quoted
     on the Australian Stock Exchange, or any other recognised stock
     exchange;
     person includes a landholder;
     private landholder has the meaning given by section 61(2) ;
     public landholder has the meaning given by section 61(3) ;
     relevant acquisition has the meaning given by section 65 ;
     significant interest, in a landholder, has the meaning given by
     section 66 .
     (2)  In this Chapter, a reference to a marketable security in
     relation to another jurisdiction is a reference to a marketable
     security within the meaning of the corresponding Act of that
     jurisdiction.
   59A.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   60.   Provisions relating to trusts
     (1)  Any land or goods held on trust by -
     (a) a trustee of a unit trust scheme in its capacity as a trustee;
     or
     (b) a custodian of a trustee of a unit trust scheme in its capacity
     as a custodian; or
     (c) a sub-custodian of a custodian of a trustee of a unit trust
     scheme in its capacity as a sub-custodian -
     are taken to be held by the unit trust scheme.
     (2)  Any act done by -
     (a) a trustee of a unit trust scheme in its capacity as a trustee;
     or
     (b) a custodian of a trustee of a unit trust scheme in its capacity
     as a custodian; or
     (c) a sub-custodian of a custodian of a trustee of a unit trust
     scheme in its capacity as a sub-custodian -
     is taken, where appropriate, to have been done by the unit trust
     scheme.
     (3)  If a landholder is a unit trust scheme, any act to be done by
     the landholder is to be done by any of the following:
     (a) the trustee of the unit trust scheme in its capacity as a
     trustee;
     (b) a custodian of the trustee of the unit trust scheme in its
     capacity as a custodian;
     (c) a sub-custodian of a custodian of the trustee of the unit trust
     scheme in its capacity as a sub-custodian.
   61.   Meaning of landholder, private landholder and public landholder
     (1)  For the purposes of this Chapter, a landholder is -
     (a) a private unit trust scheme; or
     (b) a public unit trust scheme; or
     (c) a private company; or
     (d) a listed company -
     that has land holdings in Tasmania with a total unencumbered value
     of $500 000 or more.
     (2)  A landholder is a private landholder if the landholder is a
     private unit trust scheme or private company.
     (3)  A landholder is a public landholder if the landholder is a
     public unit trust scheme or a listed company.
   62.   What are the land holdings of a landholder
     (1)  For the purposes of this Chapter and subject to this section, a
     land holding is an interest in land other than -
     (a) the interest of a mortgagee, chargee or other secured creditor;
     or
     (b) a profit a prendre.
     (2)  An interest in land is a land holding of a unit trust scheme
     only to the extent that the interest is held by the trustee of the
     unit trust scheme in its capacity as trustee of the scheme, by a
     custodian of the trustee of the unit trust scheme in its capacity as
     custodian or by a sub-custodian of the custodian of the trustee of
     the unit trust scheme in its capacity as sub-custodian.
     (3)  An interest in land is not a land holding of a company if the
     company holds the land on trust, but only if the company is not a
     beneficiary of the trust.
     (4)  If a company holds land on trust and is also a beneficiary of
     the trust, the Commissioner may determine that the interest of the
     company in the land as trustee is not a land holding of the company
     and, if the Commissioner so determines, that interest of the company
     in the land as trustee is not a land holding of the company.
     (5)  For the purposes of this Chapter -
     (a) an interest in a mineral tenement is taken to be an interest in
     land; and
     (b) an interest in a pipeline, within the meaning of the Gas
     Industry Act 2019 , is taken to be an interest in land.
     (6)  If a private company, listed company, private unit trust scheme
     or public unit trust scheme has an entitlement to or interest in
     land, a thing that is fixed to the land is taken to be part of the
     land for the purposes of determining the extent of the company or
     unit trust scheme's land holdings for the purposes of this Chapter.
     (7)  A thing that is fixed to the land is not to be taken to be part
     of the land for the purposes of subsection (6) if the Commissioner
     is satisfied that it would not be just and reasonable to do so in
     the circumstances.
     (8)  If -
     (a) a private company, listed company, private unit trust scheme or
     public unit trust scheme has an entitlement to, or interest in, a
     thing that is fixed to the land; and
     (b) that entitlement or interest is, or purports to be, separate
     from the ownership of the rest of the land -
     the private company, listed company, private unit trust scheme or
     public unit trust scheme is to be regarded as having an interest in
     land for the purposes of this Chapter to the extent of its
     entitlement to, or interest in, the thing.
     (9)  In this section -
     thing that is fixed to the land means any thing that is fixed to the
     land (including a thing that, under the direct or indirect authority
     of a mineral tenement, is fixed to land that is the subject of that
     mineral tenement), whether or not the thing -
     (a) constitutes a fixture at law; or
     (b) is owned separately from the land; or
     (c) is notionally severed or considered to be legally separate from
     the land as a result of the operation of any other Act or law.
   63.   What are the goods of a landholder, unit trust scheme or company
     (1)  In this Chapter -
     goods does not include the following:
     (a) goods that are stock-in-trade;
     (b) materials held for use in manufacture;
     (c) goods under manufacture;
     (d) livestock;
     (e) a registered motor vehicle that is not exempt from motor tax
     under the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 or the Transport Act 1981 .
     (2)  For the purposes of this Chapter, goods are goods of a
     landholder, unit trust scheme or company -
     (a) if the landholder, unit trust scheme or company has any interest
     in the goods, other than an interest as mortgagee, chargee or other
     secured creditor; but
     (b) only to the extent of that interest.
     (3)  Goods are goods of a unit trust scheme only to the extent that
     the interest in the goods is held by the trustee of the unit trust
     scheme in its capacity as trustee of the scheme, by a custodian of
     the trustee of the unit trust scheme in its capacity as custodian or
     by a sub-custodian of the custodian of the trustee of the unit trust
     scheme in its capacity as sub-custodian.
     (4)  Goods are not goods of a company if the interest the company
     has in the goods is held on trust and the company is not a
     beneficiary of the trust.
     (5)  If a company holds goods on trust and is also a beneficiary of
     the trust, the Commissioner may determine that the interest of the
     company in the goods as trustee is not an interest of the company in
     the goods and, if the Commissioner so determines, the interest of
     the company in the goods as trustee is not an interest of the
     company in the goods.
     PART 2 - Charging of Duty on Acquisitions of Interests of
     Landholders
   63A.   Interpretation of Part 2
     In this Part -
     primary production property means the following property:
     (a) land holdings of a landholder if that land holding relates to an
     interest in land and that land is primary production property in
     accordance with section 30(a) ;
     (b) goods of a landholder if -
     (i) duty is chargeable on the value of those goods under section 71
     or 72 ; and
     (ii) the use of the goods can be directly linked to, or is
     incidental to the use, or intended use, of, all or part of the land
     referred to in paragraph (a) for primary production purposes;
     residential property means the following property:
     (a) land holdings of a landholder if that land holding relates to an
     interest in land and that land is residential property in accordance
     with section 30A(a) ;
     (b) goods of a landholder if -
     (i) duty is chargeable on the value of those goods under section 71
     or 72 ; and
     (ii) the use of the goods can be directly linked to, or is
     incidental to the use, or intended use, of, all or part of the land
     referred to in paragraph (a) for residential purposes.
   63B.   Landholdings that include more than one parcel of land
     For the purposes of calculating duty under this Part, if land
     holdings held by a landholder include more than one parcel of land,
     each parcel of land is taken to be a separate item of property.
   64.   When does a liability for duty arise
     A liability for duty charged by this Part arises when a relevant
     acquisition is made.
   65.   What is a relevant acquisition
     (1)  For the purposes of this Chapter, a person makes a relevant
     acquisition if the person -
     (a) acquires an interest in a landholder -
     (i) that is of itself a significant interest in the landholder; or
     (ii) that, when aggregated with other interests in the landholder
     held by the person or an associated person, results in an
     aggregation that amounts to a significant interest in the
     landholder; or
     (b) having a significant interest, or an interest described in
     paragraph (a)(ii) , in a landholder, acquires a further interest in
     the landholder.
     (2)  However, an acquisition of an interest in a private landholder
     under an arrangement that results in the private landholder ceasing
     to be a private landholder is not a relevant acquisition because of
     subsection (1)(a)(ii) .
     (3)  If a trustee acquires or holds an interest in a landholder and
     the trustee is a trustee for 2 or more trusts, any interests in the
     landholder acquired or held by the trustee for different trusts are
     to be treated as if they were acquired or held independently by
     separate trustees.
     (4)  If a person acquires or holds an interest in a landholder
     otherwise than as a trustee (the personal interest) but also
     acquires or holds another interest in the landholder as trustee (the
     trust interest) but is not also a beneficiary under that trust, the
     personal interest is to be treated as if it were -
     (a) acquired or held independently of the trust interest; and
     (b) acquired or held by a different person from the person who
     acquires or holds the trust interest.
     (5)  If a life company acquires or holds an interest in a
     landholder, any interests in the landholder acquired or held by the
     life company for different statutory funds are to be treated as if
     they were acquired or held independently by separate life companies.
     (6)  If a life company acquires or holds an interest in a landholder
     otherwise than for a statutory fund (the first interest) but also
     acquires or holds another interest in the landholder for a statutory
     fund (the second interest), the first interest is to be treated as
     if it were -
     (a) acquired or held independently of the second interest; and
     (b) acquired or held by a different person from the life company who
     acquires or holds the second interest.
     (7)  For the purpose of avoiding doubt, subsections (3) , (4) , (5)
     and (6) do not affect -
     (a) the definition of associated person in section 3 ; or
     (b) the operation of subsection (1)(a)(ii) or Part 3 .
     (8)  In this section -
     statutory fund has the same meaning as in section 29 of the Life
     Insurance Act 1995 of the Commonwealth.
   66.   What are interests and significant interests in landholders
     (1)  For the purposes of this Chapter, a person has an interest in a
     landholder if the person, in the event of a distribution of all the
     property of the landholder, would be entitled (otherwise than as a
     creditor of the landholder or other person to whom the landholder is
     liable) to any of the property distributed.
     (2)  A person who has an interest in a landholder has a significant
     interest in the landholder if the person, in the event of a
     distribution of all the property of the landholder (disregarding any
     distribution to meet the liabilities of the landholder) immediately
     after the interest was acquired, would be entitled (disregarding any
     entitlement that he or she would have to a distribution of property
     as a creditor or other person to whom the landholder is liable) to -
     (a) in the case of a private landholder, 50% or more of the property
     distributed; or
     (b) in the case of a public landholder, 90% or more of the property
     distributed.
   67.   How an interest may be acquired
     (1)  For the purposes of this Chapter, a person acquires an interest
     in a landholder if the person obtains an interest, or the person's
     interest increases, in the landholder regardless of how it is
     obtained or increased.
     (2)  Without limiting subsection (1) , a person may acquire an
     interest in a landholder in the following ways:
     (a) a purchase, gift or issue of a unit or share;
     (b) a cancellation, redemption or surrender of a unit or share;
     (c) an abrogation or alteration of a right pertaining to a unit or
     share;
     (d) a payment of an amount owing for a unit or share;
     (e) a declaration of trust over units or shares;
     (f) a statutory vesting of units or shares;
     (g) if the person holds an interest in the landholder (whether or
     not as trustee for another person) and the capacity in which the
     person holds the interest changes (including if there is a change in
     the beneficial ownership of an interest held by a person as
     trustee).
     (3)  A person may acquire an interest in a landholder without
     acquiring units or shares in the landholder.
   68.   Acquisition statements
     (1)  A person who has made a relevant acquisition must prepare a
     statement and lodge it with the Commissioner within 3 months after
     the relevant acquisition is made.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 50 penalty units.
     (2)  If a person makes a relevant acquisition as a result of the
     aggregation of the interests of the person with one or more
     associated persons -
     (a) subsection (1) applies not only to the person but also to each
     such associated person; but
     (b) compliance with subsection (1) by the person or any such
     associated person is taken to be sufficient compliance with that
     subsection by the person and each such associated person.
     (3)  The statement is to be prepared in an approved form and must
     contain the following information:
     (a) the name and address of the person who has acquired the
     interest;
     (b) in relation to each interest acquired, the date on which it was
     acquired;
     (c) if the relevant acquisition results from the aggregation of the
     interests of associated persons, particulars of the interests
     acquired by the person and any associated persons;
     (d) particulars of the total interest of the person and any
     associated person in the landholder at that date;
     (e) such other information as the Commissioner may require.
     (4)  The statement must also contain additional information
     consisting of the unencumbered value of all land holdings and goods
     in Tasmania of the landholder as at the date of the relevant
     acquisition and, if the landholder is a private landholder, as at
     the date of acquisition of each interest acquired in the landholder
     during the statement period.
     (4A)  In the case of a relevant acquisition to which section 71A or
     72A applies, the statement must also contain the following
     information:
     (a) the name of the foreign person who made the relevant acquisition
     and, if the landholder is a private landholder, the name of the
     foreign person who made the acquisition in the landholder during the
     statement period;
     (b) the value of all residential property and primary production
     property of the landholder as at the date of the relevant
     acquisition and, if the landholder is a private landholder, as at
     the date of acquisition of each interest acquired in the landholder
     during the statement period.
     (5)  The additional information referred to in subsection (4) is not
     required in relation to any exempt acquisition or concessional
     acquisition.
     (6)  The statement period is the period commencing 3 years before
     the date of the relevant acquisition and ending on the date of the
     relevant acquisition.
     (7)  However, if the relevant acquisition is related to an
     acquisition of an interest in the landholder that was made before
     the start of that 3-year period (the earlier acquisition), the
     statement period is the period commencing on the date that earlier
     acquisition was made (or, if there is more than one, the first of
     them) and ending on the date of the relevant acquisition.
     (8)  For the purposes of subsection (7) , a relevant acquisition is
     related to another acquisition of an interest in the landholder if
     both acquisitions are part of an arrangement to acquire interests in
     the landholder.
     (9)  If a statement in relation to a relevant acquisition is not
     prepared and lodged in accordance with subsection (1) , the
     Commissioner may prepare, in relation to the relevant acquisition, a
     statement for the purposes of that subsection and any statement so
     prepared is to be taken for the purposes of this section to be the
     acquisition statement in relation to the relevant acquisition.
     (10)  In preparing a statement under subsection (9) , the
     Commissioner may take into account any information available to the
     Commissioner and may make estimates based on that information.
   69.   When must duty be paid
     A tax default does not occur for the purposes of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 if duty is paid within 3 months after the
     liability to pay the duty arises.
   70.   Who is liable to pay the duty
     (1)  Duty chargeable under this Part is payable by the person who
     makes the relevant acquisition, except as provided by subsection (2)
     .
     (2)  If a relevant acquisition results from the aggregation of the
     interests of associated persons, the person who made the relevant
     acquisition and the associated person are jointly and severally
     liable for payment of the duty.
   71.   How duty is charged on relevant acquisitions - private
   landholders
     (1)  If an acquisition statement that discloses a relevant
     acquisition in a private landholder does not disclose any other
     acquisitions during the statement period, duty is chargeable, at the
     rate specified in section 29 on a dutiable transaction, on the
     amount calculated by multiplying the unencumbered value of all land
     holdings and goods of the landholder in Tasmania (calculated at the
     date of acquisition of the interest acquired) by the proportion of
     that value represented by the interest acquired in the relevant
     acquisition.
     (2)  Despite subsection (1) , duty is not chargeable under this
     section on a relevant acquisition referred to in that subsection if
     the acquisition is an exempt acquisition.
     (3)  Despite subsection (1) , duty is not chargeable as specified in
     that subsection on a relevant acquisition referred to in that
     subsection if that acquisition is also a concessional acquisition,
     but is chargeable at the relevant concessional rate of duty under
     Part 5 of Chapter 2 .
     (4)  If a relevant acquisition results from the aggregation of the
     interests of associated persons, the reference in subsection (1) to
     the interest acquired includes a reference to any interests acquired
     by associated persons.
     (5)  If an acquisition statement disclosing a relevant acquisition
     in a private landholder also discloses one or more other
     acquisitions during the statement period, duty is chargeable, at the
     rate specified in section 29 on a dutiable transaction, on the
     aggregate of the amounts severally calculated, in the manner
     provided by subsection (1) , in respect of each interest required to
     be disclosed in the statement.
     (6)  For the purpose of calculating duty under this section -
     (a) if the acquisition statement discloses one or more other
     acquisitions referred to in subsection (5) and the relevant
     acquisition is an exempt acquisition, the value of the land and
     goods for the relevant acquisition is taken to be zero; and
     (b) if the acquisition statement discloses one or more other
     acquisitions and the relevant acquisition is a concessional
     acquisition -
     (i) the value of the land and goods for the relevant acquisition is
     taken to be zero; and
     (ii) the relevant concessional amount of duty under Part 5 of
     Chapter 2 is to be added to the amount of duty otherwise chargeable
     under this section; and
     (c) if any of the other acquisitions referred to in subsection (5)
     occurred when the landholder did not own land in Tasmania, the value
     of any goods that the landholder held at the time of that other
     acquisition is taken to be zero; and
     (d) if any of the other acquisitions referred to in subsection (5)
     is an exempt acquisition, the value of the land and goods acquired
     for that other acquisition is taken to be zero; and
     (e) if any of the other acquisitions referred to in subsection (5)
     is a concessional acquisition -
     (i) the value of the land and goods acquired for that other
     acquisition is taken to be zero; and
     (ii) the relevant concessional amount of duty under Part 5 of
     Chapter 2 is to be added to the amount of duty otherwise chargeable
     under this section.
     (7)  Duty chargeable under this section is to be reduced by the sum
     of the duty paid, or payable, under this Chapter in respect of an
     acquisition, during the acquisition statement period, by the person
     or any associated person of an interest in the same landholder, but
     only in proportion to the extent to which the duty paid, or payable,
     is attributable to the amount of the duty payable under this
     section.
     (8)  Duty chargeable under this section is to be reduced by an
     amount (if any) calculated in accordance with the following formula:
   graphic image
     where -
     A is the unencumbered value of the land holdings and goods in
     Tasmania of the landholder at the time the acquisition was made; and
     B is the unencumbered value of all property of the landholder at
     that time; and
     C is any marketable securities duty paid or payable under a law of
     another Australian jurisdiction in relation to the relevant
     acquisition.
     (9)  If a relevant acquisition is made owing to the aggregation of
     the interests of associated persons, but the Commissioner is
     satisfied that the associated persons acquired their respective
     interests independently and for no common purpose, the Commissioner
     may assess and charge duty on each separate acquisition without
     aggregating the interests of the person who made it with the
     interests of associated persons.
     (10)  This section is subject to Parts 3A and 3B .
   71A.   Additional duty for acquisition by foreign person - private
   landholders
     (1)  This section applies to a relevant acquisition in a private
     landholder if -
     (a) a person liable to pay duty on the relevant acquisition is a
     foreign person; and
     (b) the property of the private landholder includes residential
     property or primary production property (or both).
     (2)  In addition to the duty otherwise chargeable under section 71 ,
     duty is also chargeable in accordance with this section.
     (3)  If an acquisition statement that discloses a relevant
     acquisition in a private landholder does not disclose any other
     acquisitions during the statement period, duty is chargeable -
     (a) in respect of residential property held by the landholder, at
     the rate specified in section 30C on a dutiable transaction, on the
     amount calculated by multiplying the unencumbered value of all
     residential property of the landholder (calculated at the date of
     acquisition of the interest acquired) by the proportion of that
     value represented by the interest acquired by a foreign person or
     foreign persons in the relevant acquisition; and
     (b) in respect of primary production property held by the
     landholder, at the rate specified in section 30E on a dutiable
     transaction, on the amount calculated by multiplying the
     unencumbered value of all primary production property of the
     landholder (calculated at the date of acquisition of the interest
     acquired) by the proportion of that value represented by the
     interest acquired in the relevant acquisition by a foreign person or
     foreign persons.
     (4)  Despite subsection (3) , duty is not chargeable under this
     section on a relevant acquisition referred to in that subsection if
     the acquisition is -
     (a) an exempt acquisition; or
     (b) a concessional acquisition.
     (5)  Subsection (4)(b) does not apply to an acquisition that is a
     concessional acquisition by virtue of the application of a duty
     concession under section 50 .
     (6)  If an acquisition statement disclosing a relevant acquisition
     in a private landholder also discloses one or more other
     acquisitions during the statement period, duty is chargeable -
     (a) in respect of residential property held by the landholder, at
     the rate specified in section 30C on a dutiable transaction, on the
     aggregate of the amounts severally calculated, in the manner
     provided in subsection (3)(a) , in respect of each interest required
     to be disclosed in the statement; and
     (b) in respect of primary production property held by the
     landholder, at the rate specified in section 30E on a dutiable
     transaction, on the aggregate of the amounts severally calculated,
     in the manner provided by subsection (3)(b) , in respect of each
     interest required to be disclosed in the statement.
     (7)  For the purpose of calculating duty under this section -
     (a) if the acquisition statement discloses one or more other
     acquisitions referred to in subsection (6) and the relevant
     acquisition is an exempt acquisition, the value of residential
     property and primary production property for the relevant
     acquisition is taken to be zero; and
     (b) if the acquisition statement discloses one or more other
     acquisitions referred to in subsection (6) and the relevant
     acquisition is a concessional acquisition, the value of residential
     property and primary production property for the relevant
     acquisition is taken to be zero; and
     (c) if any of the other acquisitions referred to in subsection (6)
     is an exempt acquisition, the value of residential property and
     primary production property acquired for that other acquisition is
     taken to be zero; and
     (d) if any of the other acquisitions referred to in subsection (6)
     is a concessional acquisition, the value of residential property and
     primary production property acquired for that other acquisition is
     taken to be zero.
     (8)  Subsections (7)(b) and (d) do not apply to an acquisition that
     is a concessional acquisition by virtue of the application of a duty
     concession under section 50 .
     (9)  Duty chargeable under this section is to be reduced by the sum
     of the duty paid, or payable, under this Part in respect of an
     acquisition, during the acquisition statement period, by the person
     of an interest in the same landholder, but only in proportion to the
     extent to which the duty paid, or payable, is attributable to the
     amount of the duty payable under this section.
     (10)  If -
     (a) a person liable to pay duty on a relevant acquisition is a
     foreign person; and
     (b) the acquisition statement disclosing the relevant acquisition
     also discloses one or more other acquisitions during the statement
     period -
     the person referred to in paragraph (a) is taken to have been a
     foreign person at the time of the other acquisitions referred to in
     paragraph (b).
   72.   How duty is charged on relevant acquisitions - public landholders
     (1)  If an acquisition statement discloses a relevant acquisition in
     a public landholder, the duty chargeable on the relevant acquisition
     is 10% of the duty that would be chargeable, at the rate specified
     in section 29 on a transfer of dutiable property, on a transfer of
     all the land holdings and goods of the landholder in Tasmania
     (calculated as if the transfer had occurred at the date of the
     relevant acquisition).
     (2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , the dutiable value of all
     the land holdings and goods of the landholder as referred to in that
     subsection is the unencumbered value of those land holdings and
     goods at the date of the relevant acquisition.
     (3)  If an acquisition disclosed in an acquisition statement is an
     exempt acquisition or a concessional acquisition -
     (a) the duty chargeable under this section is to be calculated after
     deducting from the dutiable value of the land holdings and goods the
     proportion of the dutiable value represented by the interest
     acquired in the exempt acquisition or concessional acquisition; and
     (b) in the case of a concessional acquisition, the relevant
     concessional amount of duty under Part 5 of Chapter 2 is to be added
     to the amount of duty otherwise chargeable under this section.
     (4)  Duty chargeable under this section is to be reduced by an
     amount (if any) calculated in accordance with the following formula:
   graphic image
     where -
     A is the unencumbered value of the land holdings and goods in
     Tasmania of the landholder at the time the acquisition was made; and
     B is the unencumbered value of all property of the landholder at
     that time; and
     C is any marketable securities duty paid or payable under a law of
     another Australian jurisdiction in relation to the relevant
     acquisition.
     (5)  If duty is chargeable in respect of a relevant acquisition made
     by a person in a public landholder, no duty is chargeable in respect
     of any further acquisition made by that person in that landholder.
     (6)  This section is subject to Parts 3A and 3B of this Chapter.
   72A.   Additional duty for foreign acquisition - public landholders
     (1)  This section applies to a relevant acquisition in a public
     landholder if -
     (a) a person liable to pay duty on the relevant acquisition under
     section 72 is a foreign person; and
     (b) the land holdings of the public landholder include residential
     property or primary production property (or both).
     (2)  In addition to the duty otherwise chargeable under section 72 ,
     duty is also chargeable in accordance with this section.
     (3)  If an acquisition statement discloses a relevant acquisition in
     a public landholder, duty is chargeable -
     (a) in respect of residential property held by the landholder, at
     the rate specified in section 30C on a dutiable transaction, on a
     transfer of all the residential property of the landholder
     (calculated as if the transfer had occurred at the date of the
     relevant acquisition); and
     (b) in respect of primary production property held by the
     landholder, at the rate specified in section 30E on a dutiable
     transaction, on a transfer of all the primary production property of
     the landholder (calculated as if the transfer had occurred at the
     date of the relevant acquisition).
     (4)  For the purposes of subsection (3)(a) , the dutiable value of
     all residential property of the landholder is calculated by
     multiplying the unencumbered value of all residential property of
     the landholder by the proportion of that value represented by the
     interest acquired in the landholder by a foreign person or foreign
     persons.
     (5)  For the purposes of subsection (3)(b) , the dutiable value of
     all primary production property of the landholder is calculated by
     multiplying the unencumbered value of all primary production
     property of the landholder by the proportion of that value
     represented by the interest acquired in the landholder by a foreign
     person or foreign persons.
     (6)  If an acquisition disclosed in an acquisition statement is an
     exempt acquisition or a concessional acquisition, the duty
     chargeable under this section is to be calculated after deducting
     from the dutiable value of residential property and primary
     production property the proportion of the dutiable value represented
     by the interest acquired in the exempt acquisition or concessional
     acquisition.
     (7)  If duty is chargeable in respect of a relevant acquisition made
     by a person in a public landholder, no duty is chargeable in respect
     of any further acquisition made by that person in that landholder.
   72B.   Reassessment of duty if acquirer becomes a foreign person
     (1)  This section applies to a relevant acquisition in a private
     landholder or a public landholder if -
     (a) at the time the relevant acquisition occurred, the land holdings
     of the landholder included residential property or primary
     production property (or both); and
     (b) within the 3-year period after the relevant acquisition, a
     person liable to pay duty in respect of the relevant acquisition
     became a foreign person.
     (2)  This section does not apply to a relevant acquisition in a
     private landholder or a public landholder if, at the time the person
     referred to in subsection (1)(b) became a foreign person -
     (a) the person did not own an interest in the landholder; or
     (b) the landholder did not hold an interest in the land holdings
     referred to in subsection (1)(a) .
     (3)  A person referred to in subsection (1)(b) must, within 14 days
     after becoming a foreign person, give notice of that fact to the
     Commissioner in an approved form.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (4)  If the Commissioner becomes aware that a person referred to in
     subsection (1)(b) has become a foreign person within the period
     specified in that subsection, the Commissioner must reassess the
     duty payable on the relevant acquisition as if, at the time the
     relevant acquisition occurred, the person was a foreign person.
     (5)  Despite section 64 , if duty is charged as a consequence of a
     reassessment under subsection (4) , liability for that duty arises
     when the person referred to in subsection (1)(b) becomes a foreign
     person.
   72C.   Acquisitions before 1 July 2018
     (1)  Duty is not chargeable under section 71A or 72A in respect of a
     relevant acquisition of an interest in a landholder if the relevant
     acquisition occurred before 1 July 2018.
     (2)  If -
     (a) a relevant acquisition in a private landholder occurs on or
     after 1 July 2018; and
     (b) the acquisition statement disclosing the relevant acquisition in
     the private landholder also discloses one or more other acquisitions
     that occurred before 1 July 2018 -
     the value of the residential property and primary production
     property for the other acquisitions referred to in paragraph (b) is,
     for the purposes of section 71A , taken to be zero.
     (3)  If -
     (a) a relevant acquisition in a public landholder occurs on or after
     1 July 2018; and
     (b) the acquisition statement disclosing the relevant acquisition in
     the public landholder also discloses one or more other acquisitions
     that occurred before 1 July 2018 -
     the duty chargeable under section 72A is to be calculated after
     deducting from the dutiable value of the residential property and
     primary production property the proportion of the dutiable value
     represented by the interest acquired before 1 July 2018.
     PART 3 - Charging of Duty on Acquisitions Made by Trustees
   73.   Application of Part
     (1)  This Part applies for the purposes of determining a liability
     for duty under this Chapter where a person acquires or holds an
     interest in a landholder as bare trustee for another person.
     (2)  In this Part, a bare trustee includes a custodian, other than -
     (a) a custodian of a trustee of a unit trust scheme in its capacity
     as a custodian; and
     (b) a sub-custodian of a custodian of a trustee of a unit trust
     scheme in its capacity as a sub-custodian.
   74.   Meaning of beneficial owner
     (1)  If a person who acquires or holds an interest in a landholder
     acquires or holds that interest as bare trustee for another person,
     the other person is a beneficial owner of that interest in the
     landholder.
     (2)  If a person who is a beneficial owner of an interest in a
     landholder (whether as a result of subsection (1) or as a result of
     one or more applications of this subsection) holds that interest as
     bare trustee for another person, that other person is also a
     beneficial owner of that interest in the landholder.
     (3)  For the purposes of this Part, the ultimate beneficial owner of
     an interest in a landholder is any beneficial owner of the interest
     in the landholder who does not hold that interest as bare trustee
     for another person.
   75.   Beneficial owners liable for duty on acquisition in landholders
     (1)  Any interest in a landholder that is acquired or held by a
     person (the legal owner) as bare trustee for another person is
     taken, for the purposes of this Chapter, to have been acquired by,
     or to be held by, the ultimate beneficial owner of the interest in
     the landholder, rather than the legal owner.
     (2)  Accordingly, the ultimate beneficial owner of an interest
     acquired by the legal owner will be liable to lodge an acquisition
     statement, and to pay any duty chargeable under this Chapter, in
     respect of any relevant acquisition made as a result of that
     acquisition by the legal owner.
     (3)  For the purpose of determining whether an acquisition is a
     relevant acquisition, section 65 applies as if a reference to a
     person who acquires or holds an interest in a landholder were a
     reference to the ultimate beneficial owner of the interest, rather
     than the legal owner.
     (4)  For the purposes of subsection (3) , the acquisition is to be
     aggregated with other interests held by the ultimate beneficial
     owner of the interest and any associated person of the ultimate
     beneficial owner of the interest.
     PART 3A - General Principles to be Applied under this Chapter
   76.   Constructive ownership of land holdings and other property:
   linked entities
     (1)  In addition to any interest in land or other property that it
     may hold in its own right, a private unit trust scheme, public unit
     trust scheme, private company or listed company is taken, for the
     purposes of this Chapter, to hold an interest in land or other
     property held by a linked entity of the private unit trust scheme,
     public unit trust scheme, private company or listed company.
     (2)  A linked entity of a private unit trust scheme or a private
     company (the principal entity) means a private unit trust scheme or
     a private company that is part of a chain of private unit trust
     schemes or private companies -
     (a) which includes the principal entity; and
     (b) which is comprised of one or more links; and
     (c) in which a link exists if a private unit trust scheme or a
     private company would be entitled to receive not less than 50% of
     the unencumbered value of the property of another private unit trust
     scheme or private company in the event of a distribution of all the
     property of the private unit trust scheme or private company; and
     (d) which does not include, in any of the links between the private
     unit trust scheme or private company and the principal entity, a
     public unit trust scheme or a listed company.
     (3)  A linked entity of a public unit trust scheme or a listed
     company (the principal entity) means a unit trust scheme or a
     company that is part of a chain of unit trust schemes or companies -
     (a) which includes the principal entity; and
     (b) which is comprised of one or more links; and
     (c) in which a link exists if a unit trust scheme or company would
     be entitled to receive not less than 50% of the unencumbered value
     of the property of another unit trust scheme or company in the event
     of a distribution of all the property of the unit trust scheme or
     company.
     (4)  The value, for duty purposes, of the interest in land or other
     property that a private unit trust scheme, public unit trust scheme,
     private company or listed company (being a principal entity) is
     taken, by this section, to hold because of a holding by a linked
     entity is that portion of the interest's unencumbered value to which
     the unit trust scheme or company would be entitled (without regard
     to any liabilities of the linked entity or any other person in the
     ownership chain) in the event of a distribution of all the property
     of each entity in the chain of entities.
   77.   Constructive ownership of land holdings and other property:
   discretionary trusts
     (1)  A person, or a person of a class of persons, in the favour of
     whom or which, by the terms of a discretionary trust, capital which
     is the subject of the trust may be applied -
     (a) in the event of the exercise of a power or discretion in favour
     of the person or class; or
     (b) in the event that a discretion conferred under the trust is not
     exercised -
     is, for the purposes of this section, a beneficiary of the trust.
     (2)  A beneficiary of a discretionary trust is taken to own or be
     otherwise entitled to all of the property which is the subject of
     the trust unless the Commissioner determines otherwise.
     (3)  For the purposes of this Chapter, any property that is the
     subject of a discretionary trust is taken to be the subject of any
     other discretionary trust -
     (a) that is; or
     (b) any trustee of which (in the capacity of trustee) is -
     a beneficiary of it.
     (4)  Subsection (3) extends to apply to property that is the subject
     of a discretionary trust only by the operation of that subsection.
   78.   Inclusion of land holdings and goods recently transferred
     (1)  In determining the land holdings or goods of a private unit
     trust scheme or private company, the land holdings or goods of the
     scheme or company are taken to include any land holdings or goods of
     the unit trust scheme or company, or of a linked entity of the
     scheme or company, that were recently transferred -
     (a) to the person who has made the acquisition in the scheme or
     company; or
     (b) to a person who was an associated person of the person referred
     to in paragraph (a) when the acquisition occurred and also was an
     associated person of the person referred to in paragraph (a) when
     the transfer of the land holding or goods occurred.
     (2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , a land holding or goods
     are recently transferred if the land holding or goods are
     transferred within 12 months before the acquisition is made.
     (3)  Subsection (1) does not apply if, after considering the
     circumstances of the acquisition, the Commissioner determines that
     it is just and reasonable in the circumstances that the subsection
     should not apply.
     (4)  The duty payable under this Chapter in respect of the
     acquisition is to be reduced by the amount of ad valorem duty (if
     any) paid in respect of the transfer under Chapter 2 of the land
     holding or goods referred to in subsection (1) .
     (5)  In this section, a reference to a transfer, in relation to a
     land holding or goods, includes a reference to any dutiable
     transaction that effects a change in the beneficial ownership of the
     land holding or goods in favour of the person referred to in
     subsection (1)(a) or (b) .
   79.   Agreements for sale or transfer of land
     (1)  For the purposes of this Chapter, the transferor and the
     transferee under an uncompleted agreement for the sale or transfer
     of land or of goods, or of both land and goods, are taken to be
     separately entitled to the whole of that land or those goods, or of
     that land and those goods.
     (2)  If duty is charged on an acquisition that relates to a land
     holding, or a land holding and goods, to which subsection (1)
     applies, the Commissioner may defer all or part of the payment of
     duty under section 59 of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 .
     (3)  If -
     (a) at the time of acquisition of an interest by a person in a
     landholder that necessitates the lodgement of an acquisition
     statement under this Chapter, the landholder was the transferor
     under an uncompleted agreement for the sale or transfer of land or
     of goods, or of both land and goods; and
     (b) the person acquiring that interest in the landholder, or an
     associated person of that person, is not also the transferee of the
     sale or transfer of land or of goods, or of both land and goods,
     under that agreement; and
     (c) that agreement is subsequently completed -
     the Commissioner is to assess or reassess the statement as though
     the land or goods, or land and goods, which are the subject of the
     agreement were not, at the time of the acquisition concerned, a land
     holding or goods, or a land holding and goods, of the landholder.
     (4)  If the statement is reassessed under subsection (3) , any
     amount paid in excess of the amount reassessed is to be refunded.
     (5)  If -
     (a) at the time of acquisition of an interest by any person in a
     landholder that necessitates the lodgement of an acquisition
     statement under this Chapter, the landholder was the transferee
     under an uncompleted agreement for the sale or transfer of land or
     of goods, or of both land and goods; and
     (b) the agreement is subsequently rescinded, annulled or otherwise
     terminated without completion -
     the Commissioner is to assess or reassess the statement as though
     the land or goods, or land and goods, which are the subject of the
     agreement were not, at the time of the acquisition concerned, a land
     holding or goods, or a land holding and goods, of the landholder.
     (6)  If the statement is reassessed under subsection (5) , any
     amount paid in excess of the amount reassessed is to be refunded.
     (7)  In this section, a reference to a landholder includes a
     reference to a linked entity of the landholder.
   80.   Agreements for sale or issue of shares or units in landholder
     (1)  For the purposes of this Chapter, if an agreement is made to
     purchase or issue a unit or share in a landholder, then, on and from
     the agreement liability date -
     (a) the purchaser or person to whom the unit or share is to be
     issued is taken to have an entitlement to a distribution of property
     of the landholder in the event of a distribution of all the property
     of the landholder (as if the purchase or interest acquired by the
     person were registered on the agreement liability date); and
     (b) in the case of an agreement to purchase a share or unit, the
     registered interest of the vendor in the unit or share is to be
     disregarded; and
     (c) the purchaser or person to whom a share or unit is to be issued,
     under an agreement for the sale or issue of a share or unit in a
     landholder, acquires an interest in the landholder on the agreement
     liability date.
     (2)  In subsection (1)  -
     agreement liability date means the date on which the first of the
     following occurs:
     (a) the agreement is completed;
     (b) the necessary transfer or title documents are delivered to the
     person acquiring the share or unit;
     (c) the consideration for the purchase or issue is paid.
     (3)  This section does not apply in respect of shares or units in a
     public landholder.
   81.   Valuation of property
     (1)  Subject to this Chapter, the provisions of this Act for
     ascertaining the value of transfers of dutiable property chargeable
     with ad valorem duty extend to an acquisition statement under this
     Chapter and the unencumbered value of land holdings and goods
     mentioned in it.
     (2)  In determining the unencumbered value of land holdings or goods
     under this Chapter, any arrangement made in respect of the land
     holdings or goods that has the effect of reducing the unencumbered
     value is to be disregarded, subject to subsection (3) .
     (3)  An arrangement is not to be disregarded if the Commissioner is
     satisfied that the arrangement was not made as part of an
     arrangement or scheme with a collateral purpose of reducing the duty
     otherwise payable in relation to the relevant acquisition.
     (4)  In considering whether or not he or she is satisfied for the
     purposes of subsection (3) , the Commissioner may have regard to -
     (a) the duration of the arrangement before the relevant acquisition;
     and
     (b) whether the arrangement has been made with an associated person;
     and
     (c) whether there is any commercial efficacy to the making of the
     arrangement other than to reduce duty; and
     (d) any other matters the Commissioner considers relevant.
   82.   Maximisation of entitlements on distribution of property
     (1)  This section applies to any calculation, for the purposes of
     this Chapter, of the entitlement of a person (the interested person)
     to participate in a distribution of the property of a landholder.
     (2)  A calculation is to be made based, firstly, on a distribution
     carried out in accordance with the constitution of the landholder,
     and with any law relevant to the distribution, as in force at the
     time of distribution, and the entitlement of the interested person
     is to be evaluated accordingly.
     (3)  Next, a calculation is to be made as if a distribution had been
     carried out after the interested person, and any other person whom
     the interested person has power to direct with respect to such a
     distribution or who is, in relation to the interested person, an
     associated person, had exercised all powers and discretions
     exercisable by them by reason of having acquired an interest in the
     landholder concerned -
     (a) to effect or compel an alteration to the constitution of the
     landholder; and
     (b) to vary the rights conferred by units or shares in the
     landholder; and
     (c) to effect or compel the substitution or replacement of units or
     shares in the landholder with other units or shares in it -
     in such a manner as would maximise the value of the entitlement, and
     the entitlement of the interested person is to be evaluated
     accordingly.
     (4)  The results obtained by the evaluations of the interested
     person's entitlement in accordance with subsections (2) and (3) are
     then to be compared, and whichever evaluation results in a greater
     entitlement is the evaluation of the entitlement to be used for the
     purposes of this Chapter unless the Commissioner, being satisfied
     that the application of this subsection in the particular case would
     be inequitable, determines that the evaluation that results in the
     lesser entitlement is the evaluation to be so used.
     (5)  The evaluation in accordance with subsections (2) and (3) that
     results in the lesser entitlement is to be used for the purposes of
     this Chapter if the Commissioner so determines under subsection (4)
     .
     PART 3B - Exemptions, Concessions and Refunds
   83.   General exemptions
     (1)  An acquisition of an interest in a landholder (whether a
     relevant acquisition or other acquisition) is an exempt acquisition
     for the purposes of this Chapter if the Commissioner is satisfied
     that the acquisition, had it been a dutiable transaction, would have
     been exempt or not chargeable with duty under Chapter 2 .
     (2)  For the purposes of subsection (1)  -
     (a) shares or units which are the subject of the acquisition are
     taken to be the dutiable property of the landholder, or part of the
     dutiable property, based on the proportion of those shares or units
     to the total number of shares or units in the landholder; and
     (b) the person whose interest in the landholder increases as a
     result of the acquisition is taken to be the transferee; and
     (c) the person whose interest in the landholder decreases as a
     result of the acquisition is taken to be the transferor; and
     (d) the acquisition, however made, is taken to be a dutiable
     transaction.
   84.   Restricted exemptions for acquisition securing financial
   accommodation
     (1)  An acquisition of an interest in a landholder (whether a
     relevant acquisition or other acquisition) is an exempt acquisition
     for the purposes of this Chapter if -
     (a) the acquisition is disclosed in an acquisition statement; and
     (b) the person lodging the acquisition statement informs the
     Commissioner, at the time the statement is lodged, that the
     acquisition is effected for the purpose of securing financial
     accommodation; and
     (c) the Commissioner is satisfied that the acquisition is effected
     for that purpose.
     (2)  An exempt acquisition referred to in subsection (1) ceases to
     be an exempt acquisition on the expiration of the period of 5 years
     after the day on which the interest in the landholder is acquired,
     or such longer period as may be determined by the Commissioner in
     the particular case, if the interest concerned is not, within that
     period or longer period -
     (a) re-acquired by the person from whom it was acquired; or
     (b) in the case of an acquisition by way of mortgage, conveyed by
     the mortgagee to a third person in exercise of the mortgagee's power
     of sale.
     (3)  A person is not required to lodge an acquisition statement with
     the Commissioner in respect of a re-acquisition referred to in
     subsection (2)(a) .
   84A.   Concessions generally
     (1)  An acquisition of an interest in a landholder (whether a
     relevant acquisition or other acquisition) is a concessional
     acquisition for the purposes of this Chapter if the Commissioner is
     satisfied that the acquisition, had it been a dutiable transaction,
     would have attracted a concessional rate of duty under Part 5 of
     Chapter 2 .
     (2)  For the purposes of subsection (1)  -
     (a) shares or units which are the subject of the acquisition are
     taken to be the dutiable property of the landholder, or part of the
     dutiable property, based on the proportion of those shares or units
     to the total number of shares or units in the landholder; and
     (b) the person whose interest in the landholder increases as a
     result of the acquisition is taken to be the transferee; and
     (c) the person whose interest in the landholder decreases as a
     result of the acquisition is taken to be the transferor; and
     (d) the acquisition, however made, is taken to be a dutiable
     transaction.
   84B.   Refunds
     If -
     (a) an acquisition is an exempt acquisition; or
     (b) a concession has been granted under this Chapter in relation to
     an acquisition -
     the Commissioner is to refund any amount of duty paid in relation to
     the relevant acquisition that exceeds the amount of the duty payable
     after taking into account the exemption or concession.
     PART 4 - Acquisition of land use entitlements by allotment of shares
     or issue of units
   84C.   Interpretation of Part 4
     In this Part -
     goods does not include the following:
     (a) goods that are stock-in-trade;
     (b) materials held for use in manufacture;
     (c) goods under manufacture;
     (d) livestock;
     (e) a registered motor vehicle that is not exempt from motor tax
     under the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 or the Transport Act 1981 ;
     primary production property means the following property:
     (a) land that is primary production property in accordance with
     section 30(a) ;
     (b) goods that are the subject of a land use entitlement if the use
     of the goods can be directly linked to, or is incidental to the use,
     or intended use, of, all or part of the land referred to in
     paragraph (a) for primary production purposes;
     residential property means the following property:
     (a) land that is residential property in accordance with
     section 30A(a) ;
     (b) goods that are the subject of a land use entitlement if the use
     of the goods can be directly linked to, or is incidental to the use,
     or intended use, of, all or part of the land referred to in
     paragraph (a) for residential purposes.
   84D.   Land use entitlement that relates to dual-use land
     If a land use entitlement relates to property that is both
     residential property and primary production property, for the
     purposes of calculating duty under this Part, that land use
     entitlement is taken to only relate to residential property unless
     the Commissioner is satisfied that there are good reasons why the
     land use entitlement is to relate to primary production property
     only.
   85.   When does a liability for duty arise?
     A liability for duty charged by this Part arises when a land use
     entitlement is acquired by an allotment of shares or an issue of
     units to any person.
   86.   When must duty be paid?
     A tax default does not occur for the purposes of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 if duty is paid within 3 months after the
     liability to pay the duty arises.
   87.   Who is liable to pay the duty?
     Duty chargeable under this Part is payable by the person who
     acquires the land use entitlement.
   88.   Acquisition of land use entitlement
     (1)  A person who acquires a land use entitlement by an allotment of
     shares or an issue of units must lodge a statement (an "acquisition
     statement") with the Commissioner in respect of the entitlement.
     (2)  The statement must be lodged within 3 months after the
     entitlement is so acquired.
   89.   Form of statement
     An acquisition statement required to be lodged by a person is to be
     in a form approved by the Commissioner and is to contain the
     following information:
     (a) the name and address of the person;
     (b) the name of the relevant company or unit trust;
     (c) the date on which the land use entitlement was acquired;
     (d) the consideration paid by the person for the relevant shares or
     units;
     (e) such other information as may be required by the Commissioner.
   90.   Assessment of duty
     An acquisition statement, in relation to the acquisition of a land
     use entitlement, that is required to be lodged with the Commissioner
     under section 88 is chargeable with duty at the rate of duty set out
     in section 29 on the dutiable value of the land use entitlement
     acquired.
   91.   Additional duty if foreign person acquires land use entitlement
     (1)  This section applies if -
     (a) a land use entitlement is acquired by an allotment of shares, or
     an issue of units, to a foreign person; and
     (b) the land use entitlement relates to residential property or
     primary production property.
     (2)  In addition to the duty otherwise chargeable under section 90 ,
     duty is also chargeable under this section -
     (a) in the case of a land use entitlement relating to residential
     property, at the rate of duty set out in section 30C on the dutiable
     value of the land use entitlement acquired; and
     (b) in the case of a land use entitlement relating to primary
     production property, at the rate of duty set out in section 30E on
     the dutiable value of the land use entitlement acquired.
     (3)  Duty under subsection (2) is to be charged only on the
     proportion of the dutiable value of the land use entitlement that is
     the same as the proportion of the land use entitlement acquired by a
     foreign person or foreign persons.
     (4)  A foreign person who acquires a land use entitlement by an
     allotment of shares or an issue of units is to disclose the
     following information to the Commissioner in the acquisition
     statement:
     (a) that the person is a foreign person;
     (b) the extent, if any, to which the land use entitlement relates to
     residential property or primary production property;
     (c) the value of the residential property or primary production
     property referred to in paragraph (b).
   92.   Duty in respect of change of land to residential property
     (1)  This section applies to the acquisition of a land use
     entitlement if -
     (a) duty was charged on the acquisition under section 90 ; and
     (b) a person who acquired the land use entitlement -
     (i) was a foreign person at the time of the acquisition; or
     (ii) became a foreign person within the 3-year period after the
     acquisition; and
     (c) within the 3-year period after the acquisition, the property to
     which the land use entitlement related became residential property.
     (2)  This section does not apply to the acquisition of a land use
     entitlement if, at the time the property became residential
     property -
     (a) the person referred to in subsection (1)(b) did not own the land
     use entitlement; or
     (b) the land use entitlement did not relate to the property referred
     to in subsection (1)(c) .
     (3)  A person referred to in subsection (1)(b) must, within 14 days
     of the property to which the land use entitlement relates becoming
     residential property, notify the Commissioner in an approved form of
     that fact, if the property to which the land use entitlement relates
     becomes residential property within the period specified in
     subsection (1)(c) .
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (4)  If the Commissioner becomes aware that the property to which
     the land use entitlement relates has become residential property
     within the period specified in subsection (1)(c) , the Commissioner
     must reassess the duty payable on the acquisition of the land use
     entitlement as if, at the time the acquisition occurred, the land
     use entitlement related to residential property.
     (5)  If the property referred to in subsection (1)(c) was primary
     production property before it became residential property, the
     amount of duty payable under section 91(2)(a) is to be reduced by
     the amount of duty (if any) previously paid in respect of the
     acquisition of the land use entitlement under section 91(2)(b) .
     (6)  Despite section 85 , if duty is charged as a consequence of a
     reassessment under subsection (4) , liability for that duty arises
     when the property referred to in subsection (1)(c) becomes
     residential property.
   93.   Duty in respect of change of land to primary production property
     (1)  This section applies to the acquisition of a land use
     entitlement if -
     (a) duty was charged on the acquisition under section 90 ; and
     (b) a person who acquired the land use entitlement -
     (i) was a foreign person at the time of the acquisition; or
     (ii) became a foreign person within the 3-year period after the
     acquisition; and
     (c) within the 3-year period after the acquisition, the property to
     which the land use entitlement related became primary production
     property.
     (2)  This section does not apply to the acquisition of a land use
     entitlement if the property referred to in subsection (1)(c) was
     residential property at the time of that acquisition.
     (3)  This section does not apply to the acquisition of a land use
     entitlement if at the time the property referred to in
     subsection (1)(c) became primary production property -
     (a) the person referred to in subsection (1)(b) did not own the land
     use entitlement; or
     (b) the land use entitlement did not relate to the land referred to
     in subsection (1)(c) .
     (4)  A person referred to in subsection (1)(b) must, within 14 days
     of the property to which the land use entitlement relates becoming
     primary production property, notify the Commissioner in an approved
     form of that fact, if the property to which the land use entitlement
     relates becomes primary production property within the period
     specified in subsection (1)(c) .
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (5)  If the Commissioner becomes aware that the property to which
     the land use entitlement relates has become primary production
     property within the period specified in subsection (1)(c) , the
     Commissioner must reassess the duty payable on the acquisition of
     the land use entitlement as if, at the time the acquisition
     occurred, the land use entitlement related to primary production
     property.
     (6)  Despite section 85 , if duty is charged as a consequence of a
     reassessment under subsection (5) , liability for that duty arises
     when the property referred to in subsection (1)(c) becomes primary
     production property.
   94.   Reassessment of duty if acquirer becomes a foreign person
     (1)  This section applies to the acquisition of a land use
     entitlement relating to residential property or primary production
     property if -
     (a) at the time the acquisition occurred, a person who acquired the
     land use entitlement was not a foreign person; and
     (b) within the 3-year period after the time the acquisition
     occurred, the person referred to in paragraph (a) became a foreign
     person.
     (2)  This section does not apply to the acquisition of a land use
     entitlement if, at the time the person referred to in
     subsection (1)(b) became a foreign person -
     (a) the person did not own the land use entitlement; or
     (b) the land use entitlement did not relate to the same land as it
     related to at the time it was acquired by that person.
     (3)  If a person referred to in subsection (1)(a) becomes a foreign
     person within the period specified in subsection (1)(b) , that
     person must, within 14 days after becoming a foreign person, give
     notice of that fact to the Commissioner in an approved form.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (4)  If the Commissioner becomes aware that a person referred to in
     subsection (1)(a) has become a foreign person within the period
     specified in subsection (1)(b) , the Commissioner must reassess the
     duty payable on the acquisition of the land use entitlement as if,
     at the time the acquisition occurred, that person was a foreign
     person.
     (5)  Despite section 85 , if duty is charged as a consequence of a
     reassessment under subsection (4) , liability for that duty arises
     when the person referred to in subsection (1)(a) becomes a foreign
     person.
     PART 5 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Division 1 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Division 2 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Division 3 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   95.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Division 4 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   96.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Division 5 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   97.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Chapter 4 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     PART 1 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   98.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   99.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   100.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   101.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   102.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   103.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   104.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     PART 2 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   105.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   106.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     PART 3 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   107.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   108.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   109.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   110.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     PART 4 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   111.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   112.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   113.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   114.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Chapter 5 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     PART 1 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   115.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   116.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   117.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   118.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   119.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   120.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   121.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   122.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   123.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   124.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   125.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   126.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   127.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     PART 2 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   128.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   129.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   130.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   131.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   132.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   133.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   134.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     PART 3 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   135.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   136.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   137.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Chapter 6 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     PART 1 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   138.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   139.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   140.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   141.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   142.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   143.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   144.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   145.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   146.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     PART 2 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   147.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   148.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   149.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   150.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   151.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   152.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   153.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     PART 3 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   154.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   155.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   156.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   157.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     PART 4 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   158.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   159.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   160.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   161.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Chapter 7 - Insurance
     PART 1 - General Insurance
   162.   Imposition of duty
     (1)  This Part charges duty on the amount of the premium paid in
     relation to a contract of insurance that effects general insurance
     (whether or not it also effects other kinds of insurance).
     (2)  The amount of duty is required to be paid each time a premium
     is paid in relation to a contract of insurance that effects general
     insurance.
   163.   What is general insurance?
     (1)  General insurance is any kind of insurance that is applicable
     to -
     (a) property in Tasmania; or
     (b) a risk, contingency or event concerning an act or omission that,
     in the normal course of events, may occur within, or partly within,
     Tasmania -
     or both.
     (2)  Notwithstanding subsection (3) , general insurance includes
     insurance effected in respect of trauma or a disabling or
     incapacitating injury, sickness, condition or disease regardless of
     how, or by whom, the insurance is effected.
     (3)  General insurance does not include life insurance or insurance
     that is exempt from duty by Part 5 .
   164.   What is a premium in relation to general insurance?
     (1)  Premium, in relation to general insurance, means the total
     consideration given to an insurer or an insurance intermediary by or
     on behalf of the insured person to effect insurance without
     deductions for any amounts paid or payable, or allowed or allowable,
     by way of commission or discount to an insurance intermediary.
     (2)  Premium includes a fire service levy paid or payable in
     connection with insurance by an insurer or any other person.
     (3)  Premium does not include -
     (a) an amount paid to an insurance intermediary by the insured
     person as a fee, provided that the amount can be clearly identified
     as a fee; or
     (b) an amount of duty under this or a corresponding Act.
     (4)  It is immaterial where the amount is paid or where the
     insurance is effected.
   165.   When is a premium paid?
     (1)  A premium, or an instalment of a premium, is paid for the
     purposes of this Chapter when the first of the following events
     occurs:
     (a) the premium or instalment is received by the insurer or
     insurance intermediary;
     (b) an account of the insurer or insurance intermediary is credited
     with the amount of the premium or instalment.
     (2)  A premium or instalment of a premium (apart from the case where
     the premium or instalment is received directly by an insurer or an
     insurance intermediary) is taken to have been received by an insurer
     or an insurance intermediary if it is received by another person on
     the insurer's or insurance intermediary's behalf.
   166.   What duty is payable?
     The amount of duty chargeable on the premium paid in relation to a
     contract of insurance is 10% of the amount of the premium.
   167.   Who is liable to pay the duty?
     The insurer is liable to pay the duty, except as provided by
     section 168 .
   168.   Circumstances in which duty is payable by the insured person
     (1)  This section applies to a person who obtains, effects or renews
     any general insurance as an insured person with a person who is not
     a registered insurer.
     (2)  A person to whom this section applies must, within 21 days
     after the end of the month in which the premium relating to the
     insurance is paid to an insurer (not being a registered insurer) or
     insurance intermediary -
     (a) lodge with the Commissioner a return in the approved form
     containing such particulars and information as to the premium and
     the insurance as the Commissioner may require; and
     (b) pay to the Commissioner as duty the amount calculated in
     accordance with section 166 .
     (3)  A person to whom this section applies is taken to have complied
     with this section if the person's duty under this section is
     discharged by another person acting on the person's behalf.
     (4)  The payment of a periodic premium in respect of disability
     income insurance that is continued, but not renewed, on the payment
     of the premium is taken to effect the insurance for the purposes of
     this section.
   169.   Records to be kept
     A person to whom section 168 applies must maintain records that
     contain information as to -
     (a) the nature and location of the property insured; and
     (b) the nature and location of each risk, contingency or event
     insured; and
     (c) the amount of the premiums paid in relation to each contract of
     insurance.
   170.   Refunds where premiums are returned
     (1)  A general insurer or a person to whom section 168 applies is
     entitled to a refund of duty if the general insurer refunds, or
     there is refunded to the person, the whole or a part of a dutiable
     premium in respect of the contract of insurance for which duty has
     been paid.
     (2)  The refund is the duty paid on the amount of the premium
     refunded.
     (3)  A general insurer to whom duty is refunded may apply the amount
     of the refund to offset any other payment required to be made under
     this Chapter by the general insurer.
     PART 2 - Life Insurance
   171.   Imposition of duty
     This Part charges duty on a policy of life insurance.
   172.   What is life insurance?
     (1)  Life insurance is any insurance or assurance in respect of -
     (a) a life or lives; or
     (b) an event or contingency relating to or depending on a life or
     lives -
     of a person whose principal place of residence is, or persons whose
     principal places of residence are, in Tasmania at the time that the
     policy that effects the insurance is issued, but does not include
     insurance against accident.
     (2)  Insurance against accident is any insurance under which payment
     is agreed to be made on the death of a person only from accident or
     violence or otherwise than from a natural cause or as compensation
     for personal injury.
     (3)  A policy of mortgage insurance is a temporary policy of life
     insurance effected by, or on behalf of, a borrower to provide
     insurance in the event of the death of the borrower for the
     repayment of a loan taken out by the borrower.
   173.   Obligation to make out and execute a policy of life insurance
     A life company must, on or before the twenty-first day of each
     month -
     (a) make out and execute a policy of life insurance for each
     contract or agreement for life insurance effected by or on behalf of
     the life company in the preceding month; and
     (b) endorse the policy in the manner approved by the Commissioner.
   174.   What duty is payable?
     (1)  The amount of duty chargeable on a policy of life insurance,
     other than a temporary or term insurance policy, or a mortgage
     insurance policy is  -
     (a) if the sum insured does not exceed $2 000, 10 cents per $200, or
     part, of the sum insured; or
     (b) if the sum insured exceeds $2 000, $1 plus 20 cents per $200, or
     part, of the sum insured that exceeds $2 000.
     (2)  The amount of duty chargeable on a temporary or term insurance
     policy is 5% of the first year's premium on the policy.
     (3)  The amount of duty chargeable on a mortgage insurance policy is
     2% of the premium on the policy.
     (4)  In determining the sum insured by a policy of life insurance,
     any additional amount payable under the policy in the event of the
     insured dying as the result of an accident is to be disregarded.
     (5)  The amount of duty chargeable on an annuity -
     (a) issued, created or sold by a life company; or
     (b) purchased by a person from a life company -
     is $50.
     (6)  For the purposes of subsection (5) a contract is an annuity if
     it satisfies the following requirements:
     (a) the contract provides for the periodic payment of money to the
     annuitant in fee for life or for a specified term of years as an
     annual or more frequent entitlement;
     (b) the periodic payment is a sum certain expressed as a dollar
     amount, but may be varied according to a predetermined formula;
     (c) the periodic payments are not derived from the money paid for
     the contract but are derived solely from the contract and comprise
     income and not the repayment of capital.
   175.   Who is liable to pay the duty?
     The person issuing the policy of life insurance is liable to pay the
     duty, except as provided by section 176 .
   176.   Circumstances in which duty is payable by the insured person
     (1)  This section applies to a person (not being a registered
     insurer) who effects a policy of life insurance as an insured person
     with a person who is not a registered insurer.
     (2)  A person to whom this section applies must, within 21 days
     after the end of the month in which the policy of life insurance was
     effected -
     (a) lodge with the Commissioner a return in the approved form
     containing such particulars and information as the Commissioner may
     require; and
     (b) pay to the Commissioner as duty the amount calculated in
     accordance with section 174 .
     (3)  A person to whom this section applies is taken to have complied
     with this section if the person's duty under this section is
     discharged by another person acting on the person's behalf.
   177.   Refund on cancellation of policy of life insurance
     (1)  If a premium is refunded to a person because the person cancels
     a policy of life insurance within 30 days after receiving the
     policy, a person who has paid duty in respect of the policy is
     entitled to a refund of the duty paid on the amount of the premium
     refunded.
     (2)  A life company that is refunded duty may apply the amount of
     the refund to offset any other payment required to be made by the
     life company under this Chapter.
     PART 3 - How is duty paid by an insurer?
   178.   Who is an insurer?
     (1)  An insurer is -
     (a) a life company that writes life insurance; or
     (b) a general insurer.
     (2)  A general insurer is a person -
     (a) who writes general insurance; and
     (b) who does so otherwise than as an insurance intermediary; and
     (c) who is authorised as a general insurer under the Insurance Act
     1973 of the Commonwealth.
   179.   Insurers must be registered
     An insurer must be registered under this Part.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
   180.   Application for registration
     The Commissioner must register an insurer who applies in the
     approved form for registration under this Part.
   181.   Cancellation of registration by the Commissioner
     (1)  The Commissioner may, by written notice, cancel an insurer's
     registration under this Part -
     (a) if the insurer's authorisation under the Insurance Act 1973 of
     the Commonwealth is terminated; or
     (b) if the insurer is made bankrupt or, being a company, is wound
     up; or
     (c) if the insurer is convicted of an offence under an Act imposing
     duty; or
     (d) if the insurer's registration was made in error or as a
     consequence of a false or misleading statement made in relation to
     the application for registration; or
     (e) if the Commissioner is of the opinion that the insurer has
     ceased to write general insurance in Tasmania; or
     (f) if the insurer ceases to be a life company; or
     (g) for any other reason the Commissioner thinks sufficient.
     (2)  A cancellation of registration has effect from the date
     specified for the purpose by the Commissioner in the notice of
     cancellation.
   182.   Cessation of business and cancellation of registration by the
   insurer
     (1)  A registered insurer who ceases to write insurance business in
     Tasmania must -
     (a) give written notice of that fact to the Commissioner; and
     (b) lodge the return required to be lodged under this Part; and
     (c) pay the duty payable in connection with the return on or before
     the twenty-first day of the month after which the notice is given.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (2)  The notice cancels the insurer's registration under this Part
     on the day on which it is received by the Commissioner.
   183.   Register of insurers
     (1)  The Commissioner must keep a register of the insurers who are
     registered under this Part.
     (2)  Anyone may inspect the register without charge at the
     Commissioner's principal office during the hours that the office is
     open to the public.
   184.   Monthly returns and payment of duty
     A registered insurer must, on or before the twenty-first day of each
     month -
     (a) lodge with the Commissioner a return in the approved form
     showing -
     (i) the total amount of all premiums for general insurance paid to
     the registered insurer in the preceding month other than exempt
     insurance under Part 5 ; and
     (ii) the total duty payable on policies of life insurance (excluding
     temporary or term insurance, mortgage insurance and annuities
     dutiable under section 174(4) ) effected in the preceding month
     other than exempt insurance under Part 5 ; and
     (iii) the total amount of all first year's premiums for temporary or
     term life insurance received by or on behalf of the registered
     insurer in the preceding month other than exempt insurance under
     Part 5 ; and
     (iv) the total amount of all premiums in respect of policies of
     mortgage insurance received by or on behalf of the registered
     insurer in the preceding month other than exempt insurance under
     Part 5 ; and
     (v) the total amount of all annuities effected in the preceding
     month at the nominal $50 rate; and
     (b) pay to the Commissioner as duty the amounts determined in
     accordance with sections 166 and 174 .
   185.   Recovery of duty by registered insurer
     (1)  A registered insurer may require a person by whom a premium is
     payable to the insurer to pay the insurer an amount equal to the
     duty chargeable.
     (2)  The requirement is duly made if it is contained in a written
     request that is given to the person and that specifies the amount of
     the duty.
     (3)  If the amount is not paid, the insurer may recover it as a
     debt.
     PART 4 - Apportionment
     Division 1 - Apportionment of premiums and other amounts between
     Australian jurisdictions
   186.   Application of Division 1
     (1)  This Division applies to a contract of insurance -
     (a) that insures -
     (i) property in Tasmania as well as property in another place; or
     (ii) a risk, contingency or event concerning an act or omission
     that, in the normal course of events, may occur within, or partly
     within, Tasmania as well as within, or partly within, another
     place -
     or both; or
     (b) that insures -
     (i) lives; or
     (ii) any event or contingency relating to or depending on lives -
     or both, of persons whose principal places of residence are
     variously in Tasmania or another place at the time the policy is
     issued.
     (2)  It is the intention of this Division -
     (a) to provide the means for apportioning premiums paid and other
     amounts in relation to a contract of insurance having regard to the
     principle in sections 163 and 172 ; and
     (b) to avoid multiple duty as between Australian jurisdictions; and
     (c) to give Australian jurisdictions their appropriate share of duty
     by means of the apportionment.
   187.   Schedule of Apportionment
     (1)  The Commissioner, from time to time, may adopt a Schedule of
     Apportionment for the purpose of apportioning premiums and other
     amounts in relation to insurance in accordance with this Division.
     (2)  The Schedule of Apportionment may be developed in consultation
     with any person the Commissioner considers suitable.
   188.   Apportionment in practice
     (1)  A premium or an amount is to be apportioned in accordance with
     the Schedule of Apportionment adopted for the time being, except as
     provided by this section.
     (2)  An insurer or an insured person may apply in writing to the
     Commissioner to apportion a premium or an amount on a basis other
     than that provided by the Schedule of Apportionment.
     (3)  The Commissioner may apportion the premium or amount on the
     basis referred to in subsection (2) .
     (4)  In particular, if the Commissioner is not satisfied that a
     premium paid or another amount in relation to a contract of
     insurance has been properly apportioned for each risk insured, the
     Commissioner may determine the apportionment, reassess the liability
     to duty and charge duty accordingly.
     Division 2 - Apportionment of premiums and other amounts as between
     different types of insurance
   189.   Apportionment between different types of insurance
     (1)  This section applies to apportionment between different types
     of insurance that are relevant to determining liability for duty,
     such as general insurance, life insurance and insurance that is
     exempt from duty.
     (2)  This section does not apply to the apportionment of a premium
     or another amount between Tasmania and another place, as provided
     for under Division 1 .
     (3)  If the Commissioner is not satisfied that a premium paid or
     another amount in relation to a contract of insurance that effects
     different types of insurance has been properly apportioned, the
     Commissioner may determine the apportionment, reassess the liability
     to duty and charge duty accordingly.
     PART 5 - Exempt insurance
   190.   What insurance is exempt from duty?
     The following insurances are exempt from duty under this Chapter:
     (a) insurance covering only property of the Crown;
     (b) insurance effected by a separate policy in a distinct sum
     against loss by fire on the tools, implements of work or labour
     owned by any working mechanic, artificer, handcrafter or labourer;
     (c) medical benefits insurance, being insurance effected by a
     contract of insurance that is issued by a private health insurer
     within the meaning of the Private Health Insurance Act 2007 of the
     Commonwealth and that provides hospital benefits or medical benefits
     (or both), whether or not other benefits are also provided;
     (d) insurance required under section 97 of the Workers
     Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 ;
     (e) insurance effected under the Motor Accidents (Liabilities and
     Compensation) Act 1973 ;
     (f) insurance in respect of the hull of a floating vessel used
     primarily for commercial purposes;
     (g) insurance in respect of the freight of goods;
     (h) reinsurance (being a contract or contracts between 2 parties by
     which one party indemnifies the other against liability or payment
     under a contract or contracts of insurance or reinsurance);
     (ha) insurance taken out by a self-insurer, within the meaning of
     the Workers Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 , to indemnify
     himself or herself against liability or payment in relation to
     workers compensation claims;
     (i) insurance taken out by the University of Tasmania;
     (j) insurance taken out by the Commission for the Conservation of
     Antarctic Marine Living Resources;
     (k) insurance taken out by the licensee, proprietor, governors,
     trustee, committee of management or resident manager of a medical
     establishment for or in connection with the purposes of the medical
     establishment;
     (l) a cover note in respect of life insurance in pursuance of which
     a duly stamped policy is issued within 3 months of the date of the
     cover note;
     (m) a policy of life insurance under which the sum insured does not
     exceed $200;
     (n) insurance effected by a separate policy in a distinct sum
     against a claim for public liability;
     (o) insurance in a distinct sum against a claim for public liability
     included in a package of insurance other than in a domestic policy
     covering home or contents or both home and contents.
     PART 6 - Miscellaneous
   191.   Effect on contract of insurance of failure to comply with this
   Chapter
     A failure to comply with this Chapter does not render a contract of
     insurance illegal or invalid.
     Chapter 8 - Motor vehicle registration
     PART 1 - Introduction and overview
   192.   Imposition of duty
     This Chapter charges duty on -
     (a) an application to register a motor vehicle under the Vehicle and
     Traffic Act 1999 if -
     (i) the vehicle has not previously been registered under that Act;
     or
     (ii) the person in whose name the vehicle is to be registered
     differs (or the persons in whose names the motor vehicle is to be
     registered differ) from the person or persons in whose name or names
     the vehicle was last registered; or
     (b) a notice of a change of beneficial ownership of a motor vehicle
     given under the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 .
     (c) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   193.   Lodgment of statement of dutiable value
     (1)  A person who is required by law to make an application to
     register a motor vehicle under the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 or
     give a notice of a change of beneficial ownership must lodge with
     the application for registration or the notice a statement of the
     dutiable value of the vehicle, unless the application or notice is
     not chargeable with duty under this Chapter.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (2)  If -
     (a) under section 204 , a person was, when an application to
     register a motor vehicle was made, not required to pay duty in
     relation to the application to register; and
     (b) the motor vehicle has, under section 204(4) , ceased to be
     exempted under section 204(1) from duty -
     the person must, within 14 days, lodge with the Commissioner a
     statement, in relation to the motor vehicle, of the dutiable value
     of the motor vehicle as at the time the application to register the
     motor vehicle was made.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
   194.   Failure to register or give notice
     If the Commissioner is satisfied that a person has failed to make an
     application to register a motor vehicle, to give a notice in
     relation to the vehicle as required under section 216 , or to give a
     notice of a change of beneficial ownership as required by the
     Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 , the Commissioner may -
     (a) determine the dutiable value of the motor vehicle as at the date
     the person became the owner or operator of the vehicle; and
     (b) assess the duty payable by that person as if an application had
     been lodged or a notice had been given by that person under that
     Act; and
     (c) issue a notice of assessment to that person.
   195.   Who is liable to pay the duty?
     Duty is payable by -
     (a) the applicant for registration of the motor vehicle; or
     (b) in the case of a change in beneficial ownership of a motor
     vehicle, the person acquiring the beneficial ownership; or
     (c) in the case where a reassessment of tax liability is made under
     section 19 of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 in respect of an
     application to register a motor vehicle lodged by a motor dealer or
     a licensed motor vehicle trader, the motor dealer or licensed motor
     vehicle trader.
   196.   When does duty become payable?
     Duty becomes payable on -
     (a) the date on which -
     (i) the motor vehicle is registered or the registration is
     transferred in pursuance of the relevant application; or
     (ii) a notice of a change in beneficial ownership is lodged with the
     Registrar of Motor Vehicles; or
     (ab) the day 14 days after the day, if any, on which the motor
     vehicle has, under section 204(4) , ceased to be exempted under
     section 204(1) from duty; or
     (b) the date specified in a notice of assessment issued under
     section 194 .
   196A.   Effect of failure to pay duty
     A failure to pay duty when it becomes payable under section 196 is a
     tax default for the purposes of the Taxation Administration Act 1997
     .
   197.   What is the rate of duty?
     (1)  The rate of duty is $3 per $100, or part, of the dutiable value
     of the motor vehicle, except as provided by subsections (2) , (3) ,
     (3A) and (3B) .
     (2)  The rate of duty for a motor vehicle that is a passenger
     vehicle is as follows:
     (a) if the dutiable value of the passenger vehicle does not exceed
     $35 000, $3 per $100, or part;
     (b) if the dutiable value of the passenger vehicle exceeds $35 000
     but does not exceed $40 000, $1 050 plus $11 for every $100 or part
     of $100 of the dutiable value of the passenger vehicle that exceeds
     $35 000;
     (c) if the dutiable value of the passenger vehicle exceeds $40 000,
     for every $100 or part of $100 of that dutiable value, $4.
     (3)  The rate of duty applicable to a heavy vehicle the dutiable
     value of which does not exceed $2 000 or to a motor vehicle the
     dutiable value of which does not exceed $600 is $20.
     (3A)  Despite subsection (2) , the rate of duty for a new motor
     vehicle, other than a heavy vehicle, for which a manufacturer's
     fleet discount has been provided is $3.50 per $100, or part, of the
     dutiable value of the new motor vehicle.
     (3B)  The rate of duty for a heavy vehicle is $1.00 per $100, or
     part, of the dutiable value of the heavy vehicle.
     (4)  A passenger vehicle is a motor vehicle, other than a heavy
     vehicle or motor cycle, that is -
     (a) constructed principally for the carriage of passengers; or
     (b) designed principally for the conveyance of not more than 9 adult
     persons, including the driver, and is constructed either on a truck
     chassis or with special features for off-road operation.
     (5)  A passenger vehicle does not include a motor vehicle that -
     (a) has a utility or panel van type body in which the forward part
     of the body form and the greater part of the mechanical equipment
     are the same as those in a passenger vehicle manufactured by the
     manufacturer of the motor vehicle; or
     (b) is constructed for the carriage of passengers and equipped to
     seat more than 9 adult persons, including the driver.
     (6)  A manufacturer's fleet discount in respect of a motor vehicle
     is a discount -
     (a) that is given to the purchaser of the motor vehicle by the
     manufacturer of the motor vehicle; and
     (b) that is deducted from the normal retail price of the motor
     vehicle; and
     (c) that is not available to the general public.
   198.   What is the dutiable value of a motor vehicle?
     (1)  The dutiable value of a registered motor vehicle is -
     (a) the consideration in money or money's worth given for the
     acquisition of the vehicle; or
     (b) the market value of the vehicle at the time of acquisition of
     the vehicle or lodgment of a notice of change of beneficial
     ownership of the vehicle -
     whichever is the greater.
     (1A)  The dutiable value of a new motor vehicle is the consideration
     in money or money's worth given for the acquisition of the motor
     vehicle, if the Commissioner is satisfied that the consideration is
     adequate in relation to the value of that motor vehicle.
     (2)  The dutiable value of a motor vehicle in any other case is -
     (a) the consideration in money or money's worth given for the
     acquisition of the vehicle; or
     (b) the market value of the vehicle at the time of application to
     register the vehicle -
     whichever is the greater.
     (3)  The dutiable value of a motor vehicle does not include -
     (a) a premium paid for extended warranty insurance; or
     (b) the value of any equipment transferred from another vehicle
     registered or previously registered in the name of the applicant
     which it replaces; or
     (c) the value of any independently operated equipment that is
     unrelated to the use of the vehicle for transportation.
     PART 2 - Circumstances in which duty not chargeable
   199.   Exemptions
     (1)  Duty under this Chapter is not chargeable in respect of the
     following:
     (a) an application to register a motor vehicle or a notice of a
     change of beneficial ownership of a motor vehicle made by the
     personal representative of a deceased person to register a motor
     vehicle in the name of a person to whom it is bequeathed in the last
     will of the deceased person or who is beneficially entitled to it
     under the Intestacy Act 2010 ;
     (ab) an application to register a motor vehicle, or a notice of a
     change of beneficial ownership of a motor vehicle, if -
     (i) the application is made, or the notice is given, by an executor
     of the estate of a deceased person, to register a motor vehicle in
     the name of a person to whom it is bequeathed in a will of the
     deceased person; and
     (ii) the executor is specified in the will; and
     (iii) there is a statutory declaration by the executor to the effect
     that, to the best of the executor's knowledge, the will is the last
     will of the deceased person and the executor is an executor
     specified in the will;
     (b) an application to register a motor vehicle or a notice of a
     change of beneficial ownership of a motor vehicle if -
     (i) the person is in the business of financing the purchase or use
     of motor vehicles; and
     (ii) the vehicle was repossessed by, or voluntarily surrendered to,
     the person; and
     (iii) the person, in the course of that business, does not dispose
     of any such vehicles except by public tender or public auction or
     through a motor dealer;
     (c) an application to register a motor vehicle or a notice of a
     change of beneficial ownership of a motor vehicle registered in the
     names of the parties to a marriage or in the name of either of them
     to the extent that the vehicle was, at the time the application was
     made or notice lodged, matrimonial property, if it is proved to the
     satisfaction of the Commissioner that -
     (i) the marriage is dissolved or annulled (whether before or after
     the certificate of registration is issued) or the marriage has
     irretrievably broken down; and
     (ii) the application or notice was made for the purposes of or in
     accordance with an instrument registered or approved under the
     Family Law Act 1975 of the Commonwealth, a financial agreement made
     under section 90B, 90C or 90D of that Act or an order of a court
     under that Act;
     (ca) an application to register a motor vehicle, or a notice of a
     change of beneficial ownership of a motor vehicle registered in the
     names of the parties to a de facto relationship or in the name of
     either of them, to the extent that the vehicle was, at the time the
     application was made or notice lodged, de facto relationship
     property, if it is proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner
     that -
     (i) the de facto relationship has been terminated (whether before or
     after the certificate of registration is issued); and
     (ii) the application or notice was made for the purposes of or in
     accordance with an instrument registered or approved under the
     Family Law Act 1975 of the Commonwealth, a financial agreement made
     under section 90UB, 90UC or 90UD of that Act or an order of a court
     under that Act;
     (d) an application to register a motor vehicle or a notice of a
     change of beneficial ownership of a motor vehicle registered in the
     names of the partners to a personal relationship which has
     terminated or in the name of either of them, to the extent that the
     vehicle was, at the time the application was made or notice lodged,
     relationship property, and it is made for the purpose of or in
     connection with an order under the Relationships Act 2003 ;
     (da) a notice of change of beneficial ownership of a motor vehicle
     if the person who has acquired the beneficial ownership is, or was
     immediately before the acquisition, the registered operator of the
     vehicle under a lease agreement;
     (db) an application to register a motor vehicle, or a notice of
     change of beneficial ownership of a motor vehicle, if -
     (i) the motor vehicle -
     (A) is a light vehicle, within the meaning of the Vehicle and
     Traffic Act 1999 , other than a trailer or agricultural machine; and
     (B) uses one or more electric motors for propulsion; and
     (C) is fuelled from a hydrogen fuel cell, an off-vehicle electrical
     power source, a battery or an electric generator; and
     (D) is not fitted with an internal combustion engine that provides
     either propulsion or a fuel source for an electric propulsion
     system; and
     (ii) the application is made, or notice is lodged -
     (A) on or after 1 July 2021 but before 1 July 2023; or
     (B) on or after 1 July 2023 but before 1 January 2024 and is in
     respect of a new motor vehicle for which the contract of sale was
     entered into before 25 May 2023;
     (e) an application to register a motor vehicle or a notice of change
     of beneficial ownership of a motor vehicle that relates to a motor
     vehicle that is exempt from motor tax under the Vehicle and Traffic
     Act 1999 or the Transport Act 1981 ;
     (ea) the acquisition of a registered motor vehicle by a person who
     is in the bona fide business of motor vehicle wrecking, where the
     Commissioner is satisfied that -
     (i) the acquisition is for the sole purpose of wrecking the motor
     vehicle in the course of that business; and
     (ii) the motor vehicle will never be re-registered;
     (f) an application for transfer of registration of a motor vehicle
     made by a shareholder to register the motor vehicle in the name of
     the shareholder if -
     (i) the transfer is in the course of a distribution of assets of a
     company because of the winding-up or deregistration of the company;
     and
     (ii) the distribution is in accordance with the shareholder's
     entitlement in the undistributed assets of the company immediately
     before the application to transfer;
     (g) an application to register a trailer, or a notice of change of
     beneficial ownership of a trailer, if the trailer is constructed
     principally for use as a dwelling.
     (1A)  In subsection (1)(da)  -
     lease agreement means an agreement by which a right to use a motor
     vehicle at any time and for any purpose is conferred on or acquired
     by a person.
     (2)  Subsection (1)(f) does not apply to a distribution to a
     shareholder who was not a shareholder for at least 12 months
     immediately prior to the notice of appointment of liquidator being
     lodged under section 537 of the Corporations Act.
   200.   Avoidance of double duty - duty paid in a corresponding
   Australian jurisdiction
     Duty is not chargeable in respect of an application to register a
     motor vehicle in Tasmania if -
     (a) at the time the application was made, the motor vehicle is or
     was registered by the person making the application under the law of
     an Australian jurisdiction that corresponds to the Vehicle and
     Traffic Act 1999 ; and
     (b) duty was paid in that jurisdiction in respect of the
     registration.
   201.   No change in beneficial ownership
     No duty is chargeable in respect of an application to register a
     motor vehicle where -
     (a) the Commissioner is satisfied there is no change in beneficial
     ownership and that duty has been previously paid on an application
     to register the motor vehicle by or on behalf of the beneficial
     owner of the vehicle in this or a corresponding Australian
     jurisdiction; or
     (b) in prescribed circumstances.
   202.   Reassessment of duty - repossession of stolen motor vehicle
     (1)  Duty is not chargeable on an application for registration of a
     motor vehicle that has been repossessed from a person because,
     before the person acquired it, it had been stolen.
     (2)  If requested by a person who has paid duty on an application
     for registration to which subsection (1) applies, the Commissioner
     must assess or reassess the duty accordingly.
   203.   Refund if contract, arrangement or agreement cancelled
     The Commissioner, on application by a person who paid duty in
     respect of the registration of a motor vehicle, the transfer of
     registration of a motor vehicle or a notice of a change of
     beneficial ownership may refund to the person the duty paid if the
     person cancelled any contract, arrangement or agreement under which
     that motor vehicle was acquired within 3 months of the acquisition.
     PART 3 - Trading stock, demonstrator vehicles and courtesy vehicles
   203A.   Interpretation of Part 3
     (1)  For the purposes of this Part, a motor vehicle is used as a
     demonstrator vehicle if -
     (a) the motor vehicle is available for prospective purchasers of a
     motor vehicle of the same make to test drive; and
     (b) it is used in accordance with paragraph (a) and is not otherwise
     used except -
     (i) as a courtesy vehicle; or
     (ii) for the display of an advertisement on the relevant motor
     vehicle if the advertisement relates solely to a motor dealing
     business of the person registering or transferring the registration
     of the motor vehicle; or
     (iii) by sales staff (being persons whose job involves the sale of
     that make of motor vehicle) in order to familiarise themselves with
     the motor vehicle; or
     (iv) for sale after it has been used as a demonstrator vehicle.
     (2)  For the purposes of this Part, a motor vehicle is used as a
     courtesy vehicle if -
     (a) the motor vehicle is lent or available to be lent without charge
     to customers of the person registering or transferring the
     registration of the motor vehicle while the motor vehicles of those
     customers are being serviced or repaired; and
     (b) it is used in accordance with paragraph (a) and is not otherwise
     used except -
     (i) as a demonstrator vehicle; or
     (ii) for the display of an advertisement on the relevant motor
     vehicle if the advertisement relates solely to a motor dealing
     business of the person registering or transferring the registration
     of the motor vehicle; or
     (iii) by sales staff (being persons whose job involves the sale of
     that make of motor vehicle) in order to familiarise themselves with
     the motor vehicle; or
     (iv) for sale after it has been used as a courtesy vehicle.
     (3)  For the purposes of this Part, a motor vehicle is not to be
     taken to be used for a use other than the use for which it was
     acquired by reason only that the person who acquired the motor
     vehicle lends the motor vehicle to a charity that uses it for
     charitable purposes.
     (4)  In subsection (3)  -
     charitable purpose means any purpose that in the opinion of the
     Commissioner is charitable;
     charity means an institution that is a religious, scientific,
     charitable or public educational institution exempted by or under
     the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 of the Commonwealth from the
     payment of income tax under that Act.
   204.   Exemptions for motor dealers and traders
     (1)  Duty under this Chapter is not payable by -
     (a) a licensed motor vehicle trader in respect of an application to
     register a motor vehicle; or
     (b) a motor dealer in respect of an application to register a motor
     vehicle that is of a type specified in an exemption certificate held
     by the motor dealer -
     if the motor vehicle is acquired for an exempted use under
     subsection (2) , an appropriate record is made under subsection (3)
     in relation to the motor vehicle and the motor vehicle has not,
     under subsection (4) , ceased to be exempted under this subsection
     from duty.
     (2)  A motor vehicle is acquired for an exempted use if the motor
     vehicle -
     (a) is a new motor vehicle and it is acquired for use as a
     demonstrator vehicle or as a courtesy vehicle, or for use both as a
     demonstrator vehicle and as a courtesy vehicle; or
     (b) is a used motor vehicle and it is acquired for resale in the
     ordinary course of business; or
     (c) is acquired, by the holder of an exemption certificate, or by a
     licensed motor vehicle trader who is a wholesaler, for sale to -
     (i) other holders of exemption certificates; or
     (ii) other licensed motor vehicle traders; or
     (iii) motor dealers in other States or in Territories.
     (3)  An appropriate record is made in relation to a motor vehicle if
     the holder of the exemption certificate or the licensed motor
     vehicle trader records the unique identifying number of the
     exemption certificate or motor vehicle trader licence on the
     application to register the motor vehicle.
     (4)  A motor vehicle ceases to be exempted under subsection (1) from
     duty if -
     (a) the motor vehicle is a new motor vehicle, it was acquired for
     use as a demonstrator vehicle or as a courtesy vehicle (or both)
     and -
     (i) it is used for another use; or
     (ii) within 12 months after it is registered under the Vehicle and
     Traffic Act 1999 it has, by the odometer, travelled a distance of
     more than 15 000 kilometres since the day it was registered; or
     (b) it is not sold within 12 months after it is registered under the
     Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 or a longer period specified by the
     Commissioner in a determination under subsection (6) in relation to
     the motor vehicle; or
     (c) the motor vehicle is a used motor vehicle, it is acquired for
     resale in the ordinary course of business and it is used for a use
     other than resale; or
     (d) the motor vehicle is acquired, by the holder of an exemption
     certificate, or by a licensed motor vehicle trader who is a
     wholesaler, for sale to -
     (i) other holders of exemption certificates; or
     (ii) other licensed motor vehicle traders; or
     (iii) motor dealers in other States or in Territories -
     and it is used for a use other than for such a sale.
     (5)  A holder of an exemption certificate or a licensed motor
     vehicle trader may, before the end of the period of 12 months after
     a motor vehicle is registered under the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999
     , apply to the Commissioner for a determination that a real attempt
     to sell the vehicle has been made.
     (6)  If the Commissioner receives an application under
     subsection (5) in relation to a motor vehicle, the Commissioner may
     determine -
     (a) that a real attempt to sell the motor vehicle has been made; and
     (b) a period in which, if the motor vehicle is sold within the
     period, subsection (4)(b) is to be taken not to apply in relation to
     the motor vehicle.
   205.   Application for exemption certificate
     (1)  A motor dealer may apply to the Commissioner for a certificate
     certifying that the dealer is exempt from paying duty under this Act
     in respect of specified types of motor vehicles.
     (2)  An application is to be -
     (a) in an approved form; and
     (b) accompanied by the prescribed fee.
     (3)  The Commissioner may require an applicant to provide any
     further information the Commissioner considers necessary to decide
     the application.
   206.   Grant or refusal of application
     (1)  The Commissioner may -
     (a) grant the application for an exemption certificate in full or in
     part and subject to any conditions the Commissioner considers
     appropriate; or
     (b) refuse to grant the application.
     (2)  The Commissioner may grant an application for an exemption
     certificate only if satisfied that the applicant -
     (a) is a motor dealer; and
     (ab) is not a licensed motor vehicle trader and is not dealing in
     motor vehicles within the meaning of the Motor Vehicle Traders Act
     2011 ; and
     (b) has complied with any applicable provision of the Second-hand
     Dealers and Pawnbrokers Act 1994 ; and
     (c) is not prohibited from carrying on business as a second-hand
     dealer under that Act; and
     (d) has obtained any relevant approvals from the relevant council;
     and
     (e) operates or intends to operate as a motor dealer on a continuing
     basis; and
     (f) is not acting on behalf of another person who is not eligible to
     hold the certificate.
     (3)  If the Commissioner refuses to grant the application, the
     Commissioner, by notice in writing, is to advise the applicant of -
     (a) the refusal to grant the application; and
     (b) the reasons for that refusal; and
     (c) the right of the applicant to object to the Commissioner's
     decision under the Taxation Administration Act 1997 .
   207.   Form of exemption certificate
     An exemption certificate is to -
     (a) be in an approved form; and
     (b) be issued in the name of the person carrying on the business;
     and
     (c) specify the type of motor vehicle to which it relates; and
     (d) specify the conditions to which it is subject; and
     (e) specify the purpose for which it was acquired; and
     (f) specify the expiry date of the certificate; and
     (g) include a unique identifying number.
   208.   Period of exemption certificate
     An exemption certificate is in force for a period, not exceeding 12
     months, as specified in the certificate.
   209.   Notification of changes
     (1)  The holder of an exemption certificate must notify the
     Commissioner -
     (a) of any change of address; and
     (b) if the holder ceases to carry on the business of dealing in
     motor vehicles; and
     (c) if the holder is prohibited from carrying on that business under
     any other Act.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (2)  The holder of the exemption certificate must forward the
     certificate to the Commissioner for endorsement as soon as
     practicable after an event referred to in subsection (1) occurs.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
   210.   Renewal of exemption certificate
     (1)  The holder of an exemption certificate may apply to the
     Commissioner for renewal of the certificate.
     (2)  An application for renewal is to be -
     (a) in an approved form; and
     (b) accompanied by the prescribed fee; and
     (c) lodged no later than 2 months before the expiry of the
     certificate.
     (3)  If a holder fails to make an application within the period
     specified in subsection (2)(c) or within any other period the
     Commissioner may allow -
     (a) the exemption certificate is taken to be cancelled as at its
     expiry date; and
     (b) the Commissioner, by written notice, is to advise the Registrar
     of Motor Vehicles of the cancellation; and
     (c) the holder must forward the exemption certificate to the
     Commissioner within 14 days after that expiry date.
   211.   Grant or refusal of renewal of application
     (1)  The Commissioner may -
     (a) grant an application for the renewal of an exemption certificate
     subject to any conditions the Commissioner considers appropriate; or
     (b) refuse to grant the application for renewal if not so satisfied.
     (2)  The Commissioner may grant the application for renewal only if
     satisfied as to the matters specified in section 206(2) .
     (3)  If the Commissioner refuses to grant the application for
     renewal, the Commissioner, by notice in writing, is to -
     (a) advise the holder of the exemption certificate of -
     (i) the refusal to grant the application for renewal; and
     (ii) the reasons for that refusal; and
     (iii) the right of the holder to object to the Commissioner's
     decision under the Taxation Administration Act 1997 ; and
     (b) advise the Registrar of Motor Vehicles of the refusal to grant
     that application.
   212.   Suspension and cancellation of exemption certificate
     (1)  The Commissioner may cancel an exemption certificate if
     satisfied that the holder -
     (a) has ceased to be a motor dealer; or
     (b) is prohibited from carrying on the business of a motor dealer
     under any other Act; or
     (c) has not complied with any condition of the exemption certificate
     or any provision of this Chapter, the consequences of which, in the
     opinion of the Commissioner, justify the cancellation; or
     (d) has used or attempted to use the certificate to obtain an
     exemption that is not available; or
     (e) is a licensed motor vehicle trader or is dealing in motor
     vehicles within the meaning of the Motor Vehicle Traders Act 2011 .
     (2)  The Commissioner may suspend an exemption certificate for a
     specified period if satisfied that the holder has not complied with
     any condition of the exemption certificate or any provision of this
     Act.
     (3)  The Commissioner, by written notice, is to advise the holder of
     an exemption certificate and the Registrar of Motor Vehicles of any
     suspension or cancellation.
     (4)  On receipt of the notice, the holder must forward the exemption
     certificate to the Commissioner within 14 days after the receipt.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (5)  Duty is payable in relation to any vehicle acquired through the
     use of an exemption certificate which has been cancelled under this
     section or taken to be cancelled under section 210(3)(a) if the
     former holder of that certificate of exemption has not disposed of
     the vehicle within 3 months of the date of cancellation or any
     longer period the Commissioner may allow.
   213.   Continuing use of exemption certificate
     The holder of an exemption certificate who makes an application for
     renewal under section 210 before the certificate expires continues
     to be exempted from paying duty in respect of the types of vehicles
     specified in the certificate until whichever of the following occurs
     first:
     (a) the end of a period of 3 months, or any further period the
     Commissioner determines, after that expiry;
     (b) if the application is refused before that expiry, the date of
     the refusal.
   214.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   215.   Improperly obtaining exemption
     A person must not use, or attempt to use, an exemption certificate,
     or a motor vehicle trader licence, to obtain an exemption in
     relation to a motor vehicle if the vehicle is not a vehicle that is
     acquired for an exempted use within the meaning of section 204(2) .
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
   216.   Notification if exemption ceases to apply in relation to motor
   vehicle
     (1)  The holder of an exemption certificate or a licensed motor
     vehicle trader must notify the Commissioner within 14 days if a
     motor vehicle, acquired by the holder or trader, becomes a motor
     vehicle that has ceased under section 204(4) to be exempted under
     section 204(1) from duty.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (2)  A notification is to be -
     (a) in a form approved by the Commissioner; and
     (b) lodged with the Commissioner.
     (3)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (4)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   217.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   218.   Record of exemption certificates
     The Commissioner is to -
     (a) keep records of all certificates of exemption granted or renewed
     under this Part; and
     (b) make a summary of those records available for public inspection
     during normal business hours.
     Chapter 9 - Miscellaneous duties
     PART 1 - Duplicates and replicas
   219.   Duplicates or counterparts
     (1)  Subject to subsection (2) , no duty is chargeable on a
     duplicate or counterpart of an instrument that effects a dutiable
     transaction.
     (2)  A duplicate or counterpart of an instrument that effects a
     dutiable transaction is not to be stamped as a duplicate or
     counterpart unless the proper duty has been paid on that instrument.
     (3)  If the proper duty has not been paid on the instrument referred
     to in subsection (1) , the person liable to pay the duty is the
     person liable to pay the duty on that instrument.
   220.   Replicas
     (1)  Duty of $50 is chargeable on a replica.
     (2)  The persons liable to pay the duty are the parties to the
     replica or any one or more of them.
     (3)  A replica that is duly stamped is to be marked in such manner
     as the Commissioner thinks fit to denote that it is a replica.
     (4)  In this section,
     replica means an instrument that -
     (a) is executed to replace; and
     (b) contains the same terms as, but no other terms than, those
     contained in -
     a previously executed instrument that has been lost, spoiled or
     destroyed and that, in the Commissioner's opinion, has been duly
     stamped.
     PART 2 - Miscellaneous duties
   221.   Motor accident premium certificates
     (1)  A certificate or other document issued for the purpose of the
     Motor Accidents (Liabilities and Compensation) Act 1973 that
     acknowledges the receipt of a premium paid under that Act in respect
     of a motor vehicle is a certificate of premium paid notwithstanding
     that it is also issued for other purposes.
     (2)  Duty is chargeable on a certificate of premium paid.
     (3)  The amount of duty payable for a certificate of premium paid
     is -
     (a) $20, if the certificate of premium paid is issued in respect
     of -
     (i) the registration of a vehicle for a period of 12 months; or
     (ii) a short term unregistered vehicle permit issued under the
     Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 ; or
     (b) if the certificate of premium paid is issued in respect of the
     registration of a vehicle for a period of less than 12 months (the
     registration period), the following amount:
   graphic image
     where -
     A is the duty payable for the certificate of premium paid;
     B is the number of days in the registration period;
     C is the number of days in the 12-month period that commences on the
     day on which the registration period commences;
     D is $20.
     (3A)  The person liable to pay the duty in respect of a certificate
     of premium paid issued in respect of a motor vehicle is the
     registered operator, of that vehicle, within the meaning of the
     Motor Accidents (Liabilities and Compensation) Act 1973 .
     (4)  The amount of duty payable must be denoted on the certificate
     of premium paid.
     (5)  A certificate of premium paid is not duly stamped until the
     duty in respect of the certificate has been paid.
     (6)  The Motor Accidents Insurance Board or its agent is to -
     (a) furnish to the Commissioner any returns required with regard to
     the certificates of premium paid issued; and
     (b) pay duty received in respect of certificates of premium paid to
     the Commissioner in any manner and at any time notified by the
     Commissioner.
   222.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   223.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   224.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Chapter 10 - General exemptions from duty
     PART 1 - Intergenerational rural transfers
   225.   Intergenerational rural transfers
     (1)  Duty under this Act is not chargeable on a transfer of an
     interest in real property, whether for consideration or not, and
     which includes personal property used solely or principally in
     connection with the business of primary production, to the extent
     that the Commissioner is satisfied that the transfer of the
     interest -
     (a) relates to land that -
     (i) is currently used, and which will continue to be used, in the
     business of primary production; and
     (ii) is primary production land within the meaning of section 7 of
     the Land Tax Act 2000 ; and
     (b) does not arise from any arrangement or scheme devised to evade
     the payment of duty by taking the benefit of this exemption; and
     (c) is from -
     (i) a natural person to a relative of the person or to a trustee of
     a trust in which all the beneficiaries are individually named and
     are relatives of the person at the time of the transfer and may not
     be varied other than by the addition of a relative individually
     named in any deed of variation; or
     (ii) a company to a trustee of a trust in which all the
     beneficiaries are individually named and are relatives of all the
     shareholders of the company at the time of the transfer and may not
     be varied other than by the addition of a relative individually
     named in a deed of variation; or
     (iia) a natural person to a company (other than as trustee) of which
     all the shareholders are relatives of the person at the time of the
     transfer; or
     (iii) a company to a natural person and all the shareholders of the
     company are relatives of the person; or
     (iiia) a company (other than as a trustee) to another company (other
     than as trustee) of which all the shareholders are relatives of all
     the shareholders of the first-mentioned company; or
     (iv) a trustee of a trust to a person who is a relative of all those
     named beneficiaries of the trust who are natural persons; or
     (v) a trustee of a trust to a trustee of another trust of which all
     the beneficiaries are individually named and relatives at the time
     of the transfer of all those named beneficiaries of the
     first-mentioned trust who are natural persons and of which the
     beneficiaries may not be varied other than by the addition of a
     relative individually named in a deed of variation; or
     (vi) a trustee of a trust to a company (other than as trustee) of
     which all the shareholders are relatives, at the time of the
     transfer, of all those named beneficiaries of the trust who are
     natural persons.
     (2)  Duty is not chargeable under Chapter 3 on a relevant
     acquisition, within the meaning of section 65 , of an interest in a
     farming company to the extent of the unencumbered value of the
     company's farming property, if the interest is transferred from a
     person specified in a subparagraph of subsection (1)(c) to a person
     specified in the same subparagraph.
     (3)  A relative of a person is -
     (a) a lineal descendant of the person; or
     (b) an adopted child, a natural child or a step-child of the person;
     or
     (ba) a surrogate child of the person; or
     (c) a lineal ancestor of the person; or
     (d) a brother, sister, nephew, niece, aunt or uncle of the person;
     or
     (e) the spouse or caring partner of the person or of a person
     referred to in paragraph (a) , (b) , (ba) , (c) or (d) ; or
     (f) an adopted child, natural child, step-child or surrogate child
     of a person referred to in paragraph (a) , (b) , (ba) , (c) , (d) or
     (e) or the spouse or caring partner of that child.
     (4)  For the purposes of this section -
     (a) a reference to a relative of a person is to be taken to include
     a reference to the person himself or herself; and
     (b) a transfer from a deceased estate may be taken to be a transfer
     from the deceased person; and
     (c) the death of a person does not alter the relationship between
     that person and any other person.
   226.   Subsequent liability for duty in certain circumstances
     (1)  If the Commissioner, after being satisfied as required under
     section 225 , becomes aware that a transfer of an interest in real
     property in respect of which duty was not chargeable under that
     section was not a transfer of an interest referred to in that
     section, the Commissioner may assess that transfer for the duty that
     would otherwise be payable.
     (2)  Duty is chargeable on a transfer referred to in section 225 if
     any of the following occurs:
     (a) a person who is not a relative of the transferor -
     (i) becomes entitled to a share or interest in the trust, whether
     that share or interest is vested or contingent; or
     (ii) otherwise benefits from the trust;
     (b) the transferor gains control of the trust.
     (3)  The transferee must lodge with the Commissioner a statement in
     an approved form within one month after any event referred to in
     subsection (2) occurs and pay the duty that would be assessed in
     respect of that transaction.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (4)  Section 19(3) of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 does not
     apply to this section.
     PART 1A - Corporate Reconstruction Transactions and Corporate
     Consolidation Transactions
   226A.   Interpretation of Part 1A
     (1)  In this Part -
     corporate consolidation transaction has the meaning given by
     section 226D ;
     corporate group has the meaning given by section 226B ;
     corporate reconstruction transaction has the meaning given by
     section 226C ;
     corporation includes a unit trust scheme;
     security, of a corporation, means -
     (a) in the case of a corporation other than a unit trust scheme, an
     issued share of the corporation; or
     (b) in the case of a unit trust scheme, a unit issued under the
     scheme.
     (2)  A reference in this Part to anything done by or held by a unit
     trust scheme (including any voting control held by a unit trust
     scheme) includes a reference to anything done by or held by -
     (a) a trustee of the unit trust scheme in its capacity as a trustee;
     and
     (b) a custodian of a trustee of the unit trust scheme in its
     capacity as a custodian; and
     (c) a sub-custodian of a custodian of a trustee of the unit trust
     scheme in its capacity as a sub-custodian.
   226B.   Meaning of corporate group
     (1)  For the purposes of this Part, a corporate group consists of a
     parent corporation and its subsidiaries.
     (2)  A corporation is the parent corporation of another corporation
     (which is the subsidiary of the first corporation) if the first
     corporation, directly or indirectly -
     (a) holds at least 90% of the securities of the other corporation;
     and
     (b) holds voting control over the other corporation.
     (3)  The first corporation holds voting control over the other
     corporation if the first corporation has the ability to cast, or
     control the casting of, at least 90% of the maximum number of votes
     that may be cast at a general meeting of that corporation (other
     than votes to which a person is entitled under the provisions of a
     debenture or of a trust deed that secures the issue of a debenture).
     (4)  The corporate group for a corporation, all of the securities of
     which cannot be traded except as a single security with the
     securities of one or more other corporations, includes all of those
     other corporations and their subsidiaries.
     (5)  A corporation that is a unit trust scheme is taken to be a
     member of a corporate group for the purposes of a corporate
     reconstruction transaction if the transaction is between the trustee
     of the unit trust scheme, acting as trustee of the scheme, and
     another corporation that is a member of the same corporate group as
     the unit trust scheme.
     (6)  A corporation is not a member of a corporate group for the
     purposes of a corporate reconstruction transaction if the
     corporation is acting in the capacity of trustee of -
     (a) a unit trust scheme that is not a member of the same corporate
     group as the other party to the transaction; or
     (b) a discretionary trust; or
     (c) a trust (not being a unit trust scheme) for any person who is
     not a member of the corporate group.
   226C.   Meaning of corporate reconstruction transaction
     (1)  For the purposes of this Part, a corporate reconstruction
     transaction means -
     (a) a transfer of dutiable property between corporations that are
     members of the same corporate group; or
     (b) a surrender of an interest in land by a corporation to a
     corporation that is a member of the same corporate group; or
     (c) a vesting of dutiable property if the dutiable property was
     held, immediately before the vesting, and continues to be held,
     immediately after the vesting, by corporations that are members of
     the same corporate group; or
     (d) an acquisition of an interest in a landholder, within the
     meaning of Chapter 3 , by a corporation if the interest is acquired
     from another corporation that is a member of the same corporate
     group; or
     (e) an application, under the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 , to
     register a motor vehicle as a result of a transfer of the vehicle
     between corporations that are members of the same corporate group;
     or
     (f) a notice, under the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 , of a change
     of beneficial ownership of a motor vehicle between corporations that
     are members of the same corporate group.
     (2)  A corporate reconstruction transaction is taken not to be a
     corporate reconstruction transaction if the members of the relevant
     corporate group involved in the transaction were not members of the
     group -
     (a) for a period of at least 12 months before the day on which the
     corporate reconstruction transaction occurred; or
     (b) in the case of a company that has been incorporated for less
     than 12 months, since incorporation; or
     (c) in the case of a unit trust scheme that has been established for
     less than 12 months, since the establishment of the unit trust
     scheme.
     (3)  Despite subsection (2) , a corporate reconstruction transaction
     that would, under that subsection, be taken not to be a corporate
     reconstruction transaction continues to be a corporate
     reconstruction transaction if, in the case of the acquisition of a
     company, the company -
     (a) was acquired by one or more members of the group from a person
     that, in the ordinary course of business, registers shelf companies
     for the purposes of selling them; and
     (b) did not derive any business income or incur any business
     expenses during the period commencing on incorporation and ending on
     the acquisition; and
     (c) remains a member of the group.
     (4)  A transaction of a kind referred to in subsection (1)(a) , (b)
     , (c) , (d) , (e) or (f) is taken not to be a corporate
     reconstruction transaction unless the Commissioner is satisfied that
     the members of the relevant corporate group that are involved in the
     transaction are likely to satisfy the requirements of
     section 226H(1)(a) .
   226D.   Meaning of corporate consolidation transaction
     (1)  For the purposes of this Part, a corporate consolidation
     transaction means an acquisition of an interest in a landholder,
     within the meaning of Chapter 3 , that -
     (a) is made for the purpose of interposing a corporation (the head
     corporation) between another corporation (the affected corporation)
     and the holders of the affected corporation's securities; and
     (b) is a transfer or acquisition of securities of -
     (i) the affected corporation by the head corporation for which the
     only consideration given by the head corporation is the issue or
     transfer of its securities to the person from whom the affected
     corporation's securities were transferred or acquired; or
     (ii) the head corporation by a holder of securities of the affected
     corporation.
     (2)  An acquisition of an interest in a landholder is taken not to
     be a corporate consolidation transaction if, immediately before the
     acquisition occurred, the head corporation held any -
     (a) dutiable property; or
     (b) motor vehicle; or
     (c) interest in a corporation.
     (3)  An acquisition of an interest in a landholder is taken not to
     be a corporate consolidation transaction unless, immediately after
     the issue or transfer of the head corporation's securities -
     (a) each person who holds those securities (a security holder) is a
     person who held securities of the affected corporation immediately
     before the securities of the affected corporation were transferred
     to or acquired by the head corporation; and
     (b) the proportion of those securities held by each security holder
     is the same as the proportion of the securities of the affected
     corporation held by each security holder before the issue or
     transfer.
     (4)  An acquisition of an interest in a landholder is taken not to
     be a corporate consolidation transaction if the members of the
     relevant corporate group involved in the transaction were not
     members of the group -
     (a) for a period of at least 12 months before the day on which the
     transaction in respect of which the exemption was sought occurred;
     or
     (b) in the case of a company that has been incorporated for less
     than 12 months, since incorporation; or
     (c) in the case of a unit trust scheme that has been established for
     less than 12 months, since the establishment of the unit trust
     scheme.
     (5)  Despite subsection (4) , a corporate consolidation transaction
     that would, under that subsection, be taken not to be a corporate
     consolidation transaction continues to be a corporate consolidation
     transaction if, in the case of the acquisition of a company, the
     company -
     (a) was acquired by one or more members of the group from a person
     that, in the ordinary course of business, registers shelf companies
     for the purposes of selling them; and
     (b) did not derive any business income or incur any business
     expenses during the period commencing on incorporation and ending on
     the acquisition; and
     (c) remains a member of the group.
     (6)  An acquisition of an interest in a landholder is taken not to
     be a corporate consolidation transaction unless the Commissioner is
     satisfied that the members of the relevant corporate group that are
     involved in the transaction are likely to satisfy the requirements
     of section 226H(1)(a) .
   226E.   Exemptions for corporate reconstruction transaction and
   corporate consolidation transaction
     (1)  Duty under this Act is not chargeable on a transaction if the
     Commissioner is satisfied, on application by a party to the
     transaction, that -
     (a) the transaction is a corporate reconstruction transaction or a
     corporate consolidation transaction; and
     (b) the transaction, or the series of transactions of which the
     transaction is a part, is undertaken for the purpose of either or
     both of the following:
     (i) changing the structure of a corporate group;
     (ii) changing the holding of assets within a corporate group; and
     (c) the transaction, or the series of transactions of which the
     transaction is a part -
     (i) is not undertaken for a purpose of avoiding or reducing duty
     under this Act on another transaction; and
     (ii) is not undertaken for the sole or dominant purpose of avoiding
     or reducing a liability for tax, other than duty under this Act,
     under a law of an Australian jurisdiction.
     (2)  In this section -
     transaction means -
     (a) a transfer of dutiable property; or
     (b) a surrender of an interest in land; or
     (c) a vesting of dutiable property; or
     (d) an acquisition of an interest in a landholder, within the
     meaning of Chapter 3 ; or
     (e) an application, under the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 , to
     register a motor vehicle; or
     (f) a notice, under the Vehicle and Traffic Act 1999 , of a change
     of the beneficial ownership of a motor vehicle.
   226F.   Applications for exemptions
     (1)  An application for an exemption from duty for a corporate
     reconstruction transaction or a corporate consolidation transaction
     is to be made to the Commissioner -
     (a) in the approved form; and
     (b) not before the date of the transaction.
     (2)  The Commissioner may grant an exemption with or without
     conditions.
     (3)  The Commissioner must reassess any duty payable on a
     transaction if an exemption is granted.
   226G.   Refund provisions
     If an exemption from duty for a corporate reconstruction
     transaction, or a corporate consolidation transaction, is granted
     under section 226F , the Commissioner must refund any amount of duty
     paid that exceeds the amount of the duty payable after taking into
     account the exemption.
   226H.   Revocation of exemption
     (1)  The Commissioner may revoke an exemption granted under this
     Part in relation to a transaction if -
     (a) any member of the relevant corporate group involved in the
     transaction in respect of which the exemption was granted does not
     remain a member of the group for a period of at least 12 months
     commencing immediately after the day on which the transaction
     occurred; or
     (b) the exemption was granted based on false or misleading
     information provided to the Commissioner by the corporate group or a
     member of the group.
     (2)  Subsection (1)(a) does not apply if the Commissioner is
     satisfied that a member of the relevant corporate group involved in
     the transaction (being a transaction within the meaning of
     section 226E ) in respect of which the exemption was granted ceases
     to be a member of the group by virtue of -
     (a) a public float that occurred within 12 months after the day on
     which the transaction occurred; or
     (b) the shares or units of the member being unstapled (so that the
     shares or units may be traded separately from the shares or units in
     any of the shares or units of the other members) to enable the
     member's liquidation, deregistration, dissolution or, in the case of
     a unit trust scheme, winding-up; or
     (c) its liquidation, deregistration or, in the case of a unit trust
     scheme, winding-up.
     (3)  The Commissioner must assess the duty payable on a corporate
     reconstruction transaction, or corporate consolidation transaction,
     for which an exemption is revoked.
     (4)  Each member (at the date of the transaction) of the corporate
     group to which the transaction relates is jointly and severally
     liable to pay the duty chargeable on the transaction.
     (5)  In this section -
     public float means a share float or an offer of units to create a
     public unit trust scheme -
     (a) the shares or units of which are quoted on the ASX or a
     recognised stock exchange and are offered to the public generally;
     and
     (b) of which the issue of the shares or units to the public does not
     give any person and their related persons (other than the corporate
     entity that floated the shares or units) a combined beneficial
     interest in the floated entity greater than 20%; and
     (c) that is not part of a scheme for the purpose of minimising duty
     otherwise payable under this Act.
     PART 2 - Miscellaneous exemptions
   227.   Miscellaneous exemptions
     (1)  Duty is not chargeable in respect of the following:
     (a) any instrument made by the Department responsible for the
     administration of the Health Service Establishments Act 2006 in
     respect of the grant, purchase, transfer, mortgage or lease of any
     land if duty on that instrument would otherwise be payable by that
     Department;
     (b) any instrument made in respect of the mortgage or lease of any
     land by, to, or with the licensee, proprietor, governors, trustees,
     committee of management, or resident manager of a medical
     establishment not for or in connection with the acquisition of a
     medical establishment if duty on that instrument would otherwise be
     payable by that medical establishment;
     (c) any instrument made by, to, or with the University of Tasmania
     in respect of the grant, purchase, conveyance, transfer, mortgage,
     or lease of any land if duty on that instrument would otherwise be
     payable by the University of Tasmania;
     (d) any instrument on which duty would otherwise be payable by a
     person constituted, established or appointed under an Act or under
     the Royal prerogative to administer or control any department,
     business, undertaking or public institution on behalf of the State
     who is exempted by proclamation from the payment of all duties under
     this Act;
     (e) any instrument in respect of loans made for the purpose of the
     Farm Water Development Act 1985 ;
     (f) any instrument in respect of loans made for the purpose of the
     King and Flinders Islands (Power) Financial Assistance Act 1984 ;
     (g) any instrument in respect of financial assistance made for the
     purpose of the Rural Adjustment Act 1995 ;
     (h) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (i) any agreement made under section 17(2) of the Forest Practices
     Act 1985 ;
     (ia) any agreement entered into under Part 5 of the Land Use
     Planning and Approvals Act 1993 ;
     (j) any instrument effecting a purchase of a replacement property or
     any mortgage in respect of that property to replace affected
     property purchased by the Crown under section 10(1) of the Rosetta
     Landslip Act 1992 provided that the agreement to purchase the
     replacement property is entered into within a period of 12 months
     immediately after the purchase of that affected property by the
     Crown;
     (ja) a duplicate instrument required under the Land Titles Act 1980
     , if the original instrument or a copy of the original instrument
     has been duly stamped;
     (k) any permit, licence, pipeline licence or access authority within
     the meaning of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1982 , any
     instrument effecting the transfer of such a licence or authority or
     any instrument relating to any legal or equitable interest in such a
     licence or authority;
     (l) any instrument for effecting a surrender of any land to the
     Crown.
     (2)  A person who is liable to pay duty in respect of any instrument
     or transaction is exempted from the payment of the duty if -
     (a) the instrument or transaction relates to any action, matter or
     proceeding in respect of which legal aid is provided under section
     51 of the Legal Aid Commission Act 1990 ; and
     (b) the person was eligible to receive legal assistance under such a
     scheme.
   227A.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   227B.   Instruments issued for purpose of creating, issuing or
   marketing mortgage-backed securities
     Duty under this Act is not chargeable on an instrument that, in the
     opinion of the Commissioner, was executed for the purpose of
     creating, issuing or marketing mortgage-backed securities.
   227C.   Loan-backed securities
     (1)  Duty is not chargeable in respect of an instrument that is, or
     effects, any of the following:
     (a) the issue or making of a loan-backed security;
     (b) the transfer or assignment of, or other dealing in, a
     loan-backed security;
     (c) an instrument that, in the Commissioner's opinion, was executed
     for the purpose of creating, issuing or marketing loan-backed
     securities;
     (d) a mortgage over the interest of a person in a pool of loans,
     being a mortgage relating to loan-backed securities issued by the
     person to secure the repayment of financial accommodation provided
     to the person;
     (e) a policy of insurance covering any or all assets in a pool of
     loans acquired or held for the purpose of issuing loan-backed
     securities, but only so far as the instrument relates to loan-backed
     securities.
     Chapter 11 - Miscellaneous
     PART 1 - Stamping instruments
   228.   Provision of stamps
     The Commissioner may provide stamps or such other equipment as may
     be required for -
     (a) stamping instruments; or
     (b) otherwise denoting the payment of duty -
     in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
   229.   Limitation on use of designated stamps
     (1)  A stamp that by its terms is limited to an instrument of a
     specified kind must not be used for an instrument of a different
     kind.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (2)  An instrument of a specified kind for which a particular stamp
     is specified is taken not to be duly stamped unless it is stamped
     with the stamp so specified.
   230.   Form of stamps to be used
     (1)  An instrument that is required to be stamped by this Act is to
     be stamped by means of an impressed stamp.
     (2)  Another form of stamping may be used if its use is authorised
     by this Act or the Commissioner.
   231.   Stamping of instruments
     (1)  Subject to subsection (3) , the Commissioner must stamp an
     instrument in respect of which duty is chargeable under this Act, or
     that effects or evidences a dutiable transaction, and that has been
     lodged for stamping with the Commissioner if the duty, and any
     interest or penalty tax under Part 5 of the Taxation Administration
     Act 1997 , is paid in full.
     (2)  If this Act provides that no duty is chargeable on an
     instrument, the Commissioner may endorse it as he or she sees fit.
     (3)  If an instrument is lodged with the Commissioner for stamping
     and the person who lodged it is authorised to deal with that
     instrument in accordance with the conditions of an approval given
     under Part 6 of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 , the
     Commissioner may -
     (a) assess the duty payable in respect of the instrument and stamp
     it if the duty, and any interest or penalty tax, under Part 5 of the
     Taxation Administration Act 1997 , payable in respect of the
     instrument has been paid in full; or
     (b) return the instrument to the person who lodged it.
     (4)  If the Commissioner makes an assessment of duty and stamps an
     instrument under subsection (3)(a) , the Commissioner in his or her
     discretion may charge an administrative fee under section 118A of
     the Taxation Administration Act 1997 .
   232.   When is an instrument duly stamped?
     An instrument is duly stamped if it is stamped in accordance with
     this Act or section 53(1) of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 .
   233.   Adhesive stamps
     (1)  An adhesive stamp may be used to stamp the following
     instruments:
     (a) a superannuation instrument to which section 44 applies;
     (b) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (c) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (d) any other instrument for which, under a taxation law within the
     meaning of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 , tax may be denoted
     by use of an adhesive stamp.
     (2)  An instrument that may be stamped by use of an adhesive stamp
     is not duly stamped unless -
     (a) an adhesive stamp for the appropriate amount of duty is attached
     to the instrument; and
     (b) the adhesive stamp is cancelled by marking the date of its
     cancellation on its face in such a way as to render it incapable of
     being used for any other instrument.
     (3)  An adhesive stamp that has been attached to an instrument and
     cancelled must not be removed from the instrument except by the
     Commissioner after an application for a refund of the duty denoted
     by the stamp has been approved.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
   234.   Licences to deal in stamps
     (1)  The Commissioner may, on such terms and conditions as are
     determined by the Commissioner, grant a licence to a person to sell
     stamps.
     (2)  The licence must include the name and address of the licensee.
     (3)  The Commissioner may sell stamps to a licensee at such
     commission discount as may be determined by the Commissioner.
     (4)  The Commissioner may cancel a licence granted under this
     section at any time by giving notice of the cancellation to the
     licensee.
     (5)  A person who is not licensed under this section must not sell
     or deal in stamps.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
   235.   Refunds - spoiled and unused stamps
     (1)  A person may apply to the Commissioner for a refund of the
     value of adhesive stamps that have become spoiled or useless.
     (2)  The spoiled or useless stamps must be produced to the
     Commissioner.
     (3)  If an adhesive stamp is erroneously placed on a document, an
     application for a refund may be made as if the stamp were spoiled.
   236.   Reassessments - failed instruments
     (1)  An instrument that fails in its intended operation and becomes
     useless is not chargeable with duty under this Act.
     (2)  The Commissioner must make a reassessment of duty in respect of
     such an instrument if an application for a reassessment is made
     within -
     (a) 3 years after the initial assessment; or
     (b) 12 months after the instrument has failed; or
     (c) 3 years after the payment of duty pursuant to a special
     arrangement for the lodging of returns and payment of tax under Part
     6 of the Taxation Administration Act 1997  -
     whichever is the later.
     (3)  The instrument in respect of which the application is made must
     be produced to the Commissioner unless the Commissioner dispenses
     with its production.
   237.   Instruments to be separately charged with duty in certain cases
     An instrument that contains or relates to several distinct matters
     for which different duties are chargeable under this Act is to be
     separately and distinctly charged with duty in respect of each such
     matter, as if each matter were expressed in a separate instrument.
   238.   Execution of instruments
     (1)  For the purposes of this Act, an instrument is taken to be
     first executed the first time that it is signed and sealed, or
     signed (as the case may be) by any party to it.
     (2)  However, a contract made by acceptance of an offer contained in
     an instrument is taken to be first executed when the offer is
     accepted.
     (3)  If an instrument is ineffective by reason of a failure of the
     necessary parties to execute it, a refund may be made of any money
     paid for stamping.
   239.   Stamping of instruments after execution
     (1)  Except where otherwise expressly provided by this or another
     Act, a person liable with respect to any instrument chargeable with
     duty or any dutiable transaction must cause the instrument, or an
     instrument that effects or evidences the transaction, to be duly
     stamped or, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, marked
     "interim stamp only" within 6 months after it was first executed.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (2)  For the purposes of this section, a written statement that is
     required to be stamped is taken to be first executed when the
     transaction to which the statement relates occurs.
   240.   Stamping taken to constitute an assessment
     For the purposes of this Act, the stamping of an instrument
     (excluding a return) by the Commissioner is taken to be evidence of
     an assessment of the duty payable under this Act in respect of the
     instrument.
   241.   Copies of instruments
     (1)  A copy of an original instrument is chargeable with duty as if
     it had been executed in the same way as the original instrument and
     had been first executed at the same time as the original instrument
     unless the Commissioner is satisfied -
     (a) that the original instrument has been duly stamped; or
     (b) that a copy of the original instrument has been duly stamped in
     accordance with this section.
     (2)  If a copy of an original instrument is duly stamped in
     accordance with the section, the original instrument is taken to be
     duly stamped.
     (3)  In this section -
     copy of an original instrument means an unexecuted instrument in
     which, in the Commissioner's opinion, the matter contained in the
     original instrument is wholly or substantially reproduced, whether
     or not the matter reproduced has the same appearance as the matter
     contained in the original instrument, but does not include a replica
     within the meaning of section 220 ;
     original instrument means an instrument that is chargeable with duty
     otherwise than under this section.
   242.   Calculation of time
     (1)  This section applies to the calculation of a period of time for
     the purpose of determining when the payment of duty is due under
     this Act.
     (2)  A month is taken to be a period commencing at the beginning of
     a day of one of the 12 named months (within the meaning of the Acts
     Interpretation Act 1931 ) and ending -
     (a) at the end of the corresponding day of the next named month; or
     (b) if there is no such corresponding day, at the end of the next
     named month.
     (3)  A period of 2 or more months is taken to be a period commencing
     at the beginning of a day of one of the 12 named months (within the
     meaning of the Acts Interpretation Act 1931 ) and ending -
     (a) at the end of the corresponding day of the last named month
     within the period; or
     (b) if there is no such corresponding day, at the end of that named
     month.
     (4)  Section 29 (except subsection (1) ) of the Acts Interpretation
     Act 1931 applies to the calculation of a period of time to which
     this section applies.
     PART 2 - Enforcement
   243.   Registration of instruments
     (1)  A person must not register, record, enrol or accept for any
     purpose an instrument that effects in whole or in part a dutiable
     transaction, or an instrument that is chargeable with duty, unless -
     (a) the instrument is duly stamped; or
     (b) the instrument is endorsed by the Commissioner or endorsed in a
     manner approved by the Commissioner.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
     (2)  Nothing in any other Act is to be taken to prevent or prohibit
     an instrument being, for the purposes of this Act -
     (a) stamped; or
     (b) endorsed by the Commissioner or endorsed in a manner approved by
     the Commissioner.
   244.   Electronic conveyancing
     (1)  Details in relation to a proposed conveyancing transaction may
     be entered into TRO by -
     (a) an ELNO, by means of an approved ELN; or
     (b) the Commissioner; or
     (c) a person who is authorised under an approval to have an
     electronic conveyancing document taken to be endorsed under section
     53(1)(b) of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 in accordance with
     subsection (5) .
     (2)  There may be issued to an approved ELNO by TRO -
     (a) a unique identifying number (a verification number), generated
     by TRO, in relation to -
     (i) a proposed conveyancing transaction in relation to which details
     have been entered into TRO under subsection (1) ; and
     (ii) an electronic conveyancing document that effects the proposed
     conveyancing transaction; and
     (b) an estimation (an estimation of duty), generated by TRO, of the
     duty that would be payable under this Act in relation to the
     proposed conveyancing transaction if it were a dutiable transaction.
     (3)  At any time before an electronic conveyancing document that
     effects a proposed conveyancing transaction is executed, a
     verification number, or an estimation of duty, in relation to the
     proposed conveyancing transaction may be revoked by the removal from
     TRO of any reference to the number or the estimation, respectively.
     (4)  A verification number or an estimation of duty, the issue of
     such a number or estimation and a failure to issue, or revocation
     of, such a number or estimation is not a decision or assessment, or
     evidence of a decision or assessment, for the purposes of this Act
     or the Taxation Administration Act 1997 .
     (5)  If -
     (a) an electronic conveyancing document that contains a verification
     number is executed; and
     (b) the electronic conveyancing document, or a notice that the
     document has been executed, is received from an approved ELNO by the
     Recorder of Titles -
     the electronic conveyancing document is taken to have been endorsed
     under section 53(1)(b) of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 in
     accordance with the conditions of the approval that relates to the
     document.
     (6)  In this section -
     approval means an approval under Division 2 of Part 6 of the
     Taxation Administration Act 1997 ;
     approved ELNO means an ELNO that has been approved under the
     Electronic Conveyancing National Law (Tasmania) Act;
     conveyancing transaction means a transfer of land, a change in the
     beneficial interest in land, or an acquisition of land, that is, or,
     if it were effected, would be, a dutiable transaction;
     digital signature, in relation to an electronic conveyancing
     document, means encrypted electronic data intended for the exclusive
     use of a particular person as a means of identifying that person as
     a person who signs the document;
     digitally signed, in relation to an electronic conveyancing
     document, means include in the document a digital signature;
     electronic conveyancing document means an electronic document,
     containing a verification number, by which a conveyancing
     transaction is, if the document is executed, effected, or would, if
     the document were executed, be effected;
     ELN has the same meaning as Electronic Lodgement Network has in the
     Electronic Conveyancing National Law (Tasmania) Act;
     ELNO has the same meaning as Electronic Lodgement Network Operator
     has in the Electronic Conveyancing National Law (Tasmania) Act;
     estimation of duty means an estimation of duty, issued under
     subsection (2)(b) , that has not been revoked under subsection (3) ;
     executed, in relation to an electronic conveyancing document, means
     executed in accordance with section 238 , including by being
     digitally signed;
     proposed conveyancing transaction means a conveyancing transaction
     in respect of which an electronic conveyancing document, by which
     the transaction is to be effected, has not been executed;
     TRO means an electronic database system that is approved by the
     Commissioner for the purposes of this section;
     verification number means a verification number, issued under
     subsection (2)(a) , that has not been revoked under subsection (3) .
   245.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   246.   Receipt of instruments in evidence
     (1)  An instrument that effects a dutiable transaction or is
     chargeable with duty under this Act is not available for use in law
     or equity for any purpose and may not be presented in evidence in a
     court or tribunal exercising civil jurisdiction unless -
     (a) it is duly stamped; or
     (b) it is endorsed by the Commissioner or in a manner approved by
     the Commissioner.
     (2)  A court or tribunal may admit in evidence an instrument that
     effects a dutiable transaction, or is chargeable with duty in
     accordance with the provisions of this Act, and that does not comply
     with subsection (1)  -
     (a) if the instrument is after its admission transmitted to the
     Commissioner in accordance with arrangements approved by the court
     or tribunal; or
     (b) if (where the person who produces the instrument is not the
     person liable to pay the duty) the name and address of the person so
     liable is forwarded, together with the instrument, to the
     Commissioner in accordance with arrangements approved by the court
     or tribunal.
     (3)  A court or tribunal may admit in evidence an unexecuted copy of
     an instrument that effects a dutiable transaction, or is chargeable
     with duty in accordance with the provisions of this Act, if the
     court or tribunal is satisfied that -
     (a) the instrument of which it is a copy is duly stamped, or is
     endorsed in a manner approved by the Commissioner; or
     (b) the copy is duly stamped under section 241 .
   247.   Valuation of property
     (1)  The Commissioner may require a person who is liable to duty
     determined with reference to the value of property to provide a
     declaration by a competent valuer as to the unencumbered value of
     the property or to provide such other evidence of that value as the
     Commissioner thinks fit.
     (2)  The Commissioner may assess duty in accordance with the value
     so declared.
     (3)  The Commissioner may have property valued if not satisfied with
     the value so declared or if a property value is not provided as
     requested and may assess duty on the basis of the valuation.
     (4)  The Commissioner may recover the cost of obtaining a value
     under this section from the person liable to pay the duty.
   248.   Assessment where consideration inadequate
     (1)  If the Commissioner is of the opinion that the consideration
     shown in an agreement for the sale, transfer or exchange of any real
     property (or an interest in real property) is inadequate with
     respect to the value of that real property or interest, the
     Commissioner may assess the duty payable on the dutiable
     transaction, or on the agreement or other instrument, by treating
     the unencumbered value of the relevant real property determined in
     accordance with subsection (2) or (2A) as the dutiable value for the
     sale, transfer or exchange of that property.
     (2)  If the relevant real property is not vacant land, the
     unencumbered value of the relevant real property is the value
     calculated by multiplying the capital value of the real property as
     determined under the Valuation of Land Act 2001 by an amount
     representing the latest estimated trend in capital values as advised
     by the Valuer-General before the date of the dutiable transaction
     relating to that real property.
     (2A)  If the relevant real property is vacant land, the unencumbered
     value of the relevant real property is the value calculated by
     multiplying the capital value of the real property as determined
     under the Valuation of Land Act 2001 by the adjustment factor
     determined by the Valuer-General under section 50A of the Valuation
     of Land Act 2001 and applicable as at the date of the dutiable
     transaction.
     (3)  The Commissioner may assess the duty payable on the
     unencumbered value of the relevant real property determined by the
     Valuer-General as at the date of the dutiable transaction, or the
     relevant acquisition within the meaning of section 65 , if -
     (a) the Commissioner is unable to determine the value of real
     property as provided by subsection (2) or (2A) ; or
     (b) a party to the agreement, transfer, assignment or similar
     instrument so requests.
     (4)  If the Valuer-General determines the unencumbered value of
     relevant real property for the purpose of subsection (3) and charges
     the Commissioner a fee for that determination, the Commissioner may
     recover that fee from the person who is liable to pay duty in
     respect of any dutiable transaction or instrument referred to in
     this section.
     (5)  A person who is liable to pay duty in respect of a dutiable
     transaction or instrument referred to in this section may object to
     the unencumbered value of the relevant real property as determined
     under subsection (2) or (2A) in accordance with Part 10 of the
     Taxation Administration Act 1997 by providing the Commissioner with
     a declaration by a competent valuer as to the unencumbered value of
     the real property.
     (6)  If the Commissioner determines an objection referred to in
     subsection (5) , the Commissioner may -
     (a) determine the value of the real property by treating as the
     unencumbered value of the real property the value declared in the
     declaration provided under subsection (5) ; or
     (b) if not satisfied with the value of the real property declared in
     the declaration provided under subsection (5)  -
     (i) have the property valued; and
     (ii) determine the value of the real property by treating as the
     unencumbered value of the real property the value declared in the
     declaration provided under subparagraph (i) .
     (7)  The Commissioner may recover the cost of a valuation obtained
     under subsection (6)(b) from the transferee.
   249.   Ascertainment of value of certain interests
     If it is necessary for the purpose of assessing duty under this Act
     to ascertain the value of -
     (a) any estate or annuity or interest for the life of any person; or
     (b) any estate or annuity or interest determinable on or subject to
     any contingency or the happening of any event; or
     (c) any estate or annuity or interest in remainder expectant on the
     death of any person or expectant on or subject to any contingency or
     the happening of any event -
     regard may be had in ascertaining the value of any such property to
     the death of the person having the life estate or annuity or
     interest or the happening of the contingency or event at any time
     before the assessment of duty is actually made.
   250.   Impounding of instruments
     (1)  The Commissioner may impound any instrument that ought to be
     but is not stamped or is insufficiently stamped.
     (2)  The Commissioner may retain any impounded instrument until the
     duty or any interest or penalty tax, or all such amounts, have been
     paid.
     PART 3 - Miscellaneous
   251.   Application of Act
     (1)  This Act does not require a servant or agent of the Crown,
     acting as such, to pay any duty imposed under this Act.
     (2)  For the purpose of subsection (1) , a Government Business
     Enterprise, within the meaning of the Government Business
     Enterprises Act 1995  -
     (a) is not the Crown; and
     (b) is not taken to be acting on behalf of the Crown only because it
     is a Government Business Enterprise.
   252.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   253.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   254.   Recognised stock exchanges
     The Minister, by order published in the Gazette, may declare a stock
     exchange to be a recognised stock exchange for the purpose of this
     Act.
   255.   Duty paid under former Act
     If an assessment or reassessment of duty under this Act is required
     to take into consideration another amount of duty paid, a reference
     in this Act to duty includes a reference to duty within the meaning
     of the former Act that has been paid in accordance with that Act.
   256.   Stamping under former Act
     An instrument is duly stamped for the purposes of this Act if,
     immediately before the commencement day, it was duly stamped for the
     purposes of the former Act.
   257.   Regulations
     (1)  The Governor may make regulations for the purpose of this Act.
     (2)  Regulations may be made so as to apply differently according to
     any matter, condition, limitation, restriction, exception or
     circumstance specified in the regulations.
     (3)  The Governor may make regulations of a savings or transitional
     nature consequent on the enactment of this Act;
     (4)  Regulations under subsection (3) may take effect from the
     commencement of this Act or a later day.
   258.   Administration of Act
     Until provision is made in relation to this Act by order under
     section 4 of the Administrative Arrangements Act 1990  -
     (a) the administration of this Act is assigned to the Treasurer; and
     (b) the department responsible to the Treasurer in relation to the
     administration of this Act is the Department of Treasury and
     Finance.
   259.   Savings and transitional provisions
     The provisions in Schedule 1 have effect.
   259A.   Savings and transitional provisions consequent on Taxation and
   Related Legislation (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2008
     (1)  In this section -
     commencement day means the day on which the Taxation and Related
     Legislation (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2008 , other than Part 5
     , commences;
     loan agreement means an agreement made in accordance with section
     253 in respect of a loan under section 252 that is in force
     immediately before the commencement day;
     section 252 means section 252 of this Act as in force immediately
     before the commencement day;
     section 253 means section 253 of this Act as in force immediately
     before the commencement day.
     (2)  On and after the commencement day -
     (a) a loan agreement continues in force until it is completed or
     otherwise ends or is terminated according to its terms; and
     (b) sections 252 and 253 continue to apply in respect of that loan
     agreement as if they had not been repealed by the Taxation and
     Related Legislation (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2008 .
   259B.   Transitional provisions consequent on Duties Amendment Act 2009
     Any obligation to pay or refund duty under this Act immediately
     before the commencement of the Duties Amendment Act 2009 continues
     on and after that commencement until it is discharged in accordance
     with the provisions of this Act as in force immediately before the
     commencement of the Duties Amendment Act 2009 .
   259C.   Transitional provisions consequent on repeal of Revenue
   Legislation (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2002
     (1)  Any word or expression used in this section has the same
     meaning as in this Act, as in force immediately before the
     commencement of the Revenue Legislation (Miscellaneous Amendments)
     Act 2002 .
     (2)  A reference in this section to a provision of this Act is to be
     taken to be a reference to the provision as in force immediately
     before the commencement of the Revenue Legislation (Miscellaneous
     Amendments) Act 2002 .
     (3)  After 1 July 2002 -
     (a) a lessor is not required to produce to the Commissioner a lease
     instrument for periodic assessment at any estimate date determined
     by the Commissioner under section 108 of this Act; and
     (b) any additional duty that would have been payable if the periodic
     assessment had been made is not payable; and
     (c) any refund of duty that would have been payable if the periodic
     assessment had been made is not payable.
     (4)  If duty has been paid or a liability to duty exists on a lease
     before 1 July 2002 and an application for a reassessment of duty
     paid on a lease instrument has been made under section 112 of this
     Act on or after 23 May 2002, the Commissioner may refuse to grant a
     refund of any duty that would have been refundable if this
     subsection, or section 32(3) of the Revenue Legislation
     (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2002 , had not been enacted, if
     satisfied that, at any time after the termination of the lease, the
     lessee or an associated person has occupied the leased property, or
     substantially the same property, with the agreement, express or
     implied, of the lessor other than as a result of the sale of the
     property to the lessee or associated person.
     (5)  A refund of duty is not payable on an application for a
     reassessment of duty paid on a lease instrument that is lodged under
     section 113 of this Act on or after 23 May 2002.
   259D.   Savings and transitional provisions consequent on repeal of
   Revenue Measures Act 2005
     (1)  Notwithstanding the repeal of Chapter 6 of this Act by the
     Revenue Measures Act 2005 , the Commissioner may recover from a
     mortgagor any mortgage duty that relates to a mortgage executed, or
     an advance or further advance made, before 1 July 2007 and that was
     unpaid at that day.
     (2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 is to be read as if Chapter 6 of this Act
     had not been repealed.
     (3)  Notwithstanding the amendments to this Act effected by Part 6
     of the Revenue Measures Act 2005 , the Commissioner may recover any
     duty that relates to a transaction entered into before 1 July 2008
     involving the dutiable property referred to in section 9(1)(g) , (h)
     or (i) of this Act (as in force immediately before that day) and
     that was unpaid at that day.
     (4)  For the purposes of subsection (3) , the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 is to be read as if the amendments to this
     Act effected by Part 6 of the Revenue Measures Act 2005 had not been
     made.
   259E.   Transitional provisions consequent on the enactment of Part 2
   of the Revenue Measures Act 2012
     (1)  If one or more transactions which were liable for duty prior to
     1 October 2012 are to be aggregated with one or more transactions
     which are liable for duty on or after 1 October 2012 in accordance
     with section 22 or under section 71 , the duty chargeable on the
     transaction or transactions liable for duty on or after 1 October
     2012 is to be calculated in accordance with the following formula:
   graphic image
     where -
     DP is the duty payable;
     B is the duty calculated on the dutiable value of the aggregated
     transactions in accordance with the general rate of duty that was in
     effect on 1 October 2012;
     A is the duty calculated on the dutiable value of the aggregated
     transactions in accordance with the general rate of duty that was in
     effect on 30 September 2012;
     D is the dutiable value of the aggregated transaction or
     transactions that are liable for duty on or after 1 October 2012;
     T is the total dutiable value of the aggregated transactions.
     (2)  For the purposes of sections 22(4) and 71(3) , the duty payable
     in accordance with section 22 or under section 71 is taken to be the
     duty chargeable in accordance with this section.
   259F.   Savings and transitional provisions consequent on enactment of
   Duties Amendment (Landholder and Corporate Reconstruction and
   Consolidation) Act 2016
     (1)  For the purposes of determining -
     (a) whether a relevant acquisition in a landholder is made on or
     after the commencement day; and
     (b) the duty chargeable on a relevant acquisition under Chapter 3  -
     an acquisition of any interest in the landholder before the
     commencement day is to be taken into account in accordance with
     Chapter 3 .
     (2)  If an acquisition of any interest in a landholder before the
     commencement day is taken into account for the purposes of
     determining whether a relevant acquisition in the landholder is made
     on or after the commencement day, the acquisition statement in
     relation to that relevant acquisition is to disclose that earlier
     acquisition.
     (3)  If an acquisition of an interest in a private landholder made
     before the commencement day (the pre-commencement day acquisition)
     has been taken into account in determining whether a relevant
     acquisition in the private landholder has been made on or after the
     commencement day, then, in determining the unencumbered value of the
     land and goods of the landholder in relation to the pre-commencement
     day acquisition (for the purpose of calculating the duty chargeable
     in relation to the relevant acquisition), the landholder is taken
     not to hold goods in Tasmania.
     (4)  The former Chapter 3 continues to apply in relation to a former
     relevant acquisition in a land-rich private corporation made before
     the commencement day.
     (5)  The former Chapter 3 continues to apply in relation to a
     prescribed acquisition made in a land-rich private corporation
     before the commencement day if that acquisition is not taken into
     account for the purpose of determining whether a relevant
     acquisition in a private landholder is made on or after the
     commencement day.
     (6)  For the purpose of determining whether a relevant acquisition
     in a public landholder is made on or after the commencement day, an
     acquisition of any interest in the public landholder made before the
     commencement day is to be taken into account in accordance with
     Chapter 3 .
     (7)  If an acquisition of an interest in a public landholder made
     before the commencement day has been taken into account in
     determining whether a relevant acquisition in the public landholder
     has been made on or after the commencement day, then that
     pre-commencement day acquisition is taken to be an exempt
     acquisition for the purpose of determining the duty chargeable under
     Chapter 3 in relation to the relevant acquisition.
     (8)  Duty is not chargeable in relation to a relevant acquisition in
     a public landholder made on or after the commencement day if the
     person's intention to make the relevant acquisition was announced,
     before the commencement day, to the Australian Stock Exchange, or
     any other recognised stock exchange, on which the landholder is
     listed.
     (9)  For the purposes of section 71(7) , any duty paid or payable in
     respect of an acquisition under the former Chapter 3 is taken to
     have been paid or be payable under Chapter 3 of this Act.
     (10)  In this section, unless a contrary intention appears -
     acquisition statement has the same meaning as in Chapter 3 ;
     commencement day means the day on which the Duties Amendment
     (Landholder and Corporate Reconstruction and Consolidation) Act 2016
     commences;
     former Act means this Act as in force immediately before the
     commencement day;
     former Chapter 3 means Chapter 3 of the former Act;
     former relevant acquisition means a relevant acquisition, within the
     meaning of the former Act, made before the commencement day;
     interest, in relation to a landholder, has the same meaning as in
     Chapter 3 ;
     landholder has the same meaning as in Chapter 3 ;
     land-rich private corporation has the same meaning as in the former
     Chapter 3;
     prescribed acquisition means an acquisition within the meaning of
     the former Act, other than a former relevant acquisition;
     private landholder has the same meaning as in Chapter 3 ;
     public landholder has the same meaning as in Chapter 3 ;
     relevant acquisition has the same meaning as in Chapter 3 .
   259G.   Transitional provisions consequent on commencement of Duties
   Amendment Act 2020
     If -
     (a) a payment was made to a transferee in respect of a dutiable
     transaction, for which duty was paid under Part 3A of Chapter 2 , in
     anticipation of Part 4 of the Duties Amendment Act 2020 receiving
     the Royal Assent; and
     (b) the payment is up to, or equal to, the amount of duty that the
     transferee would be eligible to have refunded, in respect of the
     dutiable transaction, after the Duties Amendment Act 2020 received
     the Royal Assent -
     the payment is taken for the purposes of this Act to be a refund, to
     the extent of the amount of the payment, of the duty paid under Part
     3A of Chapter 2 in respect of the dutiable transaction.
   260.
     See Schedule 2 .
   261.    Stamp Duties Act 1931 repealed
     The Stamp Duties Act 1931 is repealed.
   262.    Stamp Duties Regulations 1998 rescinded
     The Stamp Duties Regulations 1998 are rescinded.
     SCHEDULE 1 - Savings and transitional provisions Section 259
     1.   Interpretation
     In this Schedule -
     commencement day means the day on which this Act commences;
     former Act means the Stamp Duties Act 1931 .
     1A.   References to sections and terms
     (1) A reference to a section of this Act is a reference to that
     section as in force on the commencement day.
     (2) If a word or term used in this Schedule was defined in or had a
     meaning within this Act, or a part of this Act, as in force on the
     commencement day, that meaning applies, if appropriate, to that word
     or term as used in this Schedule.
     2.   Provisions relating to dutiable property
     (1) Section 22 extends to dutiable transactions at least one of
     which occurred before the commencement day and at least one of which
     occurred on or after the commencement day if -
     (a) they occurred within 12 months; and
     (b) the other provisions of that section are satisfied.
     (2) Section 40 extends to -
     (a) a transfer of property that is dutiable property to a trustee;
     and
     (b) the payment of duty on that transfer -
     before the commencement day if the transfer back to the transferor
     occurs on or after that day.
     (3) Without limiting section 255 , the reference in section 41(c) to
     duty charged by this Act includes a reference to duty charged under
     the former Act.
     (4) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (5) Section 56(3) extends to a payment of ad valorem duty made
     before the commencement day under the former Act.
     3.   Provisions relating to certain transactions treated as
     transfers
     (1) In section 71  -
     (a) a reference to a period of 3 years is a reference to any such
     period starting before the commencement day and ending on or after
     the commencement day; and
     (b) a reference to duty paid under this Act includes a reference to
     duty paid under the former Act; and
     (c) a reference to duty paid under that section includes a reference
     to duty paid under Division 1 of Part IV of the former Act.
     (2) An interest acquired before the commencement day in a land
     holding corporation in which the unencumbered value of the real
     property under section 35(1)(b) of the former Act was less than $1
     million at the date of the relevant acquisition is to be disregarded
     for the purpose of calculating duty under this Act.
     4.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     5.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     6.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     7.   Provisions relating to insurance
     (1) A person who, immediately before the commencement day, is a
     person approved under section 12A of the former Act is, on that day,
     taken to be registered as an insurer.
     (2) A policy of life insurance stamped under item 33 of Schedule 2
     to the former Act is not chargeable with duty under Chapter 7 .
     8.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     9.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     10.   Stamping under former Act
     (1) Section 15 of the former Act applies to an instrument first
     executed but not stamped or insufficiently stamped before the
     commencement day.
     (2) Section 70(3) of the former Act applies to an agreement for the
     sale of a business or a contract of sale first executed but not
     stamped or insufficiently stamped before the commencement day.
     11.   Contracts of sale
     Section 70(10) of the former Act applies to a contract for the sale,
     conveyance or transfer of land that is executed before the
     commencement day.
     12.   Objections
     An objection made under section 21 of the former Act and not
     determined before the commencement day is, on and after that day, to
     be determined under the former Act.
     13.   Appeals
     An appeal made under section 22 of the former Act and not determined
     before the commencement day is, on and after that day, to be
     determined under the former Act.
     14.   Approved persons
     A person who, immediately before the commencement day, was a person
     approved under section 12A of the former Act is, on that day, taken
     to be an approved person under Division 2 of Part 6 of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 .
     15.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     16.   Obligation to pay duty
     (1) Any obligation to pay duty under the former Act in force
     immediately before the commencement day continues on and after that
     day until it is discharged.
     (2) The amount of duty payable in respect of an obligation referred
     to in subclause (1) is to be calculated, where applicable, in
     accordance with Schedule 4 to the former Act as if that Act had not
     been repealed.
     17.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     18.   Powers of Commissioner and authorised officers
     (1) The Commissioner may exercise any power referred to in Division
     IA or Division 4 of Part III of the former Act in relation to any
     obligation referred to in clause 16 as if that Act had not been
     repealed.
     (2) An authorised officer referred to in clause 17 may exercise any
     power referred to in Division 3A of Part III of the former Act in
     relation to any obligation referred to in clause 16 as if that Act
     had not been repealed.
     SCHEDULE 2 - Consequential Amendments
   The amendments effected by Section 260 and this Schedule have been
   incorporated into the authorised version of the appropriate Acts.
