Duties Act 2001
Jurisdiction: queensland
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/qld/consol_act/da200193/
Register: https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-2001-071
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/qld/consol_act/da200193.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-29T23:43:22.477322Z

DUTIES ACT 2001 - As at 30 June 2025 - Act 71 of 2001
 
                    1 Concessions and exemptions for
                    transfer duty are dealt with in parts
                    8A to 13. Also, other exemptions are
                    dealt with in chapter 10.
                    2 Additional foreign acquirer duty is
                    imposed on particular dutiable
                    transactions under chapter 4.
     (2) Transfer duty is imposed on the dutiable value of a dutiable
     transaction.
 
What is a dutiable transaction
*** 9 What is a dutiable transaction ***
     (1) Each of the following is a
     "dutiable transaction" —
          (a) a transfer of dutiable property;
          (b) an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property,
          whether conditional or not;
          (c) a surrender of dutiable property that is land in
          Queensland or a transferable site area;
          (d) a vesting of dutiable property—
               (i) by, or expressly authorised by, statute law
               of this or another jurisdiction, whether inside
               or outside Australia; or
               (ii) by a court order, of this or another
               jurisdiction, whether inside or outside
               Australia;
          (e) a foreclosure of a mortgage over dutiable property;
          (f) an acquisition of a new right on its creation, grant or
          issue;
          (g) a partnership acquisition;
               Note—
                    See chapter 2, part 7 (Dutiable
                    transactions relating to partnerships).
     (h) the creation or termination of a trust of dutiable property;
          Note—
               See chapter 2, part 8 (Dutiable transactions
               relating to trusts), division 3 (Creation and
               termination of trusts).
     (i) a trust acquisition or trust surrender.
          Note—
               See chapter 2, part 8 (Dutiable transactions
               relating to trusts), division 4 (Some basic
               concepts about trust acquisitions and trust
               surrenders).
     (2) It does not matter whether a dutiable transaction—
          (a) is effected by an instrument or another way; or
          (b) involves 1 or more parties.
     (3) Subsection (1) has effect subject to sections 21, 29 and 37.
          Note—
               Under section 21, the commissioner must decide
               the applicable dutiable transaction for
               imposition of duty if a transaction constitutes
               more than 1 type of dutiable transaction
               mentioned in subsection (1).
               Also, for when transactions for particular
               dutiable property are not dutiable transactions,
               see sections 29 and 37.
     (4) Without limiting subsection (1) (d), property is vested under
     statute law if the law vests property in an entity that the law
     states is the successor in law of, continuation of or same entity as,
     the entity in which the property was previously vested.
     (5) However, property is not vested under statute law, on the
     registration of a company under the Corporations Act, chapter 5B,
     part 5B.1.
 
What is dutiable property
*** 10 What is dutiable property ***
     (1) Each of the following is
     "dutiable property" —
          (a) land in Queensland;
          (b) a transferable site area;
          (c) an existing right;
          (d) a Queensland business asset;
          (e) a chattel in Queensland.
          Note—
               Section 498 includes provision about references
               to dutiable property.
     (2) A reference to property in subsection (1) includes a reference to
     an interest in the property, other than the following—
          (a) a security interest;
          (b) a partner’s interest in the partnership;
          (c) a trust interest;
          (d) the interest of a discretionary object of a trust that
          holds property mentioned in the subsection.
          Note—
               See the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, schedule 1,
               definition interest.
 
What is the dutiable value of a dutiable transaction
*** 11 What is the dutiable value of a dutiable transaction ***
     (1) The
     "dutiable value" of a statutory dutiable transaction is the amount
     payable for the transaction.
     (2) The
     "dutiable value" of a dutiable transaction that is a partition is
     determined under section 31.
     (3) The
     "dutiable value" of a dutiable transaction that is the surrender of a
     lease of land in Queensland is the total of any premium, fine or
     other consideration payable for the surrender.
     (4) The
     "dutiable value" of a dutiable transaction that is the acquisition of
     a new right that is a lease of land in Queensland is the total of any
     of the following amounts payable for the lease—
          (a) premiums, fines or other consideration payable for the
          grant of the lease;
          (b) consideration paid for, or the value of, any moveable
          chattels taken over by the lessee from the lessor or
          outgoing lessee;
          (c) if, on the leased premises, a business is to be carried
          on and an amount in excess of what would be the rent if a
          business was not carried on is charged for the lease—the
          excess amount.
     (5) The
     "dutiable value" of a dutiable transaction that is a partnership
     acquisition is determined under part 7, division 3.
     (6) The
     "dutiable value" of a dutiable transaction that is a trust
     acquisition or trust surrender is determined under part 8, division
     5.
     (6A) The
     "dutiable value" of a dutiable transaction that is an agreement for
     the transfer of dutiable property that is a farm-in agreement is
     determined under part 8A.
     (7) Subject to section 48, the
     "dutiable value" of another dutiable transaction is—
          (a) the consideration for the dutiable transaction; or
          (b) the unencumbered value of the dutiable property or new
          right the subject of the transaction if—
               (i) there is no consideration for the
               transaction; or
               (ii) the consideration can not be ascertained
               when the liability for transfer duty arises; or
               (iii) the unencumbered value is greater than the
               consideration for the transaction.
     (8) However, the dutiable value of particular dutiable transactions
     is subject to apportionment under part 4.
 
References to consideration
*** 11A References to consideration ***
To remove any doubt, it is declared that a reference to consideration is not
limited to monetary consideration.
 
Consideration for dutiable transactions—general
*** 12 Consideration for dutiable transactions—general ***
     (1) The consideration for a dutiable transaction includes—
          (a) the amount of any liabilities assumed under the
          transaction, including an obligation, whether contingent or
          otherwise, to pay any unpaid purchase money payable under
          an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property; and
          (b) the amount or value of any debt to the extent it is
          released or extinguished under the transaction.
     (2) If the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for a
     dutiable transaction on which duty is imposed consists of an amount
     payable periodically and the total amount, including any interest, to
     be paid can be ascertained, the consideration or part of the
     consideration is the total amount.
          Note—
               For other provisions relevant to consideration,
               see sections 501 to 503.
 
Consideration for dutiable transaction—transfer by way of security
*** 13 Consideration for dutiable transaction—transfer by way of security ***
The consideration for the transfer by way of security of dutiable property that
is land is an amount equal to the unencumbered value of the dutiable property
when the liability for transfer duty arises.
 
What is the unencumbered value of property
*** 14 What is the unencumbered value of property ***
     (1) The
     "unencumbered value" of property is the value of the property
     determined without regard to—
          (a) any encumbrance to which the property is subject,
          whether contingently or otherwise; or
          (b) any arrangement—
               (i) the parties to which are not dealing with
               each other at arm’s length; and
               (ii) that results in the reduction of the value
               of the property; or
          (c) any arrangement for which a significant purpose of any
          party to the arrangement was, in the commissioner’s
          opinion, the reduction of the value of the property.
               Example for paragraph (c)—
                    A owns land that B wishes to purchase.
                    The land is valued at $1m. Before the
                    purchase, A grants B a 50 year lease of
                    the land. B is not required to pay any
                    rent under the lease. A and B then
                    enter into an agreement to transfer the
                    land for $50,000, being the value of
                    A’s interest in the land taking into
                    account that it is subject to the lease
                    to B.
                    The unencumbered value of the land is
                    determined without regard to the grant
                    of the lease if the commissioner is of
                    the opinion there is an arrangement
                    under which A or B’s significant
                    purpose in entering into it was to
                    reduce the value of the land.
     (2) Also, the
     "unencumbered value" of property held on trust or by a partnership
     must be determined without regard to the liabilities of the trust or
     partnership, including for a trust, the liability to indemnify the
     trustee.
     (3) The
     "unencumbered value" of property that is the goodwill of a business
     includes the value of any restraint of trade arrangement entered into
     by the transferor or a related person of the transferor to protect
     the value of the goodwill acquired by the transferee.
     (4) If, before a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1) (a),
     (b) or (d) for which the dutiable property is land, improvements are
     made to the land at the transferee’s expense, the unencumbered
     value of the land must be determined as if the improvements had not
     been made.
          Note—
               For provisions about the aggregate minimum value
               of the shares comprising all of the issued
               capital of a corporation or society and the
               unencumbered value of each of the shares, see
               section 504.
 
When unencumbered value of property is determined
*** 15 When unencumbered value of property is determined ***
The unencumbered value of dutiable property is determined—
     (a) for a dutiable transaction that is the surrender of the
     property—immediately before the surrender; or
     (b) for another dutiable transaction—when the liability for
     transfer duty arises.
 
When liability for transfer duty arises
*** 16 When liability for transfer duty arises ***
A liability for transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction in schedule 2,
column 1, arises at the time stated opposite the transaction in schedule 2,
column 2.
     Note—
          In relation to a dutiable transaction that is an ELN
          transfer or ELN lodgement, see also sections 156H and 156K.
 
Who is liable to pay transfer duty
*** 17 Who is liable to pay transfer duty ***
     (1) Transfer duty imposed on a statutory dutiable transaction must be
     paid by the statutory entity under the transaction.
     (2) Transfer duty imposed on another dutiable transaction must be
     paid by the parties to the transaction.
 
Need for instrument, ELN transaction document or statement
*** 18 Need for instrument, ELN transaction document or statement ***
If a dutiable transaction is not effected or evidenced by an instrument or ELN
transaction document, the parties liable to pay transfer duty on the
transaction must make a statement in the approved form (a
"transfer duty statement") within the time stated in section 19 for lodging the
statement.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
 
Lodging instrument, ELN transaction document or statement
*** 19 Lodging instrument, ELN transaction document or statement ***
     (1) The statutory entity under a statutory dutiable transaction must
     lodge—
          (a) the instrument or ELN transaction document that effects
          or evidences the transaction; or
          (b) the transfer duty statement for the transaction.
     (2) The statutory entity must comply with subsection (1) —
          (a) within 60 days after the liability arises to pay
          transfer duty on the transaction; or
          (b) if the amount payable for the transaction is to be
          decided by a court or tribunal—within 14 days after the
          amount is decided.
     (3) The parties liable to pay transfer duty relating to another
     dutiable transaction must, within 30 days after the liability arises,
     lodge—
          (a) the instrument or ELN transaction document that effects
          or evidences the transaction or transfer duty statement for
          the transaction; and
          (b) an approved form for the transaction.
 
Effect of making or lodging instrument, ELN transaction document or statement
by 1 party
*** 20 Effect of making or lodging instrument, ELN transaction document or
statement by 1 party ***
The making of a transfer duty statement, or the lodging under section 19 of an
instrument, ELN transaction document or transfer duty statement, by 1 of the
parties to the dutiable transaction relieves the other parties to the
transaction from complying with the requirement to make the statement under
section 18 or lodge the instrument, ELN transaction document or transfer duty
statement under section 19.
 
No double duty—general
*** 21 No double duty—general ***
     (1) If a transaction for property constitutes more than 1 dutiable
     transaction for the property and imposition of transfer duty on all
     of the dutiable transactions for the property would result in
     transfer duty being imposed more than once on the transaction, the
     commissioner must decide the dutiable transaction on which transfer
     duty is imposed.
          Notes—
                    1 For objections and appeals against
                    assessments of duty, see the
                    Administration Act, part 6.
                    2 For a dutiable transaction that is an
                    ELN transfer or ELN lodgement, see also
                    part 15, division 2.
     (2) For subsection (1), the commissioner must decide the dutiable
     transaction that is the most applicable dutiable transaction having
     regard to the provisions of this chapter and the primary purpose of
     the transaction.
 
No double duty—particular dutiable transactions
*** 22 No double duty—particular dutiable transactions ***
     (1) If transfer duty is imposed on a dutiable transaction for
     periodical payments of consideration, no duty is imposed under this
     Act on any agreement securing the periodical payments.
     (2) If transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction that is an
     agreement for the transfer of dutiable property is paid, no transfer
     duty is imposed on the transfer of the property to the transferee
     under the agreement.
          Note—
               For a dutiable transaction that is an ELN
               transfer or ELN lodgement, see also part 15,
               division 2.
     (2A) Also, if a payment commitment is made for a dutiable transaction
     that is an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property, no
     transfer duty is imposed on an ELN transfer of the dutiable property
     to the transferee under the agreement.
          Notes—
                    1 For a dutiable transaction that is an
                    ELN transfer, see also part 15,
                    division 2.
                    2 See part 15, division 3 in relation
                    to the making of a payment commitment
                    for an agreement for the transfer of
                    dutiable property.
     (3) If the commissioner is satisfied—
          (a) a person (the
          "agent") is appointed in writing as an agent for another
          person (the
          "principal"); and
          (b) under the appointment, the agent enters into a dutiable
          transaction that is an agreement for the transfer of
          dutiable property from a person (the
          "original transferor") to the agent on behalf of the
          principal (the
          "agreement"); and
          (c) the principal provided all the consideration, including
          any deposit paid; and
          (d) transfer duty imposed on the agreement is paid; and
          (e) the dutiable property is later transferred to the
          principal by the original transferor or the agent (the
          "agency transfer");
     no transfer duty is imposed on the agency transfer or the trust
     acquisition or trust surrender by the principal because of the
     agreement or agency transfer.
     (4) For subsection (3) (a), the commissioner must not be satisfied
     the person was properly appointed as agent unless the original
     instrument of appointment, or a copy of it, is lodged.
     (5) If—
          (a) there is an agreement for the transfer of dutiable
          property (the
          "first agreement"); and
          (b) after the first agreement takes place, 1 or more
          agreements to transfer all or part of the dutiable property
          the subject of the first agreement takes place (the
          "intervening agreements"); and
          (c) to give effect to the first agreement and the
          intervening agreements, 1 or more transfers of dutiable
          property (the
          "transfers") are effected by 1 or more parties to the first
          agreement and the intervening agreements; and
          (d) transfer duty imposed on the first agreement and the
          intervening agreements is paid;
     no transfer duty is imposed on the transfers.
          Example for subsection (5)—
               On 1 July, under an agreement for transfer, A
               agrees to sell land in Queensland to B for
               $100,000. Settlement is to take place on 31 July.
               On 7 July, under an agreement for transfer, B
               agrees to sell the land to C for $120,000. Again,
               settlement is to take place on 31 July. Before 31
               July, B directs A, that at settlement, A transfer
               the land to C.
               The agreement between A and B is the first
               agreement. The agreement between B and C is the
               intervening agreement. No transfer duty is
               imposed on the transfer from A to C if transfer
               duty on the first and intervening agreements has
               been paid.
 
When credit to be allowed for duty paid
*** 23 When credit to be allowed for duty paid ***
     (1) If section 14 (1) (c) is applied to determine the value of land
     because of a lease or occupancy right, in assessing the transfer duty
     payable for the dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or
     agreement for the transfer, of the land, a credit must be allowed for
     any lease duty paid under repealed chapter 4 for the lease or right.
     (2) Subsection (3) applies if—
          (a) transfer duty is paid on a dutiable transaction that is
          an option to acquire dutiable property (the
          "first transaction"); and
          (b) on the exercise of the option, transfer duty is payable
          on the dutiable transaction for the acquisition of the
          dutiable property (the
          "later transaction"); and
          (c) under the option, the consideration paid for the option
          is part of the consideration for the later transaction.
     (3) In assessing the transfer duty on the later transaction, a credit
     must be allowed for the transfer duty paid for the first transaction.
     (4) In this section—

     "repealed chapter 4" means chapter 4 (Lease duty) as it was in force
     from time to time before its repeal by the Revenue Legislation
     Amendment Act 2005.
 
Rates of transfer duty
*** 24 Rates of transfer duty ***
     (1) The rate of transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction that
     is the transfer, or an agreement for the transfer, of an existing
     right of a holder of the following is $5—
          (a) a mortgage, including the debt secured by the mortgage,
          that is solely over land in Queensland;
          (b) another mortgage, including the debt secured by the
          mortgage, that is incidental to, and transferred in
          connection with, a mortgage mentioned in paragraph (a) (a
          "primary mortgage") if the primary mortgage is the
          principal security held by the transferor.
     (2) The rate of transfer duty imposed on another dutiable transaction
     is stated in schedule 3, column 2, opposite the dutiable value of the
     transaction in schedule 3, column 1.
 
Payment of transfer duty for deeds of grant and particular freeholding leases
*** 25 Payment of transfer duty for deeds of grant and particular freeholding
leases ***
     (1) This section applies if transfer duty is imposed on a dutiable
     transaction that is—
          (a) a grant of land in fee simple under the Land Act 1994;
          or
          (b) an acquisition of a new right that is a post-Wolfe
          freeholding lease under the Land Act 1994.
     (2) Within 30 days after the liability for the duty arises, the
     grantee or lessee must pay the duty to the chief executive of the
     department in which the Land Act 1994 is administered.
 
Apportionment—head office or principal place of business in Queensland
*** 26 Apportionment—head office or principal place of business in Queensland
***
     (1) This section applies for determining the consideration for a
     dutiable transaction for or relating to, or the unencumbered value
     of, dutiable property that is a Queensland business asset, other than
     a debt or personal property, of a Queensland business that has its
     head office or principal place of business in Queensland if, at any
     time during the 3 financial years preceding the dutiable transaction
     concerned—
          (a) a supply of land, money, credit or goods or any
          interest in them, or provision of services, has been made
          by the business to customers outside Queensland; or
          (b) the asset has been used, exploited or exercised in, or
          relates to, a place outside Queensland.
     (2) A reference in this chapter to consideration for the transaction
     or the unencumbered value of the property is taken to be a reference
     to the amount (the
     "apportioned amount") worked out using the following formula—
     where—

     "AA" means the apportioned amount.

     "CUV" means the consideration for the dutiable transaction or
     unencumbered value of the Queensland business asset mentioned in
     subsection (1).

     "OS" means the gross amount of the supplies and provision of services
     made by the business to its customers in other States during the 3
     completed financial years preceding the dutiable transaction.

     "TS" means the gross amount of supplies and provision of services
     made by the business to all its customers during the 3 completed
     financial years preceding the dutiable transaction.
     (3) However, the commissioner may decide the consideration for the
     dutiable transaction or the unencumbered value of the dutiable
     property on another basis if the commissioner is satisfied the other
     basis would be more appropriate in particular circumstances.
 
Apportionment—head office or principal place of business in another State
*** 27 Apportionment—head office or principal place of business in another
State ***
     (1) This section applies for determining the consideration for a
     dutiable transaction for or relating to, or the unencumbered value
     of, dutiable property that is a Queensland business asset, other than
     a debt or personal property, of a Queensland business that does not
     have its head office or principal place of business in Queensland if,
     at any time during the 3 financial years preceding the dutiable
     transaction concerned—
          (a) a supply of land, money, credit or goods or any
          interest in them, or provision of services, has been made
          by the business to customers in Queensland; or
          (b) the asset has been used, exploited or exercised in, or
          relates to, Queensland.
     (2) A reference in this chapter to consideration for the transaction
     or the unencumbered value of the property is taken to be a reference
     to the amount (the
     "apportioned amount") worked out using the following formula—
     where—

     "AA" means the apportioned amount.

     "CUV" means the consideration for the dutiable transaction or
     unencumbered value of the Queensland business asset mentioned in
     subsection (1).

     "QS" means the gross amount of the supplies and provision of services
     made by the business to its Queensland customers during the 3
     completed financial years preceding the dutiable transaction.

     "TS" means the gross amount of supplies and provision of services
     made by the business to all its customers during the 3 completed
     financial years preceding the dutiable transaction.
     (3) However, the commissioner may decide the consideration for the
     dutiable transaction or the unencumbered value of the dutiable
     property on another basis if the commissioner is satisfied the other
     basis would be more appropriate in particular circumstances.
 
Apportionment of particular dutiable transactions relating to existing and new
rights
*** 28 Apportionment of particular dutiable transactions relating to existing
and new rights ***
     (1) This section applies for determining—
          (a) the consideration for a dutiable transaction for or
          relating to an existing right or acquisition of a new right
          on its creation, grant or issue if the right is exercisable
          or relates to the conduct of a business or activity outside
          Queensland; or
          (b) the unencumbered value of dutiable property that is an
          existing right if the right is exercisable or relates to
          the conduct of a business or activity outside Queensland;
          or
          (c) the unencumbered value of a new right on its creation,
          grant or issue if the right is exercisable or relates to
          the conduct of a business or activity outside Queensland.
     (2) A reference in this chapter to consideration for the transaction
     or the unencumbered value of the right is taken to be a reference to
     the amount that represents the same proportion of the consideration
     or unencumbered value that the unencumbered value of the right, to
     the extent it is exercisable or relates to the conduct of a business
     or activity in Queensland, bears to the total unencumbered value of
     the right.
     (3) However, the commissioner may decide the consideration for the
     dutiable transaction or the unencumbered value of the right on
     another basis if the commissioner is satisfied the other basis would
     be more appropriate in particular circumstances.
 
When transaction for chattel is not dutiable transaction
*** 29 When transaction for chattel is not dutiable transaction ***
     (1) If a chattel in Queensland is the subject of a transaction, the
     transaction is not a dutiable transaction unless—
          (a) another type of dutiable property is the subject of the
          same transaction; or
          (b) under section 30, it is aggregated with a dutiable
          transaction that is not for a chattel.
     (2) For subsection (1) (b), section 30 applies as if the transaction
     were a dutiable transaction.
 
Aggregation of dutiable transactions
*** 30 Aggregation of dutiable transactions ***
     (1) This section applies to dutiable transactions that together form,
     evidence, give effect to or arise from what is, substantially 1
     arrangement.
     (2) For assessing transfer duty on each of the dutiable transactions,
     the transactions must be aggregated and treated as a single dutiable
     transaction.
          Example for subsection (2)—
               A conducts a business of manufacturing bullbars.
               A agrees to sell the business to B as a going
               concern for $50,000,000. The property included in
               the agreement comprises land, plant and
               equipment, goodwill and the business name.
               The land is dutiable property being land in
               Queensland and each of the other assets are
               dutiable property being Queensland business
               assets.
               The agreement, so far as it relates to the sale
               of the land, is a dutiable transaction being an
               agreement to transfer land in Queensland and, so
               far as it relates to the agreement to sell each
               of the business assets, is a dutiable transaction
               being an agreement to transfer dutiable property
               that is a Queensland business asset. Accordingly,
               there are 4 dutiable transactions under the
               agreement.
               Because the dutiable transactions together form 1
               arrangement, they must be aggregated under this
               section for imposing transfer duty.
     (3) For subsection (1), all relevant circumstances relating to the
     dutiable transactions must be taken into account in deciding whether
     they together form, evidence, give effect to or arise from what is,
     substantially 1 arrangement.
     (4) For subsection (3), relevant circumstances include the
     following—
          (a) whether the transactions are contained in 1 instrument;
          (b) whether any of the transactions are conditional on
          entry into, or completion of, any of the other
          transactions;
          (c) whether the parties to any of the transactions are the
          same;
          (d) whether any party to a transaction is a related person
          of another party to any of the other transactions;
          (e) the time over which the transactions take place;
          (f) whether, before the transactions take place, the
          dutiable property the subject of the transactions was used
          together, or dependently with one another, by the
          transferor or transferors;
          (g) whether, after the transactions take place, the
          dutiable property the subject of the transactions will be
          used together, or dependently with one another, by the
          transferee or transferees.
     (5) Transfer duty imposed on the dutiable transaction aggregated
     under this section must—
          (a) be assessed on the total of the dutiable values of the
          transactions when the liability for transfer duty for each
          of the transactions arose; and
          (b) be apportioned between the transactions as decided by
          the commissioner.
          Example for subsection (5)—
               Under 4 agreements between a builder and a
               developer, the builder agrees to purchase 4 lots
               of land from the developer for $100,000 each. The
               lots are dutiable property being land in
               Queensland and each of the agreements is a
               dutiable transaction being an agreement to
               transfer land in Queensland.
               Even though the sale of the 4 lots was negotiated
               at the same time, the agreements were signed on
               different dates over a 10 month period, had
               different settlement dates and were not
               conditional on each other.
               Under section 24 (Rates of transfer duty) and
               schedule 3 (Rates of duty on dutiable
               transactions and relevant acquisitions for
               landholder and corporate trustee duty), the
               agreements for lots 1 to 3 have been separately
               stamped for $2,350 transfer duty. When the
               agreement for lot 4 is lodged for stamping, the
               commissioner decides this section applies because
               the transactions together formed 1 arrangement.
               Accordingly, the transactions must be aggregated
               under this section for imposing transfer duty and
               the duty apportioned between them.
               Under subsection (5) (a), the total of the
               dutiable values of the dutiable transactions on
               which transfer duty is imposed is $400,000, being
               the value of each of the lots when the liability
               for transfer duty arose for each of the
               transactions, regardless of a variation in the
               values since the liability arose.
               Under section 24 and schedule 3, transfer duty
               imposed on the aggregated transaction is $12,475.
               If the commissioner decides to apportion the
               transfer duty equally between the dutiable
               transactions, the amount of transfer duty payable
               is $3,118.75 for each transaction.
               Under the Administration Act, part 3, the
               commissioner will make a reassessment for the
               transactions for lots 1 to 3. The assessment
               notice must state the matters mentioned in
               section 26 (2) of that Act.
     (6) Each party to each of the dutiable transactions must, when
     lodging the instrument, ELN transaction document or transfer duty
     statement relating to the transaction, give notice to the
     commissioner stating details known to the party about—
          (a) all of the dutiable property included or to be included
          in the arrangement mentioned in subsection (1); and
          (b) the dutiable value of each dutiable transaction.
          Note—
               Under the Administration Act, the requirement
               under this subsection is a lodgement requirement
               for which a failure to comply is an offence under
               section 121 of that Act.
     (7) This section does not apply to a dutiable transaction to the
     extent that it relates to an exchange of dutiable property.
 
Partitions
*** 31 Partitions ***
     (1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction under which the
     following happens (the
     "partition")—
          (a) dutiable property held by persons jointly as joint
          tenants or tenants in common (each a
          "co-owner") is transferred, or agreed to be transferred, to
          1 or more of the co-owners;
          (b) the dutiable property transferred, or agreed to be
          transferred, includes the interest held by the transferee
          in the property immediately before the transaction.
     (2) The dutiable value of the dutiable transaction is the greater of
     the following—
          (a) the amount by which the unencumbered value of the
          dutiable property transferred, or agreed to be transferred,
          is more than the unencumbered value of the interest held by
          the transferee in the property immediately before the
          transaction;
          (b) the consideration paid by any party to the transaction.
     (3) This section does not apply to a transaction if section 48
     applies to the transaction.
 
Transfer by way of security—land
*** 32 Transfer by way of security—land ***
     (1) This section applies if the commissioner is satisfied—
          (a) there has been a dutiable transaction that is a
          transfer of dutiable property by way of security (the
          "original transfer"); and
          (b) the property is land; and
          (c) transfer duty has been paid on the transaction; and
          (d) the property has been retransferred to the person who
          transferred it by way of security (the
          "retransfer") or has been transferred to a person to whom
          the property has been transmitted by death or bankruptcy
          (also the
          "retransfer").
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment of transfer duty paid
     on the original transfer to reduce the duty to the amount that would
     have been payable if the amount secured by the transfer had been
     secured by a mortgage for which mortgage duty were imposed.
     (3) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction that is
     the retransfer.
     (4) Subsection (2) applies to the reassessment despite the limitation
     period under the Administration Act for reassessments.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 3 (Assessments
               of tax), division 3 (Reassessments).
 
Transfer by way of security—other dutiable property
*** 33 Transfer by way of security—other dutiable property ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction if—
          (a) the transaction is a transfer of dutiable property by
          way of security; and
          (b) the property is not land.
     (2) Subsection (3) applies if—
          (a) after the transfer by way of security, the transferee,
          or the transferee’s assignee, acquires ownership of the
          dutiable property free from any interest of the transferor,
          or transferor’s assignee; and
          (b) the transferee, or the transferee’s assignee, were to
          newly acquire the dutiable property at the time of the
          acquisition mentioned in paragraph (a), the acquisition
          would be a dutiable transaction.
     (3) The acquisition of the ownership of the dutiable property by the
     transferee is taken to be a dutiable transaction and transfer duty
     imposed on the transaction must be reduced by the amount of mortgage
     duty, if any, paid on the transfer.
 
What is a Queensland business asset
*** 34 What is a Queensland business asset ***
A
"Queensland business asset" is a business asset of a Queensland business.
 
What is a business asset
*** 35 What is a business asset ***
     (1) Each of the following is a
     "business asset" —
          (a) goodwill;
          (b) a statutory business licence used for carrying on a
          business;
          (c) a right to use a statutory business licence used for
          carrying on a business;
          (d) the business name used for carrying on a business;
          (e) a right under a franchise arrangement used for carrying
          on a business;
          (f) a debt of a business if the debtor resides in
          Queensland;
          (g) a supply right of a business;
          (h) intellectual property used for carrying on a business;
          (i) personal property in Queensland of a business.
     (2) For subsection (1) —
          (a) a business asset mentioned in subsection (1) (b) that
          is issued or given under—
               (i) a Queensland Act is used for carrying on a
               business; or
               (ii) a Commonwealth Act is used for carrying on a
               business if it is used, exploited or exercised in
               Queensland; and
          (b) another business asset is used for carrying on a
          business if it is used, exploited or exercised in
          Queensland.
 
What is a Queensland business
*** 36 What is a Queensland business ***
A
"Queensland business" is a business—
     (a) that is conducted on or from a place in Queensland; or
     (b) the conduct of which consists wholly or partly of supplying land,
     money, credit or goods or any interest in them, or providing any
     service, to Queensland customers; or
     (c) that has ceased but satisfied paragraph (a) or (b) at any time in
     the 1 year before a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or
     agreement for the transfer, of an asset of the business.
          Example for paragraph (c)—
               A business conducted from a place in Queensland
               goes into liquidation. Three months after the
               business stops trading, the liquidator transfers
               business assets of the business. For determining
               whether the transfer of the business assets is a
               dutiable transaction, the business is a
               Queensland business because paragraph (a) was
               satisfied in the 1 year before the transfer.
 
When transaction for particular Queensland business assets not dutiable
transaction
*** 37 When transaction for particular Queensland business assets not dutiable
transaction ***
     (1) If a debt of a business that is evidenced by a negotiable
     instrument is the subject of a transaction, the transaction is not a
     dutiable transaction unless—
          (a) another type of dutiable property is the subject of the
          same transaction or, under section 30, it is aggregated
          with a dutiable transaction; or
          (b) under the transaction, the negotiable instrument is or
          is to be transferred with all, or substantially all, of the
          negotiable instruments of the business.
     (2) If a supply right of a business is the subject of a transaction,
     the transaction is not a dutiable transaction unless—
          (a) another type of dutiable property is the subject of the
          same transaction or, under section 30, it is aggregated
          with a dutiable transaction; or
          (b) under the transaction, the supply right is or is to be
          transferred with all, or substantially all, of the supply
          rights of the business.
     (3) If intellectual or personal property of a business is the subject
     of a transaction, the transaction is not a dutiable transaction
     unless, under section 30, it is aggregated with 1 or more of the
     following—
          (a) a dutiable transaction for a Queensland business asset,
          other than intellectual or personal property;
          (b) a dutiable transaction for land in Queensland.
     (4) For subsections (1) (a), (2) (a) and (3), section 30 applies as
     if the transaction were a dutiable transaction.
 
When consignment of trading stock of Queensland business is a dutiable
transaction
*** 38 When consignment of trading stock of Queensland business is a dutiable
transaction ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the owner of a Queensland business transfers or agrees
          to transfer a Queensland business asset, other than trading
          stock of the business, to a person (the
          "new owner"); and
          (b) the owner places all or most of the trading stock on
          consignment for sale by a person, whether or not the new
          owner, (the
          "consignee") in the conduct of the business by the new
          owner; and
          (c) having regard to the terms of the consignment it is
          reasonable to conclude that the consignment is, or is part
          of, an arrangement to avoid transfer duty.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1) (c), the terms of the consignment
     include the following—
          (a) the amount payable to the owner by the consignee and
          the terms of payment;
          (b) the price ultimately payable to the owner for the
          trading stock and the way in which it is worked out;
          (c) the basis of working out the consignee’s commission;
          (d) the right of the consignee to mix the trading stock
          with other property not owned by the owner;
          (e) the right of the consignee to deal with the trading
          stock as if it were the consignee’s or other than as
          agent of the owner.
     (3) The placing of the trading stock on consignment is taken to be a
     transfer of the stock.
          Note—
               Accordingly, the transfer is a dutiable
               transaction being the transfer of a Queensland
               business asset because trading stock is a
               business asset being personal property.
 
Surrender of Queensland business asset so replacement asset may be granted
*** 39 Surrender of Queensland business asset so replacement asset may be
granted ***
     (1) This section applies if a Queensland business asset is
     surrendered by a person (the
     "owner") so that a similar business asset may be granted, issued,
     given to or obtained by another person.
     (2) For imposing transfer duty—
          (a) the surrender is taken to be a transfer of the business
          asset by the owner to the other person when the similar
          business asset is granted, issued, given or obtained; and
          (b) the owner and other person are the parties to the
          dutiable transaction that is the transfer of the business
          asset.
 
Interpretation for property held by partnership or trust
*** 40 Interpretation for property held by partnership or trust ***
A reference to a partnership or trust holding property is a reference to the
holding of the property by the partners for the partnership or trustees on
trust.
 
What is a partnership acquisition
*** 41 What is a partnership acquisition ***
A person makes a
"partnership acquisition" if the person acquires a partnership interest in a
partnership that—
     (a) holds dutiable property; or
     (b) has an indirect interest in dutiable property.
     Note—
          Section 498 includes provision about references to dutiable
          property.
 
What is a partner’s partnership interest
*** 42 What is a partner’s partnership interest ***
     (1) A partner’s
     "partnership interest" is—
          (a) if the partner has a variable partnership entitlement
          under subsection (2) —the proportion that the value of
          the partner’s entitlements as a partner bears to the
          value of the entitlements of all partners in the
          partnership expressed as a percentage; or
          (b) if the partner is entitled only to share in the profits
          of the partnership and has given or is required to give
          consideration, or has made or is required to make a
          contribution to the capital of the partnership, for the
          acquisition of the profit-sharing right—the partner’s
          profit-sharing percentage; or
          (c) if paragraph (a) or (b) does not apply—the greater of
          the following—
               (i) the percentage of the capital of the
               partnership the partner has contributed or is
               obliged to contribute;
               (ii) the percentage of the losses of the
               partnership the partner is required to bear.
     (2) For subsection (1) (a), a partner has a variable partnership
     entitlement in a partnership if, in the ordinary course of
     determining the partner’s entitlement to share in the profits or
     obligation to contribute to the capital or losses of the partnership,
     the entitlement or obligation varies or may vary from time to time.
 
What is a partnership’s indirect interest in dutiable property
*** 43 What is a partnership’s indirect interest in dutiable property ***
A partnership has an
"indirect interest" in dutiable property if—
     (a) through a partnership interest or trust interest there is a
     connection between the partnership and dutiable property of the other
     partnership or trust; or
     (b) through a series of partnership interests or trust interests, or
     a combination of any of them, there is a connection between the
     partnership and dutiable property of a partnership or trust in the
     series.
 
Acquiring a partnership interest
*** 44 Acquiring a partnership interest ***
     (1) A person acquires a partnership interest if a partnership is
     formed or the person’s partnership interest increases.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1) —
          (a) a partnership may be formed on—
               (i) a change in the membership of a partnership;
               or
               (ii) the merger of 2 or more partnerships; or
          (b) a person’s partnership interest may increase—
               (i) under the terms of a partnership agreement;
               or
               (ii) on the retirement of a partner from a
               partnership; or
               (iii) on a change in the terms of a partnership
               agreement effecting a change in the interests of
               the partners.
     (3) However, a partner’s variable partnership entitlement under
     section 42 does not increase if—
          (a) the partner’s entitlement to share in the profits or
          obligation to contribute to the capital or losses of the
          partnership increases merely because of the partner’s
          performance as a partner; and
          (b) there is no arrangement stating—
               (i) the extent of the future variation to the
               partner’s entitlement or obligation; or
               (ii) the consideration for the variation.
 
What is the dutiable value of a partnership acquisition
*** 45 What is the dutiable value of a partnership acquisition ***
The dutiable value of a partnership acquisition is the greater of the
following—
     (a) the consideration for the acquisition so far as the consideration
     relates to dutiable property, or an indirect interest in dutiable
     property, held by the partnership;
     (b) the value of the acquisition worked out under section 46 or 47.
 
What is the value of a partnership acquisition—general
*** 46 What is the value of a partnership acquisition—general ***
     (1) Subject to subsections (5) and (6), the value of a partnership
     acquisition is the total of the amounts worked out by applying the
     partner’s partnership interest to the unencumbered value, when the
     liability for transfer duty arises, of—
          (a) the dutiable property held by the partnership (the
          "relevant partnership"); and
          (b) any indirect interest in dutiable property held by the
          relevant partnership.
     (2) For subsection (1) (b), the unencumbered value of an indirect
     interest under section 43 (a) of the relevant partnership is the
     amount worked out by applying to the unencumbered value of the
     dutiable property held by the entity in which the relevant
     partnership has a partnership or trust interest, the partnership or
     trust interest of the relevant partnership in that entity.
     (3) For subsection (1) (b), the unencumbered value of an indirect
     interest under section 43 (b) of the relevant partnership is the
     amount worked out by—
          (a) first applying to the unencumbered value of the
          dutiable property held by the ultimate entity, the
          partnership or trust interest of the partnership or trust
          (the
          "last partner or beneficiary") that is a partner or
          beneficiary of the ultimate entity; and
          (b) applying to the amount worked out under paragraph (a),
          and the unencumbered value of any dutiable property held by
          the last partner or beneficiary, the partnership or trust
          interest of the next partnership or trust in the series of
          partnerships or trusts that is a partner or beneficiary of
          the last partner or beneficiary; and
          (c) applying the calculation in paragraph (b) for each of
          the other partnerships or trusts in the series until the
          first entity’s partnership interest or trust interest is
          used in the calculation; and
          (d) applying to the amount last worked out under paragraph
          (c) and the unencumbered value of any dutiable property
          held by the first entity, the partnership or trust interest
          of the relevant partnership.
     (4) Schedule 4 contains an example of how the value of a partnership
     acquisition is worked out.
     (5) For determining the value of a new partner’s partnership
     acquisition on formation of a partnership, the value of any dutiable
     property the partner contributed to the partnership on its formation
     must be disregarded.
     (5A) For subsection (5), a person is a new partner only if—
          (a) the person was not in partnership with any partners of
          the partnership immediately before its formation; or
          (b) on the person’s partnership acquisition, the person
          becomes a partner in an additional partnership to a
          partnership in which the person is a partner with any
          partners of the additional partnership immediately before
          its formation.
     (5B) However, subsection (5A) (b) does not apply to a person who
     makes a partnership acquisition in a partnership that was formed
     because of a change in the membership of the partners of another
     partnership (the
     "old partnership") if the person had a partnership interest in the
     old partnership.
     (6) For determining the value of a partner’s partnership
     acquisition that is an increase in the partner’s partnership
     interest, the partner’s partnership interest is taken to be the
     increase in the partner’s partnership interest.
 
What is the value of a partnership acquisition—merger of 2 or more
partnerships
*** 47 What is the value of a partnership acquisition—merger of 2 or more
partnerships ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a person (the
          "partner") first makes a partnership acquisition (the
          "new partnership acquisition") on the merger of 2 or more
          partnerships; and
          (b) the person had a partnership interest (the
          "old partnership interest") in 1 of the merging
          partnerships; and
          (c) the partner were to make a partnership acquisition for
          the old partnership interest immediately before the merger,
          the value of the partnership acquisition would include all
          or part of the unencumbered value of dutiable property (the

          "continuing property") that becomes dutiable property of
          the merged partnership.
     (2) The value of the new partnership acquisition must be reduced by
     the lesser of—
          (a) the amount that would be the value of the new
          partnership acquisition if the dutiable property of the
          merged partnership comprised only the continuing property;
          or
          (b) the amount that represents the value of the partner’s
          partnership acquisition for the old partnership interest
          mentioned in subsection (1) (c) immediately before the
          merger worked out as if the dutiable property of the former
          partnership comprised only the continuing property.
          Example for working out dutiable value under this
          section—
               X is a 30% partner in the XYZ partnership that
               has dutiable property of $10m. The XYZ
               partnership merges with another partnership, to
               form a new partnership (the merged partnership).
               X has a 40% partnership interest in the merged
               partnership. The merged partnership has dutiable
               property with an unencumbered value of $12m,
               including $2m of the dutiable property of the XYZ
               partnership (the continuing property).
               The value of X’s new partnership acquisition is
               worked out as follows—
               Example —
                    Example--
                              1 The value of
                              X’s interest in
                              the merged
                              partnership is
                              $4.8m, being 40%
                              (X’s partnership
                              interest in the
                              merged partnership)
                              of $12m (the
                              unencumbered value
                              of the merged
                              partnership’s
                              dutiable property).
                              2 The reduction
                              under subsection
                              (2) (a) is
                              $800,000, being 40%
                              (X’s partnership
                              interest in the
                              merged partnership)
                              of $2m (the
                              continuing
                              property).
                              3 The reduction
                              under subsection
                              (2) (b) is
                              $600,000, being 30%
                              (X’s partnership
                              interest in the XYZ
                              partnership) of $2m
                              (the continuing
                              property).
                         The value of X’s
                         partnership acquisition is
                         $4.2m, being $4.8m less
                         $600,000 which is the lesser
                         of the amounts worked out
                         under subsection (2).
 
Dutiable value of dutiable transaction reduced for transfer of dutiable
property to partner on retirement or dissolution
*** 48 Dutiable value of dutiable transaction reduced for transfer of dutiable
property to partner on retirement or dissolution ***
     (1) This section applies if, on a person (the
     "retiring partner") ceasing to be a partner in a partnership because
     of the retiring partner’s retirement from the partnership or its
     dissolution, dutiable property of the partnership is transferred or
     agreed to be transferred to the retiring partner.
     (2) The dutiable value of the dutiable transaction for the transfer,
     or agreement for the transfer, of the dutiable property to the
     retiring partner must be reduced by an amount worked out by applying
     the retiring partner’s partnership interest in the partnership to
     the unencumbered value of the dutiable property immediately before
     the retirement or dissolution.
          Example for subsection (2)—
               A, B and C are in partnership in equal shares. B
               had a one-third partnership interest immediately
               before retiring. On B ceasing to be a partner, A
               and C transfer land to B. The dutiable value of
               the land acquired by B will be reduced by one-
               third.
 
Application of pt 8
*** 49 Application of pt 8 ***
     (1) This part applies to all expressly or intentionally created
     trusts, regardless of how they are created.
     (2) However, this part does not apply to a trust acquisition or trust
     surrender of a trust interest in a public unit trust other than a
     majority trust acquisition in a land holding trust.
          Notes—
                    1 For subsection (2), see division 7
                    (Public unit trusts), subdivisions 7
                    (Majority trust acquisitions in land
                    holding trusts) and 8 (Indirect trust
                    interests).
                    2 An acquisition of an interest in a
                    listed unit trust that is a landholder
                    may be dutiable under chapter 3, part 1
                    (Landholder duty).
 
Joint trustees
*** 50 Joint trustees ***
If a trust has 2 or more trustees, the trustees are taken to be a single person
for this chapter.
     Note—
          Under section 65, trustees are jointly and severally liable
          for transfer duty payable.
 
Interpretation for property held by trust or partnership
*** 51 Interpretation for property held by trust or partnership ***
A reference to a trust or partnership holding property is a reference to the
holding of the property by the trustees on trust or the partners for the
partnership.
 
Contracted property and trust interests
*** 52 Contracted property and trust interests ***
     (1) For a trust, contracted property is taken to be dutiable property
     held by the trust.
     (1A) If a trust has made a purchase or sale agreement for a trust
     interest, the trust is taken to have an indirect interest in the
     trust-related dutiable property.
     (2) For determining the dutiable value of a trust creation, trust
     termination, trust acquisition or trust surrender—
          (a) a sale agreement made by the trustee is taken not to
          have been made; and
          (b) a purchase agreement made by the trustee is taken to
          have been completed.
     (3) Subsection (3A) applies if—
          (a) contracted property, or an indirect interest in
          dutiable property mentioned in subsection (1A), is included
          in determining the dutiable value of a trust creation,
          trust termination, trust acquisition or trust surrender;
          and
          (b) afterwards, the sale agreement for the property or
          trust interest is completed or the purchase agreement for
          the property or trust interest is not completed.
     (3A) The commissioner must make a reassessment as if the contracted
     property or indirect interest were never held by the trust.
     (4) For the reassessment, the parties liable to pay transfer duty on
     the trust creation, trust termination, trust acquisition or trust
     surrender must lodge the instruments required for the original
     assessment.
     (5) In this section—

     "purchase agreement" includes an uncompleted agreement, whether or
     not conditional, for the acquisition of a trust interest through
     which the trust would have, if the agreement were completed, an
     indirect interest in dutiable property (the
     "trust-related dutiable property").

     "sale agreement" includes an uncompleted agreement, whether or not
     conditional, for the disposal of a trust interest through which the
     trust has an indirect interest in dutiable property (also the
     "trust-related dutiable property").
 
Creating trust of dutiable property
*** 53 Creating trust of dutiable property ***
     (1) A trust of dutiable property is created if a person, who has
     acquired property other than as trustee, starts to hold the property
     as trustee.
     (2) Also, a trust of dutiable property is created if all the
     following apply—
          (a) a person holds dutiable property on trust (
          "trust 1");
          (b) the person is also trustee of another trust (
          "trust 2");
          (c) the person ceases to hold the dutiable property as
          trustee of trust 1 and starts to hold the dutiable property
          as trustee for trust 2;
          (d) when the person starts to hold the dutiable property as
          trustee for trust 2—
               (i) a person who has a trust interest for the
               dutiable property under trust 2 did not have a
               trust interest for that property when it was held
               for trust 1; or
               (ii) a person who has a trust interest for the
               dutiable property under trust 2 had a trust
               interest for that property when it was held for
               trust 1 and that person’s trust interest
               increases.
          Note—
               Section 498 includes provision about references
               to dutiable property.
 
Terminating trust of dutiable property
*** 54 Terminating trust of dutiable property ***
A trust of dutiable property is terminated if a person, having held the
property as trustee, starts to hold the property other than as trustee.
 
What is a trust acquisition
*** 55 What is a trust acquisition ***
A person makes a
"trust acquisition" if the person acquires a trust interest in a trust that—
     (a) holds dutiable property; or
     (b) has an indirect interest in dutiable property.
     Note—
          Under section 81, an indirect trust acquisition in a land
          holding trust is taken to be a trust acquisition. An
          indirect trust acquisition is the acquisition of an
          interest in a land holding trust through 1 or more
          corporations, partnerships or trusts, or a combination of
          any of them. See definitions
          "indirect trust acquisition" and
          "indirect trust interest" in the dictionary.
 
What is a trust surrender
*** 56 What is a trust surrender ***
A person makes a
"trust surrender" if the person surrenders a trust interest in a trust that
holds dutiable property or has an indirect interest in dutiable property.
 
What is a trust interest
*** 57 What is a trust interest ***
     (1) A
     "trust interest" is a person’s interest as a beneficiary of a
     trust, other than a life interest.
     (2) For a trust that is a discretionary trust, only a taker in
     default of an appointment by the trustee can have a trust interest.
     (3) Also, for a trust that is a superannuation fund, a member of the
     fund has a trust interest in the fund.
          Note—
               For exemption from transfer duty for a trust
               acquisition or surrender of a member’s interest
               in a superannuation fund, see section 119.
 
What is a trust’s indirect interest in dutiable property
*** 58 What is a trust’s indirect interest in dutiable property ***
A trust has an
"indirect interest" in dutiable property if—
     (a) through a trust interest or partnership interest, there is a
     connection between the trust and dutiable property of the other trust
     or partnership; or
     (b) through a series of trust interests or partnership interests, or
     a combination of any of them, there is a connection between the trust
     and dutiable property of a trust or partnership in the series.
 
Acquiring a trust interest
*** 59 Acquiring a trust interest ***
     (1) A person acquires a trust interest if—
          (a) the person becomes a beneficiary of a trust, whether on
          creation of the trust or otherwise; or
          (b) being a beneficiary of a trust, the person’s trust
          interest increases, other than because of the surrender of
          another person’s trust interest in the trust for which
          transfer duty has been paid.
     (2) If a beneficiary’s trust interest is subject to a prior life
     interest, the interest does not increase merely because the life
     tenant dies or, over time, the extent of the life interest reduces.
 
Beneficiary’s trust interest is percentage of or proportionate to property
held on trust
*** 60 Beneficiary’s trust interest is percentage of or proportionate to
property held on trust ***
     (1) A beneficiary’s trust interest is—
          (a) for a beneficiary who is a taker in default under a
          discretionary trust—
               (i) the percentage of the trust income or trust
               property the beneficiary would receive in default
               of appointment by the trustee; or
               (ii) if the beneficiary would receive both trust
               income and trust property in default of
               appointment by the trustee, the greater
               percentage of the trust income or trust property
               the beneficiary would receive; or
          (b) for a beneficiary of a trust, other than a
          discretionary trust, whose entitlement is solely to income
          of the property held on trust—the proportion that the
          value of the beneficiary’s entitlement bears to the value
          of the entitlements of all beneficiaries expressed as a
          percentage; or
          (c) for another beneficiary—the proportion that the
          beneficiary’s entitlement under the trust bears to the
          unencumbered value of the property held on trust expressed
          as a percentage.
     (2) For subsection (1) (c), the beneficiary’s entitlement under the
     trust is—
          (a) the amount of the unencumbered value of the property
          held on trust that the beneficiary could receive as a
          result of the acquisition of the beneficiary’s trust
          interest determined at the time of acquisition of the
          interest; or
          (b) the entitlement stated in subsection (3) if—
               (i) the beneficiary’s entitlement under the
               trust is not subject to a prior life interest;
               and
               (ii) the beneficiary’s entitlement under the
               trust may increase, including from nothing, on
               the fulfilment of any condition, contingency or
               the exercise or non-exercise of any power or
               discretion; and
               (iii) the condition, contingency, power or
               discretion is part of an arrangement a
               significant purpose of which is to lessen the
               amount of the beneficiary’s entitlement at a
               particular time.
     (3) For subsection (2) (b), the beneficiary’s entitlement under the
     trust is the maximum interest in the property held on trust that the
     beneficiary would have on the fulfilment of the condition or
     contingency or the exercise or non-exercise of the power or
     discretion.
     (4) For a majority trust acquisition, a reference in this section to
     a beneficiary’s entitlement under the trust includes the
     entitlement under the trust of related persons of the beneficiary.
 
Who is a related person
*** 61 Who is a related person ***
     (1) A person is a
     "related person" of another person if—
          (a) for individuals—they are members of the same family;
          or
          (b) for an individual and a corporation—the person or a
          member of the person’s family is a majority shareholder,
          director or secretary of the corporation or a related body
          corporate of the corporation, or has an interest of 50% or
          more in it; or
          (c) for an individual and a trustee—the person or a
          related person under another provision of this section is a
          beneficiary of the trust; or
          (d) for corporations—they are related bodies corporate;
          or
          (e) for a corporation and a trustee—the corporation or a
          related person under another provision of this section is a
          beneficiary of the trust; or
          (f) for trustees—
               (i) there is a person who is a beneficiary of
               both trusts; or
               (ii) a person is beneficiary of 1 trust and a
               related person under another provision of this
               section is a beneficiary of the other trust.
     (2) Also, a person is a
     "related person" of another person if the persons acquire trust
     interests in a land holding trust and the acquisitions form,
     evidence, give effect to or arise from what is substantially 1
     arrangement.
     (3) However, a person is not a
     "related person" of another person under subsection (1), other than
     subsection (1) (d), if the commissioner is satisfied the trust
     interests of the persons in a land holding trust—
          (a) were acquired, and will be used, independently; and
          (b) were not acquired, and will not be used, for a common
          purpose.
 
What is the dutiable value of a trust acquisition or trust surrender
*** 62 What is the dutiable value of a trust acquisition or trust surrender ***
The dutiable value of a trust acquisition or trust surrender is the greater of
the following—
     (a) the consideration for the acquisition or surrender so far as the
     consideration relates to dutiable property, or an indirect interest
     in dutiable property, held by the trust;
     (b) the value of the acquisition or surrender worked out under
     section 63.
 
What is the value of a trust acquisition or trust surrender
*** 63 What is the value of a trust acquisition or trust surrender ***
     (1) Subject to subsections (6) to (8), the value of a trust
     acquisition or trust surrender is the total of the amounts worked out
     by applying the beneficiary’s trust interest to the unencumbered
     value, when the liability for transfer duty arises, of—
          (a) the dutiable property held by the trust (the
          "relevant trust"); and
          (b) any indirect interest in dutiable property held by the
          relevant trust.
          Note—
               Under section 52 (1), dutiable property includes
               contracted property. Also, under section 52 (1A),
               the relevant trust may be taken to hold an
               indirect interest in dutiable property through a
               trust interest that is the subject of a purchase
               or sale agreement.
     (2) For subsection (1), the beneficiary’s trust interest for a
     trust surrender is the beneficiary’s trust interest immediately
     before the surrender.
     (3) For subsection (1) (b), the unencumbered value of an indirect
     interest under section 58 (a) of the relevant trust is the amount
     worked out by applying to the unencumbered value of the dutiable
     property held by the entity in which the relevant trust has a trust
     or partnership interest, the trust or partnership interest of the
     relevant trust in that entity.
     (4) For subsection (1) (b), the unencumbered value of an indirect
     interest under section 58 (b) of the relevant trust is the amount
     worked out by—
          (a) first applying to the unencumbered value of the
          dutiable property held by the ultimate entity, the trust or
          partnership interest of the trust or partnership (the
          "last beneficiary or partner") that is a beneficiary or
          partner of the ultimate entity; and
          (b) applying to the amount worked out under paragraph (a),
          and the unencumbered value of any dutiable property held by
          the last beneficiary or partner, the trust or partnership
          interest of the next trust or partnership in the series of
          trusts or partnerships that is a beneficiary or partner of
          the last beneficiary or partner; and
          (c) applying the calculation in paragraph (b) for each of
          the other trusts or partnerships in the series until the
          first entity’s trust interest or partnership interest is
          used in the calculation; and
          (d) applying to the amount last worked out under paragraph
          (c) and the unencumbered value of any dutiable property
          held by the first entity, the trust or partnership interest
          of the relevant trust.
     (5) Schedule 4 contains an example of how the value of a trust
     acquisition is worked out.
     (6) For determining the value of a beneficiary’s trust acquisition
     that is an increase in the beneficiary’s trust interest, other than
     a majority trust acquisition, the beneficiary’s trust interest is
     taken to be the increase in the beneficiary’s trust interest.
     (7) Subsection (8) applies to a majority trust acquisition that is an
     increase in a beneficiary’s trust interest (the
     "relevant trust acquisition") that has happened in the following
     circumstances—
          (a) the trust interest of the beneficiary and related
          persons of the beneficiary was 50% or more immediately
          before the relevant trust acquisition;
          (b) transfer duty was previously paid for a majority trust
          acquisition in the trust made by the beneficiary or related
          persons;
          (c) since the majority trust acquisition mentioned in
          paragraph (b), no other related person of the beneficiary
          has made a trust acquisition in the trust.
     (8) For determining the value of the beneficiary’s trust
     acquisition that is the relevant trust acquisition, the
     beneficiary’s trust interest is taken to be the increase in the
     beneficiary’s trust interest.
 
Liability to pay transfer duty on creation or termination of trust
*** 64 Liability to pay transfer duty on creation or termination of trust ***
     (1) If a trust of dutiable property is created or terminated, the
     trustee of the trust is the party to the dutiable transaction that is
     the creation or termination of the trust.
     (2) If the trustee of the trust does not pay the transfer duty, the
     beneficiaries of the trust are jointly and severally liable for the
     duty.
 
Liability of joint trustees
*** 65 Liability of joint trustees ***
If a trust has 2 or more trustees, the trustees are jointly and severally
liable for any transfer duty imposed.
 
When no transfer duty on trust acquisition or trust surrender
*** 66 When no transfer duty on trust acquisition or trust surrender ***
     (1) If, because of the creation of a trust of dutiable property, a
     person acquires a trust interest in the property, transfer duty is
     not imposed on the acquisition if—
          (a) transfer duty has been paid for the dutiable
          transaction that is the creation of the trust of the
          property; or
          (b) the dutiable transaction that is the creation of the
          trust of the property is exempt from transfer duty.
     (2) If, because of the acquisition of dutiable property by a trust, a
     person acquires a trust interest in the property, transfer duty is
     not imposed on the acquisition of the trust interest if—
          (a) the trustee has paid transfer duty for the acquisition
          of the property; or
          (b) the dutiable transaction that is the acquisition of the
          property is exempt from transfer duty; or
          (c) duty is not imposed on the acquisition of the property
          by the trustee.
     (3) If, because of the termination of a trust of dutiable property, a
     person surrenders a trust interest in the property, transfer duty is
     not imposed on the surrender if—
          (a) transfer duty has been paid for the dutiable
          transaction that is the termination of the trust of the
          property; or
          (b) the dutiable transaction that is the termination of the
          trust of the property is exempt from transfer duty.
 
Parties to trust acquisition and trust surrender
*** 67 Parties to trust acquisition and trust surrender ***
     (1) For a trust acquisition, the beneficiary acquiring the trust
     interest is the party to the dutiable transaction.
     (2) For a trust surrender, the trustee and the beneficiary whose
     trust interest is surrendered are the parties to the dutiable
     transaction.
          Note—
               Under section 17, the parties to a dutiable
               transaction are liable to pay transfer duty
               imposed on the transaction.
 
What is a public unit trust
*** 68 What is a public unit trust ***
A
"public unit trust" is—
     (a) a listed unit trust; or
     (b) a widely held unit trust; or
     (c) a wholesale unit trust; or
     (d) a pooled public investment unit trust; or
     (e) a declared public unit trust.
 
What is a listed unit trust
*** 69 What is a listed unit trust ***
A
"listed unit trust" is a unit trust the units in which are quoted on the market
operated by a recognised stock exchange.
     Notes—
               1 Section 498A includes provision about when the
               quotation of securities is suspended.
               2 An acquisition of an interest in a listed unit
               trust that is a landholder may be dutiable under
               chapter 3, part 1 (Landholder duty).
 
What is a widely held unit trust
*** 70 What is a widely held unit trust ***
     (1) A
     "widely held unit trust" is a unit trust, other than a listed unit
     trust, that is a registered managed investment scheme for which—
          (a) units in the trust have been issued to the public; and
          (b) 50 or more persons are beneficially entitled to the
          units in the trust; and
          (c) more than 20 persons are beneficially entitled to at
          least 75% of the total units in the trust.
          Note—
               Also, under section 71, the commissioner may
               treat a unit trust as a widely held unit trust.
     (2) However, for a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust
     interest in a trust, a unit trust is not a widely held unit trust if
     subsection (1) (b) and (c) is not satisfied before and after the
     trust acquisition or trust surrender.
     (3) For subsection (2), a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a
     trust interest in a unit trust includes a series of trust
     acquisitions or trust surrenders under an arrangement.
     (4) If subsection (2) applies to a unit trust, the trust is not a
     widely held unit trust from immediately before the trust acquisition
     or trust surrender or the first acquisition or surrender under the
     arrangement.
     (5) For subsection (1), a person is taken to be beneficially entitled
     to all units held by the person and related persons of the person.
 
When unit trust may be treated as widely held unit trust
*** 71 When unit trust may be treated as widely held unit trust ***
     (1) This section applies if the commissioner is satisfied—
          (a) units in a unit trust (the
          "start up units") will be issued to the public to an extent
          and with the entitlements mentioned in section 70 (1)
          within 1 year after the first issue of units to the public;
          and
          (b) the start up units are the only units in the unit trust
          to be issued from and including the first issue to the
          public until the unit trust becomes a widely held unit
          trust (the
          "start-up period").
     (2) The commissioner may treat the unit trust as a widely held unit
     trust for the start-up period.
     (3) However, if the start-up units are not issued in the way
     mentioned in subsection (1) (a) or are not the only units issued in
     the unit trust in the start-up period (the
     "disqualifying circumstances")—
          (a) the trustee must, within 28 days after the
          disqualifying circumstances happen, give the commissioner
          notice about the disqualifying circumstances; and
          (b) the unit trust is taken not to have been a widely held
          unit trust in the start-up period; and
          (c) the commissioner must make an assessment for transfer
          duty for each trust acquisition or trust surrender in the
          start-up period as if the trust were not a widely held unit
          trust in the period; and
          (d) the start date for the Administration Act, section 54
          (4), is 61 days after the relevant trust acquisition or
          trust surrender.
 
What is a wholesale unit trust
*** 72 What is a wholesale unit trust ***
     (1) A
     "wholesale unit trust" is a unit trust, other than a listed unit
     trust—
          (a) that is established and managed by a funds manager; and
          (b) the units in which are predominantly acquired by, for
          or on account of, wholesale investors.
     (2) A
     "wholesale unit trust" includes a unit trust that holds land in
     Queensland, or has an indirect interest in land in Queensland, only
     if the trust was established, and continues, solely for the
     investment of funds placed with it by wholesale investors using the
     funds manager’s funds management and investment services.
     (3) However, for a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust
     interest in a trust, a unit trust is not a wholesale unit trust if—
          (a) the trust is established or managed for a particular
          person; or
          (b) subsection (1) (b) or if applicable subsection (2) is
          not satisfied before and after the trust acquisition or
          trust surrender.
     (4) For subsection (3), a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a
     trust interest in a unit trust includes a series of trust
     acquisitions or trust surrenders under an arrangement.
     (5) If subsection (3) applies to a unit trust, the trust is not a
     wholesale unit trust from immediately before the trust acquisition or
     trust surrender or the first acquisition or surrender under the
     arrangement.
 
What is a funds manager
*** 73 What is a funds manager ***
     (1) A
     "funds manager" is—
          (a) a body corporate that provides funds management and
          investment services to wholesale investors as its principal
          business if—
               (i) the body corporate manages funds of more than
               $500,000,000 invested with it; and
               (ii) the business is not conducted to provide the
               services only to particular wholesale investors;
               and
               (iii) the body corporate is recognised by other
               funds managers as a competitor with them for the
               services; or
          (b) a body corporate that is a member of a corporate group
          of a financial institution or an insurer whose principal
          business is providing funds management and investment
          services to wholesale investors if—
               (i) the body corporate or the corporate group
               manages funds of more than $500,000,000 invested
               with it by wholesale investors; and
               (ii) the business is not conducted to provide the
               services only to particular wholesale investors;
               and
               (iii) the body corporate is recognised by other
               funds managers as a competitor with them for the
               services.
     (2) Subsection (3) applies if the commissioner is satisfied a body
     corporate or corporate group will provide funds management and
     investment services to wholesale investors to the extent mentioned in
     subsection (1) (a) or (b) within the start-up period.
     (3) The commissioner may treat the body corporate as a funds manager
     for the start-up period.
     (4) However, if the body corporate or corporate group does not
     provide funds management and investment services as mentioned in
     subsection (1) in the start-up period—
          (a) the body corporate must, within 28 days after the end
          of the start-up period, give the commissioner notice of
          that fact; and
          (b) the body corporate is taken not to have been a funds
          manager in the start-up period; and
          (c) the commissioner must make an assessment for transfer
          duty for each trust acquisition or trust surrender in the
          start-up period as if the body corporate were not a funds
          manager in the period; and
          (d) the start date for the Administration Act, section 54
          (4), is 61 days after the relevant trust acquisition or
          trust surrender.
     (5) In this section—

     "insurer" means—
          (a) a person who is authorised under the Insurance Act 1973
          (Cwlth) to carry on an insurance business; or
          (b) a life company.

     "start-up period", for a body corporate, means 1 year after the first
     acquisition by a wholesale investor of a trust interest in a unit
     trust established and managed by the body corporate.
 
Who is a wholesale investor
*** 74 Who is a wholesale investor ***
A
"wholesale investor" in a wholesale unit trust is—
     (a) a funds manager, other than the funds manager that established
     and manages the trust, investing funds of another wholesale unit
     trust managed by the funds manager; or
     (b) the trustee of another wholesale unit trust investing funds of
     another wholesale unit trust managed by the trustee; or
     (c) the trustee of a superannuation fund under the Superannuation
     Industry Act having more than $10,000,000 in assets; or
     (d) a person who has more than $10,000,000 invested in wholesale unit
     trusts.
 
What is a pooled public investment unit trust
*** 75 What is a pooled public investment unit trust ***
     (1) A
     "pooled public investment unit trust" is a unit trust, other than a
     listed unit trust, widely held unit trust, wholesale unit trust or
     declared public unit trust, that is a registered managed investment
     scheme, exempt managed investment scheme or pooled superannuation
     trust for which—
          (a) either of the following applies—
               (i) units in the trust have been issued to the
               public;
               (ii) at least 75% of the total units in the trust
               are held by 2 or more large qualified holders;
               and
          (b) at least 50 persons are entitled to units in the trust;
          and
          (c) more than 20 persons are entitled to at least 75% of
          the total units in the trust.
          Note—
               See sections 77 (Who is holder of units in pooled
               public investment unit trust) and 78 (Who is
               entitled to units in pooled public investment
               unit trust).
     (2) However, for a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust
     interest in a trust, a unit trust is not a pooled public investment
     unit trust unless—
          (a) if subsection (1) (a) (i) applies— subsection (1) (b)
          and (c) is satisfied before and after the trust acquisition
          or trust surrender; or
          (b) if subsection (1) (a) (ii) applies— subsection (1)
          (a) (ii), (b) and (c) is satisfied before and after the
          trust acquisition or trust surrender.
     (3) For subsection (2), a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a
     trust interest in a unit trust includes a series of trust
     acquisitions or trust surrenders under an arrangement.
     (4) If subsection (2) applies to a unit trust, the trust is not a
     pooled public investment unit trust from immediately before the trust
     acquisition or trust surrender or the first acquisition or surrender
     under the arrangement.
 
Who is a qualified holder and a large qualified holder
*** 76 Who is a qualified holder and a large qualified holder ***
     (1) A
     "qualified holder" of units in a unit trust is—
          (a) the trustee of a listed unit trust, widely held unit
          trust, wholesale unit trust or declared public unit trust;
          or
          (b) the trustee of a complying superannuation fund; or
          (c) the trustee of a complying approved deposit fund; or
          (d) a life company if the units held represent an
          investment of its statutory funds maintained by it under
          the Life Insurance Act 1995 (Cwlth); or
          (e) a person of a class approved under section 76A; or
          (f) a person approved under section 76B.
     (2) A
     "large qualified holder" of units in a unit trust is a qualified
     holder with more than 50 members.
 
Approval of class of foreign unit holders as qualified holders
*** 76A Approval of class of foreign unit holders as qualified holders ***
The commissioner may, by gazette notice, approve a class of persons as
qualified holders of units in a unit trust if the commissioner is satisfied
persons of that class hold the units in a capacity that, under the law of a
foreign country or external Territory, corresponds to—
     (a) an entity mentioned in section 76 (1) (a) other than the trustee
     of a declared public unit trust; or
     (b) an entity mentioned in section 76 (1) (b) to (d).
 
Approval of particular foreign unit holder as qualified holder
*** 76B Approval of particular foreign unit holder as qualified holder ***
     (1) The trustee of a unit trust may apply to the commissioner for the
     approval, for section 76 (1) (f), of a stated person who holds units
     in the trust (the
     "unit holder").
     (2) The application must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) be supported by enough information to enable the
          commissioner to decide the application.
     (3) The commissioner may approve the application if satisfied the
     unit holder holds the units in a capacity that, under the law of a
     foreign country or external Territory, corresponds to—
          (a) an entity mentioned in section 76 (1) (a) other than
          the trustee of a declared public unit trust; or
          (b) an entity mentioned in section 76 (1) (b) to (d).
     (4) If the commissioner reasonably requires advice about a particular
     matter before deciding the application, the commissioner may refuse
     to deal further with the application until the applicant pays, or
     agrees to pay, the reasonable costs of obtaining the advice.
     (5) The commissioner may give approval subject to conditions the
     commissioner considers appropriate.
          Example—
               A condition may state that the approval ends if
               there is a particular change in the circumstances
               of the person to whom the approval relates.
     (6) The commissioner must give notice of the decision on the
     application to the applicant.
     (7) If, because of the decision, the commissioner makes an assessment
     on the basis that a particular person is not approved, or is approved
     on stated conditions, an objection to the decision may be made as
     part of an objection to the assessment.
          Note—
               For objections and appeals against assessments,
               see the Administration Act, part 6.
     (8) An approval takes effect on the day it is given or on the later
     day stated in the notice of the decision to give the approval.
 
Approval holders must notify commissioner of material changes
*** 76C Approval holders must notify commissioner of material changes ***
     (1) This section applies to an approval in force under section 76B if
     there is a material change in the circumstances existing when the
     approval was given.
     (2) Within 28 days after the approval holder becomes aware, or ought
     reasonably to have become aware, of the change, the approval holder
     must give the commissioner notice of the change.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
 
Cancellation or variation of approvals
*** 76D Cancellation or variation of approvals ***
     (1) The commissioner may, by notice to the holder of an approval in
     force under section 76B, cancel the approval or vary it in a stated
     way if the commissioner considers—
          (a) a condition of the approval is no longer being
          satisfied or complied with; or
          (b) there has been a material change in the circumstances
          existing when the approval was given.
     (2) The cancellation or variation has effect on the day stated in the
     notice (the
     "effective day").
     (3) The effective day may be earlier than the day the notice is given
     but not earlier than the day the condition mentioned in subsection
     (1) (a) stopped being satisfied or complied with or the day of the
     material change in the circumstances mentioned in subsection (1) (b).
     (4) If, because of the decision to cancel or vary the approval, the
     commissioner makes an assessment on the basis that, at a particular
     time, a particular person was not approved or was approved on stated
     conditions, an objection to the decision may be made as part of an
     objection to the assessment.
          Note—
               For objections and appeals against assessments,
               see the Administration Act, part 6.
 
Exempt managed investment schemes
*** 76E Exempt managed investment schemes ***
     (1) For section 75 (1), a unit trust that is a managed investment
     scheme is taken to be an exempt managed investment scheme, during the
     deeming period for the trust, if the scheme has been approved under
     section 76F as a deregistered managed investment scheme.
     (2) In this section—

     "deeming period", for a unit trust, means the period—
          (a) starting immediately before the first trust acquisition
          or trust surrender of a trust interest in the trust
          following its deregistration under the Corporations Act,
          section 601PA; and
          (b) ending immediately before the time that either of the
          following happens—
               (i) the ASIC order mentioned in section 76F (3)
               (a) ceases to apply;
               (ii) a unit in the trust is issued or transferred
               to a person who is not a wholesale client.
 
Approval of unit trust as a deregistered managed investment scheme
*** 76F Approval of unit trust as a deregistered managed investment scheme ***
     (1) The trustee of a unit trust that is a managed investment scheme
     may apply to the commissioner for the approval of the scheme as a
     deregistered managed investment scheme.
          Note—
               See section 76E (1).
     (2) The application must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) be supported by enough information to enable the
          commissioner to decide the application.
     (3) The commissioner may give the approval if—
          (a) ASIC made an exemption or declaration under the
          Corporations Act, section 601QA (the
          "ASIC order"), enabling an application for deregistration
          of the scheme (the
          "deregistration application") to be made under the
          Corporations Act, section 601PA; and
          (b) for the purpose of the deregistration application, all
          the members of the scheme agreed the scheme should be
          deregistered; and
          (c) all the members of the scheme were wholesale clients—
               (i) when they acquired (by way of issue or
               transfer) their interest in the scheme; and
               (ii) when the deregistration application was
               made; and
          (d) ASIC deregistered the scheme under the Corporations
          Act, section 601PA, applying chapter 5C of that Act under
          the ASIC order; and
          (e) the scheme is not required to be registered under the
          Corporations Act, section 601ED because of an exemption
          from that section under the ASIC order; and
          (f) the commissioner is satisfied it would be appropriate
          to give the approval, having regard to—
               (i) the reasons why the members of the scheme
               agreed the scheme should be deregistered; and
               (ii) the reasons for the decision by ASIC to
               deregister the scheme; and
               (iii) the terms of the ASIC order; and
               (iv) whether the scheme has ever been a public
               unit trust and, if so, why it is no longer a
               public unit trust; and
               (v) the circumstances of the scheme’s operation
               since it was deregistered by ASIC; and
               (vi) the purposes of this division.
     (4) The commissioner must give the applicant notice of the decision
     on the application.
     (5) If, because of the decision on the application, the commissioner
     makes an assessment on the basis that the scheme is not an exempt
     managed investment scheme for section 75 (1), an objection to the
     decision may be made as part of an objection to the assessment.
     (6) If the approval is given, it takes effect on—
          (a) the day it is given; or
          (b) if the notice of the decision to give the approval
          states a day on which the approval takes effect—that day.
     (7) The day mentioned in subsection (6) (b) may be earlier or later
     than the day the approval is given.
 
Approval holders must notify commissioner if deeming period ends
*** 76G Approval holders must notify commissioner if deeming period ends ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to an approval for a unit trust
     in force under section 76F if either of the following happens (the
     "notifiable event")—
          (a) the ASIC order mentioned in section 76F (3) (a) ceases
          to apply;
          (b) a unit in the trust is issued or transferred to a
          person who is not a wholesale client.
     (2) Within 28 days after the trustee becomes aware, or ought
     reasonably to have become aware, of the notifiable event, the trustee
     must give the commissioner notice of the notifiable event.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
 
Who is holder of units in pooled public investment unit trust
*** 77 Who is holder of units in pooled public investment unit trust ***
     (1) For section 75, a qualified holder is taken to hold the units in
     a unit trust held for the holder by a custodian.
     (2) For section 75 (1) (b) and (c) —
          (a) a trustee of a complying superannuation fund that has
          invested in a pooled superannuation trust is taken to hold
          the number of units in a unit trust held by the trustee of
          the pooled superannuation trust that is worked out by
          applying the fund’s interest in the pooled superannuation
          trust to the units held by the trustee; and
          (b) a member of a pooled public investment unit trust is
          taken to hold the number of units in a unit trust held by
          the trustee of the pooled public investment unit trust that
          is worked out by applying the member’s interest in the
          pooled public investment unit trust to the units held by
          the trustee.
     (3) For subsection (2) (a), a complying superannuation fund’s
     interest in a pooled superannuation trust is the proportion that the
     fund’s investment bears to the total of all investments in the
     trust expressed as a percentage.
     (4) For subsection (2) (b), a member’s interest in a pooled public
     investment unit trust is the proportion that the value of the
     member’s entitlement as a member bears to the value of the
     entitlements of all members in the trust expressed as a percentage.
 
Who is entitled to units in pooled public investment unit trust
*** 78 Who is entitled to units in pooled public investment unit trust ***
     (1) For section 75 (1) (b) and (c) —
          (a) a member of a large qualified holder of units in a unit
          trust is taken to be entitled to the number of units in the
          trust that is worked out by applying the member’s
          interest in the holder to the units in the trust held by
          the holder; and
          (b) another holder of units in the trust is entitled to the
          units held.
     (2) For subsection (1) (a), a member’s interest in a large
     qualified holder is the proportion that the value of the member’s
     entitlement as a member bears to the value of the entitlements of all
     members in the holder expressed as a percentage.
     (3) For section 75, a person who is entitled to units in the unit
     trust is taken to be entitled to all units that, under subsection (1)
     (a) and (b), the person and related persons of the person are
     entitled.
 
What is a declared public unit trust
*** 79 What is a declared public unit trust ***
A
"declared public unit trust" is a unit trust declared under a regulation to be
a public unit trust for this division.
 
What is a majority trust acquisition
*** 80 What is a majority trust acquisition ***
A person who makes a trust acquisition in a land holding trust makes a
"majority trust acquisition" if—
     (a) the person, or the person and related persons of the person
     (whether alone or jointly), acquire a trust interest in the trust of
     50% or more; or
     (b) the person, or related persons of the person (whether alone or
     jointly), acquire a trust interest in the trust that, when aggregated
     with trust interests already held by the person and related persons
     of the person (whether alone or jointly), is 50% or more.
 
Interpretation for majority trust acquisitions
*** 81 Interpretation for majority trust acquisitions ***
     (1) This section applies for imposing transfer duty on majority trust
     acquisitions.
     (2) An indirect trust interest in a land holding trust being acquired
     by a person is taken to be a trust interest in the trust.
     (3) Also, an indirect trust interest in a land holding trust already
     held by an acquirer or related person of the acquirer is taken to be
     a trust interest in the trust.
     (4) For an indirect trust interest in a land holding trust taken to
     be a trust interest under subsection (2) or (3), the acquirer and any
     related persons of the acquirer are taken to be beneficiaries.
     (5) An indirect trust acquisition is taken to be a trust acquisition
     in the land holding trust in which the indirect trust interest is
     acquired.
 
Particular trust interests disregarded for majority trust acquisitions
*** 81A Particular trust interests disregarded for majority trust acquisitions
***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) under section 80, a person would have made a majority
          trust acquisition in a wholesale unit trust; and
          (b) all the persons who held or acquired the trust
          interests comprising the majority trust acquisition are
          group companies of a corporate group; and
          (c) the funds manager of the wholesale unit trust is a
          group company of the corporate group; and
          (d) there is no arrangement to avoid the imposition of
          transfer duty.
     (2) For section 80, the trust interest of a person mentioned in
     subsection (1) (b) who is a qualified holder must be disregarded.
     (3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that section 80 applies to
     other trust interests, including trust interests held through the
     qualified holder.
 
Deduction—transfer duty for majority trust acquisition
*** 82 Deduction—transfer duty for majority trust acquisition ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) transfer duty has been paid or is payable on a dutiable
          transaction that is a majority trust acquisition; and
          (b) transfer duty or landholder duty is imposed or has been
          paid on indirect trust acquisitions and trust acquisitions
          relating to the majority trust acquisition.
     (2) The duty mentioned in subsection (1) (b) must be reduced by the
     amount of the transfer duty paid or payable under subsection (1) (a)
     to the extent that the indirect trust interests and trust interests
     were included in working out the dutiable value of the majority trust
     acquisition.
 
Person’s indirect trust interest is proportionate to land holding trust’s
dutiable property
*** 83 Person’s indirect trust interest is proportionate to land holding
trust’s dutiable property ***
A person’s indirect trust interest in a land holding trust is the proportion
that the unencumbered value of the person’s entitlement in the land holding
trust bears to the unencumbered value of dutiable property held by the land
holding trust expressed as a percentage.
     Note—
          Section 498 includes provision about references to dutiable
          property.
 
What is the value of person’s entitlement in land holding trust
*** 84 What is the value of person’s entitlement in land holding trust ***
     (1) The unencumbered value of a person’s entitlement in a land
     holding trust is the amount worked out by—
          (a) if the person has a subordinate interest in an entity
          (the
          "first beneficiary") that is a beneficiary of the land
          holding trust—
               (i) first applying to the unencumbered value of
               the dutiable property held by the land holding
               trust, the first beneficiary’s trust interest
               in the land holding trust; and
               (ii) applying to the amount worked out under
               subparagraph (i), the person’s subordinate
               interest in the first beneficiary; or
          (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply—
               (i) first applying to the unencumbered value of
               the dutiable property held by the land holding
               trust, the subordinate interest of the entity
               (also the
               "first beneficiary") that is a beneficiary of the
               land holding trust; and
               (ii) applying to the amount worked out under
               subparagraph (i), the subordinate interest of the
               next entity in the series of entities that is a
               shareholder, partner or beneficiary of the first
               beneficiary connecting the land holding trust to
               the person; and
               (iii) applying the calculation in subparagraph
               (ii) for each of the other entities in the series
               until the person’s subordinate interest is
               applied to the amount worked out under the
               application of subparagraph (ii) for the entity
               in which the person’s subordinate interest is
               held.
     (2) For subsection (1) (b) (iii) —
          (a) the reference in subsection (1) (b) (ii) to the amount
          worked out under subsection (1) (b) (i) is a reference to
          the amount worked out under the previous application of
          subsection (1) (b) (ii); and
          (b) the reference to the first beneficiary is a reference
          to the next shareholder, partner or beneficiary in the
          series for which subsection (1) (b) (ii) is being applied.
 
Who is a farmor
*** 84A Who is a farmor ***
     (1) A
     "farmor" is—
          (a) a person to whom an exploration authority, is granted
          under the relevant Act for the authority, even if the
          person is yet to be registered as the holder of the
          authority under that Act; or
          (b) another person to whom the exploration authority has
          been transferred under the relevant Act for the authority,
          even if the other person is yet to be registered as the
          holder of the authority under that Act.
     (2) For subsection (1), the
     "relevant Act" for an exploration authority is the Act under which
     the authority is granted.
 
What is an upfront farm-in agreement
*** 84B What is an upfront farm-in agreement ***
     (1) An
     "upfront farm-in agreement" is a written agreement entered into by a
     farmor and another person (the
     "farmee") in relation to an exploration authority, under which—
          (a) the farmor must make 1 or more transfers to the farmee
          of a stated interest in the exploration authority, each
          interest being less than 100% of the total interest in the
          authority; and
          (b) on the transfer of each interest, the interest is held
          by the farmee subject to the farmee spending a stated
          amount (an
          "exploration amount") on relevant exploration or
          development—
               (i) after the agreement is entered into; and
               (ii) on or before the expenditure completion date
               for the amount; and
          (c) the farmee must, if the obligation under the agreement
          mentioned in paragraph (b) is not complied with for the
          interest transferred, transfer the interest back to the
          farmor.
     (2) However, if the farm-in agreement is a 100% transfer farm-in
     agreement, the last interest in the exploration authority to be
     transferred under the agreement need not be held by the farmee
     subject to an obligation mentioned in subsection (1) (b).
 
What is a deferred farm-in agreement
*** 84C What is a deferred farm-in agreement ***
     (1) A
     "deferred farm-in agreement" is a written agreement entered into by a
     farmor and another person (the
     "farmee") in relation to an exploration authority, under which—
          (a) the farmee is entitled to 1 or more transfers from the
          farmor of a stated interest in the exploration authority,
          each interest being less than 100% of the total interest in
          the authority; and
          (b) the entitlement to each transfer arises only if the
          farmee spends a stated amount (an
          "exploration amount") on relevant exploration or
          development—
               (i) after the agreement is entered into; and
               (ii) on or before the expenditure completion date
               for the amount.
     (2) However, if the farm-in agreement is a 100% transfer farm-in
     agreement, the last interest in the exploration authority to be
     transferred under the agreement need not be subject to an obligation
     mentioned in subsection (1) (b).
 
What is a 100% transfer farm-in agreement
*** 84D What is a 100% transfer farm-in agreement ***
A
"100% transfer farm-in agreement", for an exploration authority, is a deferred
farm-in agreement or upfront farm-in agreement under which, on the completion
of all the transfers of interests in the exploration authority that are
proposed to be made by the farmor under the agreement, 100% of the interest in
the exploration authority will be held by the farmee.
 
What is the expenditure completion date and an ECD variation
*** 84E What is the expenditure completion date and an ECD variation ***
     (1) The
     "expenditure completion date" for an exploration amount for the
     transfer of an interest in an exploration authority under a farm-in
     agreement is—
          (a) the day stated in the agreement on or before which the
          exploration amount must be spent; or
          (b) if the farmor and farmee agree to vary the day
          mentioned in paragraph (a) —the day as varied; or
          (c) if the day mentioned in paragraph (b) is further
          varied—the day as further varied.
     (2) A variation mentioned in subsection (1) (b) or (c) is an
     "ECD variation".
 
What is relevant exploration or development
*** 84F What is relevant exploration or development ***
Exploration or development is
"relevant exploration or development" for an exploration amount relating to an
interest in an exploration authority the subject of a farm-in agreement if—
     (a) the exploration or development is comprised of, or associated
     with, the carrying out of an activity under the exploration
     authority; and
     (b) all of the exploration or development is carried out after the
     farm-in agreement is entered into.
 
Farm-in agreement is an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property
*** 84G Farm-in agreement is an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property
***
     (1) A farm-in agreement is an agreement for the transfer of dutiable
     property mentioned in section 9 (1) (b).
     (2) Section 21 does not apply in relation to the agreement.
 
Exemption—particular transfers to farmor under upfront farm-in agreement
*** 84H Exemption—particular transfers to farmor under upfront farm-in
agreement ***
If transfer duty imposed on an upfront farm-in agreement is paid, no transfer
duty is imposed on a transfer of an interest in the exploration authority from
the farmee to the farmor made because of the obligation mentioned in section
84B (1) (c).
 
Exclusion of s 22(2) for particular dutiable transactions under farm-in
agreement
*** 84I Exclusion of s 22(2) for particular dutiable transactions under farm-in
agreement ***
Section 22 (2) does not apply to the transfer of an interest in an exploration
authority if—
     (a) both of the following apply—
          (i) the transfer is made under a 100% transfer farm-in
          agreement; and
          (ii) the transfer results in the farmee holding 100% of the
          interest in the exploration authority; or
     (b) the interest is transferred to the farmee for a deferred farm-in
     agreement, even though the farmee has failed to spend all or part of
     the exploration amount for the transfer under the agreement in the
     way mentioned in section 84C (1) (b).
 
How transfer duty is initially assessed on farm-in agreement
*** 84J How transfer duty is initially assessed on farm-in agreement ***
     (1) This section applies for assessing liability for transfer duty on
     a farm-in agreement.
     (2) The dutiable value of a farm-in agreement is the consideration
     paid or payable to the farmor, or a related person of the farmor, for
     the farmor entering into the agreement, other than an exploration
     amount.
     (3) Section 502 (1) (a) and (b) and (2) (a) —
          (a) applies in relation to the consideration mentioned in
          subsection (2); and
          (b) does not apply in relation to any other consideration
          payable under the agreement.
 
Lodgement requirement on expenditure of exploration amount
*** 84K Lodgement requirement on expenditure of exploration amount ***
The farmee under an upfront farm-in agreement must, within 14 days after
spending the exploration amount for each interest in the exploration authority,
lodge—
     (a) information, in the approved form, about the expenditure of the
     exploration amount; and
     (b) the upfront farm-in agreement or a transfer duty statement for
     the agreement.
     Note—
          Under the Administration Act, the requirement under this
          section is a lodgement requirement for which a failure to
          comply is an offence under section 121 of that Act.
 
Notice requirement for farmee in particular circumstances
*** 84L Notice requirement for farmee in particular circumstances ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an interest in an exploration authority is transferred
          to the farmee under an upfront farm-in agreement; and
          (b) the farmee fails, under the agreement, to spend all or
          part of the exploration amount for the interest on or
          before the expenditure completion date for the amount.
     (2) The farmee must, within 30 days after the expenditure completion
     date—
          (a) give notice to the commissioner, in the approved form,
          of the matter mentioned in subsection (1) (b); and
          (b) lodge the farm-in agreement or a transfer duty
          statement for the agreement.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice mentioned in paragraph
               (a) is an offence under the Administration Act,
               section 120. Also, the requirement under
               paragraph (b) is a lodgement requirement under
               the Administration Act for which a failure to
               comply is an offence under section 121 of that
               Act.
     (3) If the original expenditure completion date is varied under the
     farm-in agreement, the farmee must comply with subsection (2) in
     relation to a failure to spend an exploration amount on or before
     each of the following—
          (a) the original expenditure completion date for the
          amount;
          (b) the original expenditure completion date, as varied
          under the agreement;
          (c) each variation to the date mentioned in paragraph (b)
          made under the agreement.
     (4) In this section—

     "original expenditure completion date", for an exploration amount for
     an interest in an exploration authority under an upfront farm-in
     agreement, means the day stated in the agreement on or before which
     the exploration amount must be spent.
 
When commissioner must reassess transfer duty
*** 84M When commissioner must reassess transfer duty ***
     (1) The commissioner must make a reassessment of transfer duty for a
     farm-in agreement if, under the agreement, either of the following
     events happen (each a
     "reassessment event")—
          (a) for an upfront farm-in agreement, the farmee is
          required to—
               (i) lodge the information and farm-in agreement
               or a transfer duty statement for the agreement
               under section 84K; or
               (ii) give notice and lodge the farm-in agreement
               or a transfer duty statement for the agreement
               under section 84L (2);
          (b) for a deferred farm-in agreement—an interest in an
          exploration authority is transferred by the farmor to the
          farmee.
          Note—
               See also section 84P for when the commissioner
               must make a reassessment.
     (2) However, subsection (1) (a) (ii) does not apply if—
          (a) the farmee transfers the interest back to the farmor
          under the agreement before the expiry of—
               (i) the period for complying with section 84L
               (2); or
               (ii) if the commissioner considers a longer
               period is appropriate—the longer period; or
          (b) both of the following apply—
               (i) an ECD variation has been made for the
               expenditure of the exploration amount;
               (ii) the commissioner is satisfied the ECD
               variation is not part of an arrangement to avoid
               the imposition of transfer duty.
     (3) Also, subsection (1) does not apply if—
          (a) the requirement mentioned in subsection (1) (a) relates
          to the transfer of an interest in an exploration authority
          under an upfront farm-in agreement that is a 100% farm-in
          agreement and, on the completion of the transfer, 100% of
          the interest in the authority will be held by the farmee;
          or
          (b) the transfer of an interest in an exploration authority
          mentioned in subsection (1) (b) is made under a deferred
          farm-in agreement that is a 100% farm-in agreement and, on
          the completion of the transfer, 100% of the interest in the
          authority will be held by the farmee.
     (4) Subsection (1) applies despite the limitation period under the
     Administration Act for reassessments.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 3 (Assessments
               of tax), division 3 (Reassessments).
 
How transfer duty is reassessed on farm-in agreements
*** 84N How transfer duty is reassessed on farm-in agreements ***
     (1) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), for a reassessment under
     section 84M the dutiable value of the farm-in agreement includes each
     of the following, other than an exploration amount—
          (a) the consideration paid or payable to the farmor, or a
          related person of the farmor, for the farmor entering into
          the agreement;
          (b) an amount relating to the transfer of an interest in
          the exploration authority the subject of a reassessment
          event, paid or payable on or before the day the latest
          reassessment event happens;
          (c) any other consideration under the agreement paid or
          payable to the farmor, or a related person of the farmor,
          on or before the day the latest reassessment event happens.
     (2) If subsection (1) applies for a reassessment, section 502 (1) (a)
     and (b) and (2) (a) —
          (a) applies in relation to the consideration mentioned in
          subsection (1); and
          (b) does not apply in relation to any other consideration
          payable under the agreement.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies to a reassessment for a reassessment event
     mentioned in section 84M (1) (a) (ii) in relation to an interest if
     the farmee has failed to transfer the interest back to the farmor
     under the agreement within the time mentioned in section 84M (2) (a)
     and—
          (a) an ECD variation has not been made for the expenditure
          of the exploration amount; or
          (b) both of the following apply—
               (i) an ECD variation has been made for the
               expenditure of the exploration amount;
               (ii) the commissioner is satisfied the variation
               is part of an arrangement to avoid the imposition
               of transfer duty.
     (4) The commissioner must make the reassessment to impose transfer
     duty on the transaction that is the agreement mentioned in section
     84M (1) as if the transaction were not a farm-in agreement under this
     part.
     (5) This section applies despite section 84J.
 
Application of penalty tax under Administration Act
*** 84O Application of penalty tax under Administration Act ***
The Administration Act, section 58 (1) (c) does not apply in relation to a
reassessment made by the commissioner under section 84M, unless—
     (a) section 84N (4) applies for the reassessment; or
     (b) the farmee has failed to comply with—
          (i) a lodgement requirement for the reassessment event to
          which the reassessment relates; or
          (ii) a requirement to give the commissioner notice under
          section 84L (2) for the reassessment event to which the
          reassessment relates.
 
Exclusion of arrangements to avoid the imposition of transfer duty
*** 84P Exclusion of arrangements to avoid the imposition of transfer duty ***
     (1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction that is a farm-in
     agreement if the transaction is part of an arrangement to avoid the
     imposition of transfer duty.
     (2) The commissioner must make an assessment to impose transfer duty
     on the transaction as if the transaction were not a farm-in agreement
     under this part.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies despite the limitation period under the
     Administration Act for reassessments.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 3, division 3.
 
Purpose of part
*** 85 Purpose of part ***
The purpose of this part is to provide for concessions for transfer duty for a
dutiable transaction that is—
     (a) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a home, first
     home or first home and new home or of vacant land on which a first
     home is to be constructed; or
     (b) the acquisition, on its creation, grant or issue, of a new right
     that is a lease—
          (i) of residential land on which a home, first home or
          first home and new home is constructed or of vacant land on
          which a first home is to be constructed; and
          (ii) for which a premium, fine or other consideration is
          payable; or
          Note—
               In relation to paragraph (b), see also section
               614.
     (c) the vesting, under section 9 (1) (d), of a home, first home or
     first home and new home or of vacant land on which a first home is to
     be constructed.
 
What is a home, a first home and a new home
*** 86 What is a home, a first home and a new home ***
     (1) A residence is a person’s
     "home" if the person’s occupation date for the residence is within
     1 year after the person’s transfer date for the residential land.
          Note—
               For transfer duty to be imposed for residential
               land, it must be in Queensland, see section 10
               (1) (a).
     (2) A person’s home is the person’s
     "first home" if, before acquiring the home—
          (a) the person did not hold, and never before held, an
          interest in other residential land in Queensland or
          elsewhere other than—
               (i) as trustee for another person; or
               (ii) as lessee; or
               (iii) as the holder of a security interest; and
          (b) the person was not, and had never been, a vacant land
          concession beneficiary in relation to land other than the
          residential land on which the home is constructed.
     (3) Subsection (2) (a) (ii) does not apply to the interest in land of
     a lessee of a lease—
          (a) of residential land on which a home or first home is
          constructed; and
          (b) for which a premium, fine or other consideration is
          payable.
     (4) A person’s home is a
     "new home" if the home—
          (a) has not been previously occupied or sold as a place of
          residence; or
          (b) is a substantially renovated home.
     (5) For subsection (4) (b), a person’s home is a substantially
     renovated home if—
          (a) the home is the subject of a dutiable transaction that
          is—
               (i) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
               of residential land; or
               (ii) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85
               (b), of a lease of residential land; and
          (b) the sale or lease of the home under the transaction is,
          under the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act
          1999 (Cwlth), a taxable supply as a sale or supply of new
          residential premises as defined under section 40 -75(1)(b)
          of that Act; and
          (c) the home, as renovated, has not been previously
          occupied or sold as a place of residence.
 
What is residential land
*** 86A What is residential land ***

"Residential land" is land, or the part of land, on which a residence is
constructed, and includes the curtilage attributable to the residence if the
curtilage is used for residential purposes.
 
What is a first home for a residence to be constructed on vacant land
*** 86B What is a first home for a residence to be constructed on vacant land
***
     (1) A residence that is to be constructed on vacant land is a
     person’s
     "first home" if—
          (a) the person’s occupation date for the residence is
          within 2 years after the person’s transfer date for the
          vacant land; and
          (b) before acquiring the vacant land—
               (i) the person did not hold, and never before
               held, an interest in residential land in
               Queensland or elsewhere other than—
                    (A) as trustee for another person; or
                    (B) as lessee; or
                    (C) as the holder of a security
                    interest; and
               (ii) the person was not, and had never been, a
               vacant land concession beneficiary in relation to
               land other than the vacant land on which the
               residence is to be constructed.
     (2) Subsection (1) (b) (i) (B) does not apply to the interest in land
     of a lessee of a lease—
          (a) of residential land on which a home or first home is
          constructed; and
          (b) for which a premium, fine or other consideration is
          payable.
 
What is vacant land and residential vacant land
*** 86C What is vacant land and residential vacant land ***
     (1) A person’s land is
     "vacant land" if—
          (a) a residence is to be constructed on the land; and
          (b) when the person acquired the land, there was no
          building or part of a building on the land.
     (2)
     "Residential vacant land" is vacant land, or the part of vacant land,
     on which the residence is to be constructed, and includes the
     curtilage that is to be attributable to the residence if the
     curtilage is to be used for residential purposes.
 
What is a vacant land concession beneficiary
*** 86D What is a vacant land concession beneficiary ***
     (1) A person is a
     "vacant land concession beneficiary" in relation to particular land
     if—
          (a) the person was—
               (i) a transferee under a dutiable transaction
               that was the transfer, or agreement for the
               transfer, of the land; or
               (ii) a lessee under a dutiable transaction that
               was the acquisition, mentioned in section 85 (b),
               of a lease of the land; or
               (iii) a vested person for the land under a
               dutiable transaction that was the vesting,
               mentioned in section 85 (c), of the land; and
          (b) under a concession provision, a concession applied to
          the transaction; and
          (c) at the time of the transaction, the land was vacant
          land.
     (2) For subsection (1) (b), a transaction that was assessed on the
     basis of a concession under a concession provision is taken to be a
     transaction to which a concession under a concession provision
     applied even if the transaction was reassessed under section 153 or
     154.
     (3) In this section—

     "concession provision" means—
          (a) section 92 or 93A as in force before the commencement
          of this definition; or
          (b) section 92B or 93B.
 
What is a residence
*** 87 What is a residence ***
A
"residence" is a building, or part of a building, that is—
     (a) fixed to land; and
     (b) designed, or approved by a local government, for human habitation
     by a single family unit; and
     (c) used for residential purposes.
 
What is a person’s occupation date for a residence
*** 88 What is a person’s occupation date for a residence ***
A person’s
"occupation date" for a residence is the date the person, as owner of the
residence, starts occupying it as the person’s principal place of residence.
 
What is a person’s transfer date for residential land or vacant land
*** 89 What is a person’s transfer date for residential land or vacant land
***
A person’s
"transfer date" for residential land or vacant land is the date the person is
entitled to possession of the land under the dutiable transaction that is—
     (a) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of the land; or
     (b) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85 (b), of a lease of the
     land; or
     (c) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c), of the land.
 
What is the dutiable value of residential land, vacant land or residential
vacant land
*** 90 What is the dutiable value of residential land, vacant land or
residential vacant land ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies to a dutiable transaction that is 1 of the
     following in relation to residential land, vacant land or residential
     vacant land—
          (a) a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of the land;
          (b) an acquisition, mentioned in section 85 (b), of a lease
          of the land;
          (c) a vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c), of the land.
     (2) The
     "dutiable value" of the land to which the transaction relates is as
     follows—
          (a) for a transaction mentioned in subsection (1) (a) or
          (c) —the part of the dutiable value of the transaction
          that is attributable to the land;
          (b) for a transaction mentioned in subsection (1) (b)
          —the part of the dutiable value of the transaction that
          is attributable to the interest acquired in the land.
 
Concession—home
*** 91 Concession—home ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction is 1 of the following—
               (i) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
               of residential land;
               (ii) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85
               (b), of a lease of residential land;
               (iii) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c),
               of residential land; and
          (b) either of the following applies—
               (i) the transferees, lessees or vested persons
               are individuals and are not trustees and the
               residence will be their home;
               (ii) the transferees, lessees or vested persons
               are trustees of a trust, other than a
               discretionary or unit trust, the beneficiaries
               are individuals all of whom are under a legal
               disability and the residence would be the home of
               all the beneficiaries if they were the
               transferees or lessees of, or vested persons for,
               the land.
     (2) The transfer duty imposed on the dutiable transaction is the
     amount worked out under subsection (3) or (5).
     (3) If the dutiable value of the residential land is not more than
     $350,000, the transfer duty is the total of—
          (a) $1 for each $100, or part of $100, of the dutiable
          value of the land; and
          (b) the amount worked out by deducting, from transfer duty
          on the dutiable value of the dutiable transaction, the
          amount worked out by applying the relevant rate to the
          dutiable value of the residential land.
     (4) For subsection (3), the relevant rate is the rate of transfer
     duty stated in schedule 3, column 2, opposite the part of the
     dutiable value of the dutiable transaction attributable to the
     dutiable value of the residential land stated in schedule 3, column
     1.
     (5) If the dutiable value of the residential land is more than
     $350,000, the transfer duty is the total of—
          (a) $3,500; and
          (b) the amount worked out by deducting, from transfer duty
          on the dutiable value of the dutiable transaction, the
          amount worked out by applying the relevant rate to
          $350,000.
     (6) For subsection (5), the relevant rate is the rate of transfer
     duty stated in schedule 3, column 2, for $350,000.
 
Concession—first home other than new home—residential land
*** 92 Concession—first home other than new home—residential land ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction is 1 of the following—
               (i) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
               of residential land;
               (ii) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85
               (b), of a lease of residential land;
               (iii) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c),
               of residential land; and
          (aa) the residence is not a new home; and
          (b) either of the following applies—
               (i) the transferees, lessees or vested persons
               are all individuals of at least 18 years of age
               on the day the liability for transfer duty
               arises, the residence will be the first home of
               all of the transferees, lessees or vested persons
               and none of the transferees, lessees or vested
               persons are trustees;
               (ii) the transferees, lessees or vested persons
               are trustees of a trust, other than a
               discretionary or unit trust, the beneficiaries
               are individuals all of whom are under a legal
               disability and the residence would be the first
               home of all the beneficiaries if they were the
               transferees or lessees of, or vested persons for,
               the land and other residential land or vacant
               land previously the subject of a trust of which
               they were beneficiaries; and
          (c) either—
               (i) the unencumbered value of the residential
               land is not more than $700,000; or
               (ii) if the unencumbered value of the residential
               land is more than the amount stated in
               subparagraph (i), the consideration for the
               dutiable transaction is at least the unencumbered
               value of the land.
     (1A) However, if subsection (1) (b) (ii) applies and 1 or more of the
     beneficiaries is under a legal disability only because the
     beneficiary is not at least 18 years of age, this section applies in
     relation to the dutiable transaction only if the commissioner is
     satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the
     transaction.
     (2) The transfer duty imposed on the dutiable transaction is the
     amount of transfer duty worked out under section 91 less the
     concession amount stated in schedule 4A.
     (3) The commissioner may exempt a transferee, lessee or vested person
     from the requirement under subsection (1) (b) (i) that the
     transferee, lessee or vested person be at least 18 years of age if
     the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in
     relation to the dutiable transaction.
 
Concession—first home and new home—residential land
*** 92A Concession—first home and new home—residential land ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction is 1 of the following—
               (i) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
               of residential land;
               (ii) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85
               (b), of a lease of residential land;
               (iii) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c),
               of residential land; and
          (b) the residence is a new home; and
          (c) either of the following applies—
               (i) the transferees, lessees or vested persons
               are all individuals of at least 18 years of age
               on the day the liability for transfer duty
               arises, the residence will be the first home of
               all of the transferees, lessees or vested persons
               and none of the transferees, lessees or vested
               persons are trustees;
               (ii) the transferees, lessees or vested persons
               are trustees of a trust, other than a
               discretionary or unit trust, the beneficiaries
               are individuals all of whom are under a legal
               disability and the residence would be the first
               home of all the beneficiaries if they were the
               transferees or lessees of, or vested persons for,
               the residential land and other residential land
               or vacant land previously the subject of a trust
               of which they were beneficiaries; and
          (d) the consideration for the dutiable transaction is at
          least the unencumbered value of the residential land.
     (2) However, if subsection (1) (c) (ii) applies and 1 or more of the
     beneficiaries is under a legal disability only because the
     beneficiary is not at least 18 years of age, this section applies in
     relation to the dutiable transaction only if the commissioner is
     satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the
     transaction.
     (3) The transfer duty imposed on the dutiable transaction is the
     amount worked out by deducting, from transfer duty on the dutiable
     value of the dutiable transaction, the amount worked out by applying
     the relevant rate to the dutiable value of the residential land.
     (4) For subsection (3), the relevant rate is the rate of transfer
     duty stated in schedule 3, column 2 opposite the dutiable value of
     the residential land as stated in schedule 3, column 1.
     (5) The commissioner may exempt a transferee, lessee or vested person
     from the requirement under subsection (1) (c) (i) that the
     transferee, lessee or vested person be at least 18 years of age if
     the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in
     relation to the dutiable transaction.
 
Concession—first home—vacant land
*** 92B Concession—first home—vacant land ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction is 1 of the following—
               (i) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
               of vacant land;
               (ii) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85
               (b), of a lease of vacant land;
               (iii) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c),
               of vacant land; and
          (b) either of the following applies—
               (i) the transferees, lessees or vested persons
               are all individuals of at least 18 years of age
               on the day the liability for transfer duty
               arises, the residence will be the first home of
               all of the transferees, lessees or vested persons
               and none of the transferees, lessees or vested
               persons are trustees;
               (ii) the transferees, lessees or vested persons
               are trustees of a trust, other than a
               discretionary or unit trust, the beneficiaries
               are individuals all of whom are under a legal
               disability and the residence would be the first
               home of all the beneficiaries if they were the
               transferees or lessees of, or vested persons for,
               the vacant land and other residential land or
               vacant land previously the subject of a trust of
               which they were beneficiaries; and
          (c) the consideration for the dutiable transaction is at
          least the unencumbered value of the vacant land.
     (2) However, if subsection (1) (b) (ii) applies and 1 or more of the
     beneficiaries is under a legal disability only because the
     beneficiary is not at least 18 years of age, this section applies in
     relation to the dutiable transaction only if the commissioner is
     satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the
     transaction.
     (3) The transfer duty imposed on the dutiable transaction is the
     amount worked out by deducting, from transfer duty on the dutiable
     value of the dutiable transaction, the amount worked out by applying
     the relevant rate to the dutiable value of the residential vacant
     land.
     (4) For subsection (3), the relevant rate is the rate of transfer
     duty stated in schedule 3, column 2 opposite the dutiable value of
     the residential vacant land as stated in schedule 3, column 1.
     (5) The commissioner may exempt a transferee, lessee or vested person
     from the requirement under subsection (1) (b) (i) that the
     transferee, lessee or vested person be at least 18 years of age if
     the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in
     relation to the dutiable transaction.
 
Concession—mixed and multiple claims for individuals—home, or first home
other than new home
*** 93 Concession—mixed and multiple claims for individuals—home, or first
home other than new home ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction is 1 of the following (each a
          "relevant transaction")—
               (i) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
               of residential land;
               (ii) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85
               (b), of a lease of residential land;
               (iii) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c),
               of residential land; and
          (b) there is more than 1 transferee or lessee of, or vested
          person for, the residential land to which the transaction
          relates; and
          (c) the residence is—
               (i) the home, or the first home but not a new
               home, of all the transferees, all the lessees or
               all the vested persons (each
               "relevant persons"); or
               (ii) the home, or the first home but not a new
               home, of 1 or more of the transferees, 1 or more
               of the lessees or 1 or more of the vested persons
               (each also
               "relevant persons") but not all the transferees,
               all the lessees or all the vested persons; and
          (d) the relevant persons are individuals.
     (2) Also, this section applies if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction is a relevant transaction in
          relation to residential land on which more than 1 residence
          is constructed; and
          (b) 1 or more of the residences is, for 1 or more of the
          transferees, 1 or more of the lessees or 1 or more of the
          vested persons (each also
          "relevant persons"), a home, or a first home but not a new
          home; and
          (c) the relevant persons are individuals.
     (3) In addition, this section applies if a dutiable transaction is a
     relevant transaction in relation to a part interest in residential
     land that, if it were in relation to the whole interest in the land,
     would be a dutiable transaction to which this section applies under
     subsection (1) or (2), other than the requirement for more than 1
     transferee, lessee or vested person for the land.
     (3A) However, this section does not apply if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction is a relevant transaction; and
          (b) the residence, or 1 or more of the residences, is the
          first home and new home of 1 or more of the transferees, 1
          or more of the lessees or 1 or more of the vested persons.
     (4) For subsections (1) (c) and (2) (b), a residence may be treated
     as the first home of a relevant person only if the relevant person is
     at least 18 years of age on the day the liability for transfer duty
     arises.
     (5) The commissioner may exempt a relevant person from the
     requirement that the relevant person be at least 18 years of age if
     the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in
     relation to the dutiable transaction.
     (6) The transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this
     section applies under subsection (1) (c) (i) or (2) is the total
     of—
          (a) for each relevant person, the amount worked out by
          applying the transferee’s, lessee’s or vested
          person’s interest to the concessional duty; and
          (b) the amount worked out by deducting, from transfer duty
          on the dutiable value of the transaction, the amount (the
          "deduction amount") worked out by applying the relevant
          rate to the lesser of the following—
               (i) the total of the value of each relevant
               person’s interest;
               (ii) $350,000.
     (7) The transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this
     section applies under subsection (1) (c) (ii) or (3) is the total
     of—
          (a) for each relevant person, the amount worked out by
          applying the person’s interest to the concessional duty;
          and
          (b) the amount worked out by deducting, from transfer duty
          on the dutiable value of the transaction, the amount (also
          the
          "deduction amount") worked out by applying the relevant
          rate to the lesser of the following—
               (i) the total of the value of each relevant
               person’s interest;
               (ii) the total of the relevant persons’
               interests multiplied by $350,000.
     (8) For subsections (6) and (7) —
          (a) the concessional duty is the transfer duty that—
               (i) if section 91 were to apply to the dutiable
               transaction—would be equal to the amount worked
               out under section 91 (3) (a) or the amount stated
               in section 91 (5) (a); or
               (ii) if section 92 were to apply to the dutiable
               transaction—would be equal to the amount worked
               out under section 91 (3) (a) or the amount stated
               in section 91 (5) (a) less the amount of the
               deduction under section 92 (2); and
          (b) the relevant person’s interest is the proportion that
          the share of the person in the whole dutiable property
          bears to the total of the shares of—
               (i) for a dutiable transaction to which this
               section applies under subsection (3) —all the
               co-owners, or the owner, on completion of the
               transaction; or
               (ii) for another dutiable transaction—all the
               transferees, all the lessees or all the vested
               persons; and
          (c) the value of a relevant person’s interest is worked
          out by applying the person’s interest to the dutiable
          value of the residential land; and
          (d) the relevant rate is the rate of transfer duty stated
          in schedule 3, column 2, opposite the part of the dutiable
          value of the dutiable transaction attributable to the
          deduction amount as stated in schedule 3, column 1.
     (9) For working out the concessional duty under subsection (8) (a)
     for a relevant person under subsection (2), the residential land
     mentioned in section 91 (3) or (5), and schedule 4A, is the part of
     the residential land relating to the person’s home or first home.
     (10) For a relevant person under subsection (2), the residential land
     mentioned in subsection (8) (c) is the part of the residential land
     relating to the person’s home or first home.
 
Concession—mixed and multiple claims for individuals—first home and new
home
*** 93A Concession—mixed and multiple claims for individuals—first home and
new home ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction is 1 of the following (each a
          "relevant transaction")—
               (i) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
               of residential land;
               (ii) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85
               (b), of a lease of residential land;
               (iii) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c),
               of residential land; and
          (b) there is more than 1 transferee or lessee of, or vested
          person for, the residential land to which the transaction
          relates; and
          (c) the residence is a new home; and
          (d) the residence is—
               (i) the first home of 1 or more of the
               transferees, 1 or more of the lessees or 1 or
               more of the vested persons and the home of each
               other transferee, each other lessee or each other
               vested person; or
               (ii) the first home of 1 or more of the
               transferees, 1 or more of the lessees or 1 or
               more of the vested persons and not the home of
               all the transferees, all the lessees or all the
               vested persons; and
          (e) the relevant persons are individuals.
     (2) Also, this section applies if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction is a relevant transaction in
          relation to residential land on which more than 1 residence
          is constructed; and
          (b) 1 or more of the residences is, for 1 or more of the
          transferees, 1 or more of the lessees or 1 or more of the
          vested persons, a first home and a new home; and
          (c) the relevant persons are individuals.
     (3) In addition, this section applies if a dutiable transaction is a
     relevant transaction in relation to a part interest in residential
     land that, if it were in relation to the whole interest in the land,
     would be a dutiable transaction to which this section applies under
     subsection (1) or (2), other than the requirement for more than 1
     transferee, lessee or vested person for the land.
     (4) A transferee, lessee or vested person for residential land
     mentioned in subsection (1) or (2) is a
     "relevant person" if the residence is the home or first home of the
     transferee, lessee or vested person.
     (5) For subsections (1) (d) and (2) (b), a residence may be treated
     as the first home of a relevant person only if the relevant person is
     at least 18 years of age on the day the liability for transfer duty
     arises.
     (6) The commissioner may exempt a relevant person from the
     requirement that the relevant person be at least 18 years of age if
     the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in
     relation to the dutiable transaction.
     (7) The transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this
     section applies under subsection (1) (d) (i) or (2) is the total
     of—
          (a) for each relevant person, the amount worked out by
          applying the person’s interest to the concessional duty;
          and
          (b) the amount worked out by deducting, from transfer duty
          on the dutiable value of the transaction, the amount worked
          out by applying the relevant rate to the lesser of the
          following amounts (the
          "relevant amount")—
               (i) the total of the value of each relevant
               person’s interest;
               (ii) $350,000.
     (8) The transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this
     section applies under subsection (1) (d) (ii) or (3) is the total
     of—
          (a) for each relevant person, the amount worked out by
          applying the person’s interest to the concessional duty;
          and
          (b) the amount worked out by deducting, from transfer duty
          on the dutiable value of the transaction, the amount worked
          out by applying the relevant rate to the lesser of the
          following amounts (also the
          "relevant amount")—
               (i) the total of the value of each relevant
               person’s interest;
               (ii) the total of the relevant persons’
               interests multiplied by $350,000.
     (9) For subsections (7) and (8) —
          (a) the concessional duty is the transfer duty that—
               (i) if section 91 were to apply to the dutiable
               transaction—would be equal to the amount worked
               out under section 91 (3) (a) or the amount stated
               in section 91 (5) (a); or
               (ii) if section 92 were to apply to the dutiable
               transaction—would be equal to the amount worked
               out under section 91 (3) (a) or the amount stated
               in section 91 (5) (a) less the amount of the
               deduction under section 92 (2); or
               (iii) if section 92A were to apply to the
               dutiable transaction—would be equal to the
               amount worked out under section 91 (3) (a) or the
               amount stated in section 91 (5) (a) less the
               amount of transfer duty otherwise payable under
               section 91; and
          (b) a relevant person’s interest is the proportion that
          the share of the person in the whole dutiable property
          bears to the total of the shares of—
               (i) for a dutiable transaction to which this
               section applies under subsection (3) —all the
               co-owners, or the owner, on completion of the
               transaction; or
               (ii) for another dutiable transaction—all the
               transferees or all the lessees or all the vested
               persons; and
          (c) the value of a relevant person’s interest is worked
          out by applying the person’s interest to the dutiable
          value of the residential land; and
          (d) the relevant rate is the rate of transfer duty stated
          in schedule 3, column 2, opposite the part of the dutiable
          value of the dutiable transaction attributable to the
          relevant amount as stated in schedule 3, column 1.
     (10) For working out the concessional duty under subsection (9) (a)
     for a relevant person to whom this section applies under subsection
     (2), the residential land mentioned in section 91 and schedule 4A is
     the part of the residential land relating to the person’s home or
     first home.
     (11) For a relevant person to whom this section applies under
     subsection (2), the residential land mentioned in subsection (9) (c)
     is the part of the residential land relating to the person’s home
     or first home.
 
Concession—mixed and multiple claims for individuals—first home—vacant
land
*** 93B Concession—mixed and multiple claims for individuals—first
home—vacant land ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction is 1 of the following (each a
          "relevant transaction")—
               (i) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
               of vacant land;
               (ii) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85
               (b), of a lease of vacant land;
               (iii) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c),
               of vacant land; and
          (b) there is more than 1 transferee or lessee of, or vested
          person for, the vacant land to which the transaction
          relates; and
          (c) the residence, when constructed, will be the first home
          of 1 or more of the transferees, 1 or more of the lessees
          or 1 or more of the vested persons (each
          "relevant persons") but not all the transferees, all the
          lessees or all the vested persons; and
          (d) the relevant persons are individuals.
     (2) In addition, this section applies if a dutiable transaction is a
     relevant transaction in relation to a part interest in vacant land
     that, if it were in relation to the whole interest in the land, would
     be a dutiable transaction to which this section applies under
     subsection (1), other than the requirement for more than 1
     transferee, lessee or vested person for the land.
     (3) For subsection (1) (c), a residence may be treated as the first
     home of a relevant person only if the relevant person is at least 18
     years of age on the day the liability for transfer duty arises.
     (4) The commissioner may exempt a relevant person from the
     requirement that the relevant person be at least 18 years of age if
     the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in
     relation to the dutiable transaction.
     (5) The transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this
     section applies under subsection (1) is the amount worked out by
     deducting, from transfer duty on the dutiable value of the
     transaction, the total amount worked out by, for each relevant
     person, applying the relevant person’s interest to transfer duty on
     the dutiable value of the residential vacant land.
     (6) The transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this
     section applies under subsection (2) is the amount worked out by
     deducting, from transfer duty on the dutiable value of the
     transaction, the amount worked out by applying the relevant rate to
     the relevant person’s interest in the dutiable value of the
     residential vacant land.
     (7) For subsections (5) and (6) —
          (a) a relevant person’s interest is the proportion that
          the share of the person in the whole dutiable property
          bears to the total of the shares of—
               (i) for a dutiable transaction to which this
               section applies under subsection (1) —all the
               transferees, all the lessees or all the vested
               persons; or
               (ii) for a dutiable transaction to which this
               section applies under subsection (2) —all the
               co-owners, or the owner, on completion of the
               transaction; and
          (b) the relevant rate is the rate of transfer duty stated
          in schedule 3, column 2 opposite the dutiable value of the
          dutiable transaction attributable to the relevant
          person’s interest in the residential vacant land as
          stated in schedule 3, column 1.
 
Concession—mixed and multiple claims for trustees—residential land
*** 94 Concession—mixed and multiple claims for trustees—residential land
***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction is 1 of the following—
               (i) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
               of residential land;
               (ii) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85
               (b), of a lease of residential land;
               (iii) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c),
               of residential land; and
          (b) the transferee, lessee or vested person is a trustee of
          a trust, other than a discretionary or unit trust; and
          (c) the beneficiaries of the trust are individuals all of
          whom are under a legal disability.
     (2) Sections 93 and 93A apply to the transaction as if the
     beneficiaries are the transferees or lessees of, or vested persons
     for, the residential land.
     (3) However, sections 93 (4) and (5) and 93A (5) and (6) apply in
     relation to a beneficiary only if the beneficiary is under a legal
     disability only because the beneficiary is not at least 18 years of
     age.
 
Concession—mixed and multiple claims for trustees—vacant land
*** 94A Concession—mixed and multiple claims for trustees—vacant land ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction is 1 of the following—
               (i) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
               of vacant land;
               (ii) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85
               (b), of a lease of vacant land;
               (iii) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c),
               of vacant land; and
          (b) the transferee, lessee or vested person is a trustee of
          a trust, other than a discretionary or unit trust; and
          (c) the beneficiaries of the trust are individuals all of
          whom are under a legal disability.
     (2) Section 93B applies to the transaction as if the beneficiaries
     are the transferees or lessees of, or vested persons for, the vacant
     land.
     (3) However, section 93B (3) and (4) apply in relation to a
     beneficiary only if the beneficiary is under a legal disability only
     because the beneficiary is not at least 18 years of age.
 
Application for concession
*** 95 Application for concession ***
An application for a concession for transfer duty on a dutiable transaction
under this division must be made in the approved form.
 
Occupation date—particular arrangements for retirement village
*** 95A Occupation date—particular arrangements for retirement village ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction is the transfer, agreement for
          the transfer, or vesting mentioned in section 85 (c), of
          residential land that is an accommodation unit in a
          retirement village; and
          (b) the transferee, or the vested person for the land,
          enters into a retirement village leasing arrangement for
          the unit.
     (2) A reference in section 88 to a person occupying a residence as
     owner of the residence includes the transferee, or the vested person
     for the land, occupying the unit under the sublease.
 
Purposes of pt 10
*** 96 Purposes of pt 10 ***
The purposes of this part are to—
     (a) provide a concession for transfer duty on particular dutiable
     transactions for dutiable property used to carry on particular family
     businesses of primary production; and
     (b) provide a concession for transfer duty on particular dutiable
     transactions by way of gift of dutiable property used to carry on
     particular family prescribed businesses.
 
Dutiable transactions to which pt 10 applies
*** 97 Dutiable transactions to which pt 10 applies ***
     (1) This part applies to each of the following dutiable transactions
     if the conditions applying to the transaction are satisfied—
          (a) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of
          business property;
          (b) a partnership acquisition if property of the
          partnership includes business property;
          (c) a trust acquisition, other than a trust acquisition on
          the creation of a trust or a trust acquisition for a unit
          trust, if property of the trust includes business property;
          (d) the creation of a trust, or trust acquisition on the
          creation of a trust, of—
               (i) business property; or
               (ii) an indirect interest in dutiable property if
               the dutiable property includes business property;
          (e) a trust acquisition for a unit trust if the property of
          the trust includes business property.
     (2) For subsection (1) (d) (ii), an indirect interest in dutiable
     property is a partnership or trust interest in a family partnership,
     family trust or family unit trust that holds the dutiable property.
 
Conditions for transfer or agreement for transfer of business property
*** 98 Conditions for transfer or agreement for transfer of business property
***
     (1) The conditions applying to a dutiable transaction mentioned in
     section 97 (1) (a) are as follows—
          (a) the transferor or person directing the transfer is—
               (i) if the business property is used to carry on
               a business of primary production—a defined
               relative of the transferee; or
               (ii) otherwise—an ancestor of the transferee;
          (b) the transferee does not acquire the business property
          as—
               (i) trustee, other than as trustee of a trust for
               the beneficiaries mentioned in subsection (2); or
               (ii) agent or nominee of another person;
          (c) the business for which the business property is used is
          carried on by the defined relative or ancestor, whether
          alone or with others;
          (d) the business is intended to be carried on by the
          transferee, whether alone or with others.
     (2) For subsection (1) (b) (i) —
          (a) the beneficiary of the trust is a minor, and—
               (i) if the business property is used to carry on
               a business of primary production—the minor is a
               defined relative of the person creating the
               trust; or
               (ii) otherwise—the minor is a descendant of the
               person creating the trust; and
          (b) there are no other beneficiaries of the trust, other
          than a person who would become a beneficiary of the trust
          on the death of the beneficiary mentioned in paragraph (a).
 
Conditions for partnership acquisitions
*** 99 Conditions for partnership acquisitions ***
     (1) The conditions applying to a dutiable transaction mentioned in
     section 97 (1) (b) are as follows—
          (a) the partnership is a family partnership for the
          acquirer;
          (b) the transferor or person directing the acquisition
          is—
               (i) if the business property is used to carry on
               a business of primary production—a defined
               relative of the acquirer; or
               (ii) otherwise—an ancestor of the acquirer;
          (c) the acquirer does not acquire the partnership interest
          as—
               (i) trustee, other than as trustee of a trust for
               the beneficiaries mentioned in subsection (2); or
               (ii) agent or nominee of another person;
          (d) the business for which the business property is used is
          carried on by the defined relative or ancestor with the
          other partners;
          (e) the business is intended to be carried on by the
          acquirer, whether alone or with other partners.
     (2) For subsection (1) (c) (i) —
          (a) the beneficiary of the trust is a minor, and—
               (i) if the business property is used to carry on
               a business of primary production—the minor is a
               defined relative of the person creating the
               trust; or
               (ii) otherwise—the minor is a descendant of the
               person creating the trust; and
          (b) there are no other beneficiaries of the trust, other
          than a person who would become a beneficiary of the trust
          on the death of the beneficiary mentioned in paragraph (a).
 
Conditions for particular trust acquisitions
*** 100 Conditions for particular trust acquisitions ***
     (1) The conditions applying to a dutiable transaction mentioned in
     section 97 (1) (c) are as follows—
          (a) the trust is a family trust for the acquirer;
          (b) the person disposing of the interest or directing the
          acquisition is—
               (i) if the business property is used to carry on
               a business of primary production—a defined
               relative of the acquirer; or
               (ii) otherwise—an ancestor of the acquirer;
          (c) the acquirer does not acquire the interest as—
               (i) trustee, other than as trustee of a trust for
               the beneficiaries mentioned in subsection (2); or
               (ii) agent or nominee of another person;
          (d) the business for which the business property is used is
          carried on by the defined relative or ancestor, whether
          alone or with others;
          (e) the business is intended to be carried on by the
          acquirer, whether alone or with others.
     (2) For subsection (1) (c) (i) —
          (a) the beneficiary of the trust is a minor, and—
               (i) if the business property is used to carry on
               a business of primary production—the minor is a
               defined relative of the person creating the
               trust; or
               (ii) otherwise—the minor is a descendant of the
               person creating the trust; and
          (b) there are no other beneficiaries of the trust, other
          than a person who would become a beneficiary of the trust
          on the death of the beneficiary mentioned in paragraph (a).
 
Conditions for creation of trusts and particular trust acquisitions
*** 101 Conditions for creation of trusts and particular trust acquisitions ***
The conditions applying to a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 97 (1)
(d) are as follows—
     (a) the trust is a family trust for the acquirer;
     (b) the beneficiary of the trust is a minor, and—
          (i) if the business property is used to carry on the
          business of primary production—the minor is a defined
          relative of the person creating the trust; or
          (ii) otherwise—the minor is a descendant of the person
          creating the trust;
     (c) there are no other beneficiaries of the trust other than a person
     who would become a beneficiary of the trust on the death of the
     beneficiary mentioned in paragraph (b);
     (d) the acquirer does not acquire the interest as agent or nominee of
     another person;
     (e) the business for which the business property is used is carried
     on by the person creating the trust, whether alone or with others;
     (f) the business is intended to be carried on for the beneficiary,
     whether alone or with others.
 
Conditions for acquisitions of interest in family unit trusts
*** 102 Conditions for acquisitions of interest in family unit trusts ***
     (1) The conditions applying to a dutiable transaction mentioned in
     section 97 (1) (e) are as follows—
          (a) the trust is a family unit trust for the acquirer;
          (b) the person disposing of the interest or directing the
          acquisition is—
               (i) if the business property is used to carry on
               a business of primary production—a defined
               relative of the acquirer; or
               (ii) otherwise—an ancestor of the acquirer;
          (c) the acquirer does not acquire the interest as—
               (i) trustee, other than as trustee of a trust for
               the beneficiaries mentioned in subsection (2); or
               (ii) agent or nominee of another person;
          (d) the business for which the business property is used is
          carried on by the defined relative or ancestor, whether
          alone or with others;
          (e) the business is intended to be carried on by the
          acquirer, whether alone or with others.
     (2) For subsection (1) (c) (i) —
          (a) the beneficiary of the trust is a minor, and—
               (i) if the business property is used to carry on
               a business of primary production—the minor is a
               defined relative of the person creating the
               trust; or
               (ii) otherwise—the minor is a descendant of the
               person creating the trust; and
          (b) there are no other beneficiaries of the trust, other
          than a person who would become a beneficiary of the trust
          on the death of the beneficiary mentioned in paragraph (a).
 
Dutiable transactions by way of gift
*** 104 Dutiable transactions by way of gift ***
For this part, a dutiable transaction is by way of gift if there is no
consideration or the unencumbered value of the dutiable property is greater
than the consideration for the transaction.
 
How transfer duty is assessed on dutiable transaction—primary production
business
*** 105 How transfer duty is assessed on dutiable transaction—primary
production business ***
     (1) This section applies for assessing transfer duty on a dutiable
     transaction to which this part applies if business property to which
     the transaction relates is used to carry on a primary production
     business.
     (2) The dutiable value of the business property is taken to be nil.
     (3) In addition, if the dutiable property the subject of the dutiable
     transaction includes residential land adjacent to land used to carry
     on the business, the dutiable value of the residential land is taken
     to be nil.
 
How transfer duty is assessed on dutiable transaction—prescribed business
*** 105A How transfer duty is assessed on dutiable transaction—prescribed
business ***
     (1) This section applies for assessing transfer duty on a dutiable
     transaction to which this part applies—
          (a) if business property to which the transaction relates
          is used to carry on a prescribed business; and
          (b) to the extent the transaction is by way of gift.
     (2) The unencumbered value of the business property is limited to the
     amount by which the value exceeds $500,000.
     (3) Subsection (2) has effect subject to section 106.
 
Special provision for assessing transfer duty if total gifts of property used
for prescribed business exceed $500,000
*** 106 Special provision for assessing transfer duty if total gifts of
property used for prescribed business exceed $500,000 ***
     (1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction to which this part
     applies if—
          (a) business property to which the transaction relates is
          used to carry on a prescribed business; and
          (b) the transferee or acquirer has, since 12 December 1984,
          been gifted business property, a partnership interest, a
          trust interest or a marketable security; and
          (c) the gift was made by or at the direction of the
          ancestor of the transferee or acquirer; and
          (d) the ancestor was a party to, or directed, the
          transaction; and
          (e) the gifted business property or the business property
          of the partnership, trust or corporation to which the
          gifted interest or security relates is also used to carry
          on the prescribed family business.
     (2) The unencumbered value of the business property to which the
     transaction relates is limited to the amount by which the total value
     of the property mentioned in subsection (1) (a) and (e) exceeds
     $500,000.
     (3) Subsection (1) (b) does not apply to a marketable security gifted
     on or after 1 January 2007.
 
Application for concession for transfer duty under pt 10
*** 107 Application for concession for transfer duty under pt 10 ***
An application for a concession for transfer duty on a dutiable transaction
under this part must—
     (a) be made in the approved form; and
     (b) be lodged when the instrument that effects or evidences the
     transaction or transfer duty statement for the transaction is lodged
     for assessment.
 
Dutiable transactions to which pt 11 applies
*** 108 Dutiable transactions to which pt 11 applies ***
     (1) This part applies to the following dutiable transactions—
          (a) a transfer of dutiable property between superannuation
          funds to effect a merger of 2 or more superannuation funds
          or the splitting of a superannuation fund into 2 or more
          superannuation funds, if the trustees of the funds declare
          the new fund or funds will be complying superannuation
          funds within 1 year after the merger or split;
          (b) the creation of a trust of dutiable property because of
          the variation or reconstitution of a superannuation fund if
          the trustees of the fund declare that the fund, after the
          variation or reconstitution, will be a complying
          superannuation fund within 1 year after the creation of the
          trust.
     (2) However, this part does not apply if the dutiable transaction is
     part of an arrangement the sole or dominant purpose of which is to
     avoid duty on the disposition of dutiable property of, or to, a
     superannuation fund.
 
Concession for transfer duty
*** 109 Concession for transfer duty ***
Transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this part applies is
$20.
 
Documents to accompany application
*** 110 Documents to accompany application ***
An application for an assessment of duty under this part must be accompanied by
the following—
     (a) an explanation of the background to the dutiable transaction and
     the entitlements, if any, to be extinguished or created;
     (b) copies of the governing rules of the superannuation funds and any
     proposed amendments of the rules;
     (c) a statement of the dutiable property the subject of the
     transaction;
     (d) a copy of each instrument relating to the transaction;
     (e) a statutory declaration from a trustee of each of the
     superannuation funds concerned stating that, in the trustee’s
     opinion, the fund will be a complying superannuation fund within 1
     year after the transaction.
 
Exemption—cancelled agreements
*** 115 Exemption—cancelled agreements ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is an
     agreement for the transfer of dutiable property (the
     "cancelled agreement") if—
          (a) the agreement is ended because of a breach of it by a
          party to it; or
          (b) the agreement is ended because of non-fulfilment of a
          condition of it; or
          (c) the agreement is brought to an end by frustration; or
          (d) the agreement is ended with the consent of the parties
          to it and there is no resale agreement.
     (2) For subsection (1) (d), an agreement is a resale agreement if—
          (a) under the agreement, any of the dutiable property the
          subject of the cancelled agreement is or will be
          transferred or is agreed to be transferred; and
          (b) the transferee under the cancelled agreement or a
          related person of the transferee receives, or will receive,
          directly or indirectly a financial benefit other than—
               (i) the release of the transferee from the
               transferee’s obligation under the cancelled
               agreement; or
               (ii) an interest in the dutiable property to the
               extent that the unencumbered value of the
               interest does not represent a profit for the
               transferee because of the resale agreement.
     (3) If, on an assessment, transfer duty has been paid on an agreement
     that is not liable to transfer duty because of this section, the
     commissioner must make a reassessment if an application is made
     within 6 months after the agreement is ended or within the longer
     period the commissioner allows.
     (4) The applicant must lodge the cancelled agreement with the
     application.
 
Exemption—particular agreements entered into before registration of company
*** 116 Exemption—particular agreements entered into before registration of
company ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) a transferee enters into an agreement (the
          "first agreement") for, or for the benefit of, a company
          proposed to be registered under the Corporations Act; and
          (b) the company is named in the first agreement; and
          (c) the company, or a company that is reasonably
          identifiable with it, is registered under the Corporations
          Act; and
          (d) the first agreement is ended so that the company can
          enter into an agreement as the transferee of the dutiable
          property.
     (2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction that is
     the first agreement for the transfer of the dutiable property.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if—
          (a) a transferee enters into an agreement for, or for the
          benefit of, a company proposed to be registered under the
          Corporations Act; and
          (b) the company is named in the agreement; and
          (c) the company, or a company that is reasonably
          identifiable with it, is registered under the Corporations
          Act; and
          (d) under the Corporations Act, section 131, the company
          ratifies the agreement after it is registered.
     (4) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction that is
     the transfer of the dutiable property to the company if transfer duty
     imposed on the agreement is paid.
          Note—
               See also section 241A in relation to the
               imposition of AFAD on the agreement in particular
               circumstances.
     (5) If, on an assessment, transfer duty has been paid on a dutiable
     transaction that is not liable to transfer duty because of this
     section, the commissioner must make a reassessment if an application
     is made within 6 months after the agreement is ended or ratified or
     the longer period the commissioner allows.
     (6) The applicant must lodge the first agreement or transfer with the
     application.
 
Exemption—change of trustee
*** 117 Exemption—change of trustee ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction for the
     sole purpose of giving effect to a change of a trustee if—
          (a) the transaction is not part of an arrangement—
               (i) involving a change in the rights or interest
               of a beneficiary of the trust; or
               (ii) terminating the trust; and
          (b) transfer duty has been paid on all trust acquisitions
          or trust surrenders for which transfer duty is imposed for
          the trust before the transaction.
     (2) Also, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction for
     the sole purpose of giving effect to a change of a trustee if—
          (a) the transaction is part of an arrangement involving a
          change in the rights or interest of a beneficiary of the
          trust; and
          (b) transfer duty has been paid on all trust acquisitions
          or trust surrenders—
               (i) of trust interests in the trust made under
               the arrangement; and
               (ii) for which transfer duty is imposed; and
          (c) transfer duty has been paid on all trust acquisitions
          or trust surrenders for which transfer duty is imposed for
          the trust before the transaction; and
          (d) the change of trustee is not part of an arrangement to
          avoid the imposition of duty.
          Note—
               In relation to subsection (2), see also section
               615.
 
Exemption—trust acquisition or surrender in family trust
*** 118 Exemption—trust acquisition or surrender in family trust ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a
     trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest if—
          (a) the trust is established and maintained as a
          discretionary trust primarily for the benefit of the
          members of a particular family or a family company; and
          (b) the person acquiring or surrendering the trust interest
          is a member of the family who, or is a family company that,
          does not benefit in the capacity of trustee.
     (2) Also, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that
     is a trust acquisition or trust surrender if—
          (a) the trust is established and maintained primarily for
          the benefit of the members of a particular family or a
          family company; and
          (b) the trust acquisition or trust surrender is a result
          of—
               (i) a member of the family becoming or ceasing to
               be a member of a class of beneficiaries of the
               trust because of the birth or death of the
               member; or
               (ii) the person acquiring or surrendering the
               trust interest becoming or ceasing to be a member
               of a class of beneficiaries of the trust
               consisting of the children, stepchildren or
               grandchildren of a named member or members of the
               family.
     (3) For subsection (1) (a) or (2) (a), a discretionary trust is
     established and maintained primarily for the benefit of the members
     of a particular family or a family company if—
          (a) the primary beneficiaries of the trust consist only of
          members of the family or the family company; and
          (b) the takers in default of an appointment for capital by
          the trustee of the trust consist only of members of the
          family or the family company.
     (4) However, subsection (3) (b) is taken to be satisfied if the last
     taker in default of an appointment for capital by the trustee of the
     trust is—
          (a) a person decided under the Succession Act 1981; or
          (b) a charitable institution.
     (5) For subsection (2) (a), a trust other than a discretionary trust
     is established and maintained primarily for the benefit of the
     members of a particular family or a family company if at least 90% of
     the trust interests in the trust are held by members of the family or
     the family company.
     (6) For applying this section, a person (the
     "first person") is a member of the particular family of another
     person (the
     "other person") if—
          (a) the first person is the spouse of the other person; or
          (b) the first person, or the first person’s spouse, is
          any of the following in relation to the other person, or
          the other person’s spouse—
               (i) child, stepchild or adopted child;
               (ii) grandchild or great grandchild;
               (iii) brother, sister, aunt, uncle or cousin;
               (iv) parent, step-parent, adoptive parent,
               grandparent or great grandparent.
     (7) In this section—

     "family company", for a trust, means a corporation in which all its
     directors and shareholders are members of the particular family for
     which the trust is established and maintained.

     "spouse" includes former spouse.
 
Exemption—trust acquisition or surrender in superannuation fund
*** 119 Exemption—trust acquisition or surrender in superannuation fund ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a trust
acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest—
     (a) of a member in a superannuation fund if the transaction is for
     the sole purpose of providing superannuation benefits for the member;
     or
     (b) to the extent the transaction gives effect to a distribution of
     benefits of a person who was a member of a superannuation fund on the
     person’s death.
 
Exemption—trust acquisition or surrender for membership of particular
unincorporated association
*** 120 Exemption—trust acquisition or surrender for membership of particular
unincorporated association ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a
     trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest of a member
     of an unincorporated association to which this section applies if—
          (a) the transaction is solely the result of a person
          becoming a member of the association for the sole purpose
          of enjoying the benefits of membership and no consideration
          is paid or payable by the person other than membership
          fees; or
          (b) the transaction is solely the result of a person
          ceasing to be a member of the association and no
          consideration is received by the person other than a refund
          of membership fees.
     (2) This section applies to an unincorporated association that—
          (a) has at least 7 members; and
          (b) is not formed or carried on for providing financial
          gain for its members; and
          (c) does not have as its main purpose the holding of
          property—
               (i) in which its members have a disposable
               interest; or
               (ii) that the members have a right to divide
               between all or some of them; or
               (iii) for use by some or all of its members or
               among persons claiming through, or nominated by,
               some or all of its members; or
               (iv) for distribution, or for distribution of the
               income from it, among some or all of its members
               or among persons claiming through, or nominated
               by, some or all of its members; and
          (d) does not have an object of raising a fund by
          subscription of its members to make loans to them.
     (3) For subsection (2) (b), an association is not formed or carried
     on for providing financial gain for its members merely because 1 or
     more of the circumstances mentioned in the Associations Incorporation
     Act 1981, section 4, apply to it.
 
Exemption—trust acquisition or surrender for dutiable property comprising
only existing rights
*** 121 Exemption—trust acquisition or surrender for dutiable property
comprising only existing rights ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a trust
acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest if—
     (a) the only dutiable property of the trust are existing rights of
     the holder of a mortgage, charge, bill of sale or other security over
     dutiable property located in Queensland; and
     (b) the existing rights have been given in favour of the trustee for
     the sole purpose of being held for the benefit of the beneficiaries
     of the trust who have provided, or will from time to time provide,
     financial accommodation.
 
Exemption—restructure of stapled entities
*** 122 Exemption—restructure of stapled entities ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a
     trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest in a listed
     unit trust or a widely held unit trust if—
          (a) the purpose of the transaction is to give effect to a
          scheme that qualifies or would, on its completion, qualify
          as a roll-over under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997
          (Cwlth), subdivision 124.Q; and
          (b) when the scheme is completed, the interposed trust will
          be a listed unit trust or a widely held unit trust; and
          (c) the transaction is not part of an arrangement to avoid
          the imposition of transfer duty.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if—
          (a) the interposed trust is not a listed unit trust or a
          widely held unit trust when the scheme is completed; or
          (b) the interposed trust ceases to be a listed unit trust
          or a widely held unit trust within 3 years after the scheme
          is completed; or
          (c) the interposed trust does not retain all the ownership
          interests in the stapled entities for at least 3 years
          after the date of the transaction.
     (3) Despite subsection (2) (c), subsection (1) continues to apply if
     the commissioner is satisfied the interposed trust did not retain all
     the ownership interests because 1 or more of the stapled entities
     ceased to exist other than under an arrangement, a significant
     purpose of which was to avoid the requirement to retain all the
     ownership interests for at least 3 years.
     (4) If subsection (1) does not apply, the commissioner must make a
     reassessment to impose transfer duty on the transaction as if the
     exemption from duty had never applied.
     (5) Subsection (4) applies to the reassessment despite the limitation
     period under the Administration Act for reassessments.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 3, division 3.
     (6) If an event mentioned in subsection (2) happens, a party to the
     transaction must, within 28 days after the event happens—
          (a) give notice of the event to the commissioner in the
          approved form; and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty on the transaction are lodged for reassessment.
               Note—
                    Failure to give the notice is an
                    offence under the Administration Act,
                    section 120.
     (7) Without limiting subsection (3), a company registered under the
     Corporations Act ceases to exist if it is deregistered under that
     Act.
 
Exemption—particular distribution of dutiable property to a beneficiary
*** 123 Exemption—particular distribution of dutiable property to a
beneficiary ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is
     the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property to
     a beneficiary, or the surrender of a trust interest of a beneficiary,
     to the extent it represents the beneficiary’s trust interest on a
     distribution by the trustee under a trust.
     (2) However, subsection (1) applies only if the commissioner is
     satisfied—
          (a) the dutiable property being distributed to the
          beneficiary—
               (i) is the same property held on trust at the
               time the beneficiary acquired the beneficiary’s
               trust interest; or
               (ii) represents the proceeds of re-investment of
               property held on trust when the beneficiary
               acquired the beneficiary’s trust interest in
               the trust; and
          (b) under this chapter—
               (i) transfer duty imposed has been paid for the
               dutiable transactions that are the creation of a
               trust of the dutiable property or the trust
               acquisition of the beneficiary’s trust
               interest; or
               (ii) the transactions are exempt from transfer
               duty.
     (3) The trust acquisition of a beneficiary’s trust interest is not
     exempt from transfer duty for the purposes of subsection (2) (b) (ii)
     if transfer duty is not imposed on the acquisition because of the
     operation of section 66 (2).
     (4) Also, subsection (1) applies only to the extent transfer duty is
     paid for the distribution of the dutiable property if—
          (a) a concession for transfer duty has been provided under
          part 10 for the dutiable property; and
          (b) any of the following applies—
               (i) if the property of the trust is business
               property used to carry on a business of primary
               production—the beneficiary is not a defined
               relative of the person who created the trust;
               (ii) if the property of the trust is business
               property used to carry on a prescribed
               business—the beneficiary is not a descendant of
               the person who created the trust;
               (iii) the property of the trust is not, at the
               time of the distribution, business property or
               the business is not intended to be carried on by
               the beneficiary, whether alone or with others.
 
Exemption—deceased person’s estate
*** 124 Exemption—deceased person’s estate ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on the following dutiable transactions—
     (a) a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property
     to the extent that it gives effect to a distribution in the estate of
     a deceased person;
     (b) the creation of a trust of dutiable property to the extent that
     it gives effect to a distribution in the estate of a deceased person;
     (c) a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property
     to the extent that it gives effect to a court order under the
     Succession Act 1981, part 4;
     (d) a vesting of dutiable property under the Succession Act 1981,
     section 45;
     (e) a vesting of dutiable property under the Aboriginal and Torres
     Strait Islander Land Holding Act 2013, section 69A, including the
     section as it continues to apply under section 96 of that Act.
     Note—
          Also, see section 66 (When no transfer duty on trust
          acquisition or trust surrender).
 
Exemption—particular vestings of dutiable property
*** 125 Exemption—particular vestings of dutiable property ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is, or arises
from—
     (a) a vesting of dutiable property on a statutory trust for sale or
     partition under the Property Law Act 1974, part 5; or
     (b) a vesting of dutiable property in a receiver or trustee in
     bankruptcy or a retransfer of the property to the bankrupt on the
     bankrupt’s discharge from bankruptcy.
 
Exemption—transactions for trust created for person under legal disability
*** 126 Exemption—transactions for trust created for person under legal
disability ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—
     (a) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property
     from the trustee of a trust created under the Public Trustee Act
     1978, section 59, to the beneficiary of the trust; or
     (b) the surrender of a trust interest of the beneficiary as a result
     of the transfer or agreement for the transfer.
 
Exemption—special disability trusts
*** 126A Exemption—special disability trusts ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—
          (a) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of an
          eligible home to the trustee of a special disability trust;
          or
          (b) the creation of a special disability trust holding
          dutiable property, to the extent the dutiable property is
          an eligible home; or
          (c) a trust acquisition in a special disability trust, to
          the extent the trust interest acquired relates to an
          eligible home.
     (2) In this section—

     "eligible home", in relation to a special disability trust, means
     residential land that is being, or will be, used as the principal
     place of residence by the beneficiary of the trust.

     "special disability trust" means a special disability trust under—
          (a) the Social Security Act 1991 (Cwlth), section 1209L; or
          (b) the Veterans’ Entitlements Act 1986 (Cwlth), section
          52ZZZW.
 
Exemption—declaration of charitable trust
*** 127 Exemption—declaration of charitable trust ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—
     (a) the creation of a trust, that is a charitable trust only, of
     dutiable property; or
     (b) a trust acquisition in a trust that is a charitable trust only.
 
Exemption—community purpose associations
*** 128 Exemption—community purpose associations ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is the creation of
a trust of dutiable property or a trust acquisition for which details of the
trust are required to be registered under the Land Title Act 1994 if—
     (a) the association of persons for which the property is held on
     trust is formed for providing recreation or amusement, promoting
     religion, charity, patriotism or the arts or achieving another object
     that, in the commissioner’s opinion, is useful to the community;
     and
     (b) the association’s constitution provides for the application of
     its funds to its objects and prohibits the distribution of any part
     of its funds or profits to its members.
 
Exemption—transfer by direction to primary custodian for responsible entity
of registered managed investment scheme
*** 129 Exemption—transfer by direction to primary custodian for responsible
entity of registered managed investment scheme ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a transfer of dutiable property
     from a person as vendor to another person as primary custodian for
     the responsible entity of a registered managed investment scheme.
     (2) However, subsection (1) applies only if—
          (a) the transfer is made under a dutiable transaction that
          is the agreement for the transfer of the property entered
          into between the person as vendor and the responsible
          entity as purchaser; and
          (b) the property is acquired by the responsible entity as
          scheme property; and
          (c) transfer duty imposed on the transaction has been paid.
 
Exemption—other transfers of scheme property of registered managed investment
scheme
*** 130 Exemption—other transfers of scheme property of registered managed
investment scheme ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on the following dutiable
     transactions (
     "relevant transactions")—
          (a) for scheme property of a registered managed investment
          scheme other than a trust interest—a transfer, or
          agreement for the transfer, of the scheme property from 1
          property holder for the scheme to the other property holder
          for the scheme; or
          (b) for scheme property of a registered managed investment
          scheme that is a trust interest—a trust acquisition made
          by 1 property holder for the scheme, if the trust interest
          was held by the other property holder for the scheme
          immediately before the acquisition.
     (2) However, subsection (1) does not apply if the relevant
     transaction is part of an arrangement under which—
          (a) the scheme property, or an interest in the scheme
          property, ceases to be scheme property; or
          (b) the persons who are members of the registered managed
          investment scheme do not have the same trust interest in
          the scheme property after the relevant transaction happens
          as they had immediately before the arrangement was entered
          into.
     (3) In this section—

     "property holder", for a registered managed investment scheme,
     means—
          (a) the responsible entity of the scheme; or
          (b) a person as primary custodian for the responsible
          entity of the scheme.

     "scheme property" includes a trust interest of a registered managed
     investment scheme held by a property holder for the scheme.
 
Exemption—transfer by direction to custodian for a superannuation entity
*** 130A Exemption—transfer by direction to custodian for a superannuation
entity ***
     (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), transfer duty is not imposed
     on a transfer of dutiable property from a person as vendor to another
     person as custodian for the trustee of one of the following entities
     (each an
     "eligible superannuation entity")—
          (a) a public superannuation entity;
          (b) a complying superannuation fund, if the trustee has,
          under the Superannuation Industry Act, section 19 (4),
          given a written notice electing to apply that Act in
          relation to the fund to APRA or an entity other than APRA.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies only if—
          (a) the transfer is made under a dutiable transaction that
          is the agreement for the transfer of the property entered
          into between the person as vendor and the trustee as
          purchaser; and
          (b) the property is acquired by the trustee as fund
          property; and
          (c) transfer duty imposed on the transaction has been paid.
     (3) If the trustee of the eligible superannuation entity has given a
     written notice to an entity other than APRA as mentioned in
     subsection (1) (b), subsection (1) applies only if the transfer of
     dutiable property is the transfer of an acquirable asset to the
     custodian to be held on trust for the trustee in compliance with the
     Superannuation Industry Act, section 67A (1) (b).
     (4) In this section—

     "APRA" see the Superannuation Industry Act, section 10.
 
Exemption—other transfers of fund property of eligible superannuation
entities
*** 130B Exemption—other transfers of fund property of eligible
superannuation entities ***
     (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), transfer duty is not imposed
     on a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of fund property of an
     eligible superannuation entity from—
          (a) the trustee of the entity to a person as custodian for
          the trustee; or
          (b) a person as custodian for the trustee of the entity to
          the trustee.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the transfer or agreement is
     part of an arrangement under which—
          (a) the fund property, or an interest in the fund property,
          ceases to be fund property; or
          (b) the persons who are members of the eligible
          superannuation entity do not have the same trust interest
          in the fund property after the property is transferred or
          agreement is made as they had immediately before the
          arrangement was entered into.
     (3) If the trustee of the eligible superannuation entity has given a
     written notice to an entity other than APRA as mentioned in section
     130A (1) (b), subsection (1) applies to the transfer or agreement
     only if—
          (a) for a transaction mentioned in subsection (1) (a)
          —the property the subject of the transfer or agreement is
          an acquirable asset that is, on completion of the transfer,
          held on trust by the custodian for the trustee in
          compliance with the Superannuation Industry Act, section
          67A (1) (b); or
          (b) for a transaction mentioned in subsection (1) (b)
          —the property the subject of the transfer or agreement is
          an acquirable asset that, immediately before the transfer,
          was held on trust by the custodian for the trustee in
          compliance with the S uperannuation Industry Act, section
          67A (1) (b).
 
What is an asset-backed security
*** 130C What is an asset-backed security ***
     (1) An
     "asset-backed security" is—
          (a) an entitlement or interest of a person in—
               (i) an entitlement of a financier for a financial
               asset or pool of financial assets; or
               (ii) amounts payable to a financier under a
               financial asset or pool of financial assets
               whether or not on the same conditions applying
               under the asset and whether or not the person is
               entitled to a transfer of the asset or pool of
               assets; or
          (b) a debenture, promissory note, bill of exchange, stock,
          bond, note or other security creating, evidencing or
          acknowledging indebtedness issued or made by a corporation
          if the payments under the security are received by the
          corporation—
               (i) substantially from the receipts, whether of
               capital or income, from a financial asset or pool
               of financial assets; or
               (ii) if another extent is prescribed under a
               regulation—to the extent prescribed, from the
               receipts, whether of capital or income, from a
               financial asset or pool of financial assets; or
          (c) a security by which an interest in, or mortgage or
          charge over, an entitlement, interest or security mentioned
          in paragraph (a) or (b) is created; or
          (d) a covered bond within the meaning of the Banking Act
          1959 (Cwlth), section 26, if the cover pool for the covered
          bond under that section consists of either of the
          following—
               (i) a financial asset;
               (ii) a pool of financial assets.
     (2) However, the term does not include—
          (a) a mortgage, other than a mortgage mentioned in
          subsection (1) (c); or
          (b) a transfer of a mortgage or financial asset.
     (3) It does not matter whether an asset-backed security is effected
     by an instrument or another way.
 
Who is a financier
*** 130D Who is a financier ***
A
"financier" is a lender or bailor who provides financial accommodation under a
financial asset.
 
What is a financial asset
*** 130E What is a financial asset ***
     (1) A
     "financial asset" is any of the following—
          (a) a loan, including any security for the loan;
          (b) a credit card account;
          (c) a hire purchase agreement;
          (d) a chattel lease, whether finance or operating;
          (e) a vehicle dealer floor plan agreement;
          (f) the rights of a financier that are—
               (i) usually conferred in relation to an asset
               mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (e); and
               (ii) incidental to the asset.
     (2) In this section—

     "credit card account" means an account kept by a credit card provider
     for a credit card holder recording the balance of account between the
     provider and the holder for credit card transactions for the
     holder’s credit card.

     "credit card transaction" means a debit or adjustment to a credit
     card holder’s credit card account that—
          (a) is for—
               (i) a payment by a credit card provider to a
               merchant to whom the holder’s credit card is
               produced; or
               (ii) a cash advance made by a credit card
               provider to, or at the direction of, the holder;
               and
          (b) involves the giving of credit by the provider or an
          adjustment of credit previously given by the provider.
 
What is a pool of financial assets
*** 130F What is a pool of financial assets ***
     (1) A
     "pool of financial assets" is a pool or collection of assets that
     consists solely of financial assets.
     (2) Also, a
     "pool of financial assets" is a pool or collection of assets that
     consists substantially or, if another extent is prescribed under a
     regulation, to the extent prescribed, of financial assets or amounts
     paid under financial assets, or a combination of them, if the other
     assets in the pool or collection are cash or an authorised
     investment.
 
What is an authorised investment
*** 130G What is an authorised investment ***
An
"authorised investment", for a pool of financial assets, is any of the
following—
     (a) a bond, debenture, stock or Treasury bill of the Commonwealth or
     a State;
     (b) a debenture or stock of a public statutory body established under
     an Act of the Commonwealth or a State;
     (c) a note or other security of the Commonwealth or a State;
     (d) a deposit with, or a certificate of deposit or another security
     issued by, a financial institution;
     (e) a bill of exchange, promissory note or other negotiable
     instrument accepted, drawn or endorsed by a financial institution;
     (f) an asset-backed security or mortgage-backed security.
 
Exemption—particular transactions for asset-backed securities
*** 130H Exemption—particular transactions for asset-backed securities ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a
     transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of—
          (a) an asset-backed security; or
          (b) a financial asset or pool of financial assets for
          creating, issuing, marketing or securing an asset-backed
          security.
     (2) Also, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction
     that—
          (a) is the creation of a trust of dutiable property or a
          trust acquisition; and
          (b) is required for creating, issuing, marketing, acquiring
          or securing an asset-backed security.
     (3) In addition, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable
     transaction that is a trust surrender required to give effect to a
     redemption of an asset-backed security.
 
Exemption—mortgage-backed securities
*** 130I Exemption—mortgage-backed securities ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a
     transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a mortgage or pool of
     mortgages for creating, issuing, marketing or securing a mortgage-
     backed security.
     (2) Also, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction
     that—
          (a) is the creation of a trust of dutiable property or a
          trust acquisition; and
          (b) is required for creating, issuing, marketing, acquiring
          or securing a mortgage-backed security.
     (3) In addition, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable
     transaction that is a trust surrender required to give effect to a
     redemption of a mortgage-backed security.
 
Exemption—dealings under Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Land Acts
*** 131 Exemption—dealings under Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Land
Acts ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on the following dutiable transactions—
     (a) the issue, under the Aboriginal Land Act 1991 or Torres Strait
     Islander Land Act 1991, of a deed of grant in fee simple;
     (b) the issue of a lease prepared for the Aboriginal Land Act 1991,
     section 287 or the Torres Strait Islander Land Act 1991, section 191;
     (c) a surrender, under or for the Aboriginal Land Act 1991 or Torres
     Strait Islander Land Act 1991, of a deed of grant or lease mentioned
     in paragraph (a) or (b);
     (d) the acquisition of an interest in land because the Aboriginal
     Land Act 1991, section 199, or the Torres Strait Islander Land Act
     1991, section 148, ceases to apply to the land.
 
Exemption—vesting under boundary adjustment plans
*** 132 Exemption—vesting under boundary adjustment plans ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on the vesting of land because of the registration
of—
     (a) a boundary adjustment plan under the Integrated Resort
     Development Act 1987, part 5, division 4, subdivision B; or
     (b) a boundary adjustment plan under the Mixed Use Development Act
     1993, part 5, division 11; or
     (c) a stratum boundary adjustment plan under the Mixed Use
     Development Act 1993, part 6, division 2; or
     (d) a boundary adjustment plan under the South Bank Corporation Act
     1989, section 42.
 
Exemption—community titles schemes
*** 133 Exemption—community titles schemes ***
     (1) Subject to subsection (2), transfer duty is not imposed on a
     transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a lot that, under the
     Body Corporate and Community Management Act 1997, is a lot included
     in a community titles scheme if—
          (a) the transferor is a corporation (the
          "transferor corporation"); and
          (b) under that Act, the transferor corporation is the
          original owner for the scheme; and
          (c) the transferee held shares in the transferor
          corporation that were surrendered to obtain the transfer of
          the lot from the transferor corporation; and
          (d) the separate area that the lot comprises corresponds
          with the separate area the transferee had a right to occupy
          immediately before surrendering the transferee’s shares;
          and
          (e) the separate area that the lot comprises has been used
          for residential purposes immediately before the transferee
          surrendered the transferee’s shares and will, after
          registration of the plan and the transfer of the lot to the
          transferee, be used for residential purposes.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies to the transfer or agreement for the
     transfer of a lot by a transferor corporation on or after the
     commencement day only if—
          (a) before the commencement day—
               (i) shares were issued by the transferor
               corporation; and
               (ii) the corporation’s constitution provided,
               and on and from the commencement day continues to
               provide, that a person who holds the shares has
               the right to occupy the separate area mentioned
               in subsection (1) (d); or
          (b) before the commencement day, the transferee entered
          into an agreement with the transferor corporation under
          which—
               (i) the transferee is entitled to purchase the
               shares mentioned in subsection (1) (c) from the
               transferor corporation; and
               (ii) because of the purchase of the shares, the
               transferee has the right to occupy the separate
               area mentioned in subsection (1) (d).
     (3) In this section—

     "commencement day" means the day this section commences.
 
Exemption—forfeiture orders
*** 134 Exemption—forfeiture orders ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or
agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property under—
     (a) any of the following under the Criminal Proceeds Confiscation Act
     2002 —
          (i) third party order;
          (ii) an exclusion order;
          (iii) an innocent interests exclusion order;
          (iv) a buy-back order;
          (v) a request under section 175; or
     (b) the Drugs Misuse Act 1986, section 39 (4).
 
Exemption—industrial organisations
*** 135 Exemption—industrial organisations ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—
     (a) the vesting of dutiable property in an industrial organisation
     under the Industrial Relations Act 2016, chapter 12, part 14; or
     (b) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property
     from trustees of an industrial organisation under the Industrial
     Relations Act 2016 to the organisation.
 
Exemption—dealings under Land Act
*** 136 Exemption—dealings under Land Act ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on the following dutiable transactions—
     (a) a grant under the Land Act 1994, in fee simple in trust, of
     unallocated State land for any of the following purposes under that
     Act—
          (i) a community purpose;
          (ii) provision of services beneficial to Aboriginal people
          particularly concerned with the land;
          (iii) provision of services beneficial to Torres Strait
          Islanders particularly concerned with the land;
     (b) a grant under the Land Act 1994, in fee simple, of land comprised
     in a freeholding lease, grazing homestead perpetual lease, or
     perpetual lease for pastoral purposes, under that Act, to the lessee;
     (c) a surrender under the Land Act 1994 of land held in fee simple to
     the State;
     (d) a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a road licence
     issued under the Land Act 1994, section 103, if the value of the
     licence is not more than $200;
     (e) a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a pastoral lease
     under the Land Act 1994, other than a preferential pastoral holding
     issued under the Land Act 1962, from the mortgagee to the mortgagor
     having the effect of a release of the mortgage;
     (f) the acquisition of a new right that is a change of tenure under
     the Land Act 1994, section 504 or 505;
     (g) the acquisition of a new right that is a lease, licence or permit
     issued under the Land Act 1994, other than a post-Wolfe freeholding
     lease under that Act.
 
Exemption—mining, petroleum and other particular legislation
*** 137 Exemption—mining, petroleum and other particular legislation ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—
          (a) the grant of a resource authority; or
          (b) the transfer, or an agreement for the transfer, of a
          mining claim, or a share in a mining claim, under the
          Mineral Resources Act 1989 if the consideration is not more
          than $100.
     (2) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—
          (a) the grant of a tenure under the Offshore Minerals Act
          1998; or
          (b) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a
          tenure or interest in a tenure, under that Act.
     (3) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—
          (a) the grant of an access authority, licence, permit or
          pipeline licence under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act
          1982; or
          (b) the transfer, agreement for the transfer or surrender,
          of—
               (i) an authority, licence or permit mentioned in
               paragraph (a); or
               (ii) an interest in an authority, licence or
               permit mentioned in paragraph (a).
     (4) Subsection (1) applies to a dutiable transaction if liability for
     transfer duty arose or arises on or after 1 March 2002.
 
Exemption—manufactured homes
*** 138 Exemption—manufactured homes ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on any of the following dutiable
     transactions—
          (a) a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a
          manufactured home positioned on a site under a site
          agreement;
          (b) a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a
          manufactured home not positioned on a site if—
               (i) the manufactured home is acquired for
               positioning on a site under a site agreement; and
               (ii) the transfer or agreement is not part of a
               transaction involving the transferor’s
               agreement for the transfer of ownership of land;
          (c) a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a
          person’s rights and obligations as occupier of a
          manufactured home under a site agreement for the home.
     (2) In this section—

     "manufactured home" see the Manufactured Homes (Residential Parks)
     Act 2003, section 10.

     "site" see the Manufactured Homes (Residential Parks) Act 2003,
     section 13.
 
Exemption—dealings under South Bank Corporation Act
*** 139 Exemption—dealings under South Bank Corporation Act ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—
     (a) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property
     for which no fee or charge is payable under the South Bank
     Corporation Act 1989, section 23; or
     (b) the determination or partial determination of a lease under the
     South Bank Corporation Act 1989, schedule 4, part 2 or 3.
 
Exemption—particular water entitlements
*** 140 Exemption—particular water entitlements ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is the grant of a
water entitlement to the extent that it replaces and represents—
     (a) a water entitlement held by the grantee; or
     (b) an authority to take water under the repealed Water Resources Act
     1989 held by the grantee immediately before the repeal of that Act.
 
Exemption—particular statutory bodies
*** 141 Exemption—particular statutory bodies ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is
     the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property to
     any of the following bodies—
          (a) the Library Board of Queensland constituted under the
          Libraries Act 1988;
          (b) the Queensland Art Gallery Board of Trustees
          constituted under the Queensland Art Gallery Act 1987;
          (c) the Queensland Museum Board of Trustees constituted
          under the Queensland Museum Act 1970;
          (d) the Queensland Performing Arts Trust constituted under
          the Queensland Performing Arts Trust Act 1977;
          (e) the Queensland Theatre Company constituted under the
          Queensland Theatre Company Act 1970.
     (2) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a
     gift of dutiable property under the Queensland Institute of Medical
     Research Act 1945, section 14, to the Council of the Queensland
     Institute of Medical Research constituted under that Act.
 
Exemption—mandatory buyback under Retirement Villages Act 1999
*** 141A Exemption—mandatory buyback under Retirement Villages Act 1999 ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction under the Retirement
Villages Act 1999, section 63A.
 
Exemption—charitable institutions
*** 142 Exemption—charitable institutions ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a transfer, or agreement for the
     transfer, of dutiable property to—
          (a) a charitable institution to conduct an art union, if
          the prize for the art union is to be represented wholly or
          partly by the dutiable property transferred; or
          (b) the winner of a prize in the art union.
     (2) In this section—

     "art union" see the Charitable and Non-Profit Gaming Act 1999,
     section 6.

     "charitable institution" does not include a charitable institution
     mentioned in the Administration Act, section 149C (2) (a).
 
Exemption—change of tenure
*** 143 Exemption—change of tenure ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on an agreement for a transfer
     entered into, or a transfer made, solely for the purpose of changing
     the registered ownership of property—
          (a) from tenants in common to joint tenants; or
          (b) from joint tenants to tenants in common.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies only if—
          (a) the total value of the co-owners’ interests in the
          property immediately before the agreement was entered into,
          or the transfer had effect, is not changed; and
          (b) either—
               (i) for subsection (1) (a) —immediately before
               the agreement was entered into or the transfer
               had effect, the owners held the property as
               tenants in common in equal shares; or
               (ii) for subsection (1) (b) —after the transfer
               has effect, the owners hold the property as
               tenants in common in equal shares.
 
Exemption—joint tenancy
*** 144 Exemption—joint tenancy ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that arises by operation
of law because of the death of a joint tenant.
 
Exemption—transfer to State for public or community purpose
*** 145 Exemption—transfer to State for public or community purpose ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a transfer of
land to, or vesting of land in a way mentioned in section 9 (1) (d) (i) in, the
State for—
     (a) a public purpose under the Acquisition of Land Act 1967; or
     (b) any of the following purposes under the Land Act 1994 —
          (i) a community purpose;
          (ii) provision of services beneficial to Aboriginal people
          particularly concerned with the land;
          (iii) provision of services beneficial to Torres Strait
          Islanders particularly concerned with the land.
 
Exemption—leases of particular residences
*** 146 Exemption—leases of particular residences ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on an acquisition of a new right
     that is a lease of land in Queensland if—
          (a) the new right is an instrument that is—
               (i) a lease of a dwelling house; or
               (ii) a site agreement; and
          (b) the leased premises are not used for carrying on a
          business or commercial venture; and
          (c) there is no premium, fine or other consideration
          payable for the grant of the new right.
     (2) In this section—

     "leased premises" includes the land the subject of a site agreement.
 
Exemption—surrender of lease
*** 147 Exemption—surrender of lease ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a surrender of a
lease of land in Queensland if—
     (a) there is no premium, fine or other consideration paid or payable
     for the surrender; or
     (b) any premium, fine or other consideration paid or payable for the
     surrender is paid by the lessor.
 
Exemption—marketable securities etc.
*** 148 Exemption—marketable securities etc. ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on any of the following dutiable transactions—
     (a) a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of stock, debentures
     or bonds of an authority established under a State Act or an Act of
     another State;
     (b) a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a corporate debt
     security.
 
Exemption—debt factoring agreements
*** 149 Exemption—debt factoring agreements ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a transfer, or agreement for the
     transfer, of a business asset that is a book debt if the transaction
     is part of a debt factoring agreement between the parties.
     (2) In this section—

     "debt factoring agreement" means an agreement for purchasing,
     acquiring or factoring a book debt for providing finance to the
     transferor of the book debt.
 
Exemption—particular chattels
*** 150 Exemption—particular chattels ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is
     the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of any of the following
     chattels taken under a statutory licence, profit a prendre,
     sharefarming agreement or other similar arrangement if the condition
     in subsection (2) for the chattel is complied with—
          (a) standing timber;
          (b) gas, petroleum or mineral;
          (c) gravel, rock, stone, sand, clay, earth or soil;
          (d) primary produce;
          (e) fish or livestock;
          (f) water.
     (2) For subsection (1), the condition is—
          (a) for a chattel mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (d) —it
          must be severed or released, and taken, from land in
          Queensland by the transferee; or
          (b) for a chattel mentioned in paragraph (e) or (f) —it
          must be taken from land in Queensland by the transferee.
 
Exemption—particular residences
*** 151 Exemption—particular residences ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is
     the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, by way of gift, from 1
     party to a subsisting marriage, de facto relationship or civil
     partnership, to the other party to the marriage, de facto
     relationship or civil partnership, of an interest in residential land
     if—
          (a) after the transfer, the residential land will be owned
          by the parties as joint tenants or tenants in common in
          equal shares; and
          (b) the residence will be the principal residence of the
          parties.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies even if liability under a mortgage over
     the interest in the land, in existence immediately before the
     transaction, is assumed by the other party under the transaction.
          Note—
               In relation to subsection (2), see also section
               616.
 
Exemption—indigenous land use agreements
*** 151A Exemption—indigenous land use agreements ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on the following dutiable
     transactions, if the dutiable transaction satisfies the requirements
     stated in subsection (2) —
          (a) a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of land;
          (b) the acquisition of a new right that is land in
          Queensland.
     (2) For subsection (1), the requirements are—
          (a) the dutiable transaction is expressly provided for in
          an indigenous land use agreement; and
          (b) the sole purpose of the dutiable transaction is to give
          effect to the indigenous land use agreement; and
          (c) the transfer or agreement for the transfer of land, or
          the acquisition of the right, is in exchange for the
          surrender of native title rights and interests under the
          Native Title Act 1993 (Cwlth) for an area of land to which
          the indigenous land use agreement relates; and
          (d) the commissioner is satisfied the land will be used by
          the transferee or acquirer for an eligible use on or before
          the day that is 6 months after the transferee or acquirer
          is entitled to possession of the land, or the later day
          fixed by the commissioner by notice given to the transferee
          or acquirer (the
          "start date"); and
          (e) the commissioner is satisfied the land will be used for
          the eligible use for at least 12 months from the start date
          (the
          "duration period").
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if, after an assessment is made on the
     basis of an exemption under subsection (1), the commissioner is
     satisfied the land the subject of the dutiable transaction—
          (a) has not been used for an eligible use by the start
          date; but
          (b) will be used—
               (i) for an eligible use by a later date (the
               "new start date") fixed by the commissioner by
               notice given to the transferee or acquirer; and
               (ii) for the eligible use for at least 12 months
               from the new start date (the
               "new duration period").
     (4) The commissioner must not make a reassessment merely because the
     land has not been used for an eligible use by the start date if the
     land starts to be used for the eligible use by the new start date.
     (5) In this section—

     "indigenous land use agreement" means an indigenous land use
     agreement registered on the register of indigenous land use
     agreements under the Native Title Act 1993 (Cwlth), part 8.
 
Exemption—to correct clerical error in previous dutiable transaction
*** 152 Exemption—to correct clerical error in previous dutiable transaction
***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction to correct
     a clerical error in a previous dutiable transaction about the same
     property if—
          (a) no additional consideration is paid or payable; and
          (b) the beneficial interests in the property change only to
          the extent necessary to correct the error.
          Examples of clerical errors in a dutiable transaction about
          property—
                    • an accidental misdescription of the
                    property
                    • an accidental misdescription of a
                    party to the transaction
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that an error by a party
     about the appropriateness of a transaction to achieve a particular
     intended legal result is not a clerical error in the transaction.
     (3) A dutiable transaction to which this section applies is a
     "section 152 exempt transaction".
 
Exemption—previous dutiable transaction for a section 152 exempt transaction
if clerical error is a misdescription of property
*** 152A Exemption—previous dutiable transaction for a section 152 exempt
transaction if clerical error is a misdescription of property ***
     (1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is
     the previous dutiable transaction for a section 152 exempt
     transaction if—
          (a) the previous dutiable transaction is the transfer, or
          agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property; and
          (b) the clerical error in the previous dutiable transaction
          is a misdescription of the property; and
          (c) in addition to the section 152 exempt transaction,
          there is another transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
          of dutiable property (the
          "third dutiable transaction") that, other than for the
          error, would have been the subject of the previous dutiable
          transaction; and
          (d) the sole purpose of the third dutiable transaction is
          to correct the error; and
          (e) no consideration is paid or payable for any dutiable
          transaction entered into to correct the error, other than
          the consideration already paid or payable for the previous
          dutiable transaction; and
          (f) the beneficial interests in the property the subject of
          the previous dutiable transaction and third dutiable
          transaction change only to the extent necessary to correct
          the error.
     (2) If, under an assessment, transfer duty is imposed on a previous
     dutiable transaction to which subsection (1) applies, on application
     in the approved form by a party to the previous dutiable transaction
     the commissioner must make a reassessment of transfer duty on the
     basis that transfer duty is not imposed on the previous dutiable
     transaction.
     (3) In this section—

     "previous dutiable transaction" means a previous dutiable transaction
     mentioned in section 152 (1) in relation to a section 152 exempt
     transaction.
 
Reassessment—disposal after occupation date for residence
*** 153 Reassessment—disposal after occupation date for residence ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) transfer duty on a dutiable transaction that is 1 of
          the following is assessed on the basis of a concession
          under section 91, 92, 92A, 92B, 93, 93A or 93B —
               (i) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
               of residential land or vacant land;
               (ii) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85
               (b), of a lease of residential land or vacant
               land;
               (iii) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c),
               of residential land or vacant land; and
          (b) a transferee, lessee or vested person for the land,
          within the year after the transferee’s, lessee’s or
          vested person’s occupation date for the residence,
          disposes of the land, other than because of an intervening
          event, by—
               (i) transferring part or all of it; or
               (ii) leasing or otherwise granting exclusive
               possession of part or all of it to another
               person; or
               (iii) for a lease of residential land on which a
               home, first home or first home and new home is
               constructed or of vacant land on which a first
               home is to be constructed and for which a
               premium, fine or other consideration is
               payable—surrendering the lease.
     (1A) For subsection (1) (b), a transferee, lessee or vested person
     for land does not dispose of land if—
          (a) the transferee, lessee or vested person transfers part
          of the land to the transferee’s, lessee’s or vested
          person’s spouse; and
          (b) the transfer is exempt from duty under section 151.
     (1B) Also, for subsection (1) (b), a transferee or vested person for
     land does not dispose of residential land that is an accommodation
     unit in a retirement village only by entering into a retirement
     village leasing arrangement for the unit.
     (1C) Also, for subsection (1) (b) (ii), a transferee, lessee or
     vested person for land does not dispose of land only by entering into
     a residential lease of part, but not all, of the land.
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose further
     transfer duty on the dutiable transaction worked out using the
     following formula—
     where—

     "C" means the difference between the transfer duty that would have
     been imposed on the dutiable transaction if the concession had not
     applied to the transferee, lessee or vested person and transfer duty
     assessed on the dutiable transaction.

     "OD" means the number of days between the transferee’s, lessee’s
     or vested person’s occupation date for the residence and the date
     of disposal of the land, both days inclusive.

     "TD" means the further transfer duty payable on the reassessment.
     (3) If—
          (a) under subsection (1A) or section 154 (2A), this section
          or section 154 does not apply to a transferee’s,
          lessee’s or vested person’s transfer of part of the
          land to the transferee’s, lessee’s or vested person’s
          spouse; and
          (b) under subsection (1) (b), the transferee, lessee or
          vested person later disposes of the land or part of it;
     this section applies to the later disposal as if the transferee,
     lessee or vested person had not transferred the part of the land to
     the transferee’s, lessee’s or vested person’s spouse.
     (4) In this section—

     "residential lease", of part of land, means a lease, or other grant
     of exclusive possession, of the part to a person for use for
     residential purposes.
 
Reassessment—noncompliance with occupancy requirements
*** 154 Reassessment—noncompliance with occupancy requirements ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) transfer duty on a dutiable transaction that is 1 of
          the following is assessed on the basis of a concession
          under section 91, 92, 92A, 92B, 93, 93A or 93B —
               (i) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
               of residential land or vacant land;
               (ii) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85
               (b), of a lease of residential land or vacant
               land;
               (iii) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c),
               of residential land or vacant land; and
          (b) either of the following happens other than because of
          an intervening event—
               (i) a transferee, lessee or vested person for
               land disposes of the land before the occupation
               date;
               (ii) a transferee’s, lessee’s or vested
               person’s occupation date for the residence on
               the land is not within—
                    (A) if the dutiable transaction related
                    to residential land—1 year after the
                    transfer date for the land; or
                    (B) if the dutiable transaction related
                    to vacant land—2 years after the
                    transfer date for the land.
     (2) For subsection (1) (b) (i), a transferee, lessee or vested person
     for land disposes of land if—
          (a) the lessee of a home or vacant land lease surrenders
          the lease; or
          (b) the transferee, lessee or vested person transfers,
          leases or otherwise grants exclusive possession of part or
          all of the land to another person; or
          (c) the transferee, lessee or vested person acquires the
          land subject to a lease, granted before the transfer date,
          over all or part of the land.
     (2AA) Subsection (2) does not apply if—
          (a) another person (the
          "occupier") has exclusive possession of the land before the
          occupation date; and
          (b) the occupier—
               (i) is the transferor of the land, or the owner
               of the land immediately before the vesting; or
               (ii) has exclusive possession of the land under a
               lease granted before the transfer date; and
          (c) the occupier—
               (i) if paragraph (b) (i) applies—vacates the
               land as soon as reasonably practicable or within
               6 months after the transfer date, whichever is
               the earlier; or
               (ii) if paragraph (b) (ii) applies—vacates the
               land on the termination of the current term of
               the lease referred to in subsection (2) (c), or
               within 6 months after the transfer date,
               whichever is the earlier.
     (2A) Also, for subsection (1) (b) (i), a transferee, lessee or vested
     person for land does not dispose of land if—
          (a) the transferee, lessee or vested person transfers part
          of the land to the transferee’s, lessee’s or vested
          person’s spouse; and
          (b) the transfer is exempt from duty under section 151.
     (2B) Also, for subsection (1) (b) (i), a transferee or vested person
     for land does not dispose of residential land that is an
     accommodation unit in a retirement village only by entering into a
     retirement village leasing arrangement for the unit.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose transfer duty
     on the dutiable transaction as if the concession had never applied to
     the transferee, lessee or vested person.
     (4) If—
          (a) under subsection (2A), this section does not apply to a
          transferee’s, lessee’s or vested person’s transfer of
          part of the land to the transferee’s, lessee’s or
          vested person’s spouse; and
          (b) under subsection (1) (b) (i), the transferee, lessee or
          vested person later disposes of the land or part of it;
     this section applies to the later disposal as if the transferee,
     lessee or vested person had not transferred the part of the land to
     the transferee’s, lessee’s or vested person’s spouse.
     (5) In this section—

     "home or vacant land lease" means a lease—
          (a) of residential land on which a home, first home or
          first home and new home is constructed or of vacant land on
          which a first home is to be constructed; and
          (b) for which a premium, fine or other consideration is
          payable.
 
Reassessment—decrease in dutiable value of residential vacant land
*** 154A Reassessment—decrease in dutiable value of residential vacant land
***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) transfer duty on a dutiable transaction that is 1 of
          the following is assessed on the basis of a concession
          under section 92B or 93B —
               (i) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
               of vacant land;
               (ii) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85
               (b), of a lease of vacant land;
               (iii) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c),
               of vacant land; and
          (b) when the residence is constructed—
               (i) for transfer duty assessed on the basis that
               all of the vacant land is residential vacant
               land—only part of the vacant land is
               residential land; or
               (ii) for transfer duty assessed on the basis that
               part of the vacant land is residential vacant
               land—the part of the vacant land that is
               residential land is different to the part of the
               vacant land on which the transfer duty was
               assessed; and
          (c) the amount of transfer duty that would have been
          imposed on the transaction if the residential land had been
          used for assessing the concession is more than the amount
          of transfer duty assessed on the transaction.
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose transfer duty
     on the dutiable transaction on the basis that a reference in section
     92B or 93B to residential vacant land were a reference to the
     residential land.
 
When transferees, lessees and vested persons for land must give notice for
reassessment
*** 155 When transferees, lessees and vested persons for land must give notice
for reassessment ***
     (1) This section applies if a notifiable event happens after an
     assessment, on the basis of a concession under section 91, 92, 92A,
     92B, 93, 93A or 93B, of transfer duty on a dutiable transaction that
     is 1 of the following (each a
     "relevant transaction")—
          (a) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of
          residential land or vacant land;
          (b) the acquisition, mentioned in section 85 (b), of a
          lease of residential land or vacant land;
          (c) the vesting, mentioned in section 85 (c), of
          residential land or vacant land.
     (2) Within 28 days after the notifiable event happens, the notifier
     for land in relation to the relevant transaction must—
          (a) give notice in the approved form to the commissioner;
          and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty for the transaction are lodged for a reassessment of
          transfer duty on the transaction.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (3) In this section—

     "lease" does not include a lease or sublease entered into as part of
     a retirement village leasing arrangement.

     "notifiable event", for residential land or vacant land, means—
          (a) the transfer, lease or otherwise granting of exclusive
          possession of all or part of the land before, or within 1
          year after, the transferee’s, lessee’s or vested
          person’s occupation date for the residence on the land;
          or
          (b) if the relevant transaction is the acquisition,
          mentioned in section 85 (b), of a lease of residential or
          vacant land—the surrender of the lease before, or within
          1 year after, the lessee’s occupation date for the
          residence on the land; or
          (c) failure to comply with the occupancy requirement for
          the residence on the land; or
          (d) a transferee, lessee or vested person for the vacant
          land in relation to a relevant transaction becomes aware,
          or ought reasonably to be aware, of the matters mentioned
          in section 154A (1) (b) and (c) for the vacant land in
          relation to the transaction.

     "notifier", for residential land or vacant land in relation to a
     relevant transaction, means—
          (a) for a notifiable event mentioned in the definition
          "notifiable event", paragraph (d) —the transferee, lessee
          or vested person mentioned in the paragraph; or
          (b) for another notifiable event—each transferee, lessee
          or vested person for the land in relation to the relevant
          transaction.
 
Reassessment—noncomplying superannuation fund or public superannuation entity
*** 156 Reassessment—noncomplying superannuation fund or public
superannuation entity ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) transfer duty has been assessed on a dutiable
          transaction on the basis of—
               (i) a concession under part 11; or
               (ii) an exemption under part 13, division 3A, for
               a fund or trust mentioned in the definition
               "public superannuation entity", paragraph (e);
               and
          (b) at the first anniversary of the transaction—
               (i) if paragraph (a) (i) applies—the
               superannuation funds created by the split,
               merger, variation or reconstitution are not
               complying superannuation funds; or
               (ii) if paragraph (a) (ii) applies—the fund or
               trust is not a public superannuation entity.
     (2) Within 28 days after the first anniversary, the trustees of the
     funds mentioned in subsection (1) (b) (i) or trustees of the fund or
     trust mentioned in subsection (1) (b) (ii) must—
          (a) give notice in the approved form to the commissioner;
          and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty for the transaction are lodged for a reassessment of
          transfer duty on the transaction.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose transfer duty
     on the transaction as if the concession or exemption had never
     applied.
 
Reassessment of duty for cancelled transfer of dutiable property
*** 156A Reassessment of duty for cancelled transfer of dutiable property ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) transfer duty has been assessed on a transfer of
          dutiable property effected or evidenced by an instrument or
          ELN transaction document; and
          (b) the instrument or ELN transaction document is cancelled
          by the parties before it has legal effect; and
          (c) the dutiable property has not been transferred to the
          transferee or a related person of the transferee; and
          (d) the instrument or ELN transaction document was not
          cancelled—
               (i) to give effect to a resale agreement; or
               (ii) as part of an arrangement under which any of
               the dutiable property is or will be transferred,
               or is agreed to be transferred, to the transferee
               or a related person of the transferee.
     (2) For this section, an instrument or ELN transaction document has
     legal effect if—
          (a) for an instrument or ELN transaction document that,
          when recorded in a register, will effect the transfer of
          dutiable property—the instrument or ELN transaction
          document is lodged for recording in the register; or
          (b) a right has been exercised, or an obligation fulfilled,
          under the instrument or ELN transaction document; or
          (c) the instrument or ELN transaction document has been
          relied on in any other way.
     (3) For subsection (1) (d) (i), an agreement is a resale agreement
     if—
          (a) under the agreement, any of the dutiable property is or
          will be transferred or is agreed to be transferred; and
          (b) the transferee, or a related person of the transferee,
          receives or will receive, directly or indirectly, a
          financial benefit, other than the release of the transferee
          from the transferee’s obligation under the transaction
          mentioned in subsection (1) (a).
     (4) The person may lodge an application for a reassessment in the
     approved form within 6 months after the instrument or ELN transaction
     document is cancelled.
     (5) The person must lodge the instrument, ELN transaction document or
     a copy of the ELN transaction document with the application, unless
     the commissioner decides lodgement is unnecessary.
     (6) The commissioner must make a reassessment of transfer duty for
     the transaction on the basis that transfer duty is not imposed on the
     transaction.
 
Reassessment on application
*** 156B Reassessment on application ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) under an assessment, duty is imposed on a dutiable
          transaction because the commissioner is not satisfied of a
          matter under section 151A (2) (d) or (e) for land; and
          (b) on application by the transferee or acquirer concerned,
          the commissioner is satisfied, under section 151A (2) (d)
          and (e), that the land has been used for an eligible use
          from the start date and for the duration period for the
          land (the
          "relevant requirements").
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment of duty for the
     transaction on the basis of compliance with section 151A (2) (d) and
     (e).
     (3) Subsection (2) applies to the reassessment despite the
     Administration Act, section 21.
     (4) However, if the application is made by the transferee or acquirer
     after the limitation period for reassessments under the
     Administration Act has expired, the application must be made within 6
     months after the relevant requirements are satisfied.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 3 (Assessments
               of tax), division 3 (Reassessments).
 
Reassessment—noncompliance with particular requirements
*** 156C Reassessment—noncompliance with particular requirements ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) duty is assessed on a dutiable transaction on the basis
          of an exemption under section 151A; and
          (b) after the assessment, the land transferred or
          acquired—
               (i) is not used for an eligible use before the
               start date, or new start date, for the land under
               section 151A (2) (d) or (3) (b) (i); or
               (ii) is not used for an eligible use for the
               duration period, or new duration period, for the
               land under section 151 (2) (e) or (3) (b) (ii).
     (2) Within 28 days after the event mentioned in subsection (1) (b)
     happens, the transferee or acquirer must—
          (a) give notice of the event in the approved form to the
          commissioner; and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty are lodged for a reassessment of duty on the dutiable
          transaction.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment of duty on the
     transaction as if the exemption had never applied.
          Note—
               Unpaid tax interest and penalty tax may be
               payable under the Administration Act, part 5.
     (4) The reassessment must be made within the later of the
     following—
          (a) the limitation period for the reassessment under the
          Administration Act;
          (b) 12 months after the event mentioned in subsection (1)
          (b) happens.
     (5) Subsection (4) (b) applies despite the Administration Act,
     section 22.
 
Definitions for part
*** 156D Definitions for part ***
In this part—

"completed lodgement" means a dutiable transaction—
     (a) that is a transfer, surrender or vesting of dutiable property or
     an acquisition of a new right; and
     (b) for which an instrument or ELN transaction document for an ELN
     lodgement is registered under the Land Title Act 1994, the Land Act
     1994 or the Water Act 2000; and
     (c) on which a liability for transfer duty is imposed.

"completed transfer" means a transfer of dutiable property—
     (a) for which an instrument or ELN transaction document for an ELN
     transfer is registered under the Land Title Act 1994; and
     (b) on which a liability for transfer duty is imposed.

"eligible land" means land, an instrument of transfer of which must comply with
the requirements of the Land Title Act 1994, section 61 for transferring the
land under that Act.

"ELN lodgement" means a dutiable transaction, other than an ELN transfer—
     (a) that is a transfer, surrender or vesting of land, or an
     acquisition of a new right that is land, registered under the Land
     Title Act 1994, the Land Act 1994 or the Water Act 2000; and
     (b) for which an ELN workspace exists; and
     (c) that is not eligible for a concession, exemption or other
     reduction for transfer duty, other than a concession, exemption or
     reduction for transfer duty for an ELN lodgement prescribed by
     regulation.

"ELN transaction document" means a document under the Electronic Conveyancing
National Law (Queensland) that—
     (a) is—
          (i) for an ELN transfer—an instrument of transfer under
          the Land Title Act 1994, section 61 for a relevant transfer
          agreement, alone or together with an instrument of transfer
          under the Land Act 1994, chapter 6 or the Water Act 2000,
          section 170 that is under the same relevant transfer
          agreement; or
          (ii) for an ELN lodgement—an instrument under the Land
          Title Act 1994, the Land Act 1994 or the Water Act 2000;
          and
     (b) would effect a dutiable transaction that is an ELN transfer or
     ELN lodgement if the document were—
          (i) digitally signed; and
          (ii) lodged electronically under the Electronic
          Conveyancing National Law (Queensland), section 7; and
          (iii) registered under the Land Title Act 1994, the Land
          Act 1994 or the Water Act 2000.
     Note—
          Under the Electronic Conveyancing National Law
          (Queensland), schedule 1, section 12 (1) definition
          "document", a document includes a record of information
          that exists in a digital form and is capable of being
          reproduced, transmitted, stored and duplicated by
          electronic means.

"ELN transfer" —
     (a) means a transfer of dutiable property—
          (i) that includes eligible land; and
          (ii) for which an ELN workspace exists; and
          (iii) that is to the transferee under a relevant transfer
          agreement and for the same consideration as provided for
          under the agreement; but
     (b) does not include a transaction for which—
          (i) there is an agreement for the transfer of dutiable
          property (the
          "first agreement"); and
          (ii) after the first agreement takes place, 1 or more
          agreements to transfer all or part of the dutiable property
          the subject of the first agreement take place (the
          "intervening agreements"); and
          (iii) to give effect to the first agreement and the
          intervening agreements, 1 or more transfers of dutiable
          property will be effected by 1 or more parties to the first
          agreement and the intervening agreements.

"ELN transfer document"...

"ELN workspace", for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement, means the part of an ELN
on which information is entered and kept for the ELN transfer or ELN lodgement.

"incomplete ELN lodgement" means an ELN lodgement for which the ELN workspace
is unlocked before an ELN transaction document for the ELN lodgement is
registered under the Land Title Act 1994, the Land Act 1994 or the Water Act
2000.

"incomplete ELN transfer" means an ELN transfer for which the ELN workspace is
unlocked before an ELN transaction document for the ELN transfer is registered
under the Land Title Act 1994.

"locked", in relation to an ELN workspace for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement,
see section 156F (1).

"lodgement information", in an ELN workspace for an ELN lodgement, means
information in the ELN workspace that is necessary for either of the following
purposes in relation to an ELN transaction document for the ELN lodgement—
     (a) complying with a provision of the Land Title Act 1994, the Land
     Act 1994 or the Water Act 2000 in relation to the registration of the
     document;
     (b) endorsing the document under this Act.

"lot" means a lot under the Body Corporate and Community Management Act 1997 or
the Building Units and Group Titles Act 1980.

"outstanding liability", for division 4, see section 156P (1) (b).

"payment commitment", for an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property
that is a relevant transfer agreement, see section 156N.

"related" see section 156G.

"relevant residential land"...

"relevant transfer agreement" means an agreement for the transfer of dutiable
property—
     (a) that includes eligible land; and
     (b) on which transfer duty is imposed; and
     (c) that is not eligible for a concession, exemption or other
     reduction for transfer duty, other than a concession, exemption or
     reduction for transfer duty for an ELN transfer prescribed by
     regulation; and
     (d) that—
          (i) is aggregated under section 30 with a transfer of other
          dutiable property under that agreement; or
          (ii) is aggregated under section 30 only with another
          agreement for the transfer of dutiable property that
          complies with paragraphs (a) to (c); or
          (iii) if subparagraph (i) or (ii) does not apply—is not
          aggregated under section 30 with any other dutiable
          transaction.

"signed" —
     (a) in relation to an ELN transaction document for an ELN
     transfer—see section 156E (1); or
     (b) in relation to an ELN transaction document for an ELN
     lodgement—see section 156E (2).

"subscriber" see the Electronic Conveyancing National Law (Queensland), section
3.

"transfer information", in an ELN workspace for an ELN transfer, means
information in the ELN workspace that is necessary for either of the following
purposes in relation to an ELN transaction document for the ELN transfer—
     (a) complying with a provision of the Land Title Act 1994 in relation
     to the registration of the document; or
     (b) endorsing the document under this Act.

"unlocked", in relation to an ELN workspace for an ELN transfer or ELN
lodgement, see section 156F (2).
 
When an ELN transaction document is signed
*** 156E When an ELN transaction document is signed ***
     (1) An ELN transaction document for an ELN transfer is
     "signed" when all transfer information in the ELN workspace for the
     ELN transfer is digitally signed by or for all parties to the ELN
     transfer.
     (2) An ELN transaction document for an ELN lodgement is
     "signed" when all lodgement information in the ELN workspace for the
     ELN lodgement is digitally signed by or for all parties to the ELN
     lodgement.
 
When an ELN workspace is locked and unlocked
*** 156F When an ELN workspace is locked and unlocked ***
     (1) An ELN workspace for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement is
     "locked" when the subscribers to the ELN workspace are unable to
     amend the transfer information or lodgement information in the ELN
     workspace.
     (2) An ELN workspace for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement is
     "unlocked" if, after the ELN workspace has been locked, the
     subscribers to the ELN workspace are no longer unable to amend the
     transfer information or lodgement information in the ELN workspace.
 
When dutiable transactions are related
*** 156G When dutiable transactions are related ***
     (1) For this part, an incomplete ELN transfer and a completed
     transfer, or an incomplete ELN transfer and another incomplete ELN
     transfer, are
     "related" to each other if both are transfers—
          (a) of the same dutiable property; and
          (b) to the same transferee; and
          (c) under the same relevant transfer agreement.
          Note—
               There may be more than 1 ELN transfer of the same
               dutiable property to the same transferee under
               the same relevant transfer agreement—see
               section 156H.
     (2) Also for this part, an incomplete ELN lodgement and a completed
     lodgement, or an incomplete ELN lodgement and another incomplete ELN
     lodgement, are
     "related" to each other if—
          (a) both are dutiable transactions of the same dutiable
          property; and
          (b) the parties to the transactions are the same; and
          (c) if an agreement has been entered into by the parties in
          relation to the transactions—
               (i) 1 or both transactions are transfers of
               dutiable property; and
               (ii) both transactions are under the same
               agreement; and
               (iii) the agreement is not a relevant transfer
               agreement.
          Note—
               There may be more than 1 ELN lodgement of the
               same dutiable property that have the same parties
               to the transaction—see section 156H.
 
Effect of multiple locking events for ELN workspace
*** 156H Effect of multiple locking events for ELN workspace ***
     (1) Each time a multiple locking event happens for the ELN workspace
     for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement, when the ELN workspace is
     locked again—
          (a) another ELN transaction document is taken to exist,
          regardless of whether another ELN transaction document has
          been created in the ELN workspace; and
          (b) the document is taken to be signed by the parties to
          the dutiable transaction; and
          (c) to remove any doubt, it is declared that—
               (i) for an ELN transfer—another dutiable
               transaction that is an ELN transfer is taken to
               arise; or
               (ii) for an ELN lodgement—another dutiable
               transaction that is an ELN lodgement is taken to
               arise.
     (2) For this section, a
     "multiple locking event" happens for the ELN workspace for an ELN
     transfer or ELN lodgement if, after the ELN workspace has been
     unlocked, the ELN workspace is locked again.
 
Liability for transfer duty not affected by particular events
*** 156I Liability for transfer duty not affected by particular events ***
     (1) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the following events do
     not affect a liability for transfer duty imposed on an ELN transfer
     or ELN lodgement—
          (a) an unlocking of the ELN workspace for the ELN transfer
          or ELN lodgement;
          (b) an unsigning of the ELN transaction document for the
          ELN transfer or ELN lodgement;
          (c) after an event mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) —
               (i) a signing of an ELN transaction document for
               another ELN transfer that is related to the ELN
               transfer; or
               (ii) a signing of an ELN transaction document for
               another ELN lodgement that is related to the ELN
               lodgement; or
               (iii) another locking of the ELN workspace;
          (d) the signing of an instrument that, when recorded in a
          register, would effect—
               (i) a completed transfer related to the ELN
               transfer; or
               (ii) a completed lodgement related to the ELN
               lodgement.
     (2) In this section—

     "unsigning", in relation to an ELN transaction document, means
     unsigning of the ELN transaction document for the purposes of the
     Electronic Conveyancing National Law (Queensland).
          Note—
               See the Electronic Conveyancing National Law
               (Queensland), section 12 (3).
 
Application of subdivision
*** 156J Application of subdivision ***
This subdivision applies if—
     (a) 1 or more incomplete ELN transfers are related to a completed
     transfer; or
     (b) 1 or more incomplete ELN lodgements are related to a completed
     lodgement.
 
When liability for transfer duty is imposed
*** 156K When liability for transfer duty is imposed ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies to a liability for transfer duty imposed
     on each of the following—
          (a) any incomplete ELN transfer related to the completed
          transfer, other than the first related transfer;
          (b) the completed transfer.
     (2) The liability is taken to be imposed when the liability for
     transfer duty is imposed on the first related transfer.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies to a liability for transfer duty imposed
     on each of the following—
          (a) any incomplete ELN lodgement related to the completed
          lodgement, other than the first related lodgement;
          (b) the completed lodgement.
     (4) The liability is taken to be imposed when the liability for
     transfer duty is imposed on the first related lodgement.
     (5) This section applies despite section 16.
     (6) In this section—

     "first related lodgement" means the incomplete ELN lodgement related
     to the completed lodgement for which the ELN workspace is first
     locked.

     "first related transfer" means the incomplete ELN transfer related to
     the completed transfer for which the ELN workspace is first locked.
 
Deemed compliance with duty obligation
*** 156L Deemed compliance with duty obligation ***
     (1) A duty obligation for an incomplete ELN transfer that is related
     to the completed transfer is taken to be complied with when the duty
     obligation under the same provision is complied with in full for the
     completed transfer.
     (2) A duty obligation for an incomplete ELN lodgement that is related
     to the completed lodgement is taken to be complied with when the duty
     obligation under the same provision is complied with in full for the
     completed lodgement.
     (3) In this section—

     "duty obligation" means an obligation under any of the following
     provisions—
          (a) a provision for a lodgement requirement under the
          Administration Act;
          (b) the Administration Act, section 30, 31, 32, 35, 54 or
          58;
          (c) section 455A (1) (b) or 471E (1).
 
Exclusion of ss 21 and 22(2) and (2A)
*** 156M Exclusion of ss 21 and 22(2) and (2A) ***
     (1) To remove any doubt, it is declared that section 21 does not
     apply to the imposition of transfer duty on any of the following—
          (a) an incomplete ELN transfer that is related to—
               (i) a completed transfer; or
               (ii) another incomplete ELN transfer;
          (b) a completed transfer;
          (c) an incomplete ELN lodgement that is related to—
               (i) a completed ELN lodgement; or
               (ii) another incomplete ELN lodgement;
          (d) a completed lodgement.
     (2) Section 22 (2) or (2A) does not apply to an incomplete ELN
     transfer that is related to a completed transfer.
     (3) The fact that an incomplete ELN transfer is not related to a
     completed transfer does not affect a liability for transfer duty
     imposed on the incomplete ELN transfer.
     (4) Section 22 (2) does not apply to an incomplete ELN lodgement that
     is related to a completed lodgement and for which there is an
     agreement that is not a relevant transfer agreement.
     (5) The fact that an incomplete ELN lodgement is not related to a
     completed lodgement does not affect a liability for transfer duty
     imposed on the incomplete ELN lodgement.
     (6) This section does not limit section 156A or 499.
 
Making of payment commitment for relevant transfer agreement to transfer
dutiable property
*** 156N Making of payment commitment for relevant transfer agreement to
transfer dutiable property ***
     (1) A
     "payment commitment" for an agreement for the transfer of dutiable
     property that is a relevant transfer agreement is made by the parties
     to the agreement if—
          (a) the ELN workspace for an ELN transfer of the dutiable
          property to the transferee under the agreement is locked;
          and
          (b) the amount (the
          "commitment amount") of transfer duty, assessed interest
          and penalty tax imposed on the agreement—
               (i) is included in the ELN workspace as an amount
               to be paid; and
                    Example—
                         The settlement schedule in
                         the ELN workspace includes
                         the amount of transfer duty,
                         assessed interest and penalty
                         tax imposed on the agreement.
     (ii) is outstanding when the ELN workspace becomes locked.
     (2) For subsection (1) (b), an amount is
     "outstanding" if it has not been—
          (a) if the relevant self assessor is registered under
          chapter 12, part 2 —paid to the commissioner; or
          (b) if the relevant self assessor is registered under
          chapter 12, part 3 —paid to the commissioner or received
          by the relevant self assessor.
     (3) A payment commitment made for an agreement for the transfer of
     dutiable property that is a relevant transfer agreement has effect
     until the earlier of the following—
          (a) the commissioner is paid all of the commitment amount;
          (b) the ELN workspace for an ELN transfer of the dutiable
          property to the transferee under the agreement is unlocked.
     (4) In this section—

     "relevant self assessor" means a self assessor registered under
     chapter 12, part 2 or 3 who, for the purposes of endorsing an ELN
     transaction document under section 455A —
          (a) assigns a transaction number to the ELN transaction
          document; or
          (b) is notified of a transaction number assigned to the ELN
          transaction document under a system administered by the
          commissioner.
 
Payment commitment does not affect liability to pay
*** 156O Payment commitment does not affect liability to pay ***
To remove any doubt, it is declared that a party’s liability under this Act
to pay an amount to the commissioner is not affected by the making of a payment
commitment for all or part of the amount.
 
Charge over transferee’s interest in land for unpaid transfer duty for ELN
transfer
*** 156P Charge over transferee’s interest in land for unpaid transfer duty
for ELN transfer ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an ELN transaction document for an ELN transfer is—
               (i) stamped on the basis that duty is not imposed
               on the transfer under section 22 (2A); and
               (ii) registered under the Land Title Act 1994;
               and
          (b) all or part of the commitment amount for the payment
          commitment made for the relevant transfer agreement is not
          paid by the date the amount (the
          "outstanding liability") is payable.
          Note—
               For when tax must be paid, see the Administration
               Act, section 30.
     (2) The outstanding liability is a first charge on the transferee’s
     interest in the land that is the subject of the ELN transfer.
     (3) The charge has priority over all other encumbrances over the
     transferee’s interest in the land.
     (4) Subsection (3) applies—
          (a) whether the other encumbrances over the transferee’s
          interest in the land—
               (i) are registered or unregistered; or
               (ii) were created before or after the charge
               arises under subsection (2); and
          (b) despite the Land Title Act 1994, part 3, divisions 2
          and 2A.
     (5) The commissioner may lodge, under the Administration Act, part 4,
     division 5, a request to register the charge on the land that is the
     subject of the ELN transfer.
     (6) Despite section 47B of the Administration Act, the registrar must
     not register the charge if the transferee is no longer the registered
     owner of the land.
     (7) On its registration, the charge is not affected by a disposition
     of the transferee’s interest in the land.
 
Commissioner may apply to Supreme Court for order to sell
*** 156Q Commissioner may apply to Supreme Court for order to sell ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a charge has been registered over the land under
          section 156P; and
          (b) the outstanding liability has not been paid within 18
          months after registration.
     (2) The commissioner may apply to the Supreme Court for an order to
     sell the land stated in the application.
     (3) At least 6 months before making the application, the commissioner
     must give the persons mentioned in subsection (4) notice of the
     commissioner’s intention to apply to the Supreme Court for an order
     to sell the land unless the outstanding liability is paid within 6
     months after the date of the notice.
     (4) The persons to whom notice must be given are—
          (a) the person liable to pay the outstanding liability; and
          (b) the owner of the land.
 
When court must order sale of land
*** 156R When court must order sale of land ***
     (1) The court must order the sale of the land if it is satisfied—
          (a) proper notice of the application for the order was
          given under section 156Q; and
          (b) there is an outstanding liability payable to the State.
     (2) However, the court may make an order only for the land the court
     considers is sufficient to realise proceeds to pay the amounts
     mentioned in section 156S (a) to (d).
 
Application of proceeds of sale
*** 156S Application of proceeds of sale ***
The proceeds of the sale of land sold under the order must be applied as
follows—
     (a) first, in payment of the commissioner’s expenses on the
     application to the court for the order;
     (b) second, in payment of expenses properly incurred by the
     commissioner on the sale or any attempted sale;
     (c) third, in payment of the outstanding liability under the
     Administration Act, section 42;
     (d) fourth, in payment of amounts secured by a security interest or
     charge on the land recorded before the charge mentioned in section
     156Q (1) (a), unless the land is sold subject to the security
     interest or charge;
     (e) fifth, any balance must be applied as the court orders.
 
Registration of transfer
*** 156T Registration of transfer ***
     (1) If land is sold under the order to sell, the person stated in the
     order for this section must—
          (a) sign a transfer in the appropriate form in favour of
          the purchaser; and
          (b) lodge the transfer with the registrar.
     (2) The registrar must register the transfer as if it had been signed
     by the registered owner of the land.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies despite non-production of the relevant
     instrument of title.
 
Former owner may recover proceeds of sale as debt
*** 156U Former owner may recover proceeds of sale as debt ***
     (1) The amount equal to the proceeds of the sale of land under the
     order to sell less an amount paid under section 156S (d) is a debt
     payable to the former owner of the land by the persons liable to pay
     the outstanding liability for which the order was made.
     (2) The former owner may recover the debt in a court of competent
     jurisdiction.
     (3) In this section—

     "former owner", of land sold under the order to sell, means the
     person who owned the land immediately before its sale.
 
Particular information in ELN workspace taken to be stated to commissioner
*** 156V Particular information in ELN workspace taken to be stated to
commissioner ***
     (1) For this Act and the Administration Act, each party to an ELN
     transfer or ELN lodgement, and each relevant subscriber, is taken to
     have stated to the commissioner information that is—
          (a) in the ELN workspace for an ELN transfer or ELN
          lodgement; and
          (b) relevant to this Act or the Administration Act.
          Note—
               For the consequences of stating anything to the
               commissioner that is false or misleading, see the
               Administration Act, section 123.
     (2) In this section—

     "relevant subscriber" means a subscriber, including a self assessor
     registered under chapter 12, part 3, who is engaged by a party for
     the ELN transfer or ELN lodgement.
 
Effect of self assessor’s endorsement of ELN transaction document for
incomplete ELN transfer or incomplete ELN lodgement
*** 156W Effect of self assessor’s endorsement of ELN transaction document
for incomplete ELN transfer or incomplete ELN lodgement ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) an ELN transaction document for an ELN transfer is
          endorsed by a self assessor registered under chapter 12,
          part 2 or 3; and
          (b) the ELN transfer becomes an incomplete ELN transfer.
     (2) The endorsement is of no effect from the time the ELN workspace
     for the incomplete ELN transfer is unlocked.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if—
          (a) an ELN transaction document for an ELN lodgement is
          endorsed by a self assessor registered under chapter 12,
          part 2 or 3; and
          (b) the ELN lodgement becomes an incomplete ELN lodgement.
     (4) The endorsement is of no effect from the time the ELN workspace
     for the incomplete ELN lodgement is unlocked.
 
Imposition of landholder duty
*** 157 Imposition of landholder duty ***
     (1) This part imposes duty (
     "landholder duty") on relevant acquisitions.
          Notes—
                    1 Exemptions for landholder duty are
                    dealt with in division 5 and chapter
                    10. Particular acquisitions relating to
                    corporate reconstructions are exempt
                    from landholder duty under chapter 10,
                    part 1.
                    2 Additional foreign acquirer duty is
                    imposed on particular relevant
                    acquisitions under chapter 4.
     (2) Landholder duty is imposed—
          (a) for a relevant acquisition in a private landholder—on
          the dutiable value of the relevant acquisition; and
          (b) for a relevant acquisition in a public landholder—in
          the way provided under section 179B.
 
What is a relevant acquisition
*** 158 What is a relevant acquisition ***
     (1) A person makes a
     "relevant acquisition" if—
          (a) the person acquires a significant interest in a
          landholder; or
          (b) the person acquires an interest in a landholder and,
          when the following are aggregated, the aggregation results
          in a significant interest in the landholder—
               (i) interests held by the person in the
               landholder;
               (ii) interests acquired or held by related
               persons of the person in the landholder; or
          (c) having acquired a significant interest in a landholder
          as mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) for which acquisition
          landholder duty was imposed, the person’s interest in the
          landholder increases.
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that for subsection (1) (b),
     it is not relevant whether, immediately before the person acquires
     the interest—
          (a) an interest mentioned in subsection (1) (b) (i) or (ii)
          is, of itself, a significant interest in the landholder; or
          (b) the aggregation of any interests mentioned in
          subsections (1) (b) (i) or (ii), of itself, amounts to a
          significant interest in the landholder.
 
What are interests and significant interests in a landholder
*** 159 What are interests and significant interests in a landholder ***
     (1) A person has an
     "interest" in a landholder if the person has an entitlement as a
     shareholder or unit holder to a distribution of the landholder’s
     property—
          (a) for a corporation—on its winding up; or
          (b) for a listed unit trust—on its termination.
     (2) A person has a
     "significant interest" in a landholder if the person has an interest
     in the landholder of—
          (a) for a private landholder—50% or more; or
          (b) for a public landholder—90% or more.
 
Interest in landholder is percentage of distributable property on winding up of
a corporation or termination of a listed unit trust
*** 160 Interest in landholder is percentage of distributable property on
winding up of a corporation or termination of a listed unit trust ***
     (1) A person’s interest in a landholder is the person’s
     entitlement expressed as a percentage of the value of all of the
     landholder’s property that would be distributed if, immediately
     after the person acquires the interest—
          (a) for a corporation—the corporation were to be wound
          up; or
          (b) for a listed unit trust—the trust were to be
          terminated.
     (2) If the landholder’s property includes property held for a
     partnership of which the landholder is a partner, all of the property
     held for the partnership is taken for subsection (1) to be property
     that could be distributed, regardless of the landholder’s interest
     in the partnership.
 
Entitlement on distribution of corporation’s property
*** 161 Entitlement on distribution of corporation’s property ***
     (1) Subject to section 161B, the entitlement of a person on a
     distribution of a corporation’s property is the greater of the
     entitlement of the person as a shareholder, based on a distribution
     carried out—
          (a) under the corporation’s constitution and the
          Corporations Act; or
          (b) after the person or the person’s representative, has,
          to maximise the person’s entitlement, exercised all
          powers and discretions to do all or any of the following—
               (i) effect or compel a change of the
               corporation’s constitution;
               (ii) vary the rights conferred by the shares in
               the corporation;
               (iii) pay up any uncalled amount owing to the
               corporation for the shares;
               (iv) satisfy conditions in the corporation’s
               constitution relating to the shares;
               (v) effect or compel the substitution or
               replacement of shares in the corporation with
               other shares in the corporation.
     (2) In this section—

     "representative", of another person, means someone who is accustomed,
     or under an obligation, or reasonably expected to act under the
     directions, instructions or wishes of the other person.
 
Entitlement on distribution of listed unit trust’s property
*** 161A Entitlement on distribution of listed unit trust’s property ***
     (1) Subject to section 161B, the entitlement of a person on a
     distribution of a listed unit trust’s property is the greater of
     the entitlement of the person as a unit holder, based on a
     distribution carried out—
          (a) under the instrument creating the trust; or
          (b) after the person or the person’s representative has,
          to maximise the person’s entitlement, exercised all
          powers and discretions to do all or any of the following—
               (i) effect or compel a change of the instrument
               creating the trust;
               (ii) vary the rights conferred by the units in
               the trust;
               (iii) pay up any uncalled amount owing to the
               trust for the units;
               (iv) satisfy conditions under the instrument
               creating the trust relating to the units;
               (v) effect or compel the substitution or
               replacement of units in the trust with other
               units in the trust;
               (vi) effect or compel the fulfilment of a
               condition;
               (vii) effect or compel the outcome of a
               contingency;
               (viii) effect or compel the exercise or non-
               exercise of a power or discretion.
     (2) The entitlement of a person under subsection (1) must be worked
     out without regard to the liabilities of the trust.
     (3) In this section—

     "representative", of another person, means someone who is accustomed,
     or under an obligation, or reasonably expected to act under the
     directions, instructions or wishes of the other person.
 
Matters about applying ss 161 and 161A
*** 161B Matters about applying ss 161 and 161A ***
     (1) If the commissioner considers the application of section 161 (1)
     (b) or 161A (1) (b) would be inequitable, the commissioner may decide
     the entitlement of a person be based on a distribution carried out
     under section 161 (1) (a) or 161A (1) (a).
     (2) Also, if a person makes a relevant acquisition because interests
     are aggregated under section 158 (1) (b) (ii), the entitlements under
     section 161 (1) (b) or 161A (1) (b) of the person and the related
     persons of the person must not be more than 100%.
 
Acquiring an interest in a landholder
*** 162 Acquiring an interest in a landholder ***
     (1) A person acquires an interest in a landholder if the person
     obtains an interest, or the person’s interest increases, in the
     landholder regardless of how it is obtained or increased.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1), a person may acquire an interest
     in a landholder in the following ways—
          (a) the purchase, gift, allotment or issue of a share or
          unit;
          (b) the cancellation, redemption or surrender of a share or
          unit;
          (c) the abrogation or alteration of a right for a share or
          unit;
          (d) the payment of an amount owing for a share or unit;
          (e) if the person holds an interest in the landholder,
          whether or not as trustee—by changing the capacity in
          which the person holds the interest.
               Example of when the capacity in which a person
               holds an interest changes—
                    A person holds a share or unit in a
                    corporation or listed unit trust other
                    than as trustee. The person’s
                    capacity changes if the person starts
                    holding the share or unit as trustee.
     (3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that an acquisition of shares
     or units is not necessary to acquire an interest in a landholder.
 
When is an interest acquired
*** 163 When is an interest acquired ***
     (1) This section applies—
          (a) if a person acquires an interest in a landholder; or
          (b) for an interest acquired by a person in a landholder
          when, under section 179 (6), definition excluded interest,
          paragraph (b) and 179B (2), definition excluded interest,
          paragraph (b), the landholder did not hold land in
          Queensland.
     (2) The person acquires the interest—
          (a) if there is an agreement to acquire the interest,
          whether conditional or not, and paragraph (b) does not
          apply—when the agreement is made; or
          (b) if there is an agreement to acquire the interest,
          whether conditional or not, and the landholder is not a
          landholder when the agreement is made but is a landholder
          when the agreement is completed—when the agreement is
          completed; or
          (c) otherwise—when the interest is acquired.
     (3) Also, if—
          (a) a person holds a security interest in a landholder; and
          (b) the acquisition of the security interest was an exempt
          acquisition under section 190; and
          (c) the person later acquires the interest free from any
          interest or equity of the previous holder of the interest
          (the
          "later acquisition");
     the person acquires an interest in the landholder at the time of the
     later acquisition.
 
Who is a related person
*** 164 Who is a related person ***
     (1) A person is a
     "related person" of another person if—
          (a) for individuals—they are members of the same family;
          or
          (b) for an individual and a corporation—the person or a
          member of the person’s family is a majority shareholder,
          director or secretary of the corporation or a related body
          corporate of the corporation, or has an interest of 50% or
          more in it; or
          (c) for an individual and a trustee—the person or a
          related person under another provision of this section is a
          beneficiary of the trust; or
          (d) for corporations—they are related bodies corporate;
          or
          (e) for a corporation and a trustee—the corporation or a
          related person under another provision of this section is a
          beneficiary of the trust; or
          (f) for trustees—
               (i) there is a person who is a beneficiary of
               both trusts; or
               (ii) a person is beneficiary of 1 trust and a
               related person under another provision of this
               section is a beneficiary of the other trust.
     (2) Also, a person is a
     "related person" of another person if the persons acquire interests
     in a landholder and the acquisitions form, evidence, give effect to
     or arise from what is substantially 1 arrangement.
     (3) However, a person is not a
     "related person" of another person under subsection (1), other than
     subsection (1) (d), if the commissioner is satisfied the interests of
     the persons—
          (a) were acquired, and will be used, independently; and
          (b) were not acquired, and will not be used, for a common
          purpose.
 
What is a landholder
*** 165 What is a landholder ***
A
"landholder" is an entity that has land-holdings in Queensland, the
unencumbered value of which are $2,000,000 or more.
 
What is a private landholder and public landholder
*** 165A What is a private landholder and public landholder ***
     (1) A
     "private landholder" is a landholder that is an unlisted corporation.
     (2) A
     "public landholder" is a landholder that is a listed corporation or
     listed unit trust.
 
What is a subsidiary
*** 166 What is a subsidiary ***
     (1) A corporation is a
     "subsidiary" of—
          (a) another corporation (the
          "holding entity") if, under the Corporations Act, it is a
          subsidiary of the holding entity; or
          (b) a listed unit trust (also the
          "holding entity") if, under subsection (4), the corporation
          is a subsidiary of the holding entity.
     (2) Also, each of the following is a
     "subsidiary" of the holding entity—
          (a) a trustee of a trust, if the holding entity or a
          subsidiary of the holding entity, whether under this or
          another subsection, is a beneficiary of the trust (a
          "relevant trust");
          (b) a corporation in which—
               (i) the trustee of a relevant trust has an
               interest of 50% or more; or
               (ii) an interest of 50% or more is held on trust
               and the trustee of a relevant trust is a
               beneficiary of that trust.
          Example for subsections (1) and (2)—
               A Pty Ltd has a 51% shareholding in B Pty Ltd. B
               Pty Ltd has a trust interest in the C Trust of
               which C Pty Ltd acts as trustee. C Pty Ltd as
               trustee of the C trust has a 51% shareholding in
               D Pty Ltd.
               Under subsection (1), B Pty Ltd is the subsidiary
               of A Pty Ltd because, under the Corporations Act,
               it is a subsidiary of A Pty Ltd.
               Under subsection (2) (a), C Pty Ltd is the
               subsidiary of A Pty Ltd because B, a subsidiary
               of A Pty Ltd, is a beneficiary of the trust.
               Under subsection (1), D Pty Ltd is the subsidiary
               of C Pty Ltd because, under the Corporations Act,
               it is a subsidiary of C Pty Ltd.
               Under subsection (2) (b) (i), D Pty Ltd is the
               subsidiary of A Pty Ltd because C Pty Ltd, a
               relevant trust, has an interest of 50% or more in
               D Pty Ltd.
     (3) In addition, a corporation or trustee of a trust is a
     "subsidiary" of a holding entity if, under subsection (1) or (2), it
     is a subsidiary of a subsidiary of the holding entity.
     (4) For subsection (1) (b), a corporation is a subsidiary of a listed
     unit trust if it is a subsidiary of the trust under the Corporations
     Act, chapter 1, part 1.2, division 6, applied—
          (a) as if a reference to a body corporate includes a
          reference to a trustee of a listed unit trust; and
          (b) as if section 48 (2) and (3) of that Act did not apply,
          to the extent the section disregards shares held or a power
          exercisable only in a fiduciary capacity; and
          (c) with any other necessary changes.
     (5) For deciding whether a trustee of a trust is a subsidiary of a
     holding entity under subsection (2) —
          (a) a trust interest sale agreement made by the holding
          entity or a subsidiary of it is taken not to have been
          made; and
          (b) a trust interest purchase agreement made by the holding
          entity or a subsidiary of it is taken to have been
          completed.
     (6) In this section—

     "trust interest purchase agreement" means an uncompleted agreement,
     whether or not conditional, for the acquisition of an interest as a
     beneficiary of the trust.

     "trust interest sale agreement" means an uncompleted agreement,
     whether or not conditional, for the disposal of an interest as a
     beneficiary of the trust.
 
What are an entity’s land-holdings
*** 167 What are an entity’s land-holdings ***
     (1) An entity’s
     "land-holdings" means the following—
          (a) the entity’s interest in land, and anything fixed to
          the land that may be separately owned from the land
          (whether or not the entity has an interest in the thing
          fixed to the land), other than—
               (i) a security interest; or
               (ii) an interest in a trust;
               Note—
                    See the Acts Interpretation Act 1954,
                    schedule 1, definition interest.
     (b) rights held by the entity that—
          (i) relate to, or affect, the use of the entity’s land
          and other land; and
          (ii) enhance the value of the entity’s land;
     (c) an interest in land, and anything fixed to the land, that is the
     subject of a purchase agreement or sale agreement made by the entity.
     (2) Also, an entity’s
     "land-holdings" includes the land-holdings, under subsection (1),
     held by the entity for a partnership of which the entity is a partner
     as if a reference in the subsection to land, an interest in land or
     rights, were a reference to land, an interest in land or rights held
     by the entity for the partnership.
     (3) Also, an entity’s
     "land-holdings" includes the land-holdings, under subsection (1) or
     (2), of a subsidiary of the entity as if a reference in the
     subsection to an entity were a reference to the subsidiary.
     (4) Despite subsections (1) to (3), an entity’s land-holdings do
     not include—
          (a) for a corporation—land-holdings held on trust by the
          corporation or a subsidiary of it unless the corporation or
          any subsidiary of it is a beneficiary of the trust; or
          (b) for a listed unit trust—land-holdings held on trust
          by a subsidiary of it unless the listed unit trust or any
          subsidiary of it is a beneficiary of the trust.
 
What is an entity’s property
*** 168 What is an entity’s property ***
     (1) An entity’s
     "property" means the entity’s interest in any property other than a
     security interest or interest in a trust.
     (2) Also, an entity’s
     "property" includes any property under subsection (1) held by the
     entity for a partnership of which the entity is a partner.
     (3) Also, an entity’s
     "property" includes any property under subsection (1) or (2) of a
     subsidiary of the entity as if a reference in the subsection to an
     entity were a reference to the subsidiary.
     (4) Despite subsections (1) to (3), the entity’s property does not
     include—
          (a) for a corporation—property held on trust by the
          corporation or a subsidiary of it unless the corporation or
          any subsidiary of it is a beneficiary of the trust; or
          (b) for a listed unit trust—property held on trust by a
          subsidiary of it unless the listed unit trust or any
          subsidiary of it is a beneficiary of the trust.
 
Value of co-owned land-holdings
*** 170 Value of co-owned land-holdings ***
     (1) If an entity’s land-holdings include land-holdings in which it
     has an interest as co-owner, the unencumbered value of the interests
     of all co-owners in the land-holdings must be included in working out
     the unencumbered value of the entity’s land-holdings for section
     165.
          Note—
               Even though the unencumbered value of the
               interests of all co-owners of the land-holdings
               is included for working out whether an entity is
               a landholder, only the unencumbered value of the
               entity’s interest in the land-holdings is used
               under division 4 for working out landholder duty
               imposed on the dutiable value of a relevant
               acquisition. See section 184.
     (2) However, subsection (1) does not apply if the commissioner is
     satisfied that the co-ownership is not intended to avoid the
     imposition of landholder duty.
 
Value of land-holdings in uncompleted agreement for transfer included
*** 171 Value of land-holdings in uncompleted agreement for transfer included
***
To remove any doubt, it is declared that the unencumbered value of the land the
subject of a purchase agreement or sale agreement made by the entity or a
subsidiary of the entity must be included in working out the unencumbered value
of an entity’s land-holdings.
 
Value of land-holdings held for a partnership
*** 172 Value of land-holdings held for a partnership ***
If an entity’s land-holdings include land-holdings held for a partnership of
which the entity is a partner, the unencumbered value of those land-holdings
must be included in working out the unencumbered value of the entity’s land-
holdings regardless of the entity’s interest in the partnership.
 
Value of land-holdings and property—business property disregarded
*** 173 Value of land-holdings and property—business property disregarded ***
     (1) For an acquisition of an interest in an entity that is a dutiable
     transaction to which chapter 2, part 10, applies, business property
     taken to have no value under the part must be disregarded in working
     out the unencumbered value of the land-holdings or property of the
     entity.
     (2) For subsection (1), a repealed s 97 (1) (f) transaction is taken
     to be a dutiable transaction to which chapter 2, part 10, applies.
     (3) A
     "repealed s 97(1)(f) transaction" is a transfer, or agreement for the
     transfer, of a marketable security in a corporation to which the
     following applies—
          (a) the property of the corporation includes business
          property;
          (b) the corporation is a family company for the transferee;
          (c) the transferor or person directing the transfer is—
               (i) if the business property is used to carry on
               a business of primary production—a defined
               relative of the transferee; or
               (ii) otherwise—an ancestor of the transferee;
          (d) the transferee does not acquire the marketable security
          as—
               (i) trustee, other than as trustee of a trust for
               the beneficiaries mentioned in subsection (4); or
               (ii) agent or nominee of another person;
          (e) the business for which the business property is used is
          carried on by the defined relative or ancestor whether
          alone or with others;
          (f) the business is intended to be carried on by the
          transferee, whether alone or with others.
     (4) For subsection (3) (d) (i) —
          (a) the beneficiary of the trust is a minor, and—
               (i) if the business property is used to carry on
               a business of primary production—the minor is a
               defined relative of the person creating the
               trust; or
               (ii) otherwise—the minor is a descendant of the
               person creating the trust; and
          (b) there are no other beneficiaries of the trust, other
          than a person who would become a beneficiary of the trust
          on the death of the beneficiary mentioned in paragraph (a).
     (5) In this section—

     "family company", for a person, means an exempt proprietary company
     at least 50% of the value of the shares of which are owned by members
     of the person’s family.
 
When liability for landholder duty arises
*** 174 When liability for landholder duty arises ***
A liability for landholder duty imposed on a relevant acquisition arises when
the acquisition is made.
 
Who is liable to pay landholder duty
*** 175 Who is liable to pay landholder duty ***
     (1) Landholder duty imposed on a relevant acquisition must be paid by
     the acquirer.
     (2) However, if a person makes a relevant acquisition because
     interests are aggregated under section 158 (1) (b) (ii), the person
     and the related persons of the person are jointly and severally
     liable for the payment of the landholder duty.
 
Landholder duty statement
*** 177 Landholder duty statement ***
The acquirer under a relevant acquisition, or for a relevant acquisition
mentioned in section 175 (2), the acquirer or the related persons of the
acquirer must within 30 days after the acquisition is made, lodge a statement
in the approved form (a
"landholder duty statement").
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
 
Effect of lodging landholder duty statement by acquirer or related person
*** 178 Effect of lodging landholder duty statement by acquirer or related
person ***
The lodging, under section 177, of a landholder duty statement by the acquirer
or a related person of the acquirer relieves the other person from complying
with the section.
 
Rate of landholder duty
*** 178A Rate of landholder duty ***
The rate of landholder duty imposed on the dutiable value of a relevant
acquisition made in a private landholder is the rate stated in schedule 3,
column 2, opposite the dutiable value stated in schedule 3, column 1.
 
Working out dutiable value of relevant acquisition
*** 179 Working out dutiable value of relevant acquisition ***
     (1) The dutiable value of a relevant acquisition in a private
     landholder is the interest in, or total of interests in, the
     landholder constituting the relevant acquisition, less any excluded
     interest of the person at the time of the acquisition, multiplied by
     the unencumbered value of all Queensland land-holdings of the
     landholder at the time of the acquisition.
          Note—
               See also section 14 (What is the
               "unencumbered value" of property).
     (2) Subsection (3) applies to the following relevant acquisitions—
          (a) a relevant acquisition mentioned in section 158 (1)
          (c);
          (b) a relevant acquisition made by a person in the
          following circumstances—
               (i) the person together with related persons of
               the person had a significant interest in the
               private landholder immediately before the
               relevant acquisition;
               (ii) the interests of the person and related
               persons were previously aggregated so that duty
               under subsection (1) was paid for a relevant
               acquisition in the private landholder;
               (iii) since the relevant acquisition mentioned in
               subparagraph (ii), no other related person of the
               person has acquired an interest in the
               landholder.
     (3) For applying subsection (1) to a relevant acquisition mentioned
     in subsection (2), the interest is the increased interest in the
     private landholder that is acquired by the person by the relevant
     acquisition.
          Examples for subsections (2) and (3)—
                    1 A and B are related persons. A holds
                    a 30% interest in a private landholder.
                    B acquires a 25% interest and, when
                    aggregated with A’s interest, a
                    significant interest. If A acquires
                    another 5% bringing its interest to
                    35%, for working out the dutiable
                    value, the interest constituting the
                    relevant acquisition is 5%.
                    2 A and B are related persons. A holds
                    a 30% interest in a private landholder.
                    B acquires a 25% interest and, when
                    aggregated with A’s interest, a
                    significant interest. If A acquires
                    B’s 25% interest, for working out the
                    dutiable value, the interest
                    constituting the relevant acquisition
                    is 25%.
     (4) For applying subsection (1) to a relevant acquisition, the
     interest mentioned in section 409 (3) must be disregarded.
          Note—
               Under section 409 (3), landholder duty is not
               imposed on particular interests acquired under a
               corporate reconstruction.
     (5) This section has effect subject to a deduction allowed under
     sections 185 to 188.
     (6) In this section—

     "excluded interest", of a person who makes a relevant acquisition in
     a private landholder, is any interest constituting the relevant
     acquisition—
          (a) held by the person, or a related person of the person,
          on or before the day that is 3 years before the relevant
          acquisition, unless—
               (i) the interest was acquired as part of an
               arrangement; and
               (ii) the arrangement includes the interest most
               recently acquired as part of the relevant
               acquisition; or
          (b) acquired by the person, or a related person of the
          person, at a time when the landholder did not hold land in
          Queensland.
 
Landholder duty
*** 179A Landholder duty ***
     (1) Subject to section 179B, the landholder duty imposed on a
     relevant acquisition made by a person in a public landholder is 10%
     of the amount of transfer duty that would be imposed on a dutiable
     transaction under chapter 2, if a transfer of all the Queensland
     land-holdings of the landholder had happened at the time of the
     relevant acquisition.
     (2) However, for a relevant acquisition to which section 158 (1) (c)
     applies, no landholder duty is imposed for an increase in the
     person’s interest if—
          (a) landholder duty for a relevant acquisition by the
          person in the landholder has previously been imposed under
          this section; and
          (b) since making the relevant acquisition for which
          landholder duty was imposed, the interest of the person
          constituting the previous acquisition has not reduced.
     (3) This section has effect subject to a deduction allowed under
     sections 185 to 188.
 
Dutiable value of dutiable transaction for s 179A
*** 179B Dutiable value of dutiable transaction for s 179A ***
     (1) For section 179A, in working out the amount of transfer duty that
     would be imposed under chapter 2, the dutiable value of the dutiable
     transaction is the unencumbered value of all Queensland land-holdings
     of the landholder at the time of the acquisition, reduced by the
     proportion of the value represented by any excluded interest of the
     person at the time of the acquisition.
     (2) In this section—

     "excluded interest", of a person who makes a relevant acquisition in
     a public landholder, is any interest constituting the relevant
     acquisition acquired by the person, or a related person—
          (a) before 1 July 2011; or
          (b) at a time when the landholder did not hold land in
          Queensland.
 
Aggregation of particular relevant acquisitions
*** 180 Aggregation of particular relevant acquisitions ***
     (1) This section applies for aggregating relevant acquisitions that
     together form, evidence, give effect to or arise from what is,
     substantially 1 arrangement if a person makes a relevant acquisition
     mentioned in section 179 (2).
     (2) For assessing landholder duty on each of the relevant
     acquisitions, the acquisitions must be aggregated and treated as a
     single relevant acquisition.
     (3) For subsection (1), all relevant circumstances relating to the
     relevant acquisitions must be taken into account in deciding whether
     they together form, evidence, give effect to or arise from what is,
     substantially 1 arrangement.
     (4) For subsection (3), relevant circumstances include the
     following—
          (a) whether any of the acquisitions are conditional on
          entry into, or completion of, any of the other
          acquisitions;
          (b) whether the parties to any of the acquisitions are the
          same;
          (c) whether any party to an acquisition is a related person
          of another party to any of the other acquisitions;
          (d) the time over which the acquisitions take place;
          (e) whether, after the acquisitions take place, the
          acquirers’ interests will be used together or dependently
          with one another;
          (f) whether, before the acquisitions take place, the
          interests were used together or dependently with one
          another.
     (5) Landholder duty imposed on the relevant acquisition aggregated
     under this section must—
          (a) be assessed on the total of the dutiable values of the
          acquisitions when the liability for landholder duty for
          each of the acquisitions arose; and
          (b) be apportioned between the acquisitions as decided by
          the commissioner.
     (6) The acquirer must, when lodging the landholder duty statement
     relating to the acquisition, give notice to the commissioner stating
     details known to the acquirer about—
          (a) all of the interests of the acquirer and related
          persons of the acquirer included or to be included in the
          arrangement mentioned in subsection (1); and
          (b) the dutiable value of each relevant acquisition.
          Note—
               Under the Administration Act, the requirement
               under this subsection is a lodgement requirement
               for which a failure to comply is an offence under
               section 121 of that Act.
 
Unencumbered value of land-holdings of subsidiary of landholder
*** 182 Unencumbered value of land-holdings of subsidiary of landholder ***
     (1) This section applies for working out the unencumbered value of
     the Queensland land-holdings of a landholder under section 179 or
     179B, to the extent the land-holdings comprise land-holdings of a
     subsidiary of the landholder.
     (2) The unencumbered value of the Queensland land-holdings of the
     landholder is the proportion of the unencumbered value of the land-
     holdings in Queensland of all the subsidiaries to which the
     landholder would be entitled, if the subsidiaries, at the same time
     and without regard to their liabilities—
          (a) for subsidiaries that are corporations—were wound up;
          or
          (b) for subsidiaries that are trusts—were terminated.
     (3) For subsection (2), the unencumbered value of the Queensland
     land-holdings of the subsidiary on the winding up or termination of
     all the subsidiaries is—
          (a) if the subsidiary is a corporation, the greatest
          proportion of the unencumbered value of the land-holdings
          in Queensland that the landholder would be entitled to
          under sections 161 (1) and 161B (1) applied as if—
               (i) a reference to a person were a reference to
               the landholder mentioned in this section; and
               (ii) a reference to a corporation were a
               reference to the subsidiary; or
          (b) if the subsidiary is a unit trust, the greatest
          proportion of the unencumbered value of the land-holdings
          in Queensland that the landholder would be entitled to
          under sections 161A (1), (2) and 161B (1) as if—
               (i) a reference to a person were a reference to
               the landholder mentioned in this section; and
               (ii) a reference to a listed unit trust were a
               reference to the subsidiary; or
          (c) if the subsidiary is a trustee of a trust other than a
          unit trust—the greatest proportion of the unencumbered
          value of the land-holdings in Queensland of the trust that
          the landholder could derive at any time from the trust
          without regard to the liabilities of any of the
          subsidiaries.
     (4) Without limiting subsection (3) (c), land-holdings may be derived
     by—
          (a) the fulfilment of a condition; or
          (b) the outcome of a contingency; or
          (c) the exercise or non-exercise of a power or discretion.
     (5) If the Queensland land-holdings of a subsidiary of the landholder
     includes land-holdings held for a partnership of which the subsidiary
     is a partner, subsection (2) applies to the unencumbered value of the
     land-holdings held for the partnership regardless of the
     subsidiary’s interest in the partnership.
     (6) To remove any doubt it is declared that land-holdings may be
     derived by the landholder even if a subsidiary of the landholder is a
     beneficiary of a trust.
     (7) If there is more than 1 subsidiary of the landholder that is a
     beneficiary of a trust, for subsection (2), the proportion of the
     unencumbered value of the Queensland land-holdings that may be
     derived from the trust must not be more than the whole.
 
Land transferred for shares or units to be disregarded
*** 183 Land transferred for shares or units to be disregarded ***
     (1) This section applies if the relevant acquisition is the issue of
     shares or units by a landholder to a person in the following
     circumstances—
          (a) the shares or units are issued to the person in
          consideration of a transfer of land to the landholder by
          the person;
          (b) transfer duty is paid for the transfer;
          (c) the land is not the only land of the landholder;
          (d) the person is not the only shareholder or unit holder
          of the landholder.
     (2) In working out the unencumbered value of the Queensland land-
     holdings of the landholder, the value of the land must be
     disregarded.
 
Value of co-owned land-holdings
*** 184 Value of co-owned land-holdings ***
For sections 179 and 179B, if a landholder has an interest in land-holdings as
co-owner, the value of the land-holdings is the unencumbered value of the
landholder’s interest in the land-holdings.
 
Deduction—corporate trustee duty
*** 185 Deduction—corporate trustee duty ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) corporate trustee duty has been paid or is payable on a
          relevant acquisition under part 2; and
          (b) land-holdings in which the corporate trustee, or
          relevant corporation for a corporate trustee, has an
          interest at the time of the relevant acquisition under part
          2, has been included in working out the dutiable value of a
          relevant acquisition under this part; and
          (c) the relevant acquisitions are part of the 1
          arrangement.
     (2) Landholder duty imposed on the relevant acquisition must be
     reduced by the amount of corporate trustee duty paid or payable for
     the land-holdings to the extent that the land-holdings were included
     in working out the dutiable value of the relevant acquisition under
     this part.
 
Deduction—transfer duty for particular trusts
*** 186 Deduction—transfer duty for particular trusts ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) transfer duty has been paid or is payable on a dutiable
          transaction that is a trust acquisition for a trust, other
          than a discretionary trust; and
          (b) land-holdings held by the trustee as trustee of the
          trust at the time of the transaction has been included in
          working out the dutiable value of the relevant acquisition
          under this part; and
          (c) the acquisitions are part of the 1 arrangement.
     (2) Landholder duty imposed on the relevant acquisition must be
     reduced by the amount of transfer duty paid or payable for the land-
     holdings to the extent that the land-holdings were included in
     working out the dutiable value of the relevant acquisition under this
     part.
 
Deduction—transfer duty for marketable securities
*** 187 Deduction—transfer duty for marketable securities ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) transfer duty is paid or payable for marketable
          securities the subject of a dutiable transaction or an
          equivalent duty in another State is paid or payable for the
          marketable securities; and
          (b) the dutiable transaction is a relevant acquisition.
     (2) Landholder duty imposed on the relevant acquisition must be
     reduced by an amount worked out using the following formula—
     where—

     "LV" means the unencumbered value of all Queensland land-holdings of
     the landholder at the time of the relevant acquisition.

     "PV" means the unencumbered value of all the property of the
     landholder at the time of the relevant acquisition.

     "R" means the amount of the reduction.

     "TD" is the transfer or equivalent duty paid or payable for the
     marketable securities.
 
Deduction—mortgage duty
*** 188 Deduction—mortgage duty ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) shares or units in an entity are transferred, or agreed
          to be transferred, by way of security; and
          (b) afterwards, the transferee acquires ownership of the
          shares or units free from any interest or equity of the
          previous holder of the shares or units; and
          (c) the transferee and related persons of the transferee
          were to newly acquire all of the shares or units they hold
          in the entity at the time of the acquisition mentioned in
          paragraph (b), the acquisition would be a relevant
          acquisition.
     (2) Also, this section applies if—
          (a) shares or units in an entity are transferred, or agreed
          to be transferred, by way of security; and
          (b) the commissioner is not satisfied of the matter
          mentioned in section 190; and
          (c) the acquisition mentioned in paragraph (a) is a
          relevant acquisition.
     (3) For subsection (1), the transferee is taken to have made a
     relevant acquisition of the shares or units owned by the transferee
     and related persons of the transferee.
     (4) Landholder duty imposed on the relevant acquisition must be
     reduced by any mortgage duty paid on the transfer or agreement to
     transfer.
 
Exemption—particular share or unit issues
*** 189 Exemption—particular share or unit issues ***
     (1) Landholder duty is not imposed on an acquisition by a person of
     an interest on the initial allotment of shares or units on the
     registration of a corporation or the establishment of a listed unit
     trust.
     (2) Also, landholder duty is not imposed on an acquisition by a
     person if—
          (a) the interest was acquired on the issue of shares or
          units to a person in consideration of a transfer of land to
          the corporation or trust by the person; and
          (b) transfer duty is paid or payable for the acquisition of
          the land by the corporation or trust; and
          (c) the land is the only land of the corporation or trust;
          and
          (d) the person is the only shareholder or unit holder of
          the corporation or trust.
     (3) In addition, landholder duty is not imposed on an acquisition by
     a person if—
          (a) the interest is acquired on a dealing in shares or
          units for all of the shareholders or unit holders of the
          corporation or trust; and
          (b) the interests of the shareholders or unit holders after
          the dealing are, as near as practicable, the same as the
          proportions in which they held the shares or units before
          the dealing; and
          (c) the rights among the shareholders or unit holders have
          not changed significantly because of the dealing in the
          shares or units.
     (4) In this section—

     "dealing", for shares or units, means the issue, cancellation,
     redemption or buy-back of the shares or units.
 
Exemption—security interests
*** 190 Exemption—security interests ***
Landholder duty is not imposed on an acquisition of a security interest if the
commissioner is satisfied the interest was not acquired with the intention of
avoiding the imposition of landholder duty.
 
Exemption—change of trustee
*** 191 Exemption—change of trustee ***
Landholder duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition for the sole purpose
of giving effect to a change of a trustee if—
     (a) the acquisition is not part of an arrangement—
          (i) involving a change in the rights or interest of a
          beneficiary of the trust; or
          (ii) terminating the trust; and
     (b) the acquisition is not part of an arrangement to avoid the
     imposition of duty; and
     (c) transfer duty has been paid on all trust acquisitions for which
     transfer duty is imposed for the trust before the acquisition.
 
Exemption—acquisition by liquidator
*** 192 Exemption—acquisition by liquidator ***
Landholder duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition by a person if the
interest was acquired solely in the person’s capacity as a liquidator.
 
Exemption—compromise or arrangements
*** 193 Exemption—compromise or arrangements ***
Landholder duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition by a person if—
     (a) the interest was acquired solely because of the making of a
     compromise or arrangement with creditors approved under the
     Corporations Act, part 5.1; and
     (b) the commissioner is satisfied the compromise or arrangement was
     not made with the intention of avoiding the imposition of landholder
     duty.
 
Exemption—restructure of stapled entities
*** 193A Exemption—restructure of stapled entities ***
     (1) Landholder duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition if—
          (a) the purpose of the acquisition is to give effect to a
          scheme that qualifies or would, on its completion, qualify
          as a roll-over under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997
          (Cwlth), subdivision 124.Q; and
          (b) when the scheme is completed, the interposed trust will
          be a listed unit trust or a widely held unit trust; and
          (c) the acquisition is not part of an arrangement to avoid
          the imposition of landholder duty.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if—
          (a) the interposed trust is not a listed unit trust or a
          widely held unit trust when the scheme is completed; or
          (b) the interposed trust ceases to be a listed unit trust
          or a widely held unit trust within 3 years after the scheme
          is completed; or
          (c) the interposed trust does not retain all the ownership
          interests in the stapled entities for at least 3 years
          after the date of the acquisition.
     (3) Despite subsection (2) (c), subsection (1) continues to apply if
     the commissioner is satisfied the interposed trust did not retain all
     the ownership interests because 1 or more of the stapled entities
     ceased to exist other than under an arrangement, a significant
     purpose of which was to avoid the requirement to retain all the
     ownership interests for at least 3 years.
     (4) If subsection (1) does not apply, the commissioner must make a
     reassessment to impose landholder duty on the relevant acquisition as
     if the exemption from duty had never applied.
     (5) Subsection (4) applies to the reassessment despite the limitation
     period under the Administration Act for reassessments.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 3, division 3.
     (6) If an event mentioned in subsection (2) happens, the acquirer
     under the relevant acquisition must, within 28 days after the event
     happens—
          (a) give notice of the event to the commissioner in the
          approved form; and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty on the acquisition are lodged for reassessment.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (7) Without limiting subsection (3), a company registered under the
     Corporations Act ceases to exist if it is deregistered under that
     Act.
 
Exemption—if transfer duty not imposed
*** 194 Exemption—if transfer duty not imposed ***
     (1) This section applies for a relevant acquisition that would be a
     dutiable transaction if marketable securities were dutiable property
     under chapter 2.
     (2) Landholder duty is not imposed on the acquisition if transfer
     duty would not be imposed on the dutiable transaction because of an
     exemption under any of the following provisions—
          • sections 123 to 126
          • sections 129 and 130
          • sections 130A and 130B
          • sections 134 and 135
          • section 141
          • section 143.
 
Exemption—marketable securities
*** 194A Exemption—marketable securities ***
Landholder duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition that is a transfer, or
agreement for the transfer, of a marketable security to or from a corporation
if—
     (a) the corporation is—
          (i) a financial institution; or
          (ii) a trustee company under the Trustee Companies Act
          1968; or
          (iii) a related body corporate of the corporation; or
          (iv) a corporation of a class prescribed under a
          regulation; and
     (b) the corporation’s principal business is to hold property as
     trustee or nominee for another person; and
     (c) whichever of the following is relevant applies—
          (i) for a transfer to the corporation—
               (A) the property is to be held on trust solely
               for the transferor; and
               (B) the transfer is not part of an arrangement
               under which the security will be held on trust
               for another person;
          (ii) for a transfer from the corporation—the transfer is
          a retransfer to the owner in the same capacity as the
          security was previously held by the owner.
 
Exemption—no liability for transfer duty on acquisition in other way
*** 195 Exemption—no liability for transfer duty on acquisition in other way
***
Landholder duty is not imposed on an acquisition by a person if—
     (a) the land-holdings of a landholder could have been acquired by the
     person without incurring a liability to pay transfer duty for the
     acquisition of land other than under chapter 10, part 1; and
     (b) the commissioner is satisfied the acquisition would not have been
     part of an arrangement to avoid the imposition of landholder duty.
 
Interests acquired under exempt acquisitions disregarded for particular
purposes
*** 196 Interests acquired under exempt acquisitions disregarded for particular
purposes ***
An interest acquired under an exempt acquisition, other than an exempt
acquisition under section 195, must be disregarded as an interest in a
landholder when—
     (a) deciding whether a person has, under section 158 (1) (b) (i) or
     (ii), acquired an interest in the corporation; or
     (b) aggregating interests under section 158 (1) (b) (i) or (ii).
 
When commissioner must make reassessment
*** 197 When commissioner must make reassessment ***
     (1) The commissioner must make a reassessment of landholder duty
     imposed for a relevant acquisition if—
          (a) at the time of the relevant acquisition, the
          landholder’s land-holdings included—
               (i) land the subject of—
                    (A) a sale agreement that was later
                    completed; or
                    (B) a purchase agreement that was not
                    completed; or
               (ii) land-holdings of a trustee of a trust that
               was a subsidiary of the landholder because of—
                    (A) a trust interest sale agreement
                    that was later completed; or
                    (B) a trust interest purchase agreement
                    that was not completed; and
          (b) the commissioner is satisfied the agreement was not
          made or was not part of an arrangement made for the purpose
          of avoiding the imposition of landholder duty.
     (2) Also, the commissioner must make a reassessment of landholder
     duty imposed for a relevant acquisition if at the time of the
     relevant acquisition a person is taken to have acquired an interest
     in a landholder under an agreement to acquire the interest but the
     agreement is not completed.
     (3) When reassessing landholder duty under subsection (1), the
     commissioner must disregard the land mentioned in the subsection
     in—
          (a) deciding whether the entity in which the acquisition is
          made is a landholder; and
          (b) working out the dutiable value of the relevant
          acquisition.
     (4) When reassessing the landholder duty under subsection (2), the
     commissioner must disregard the interest mentioned in the subsection.
     (5) For a reassessment under subsection (1) or (2), the acquirer
     under the relevant acquisition must lodge the landholder duty
     statement for the acquisition.
     (6) Subsection (1) or (2) applies to the reassessment despite the
     limitation period under the Administration Act for reassessments.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 3 (Assessments
               of tax), division 3 (Reassessments).
     (7) In this section—

     "trust interest purchase agreement" see section 166.

     "trust interest sale agreement" see section 166.
 
Charge over land for unpaid landholder duty
*** 198 Charge over land for unpaid landholder duty ***
     (1) This section applies if landholder duty is not paid by the date
     by which the duty must be paid.
     (2) The liability to pay the outstanding amount of landholder duty is
     a first charge on land owned by the landholder concerned in the
     relevant acquisition for which the landholder duty is payable and any
     subsidiary of the landholder.
     (3) The commissioner may lodge, under the Administration Act, part 4,
     division 5, a request to register the charge over stated land owned
     by the landholder or its subsidiary.
     (4) The charge has priority over all other encumbrances over the
     land.
 
Commissioner may apply to Supreme Court for order to sell
*** 200 Commissioner may apply to Supreme Court for order to sell ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) under subdivision 1, a charge has been registered over
          land; and
          (b) the outstanding amount of landholder duty has not been
          paid within 18 months after registration.
     (2) The commissioner may apply to the Supreme Court for an order to
     sell the land stated in the application.
     (3) At least 6 months before making the application, the commissioner
     must give notice to the person liable to pay the landholder duty and
     the owner of the land of the commissioner’s intention to apply to
     the Supreme Court for an order to sell the land unless the
     outstanding amount of landholder duty is paid within 6 months after
     the date of the notice.
 
When court must order sale of land
*** 201 When court must order sale of land ***
     (1) The court must order the sale of the land if it is satisfied—
          (a) proper notice of the application for the order was
          given under section 200; and
          (b) there is an outstanding amount of landholder duty
          payable to the State.
     (2) However, the court may make an order only for the land the court
     considers is sufficient to realise proceeds to pay the amounts
     mentioned in section 202 (a) to (d).
 
Application of proceeds of sale
*** 202 Application of proceeds of sale ***
The proceeds of the sale of land sold under the order must be applied as
follows—
     (a) first, in payment of the commissioner’s expenses on the
     application to the court for the order;
     (b) second, in payment of expenses properly incurred by the
     commissioner on the sale or any attempted sale;
     (c) third, in payment of the outstanding amount of landholder duty
     under the Administration Act, section 42;
     (d) fourth, in payment of amounts secured by a security interest or
     charge on the land recorded before the charge mentioned in section
     200 (1) (a), unless the land is sold subject to the security interest
     or charge;
     (e) fifth, any balance must be applied as the court orders.
 
Registration of transfer
*** 203 Registration of transfer ***
     (1) If land is sold under the order to sell, the person stated in the
     order for this section must—
          (a) sign a transfer in the appropriate form in favour of
          the purchaser; and
          (b) lodge the transfer with the registrar.
     (2) The registrar must register the transfer as if it had been signed
     by the registered owner of the land.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies despite non-production of the relevant
     instrument of title.
 
Landholder or subsidiary may recover proceeds of sale as debt
*** 204 Landholder or subsidiary may recover proceeds of sale as debt ***
     (1) The amount equal to the proceeds of the sale of land under the
     order less an amount paid under section 202 (d) is a debt payable to
     the entity or subsidiary that previously owned the land by the
     persons liable to pay the landholder duty for which the order was
     made.
     (2) The entity or subsidiary may recover the debt in a court of
     competent jurisdiction.
 
Imposition of corporate trustee duty
*** 205 Imposition of corporate trustee duty ***
     (1) This part imposes duty (
     "corporate trustee duty") on relevant acquisitions.
          Notes—
                    1 Exemptions for corporate trustee duty
                    are dealt with in division 6.
                    2 Additional foreign acquirer duty is
                    imposed on particular relevant
                    acquisitions under chapter 4.
     (2) Corporate trustee duty is imposed on the dutiable value of a
     relevant acquisition.
 
Interpretation for property held by partnership or trust
*** 206 Interpretation for property held by partnership or trust ***
A reference to a partnership or trust holding property is a reference to the
holding of the property by the partners for the partnership or trustees for the
trust.
 
What is a relevant acquisition
*** 207 What is a relevant acquisition ***
A person makes a
"relevant acquisition" if—
     (a) the person acquires a share interest in a corporate trustee or
     relevant corporation for a corporate trustee; and
     (b) the acquisition is part of an arrangement under which any person
     obtains, directly or indirectly, a benefit relating to the property
     held by the corporate trustee on trust.
 
What is a share interest
*** 208 What is a share interest ***
A
"share interest" is a person’s interest as a shareholder in a corporate
trustee or relevant corporation for a corporate trustee.
 
What is a corporate trustee
*** 209 What is a corporate trustee ***
A
"corporate trustee" is an unlisted corporation, other than an authorised
trustee corporation, that is the trustee of a discretionary trust that—
     (a) holds dutiable property on trust for the discretionary trust; or
     (b) has an indirect interest in dutiable property and that interest
     is held on trust for the discretionary trust.
     Note—
          Section 498 includes provision about references to dutiable
          property.
 
What is a corporate trustee’s indirect interest in dutiable property
*** 210 What is a corporate trustee’s indirect interest in dutiable property
***
A corporate trustee has an
"indirect interest" in dutiable property if it—
     (a) has a partnership interest or trust interest in an ultimate
     entity; or
     (b) through a series of partnership interests or trust interests, or
     a combination of any of them, there is a connection between the
     corporate trustee and dutiable property of a partnership or trust in
     the series.
 
What is a relevant corporation for a corporate trustee
*** 211 What is a relevant corporation for a corporate trustee ***
     (1) A corporation is a
     "relevant corporation" for a corporate trustee if the corporation is
     an unlisted corporation that has an interest in the corporate
     trustee.
     (2) For subsection (1), a corporation has an interest in a corporate
     trustee if—
          (a) it has a share interest in the corporate trustee; or
          (b) it has a share interest in a corporation that has a
          share interest in the corporate trustee.
 
Acquiring share interest in corporation
*** 212 Acquiring share interest in corporation ***
     (1) A person acquires a share interest in a corporate trustee or
     relevant corporation for a corporate trustee if—
          (a) the person becomes a shareholder of the corporate
          trustee or relevant corporation; or
          (b) being a shareholder, the person’s share interest
          increases.
     (2) However, the acquisition of a share interest by a beneficiary
     from the personal representative in the administration of the estate
     of a deceased person is not an acquisition for this part.
 
Contracted property and trust interests
*** 213 Contracted property and trust interests ***
     (1) For a corporate trustee, contracted property is taken to be
     dutiable property held by the corporate trustee.
     (1A) If a corporate trustee has made a purchase or sale agreement for
     a trust interest, the corporate trustee is taken to have an indirect
     interest in the trust-related dutiable property.
     (2) For determining the dutiable value of a relevant acquisition—
          (a) a sale agreement made by the corporate trustee is taken
          not to have been made; and
          (b) a purchase agreement made by the corporate trustee is
          taken to have been completed.
     (3) Subsection (3A) applies if—
          (a) contracted property, or an indirect interest in
          dutiable property mentioned in subsection (1A), is included
          in determining the dutiable value of a relevant
          acquisition; and
          (b) the sale agreement for the property or trust interest
          is later completed or the purchase agreement for the
          property or trust interest is later rescinded.
     (3A) The commissioner must make a reassessment as if the contracted
     property or indirect interest were never held by the corporate
     trustee.
     (4) For the reassessment, the acquirer under the relevant acquisition
     must lodge the corporate trustee duty statement for the acquisition.
     (5) In this section—

     "purchase agreement" includes an uncompleted agreement, whether or
     not conditional, for the acquisition of a trust interest through
     which the corporate trustee would have, if the agreement were
     completed, an indirect interest in dutiable property (the
     "trust-related dutiable property").

     "sale agreement" includes an uncompleted agreement, whether or not
     conditional, for the sale of a trust interest through which the
     corporate trustee has an indirect interest in dutiable property (also
     the
     "trust-related dutiable property").
 
When liability for corporate trustee duty arises
*** 214 When liability for corporate trustee duty arises ***
A liability for corporate trustee duty imposed on a relevant acquisition arises
when the acquisition is made.
 
Who is liable to pay corporate trustee duty
*** 215 Who is liable to pay corporate trustee duty ***
Corporate trustee duty imposed on a relevant acquisition must be paid by the
acquirer.
 
Rate of corporate trustee duty
*** 216 Rate of corporate trustee duty ***
The rate of corporate trustee duty imposed on the dutiable value of a relevant
acquisition is the rate stated in schedule 3, column 2, opposite the dutiable
value relating to the dutiable property in schedule 3, column 1.
 
Corporate trustee duty statement
*** 217 Corporate trustee duty statement ***
The acquirer under a relevant acquisition, must within 30 days after the
acquisition is made, lodge a statement in the approved form (a
"corporate trustee duty statement").
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
 
Apportionment—head office or principal place of business in Queensland
*** 218 Apportionment—head office or principal place of business in
Queensland ***
     (1) This section applies for determining the unencumbered value of
     dutiable property that is a Queensland business asset, other than a
     debt or personal property, of a Queensland business that has its head
     office or principal place of business in Queensland if, at any time
     during the 3 financial years preceding the relevant acquisition
     concerned—
          (a) a supply of land, money, credit or goods or any
          interest in them, or provision of services, has been made
          by the business to customers outside Queensland; or
          (b) the asset has been used, exploited or exercised in, or
          relates to, a place outside Queensland.
     (2) A reference in this chapter to the unencumbered value of the
     property is taken to be a reference to the amount (the
     "apportioned amount") worked out using the following formula—
     where—

     "AA" means the apportioned amount.

     "OS" means the gross amount of the supplies and provision of services
     made by the business to its customers in other States during the 3
     completed financial years preceding the relevant acquisition.

     "TS" means the gross amount of supplies and provision of services
     made by the business to all its customers during the 3 completed
     financial years preceding the relevant acquisition.

     "UV" means the unencumbered value of the Queensland business asset
     mentioned in subsection (1).
     (3) However, the commissioner may decide the unencumbered value of
     the dutiable property on another basis if the commissioner is
     satisfied the other basis would be more appropriate in particular
     circumstances.
 
Apportionment—head office or principal place of business in another State
*** 219 Apportionment—head office or principal place of business in another
State ***
     (1) This section applies for determining the unencumbered value of
     dutiable property that is a Queensland business asset, other than a
     debt or personal property, of a Queensland business that does not
     have its head office or principal place of business in Queensland if,
     at any time during the 3 financial years preceding the relevant
     acquisition concerned—
          (a) a supply of land, money, credit or goods or any
          interest in them, or provision of services, has been made
          by the business to customers in Queensland; or
          (b) the asset has been used, exploited or exercised in, or
          relates to, Queensland.
     (2) A reference in this chapter to the unencumbered value of the
     property is taken to be a reference to the amount (the
     "apportioned amount") worked out using the following formula—
     where—

     "AA" means the apportioned amount.

     "QS" means the gross amount of the supplies and provision of services
     made by the business to its Queensland customers during the 3
     completed financial years preceding the relevant acquisition.

     "TS" means the gross amount of supplies and provision of services
     made by the business to all its customers during the 3 completed
     financial years preceding the relevant acquisition.

     "UV" means the unencumbered value of the Queensland business asset
     mentioned in subsection (1).
     (3) However, the commissioner may decide the unencumbered value of
     the dutiable property on another basis if the commissioner is
     satisfied the other basis would be more appropriate in particular
     circumstances.
 
Apportionment of particular acquisitions relating to existing rights
*** 220 Apportionment of particular acquisitions relating to existing rights
***
     (1) This section applies for determining the unencumbered value of
     dutiable property that is an existing right if the right is
     exercisable or relates to the conduct of a business or an activity
     outside Queensland.
     (2) A reference in this chapter to the unencumbered value of the
     right is taken to be a reference to the amount that represents the
     same proportion of the unencumbered value that the unencumbered value
     of the right to the extent it is exercisable or relates to the
     conduct of a business or activity in Queensland bears to the total
     unencumbered value of the right.
     (3) However, the commissioner may decide the unencumbered value of
     the right on another basis if the commissioner is satisfied the other
     basis would be more appropriate in particular circumstances.
 
Acquirer’s share interest is proportionate to shares in corporate trustee or
relevant corporation
*** 221 Acquirer’s share interest is proportionate to shares in corporate
trustee or relevant corporation ***
     (1) For a relevant acquisition that is an acquisition of a share
     interest in a corporate trustee, the acquirer’s share interest is
     the proportion that the number of shares the acquirer has bears to
     the total issued shares in the corporate trustee expressed as a
     percentage.
     (2) For a relevant acquisition that is an acquisition of a share
     interest in a relevant corporation for a corporate trustee if the
     relevant corporation has an interest in the corporate trustee as
     mentioned in section 211 (2) (a), the acquirer’s share interest is
     worked out by applying the acquirer’s share interest in the
     relevant corporation to the relevant corporation’s share interest
     in the corporate trustee.
     (3) For a relevant acquisition that is an acquisition of a share
     interest in a relevant corporation for a corporate trustee if the
     relevant corporation has an interest in the corporate trustee as
     mentioned in section 211 (2) (b), the acquirer’s share interest is
     worked out by applying—
          (a) the acquirer’s share interest in the relevant
          corporation to the relevant corporation’s share interest
          in the other relevant corporation; and
          (b) the result worked out under paragraph (a) to the other
          relevant corporation’s share interest in the corporate
          trustee.
     (4) For subsections (2) and (3) —
          (a) the acquirer’s share interest in the relevant
          corporation is the proportion that the number of shares the
          acquirer acquires bears to the total issued shares in the
          relevant corporation expressed as a percentage; and
          (b) the relevant corporation’s share interest in the
          corporate trustee is the proportion that the number of
          shares the relevant corporation holds bears to the total
          issued shares in the corporate trustee expressed as a
          percentage.
     (5) Also, for subsection (3), the relevant corporation’s share
     interest in the other relevant corporation is the proportion that the
     number of shares the relevant corporation holds bears to the total
     issued shares in the other relevant corporation expressed as a
     percentage.
     (6) However, if the commissioner is satisfied the acquirer’s share
     interest worked out under subsection (1), (2) or (3) does not
     accurately represent the acquirer’s rights and obligations as a
     shareholder when compared with the rights and obligations of the
     other shareholders, the commissioner may decide the acquirer’s
     share interest.
     (7) For applying subsection (1), (2) or (3) to a relevant acquisition
     that is an increase in the acquirer’s share interest, the
     acquirer’s share interest is taken to be the increase in the
     acquirer’s share interest.
 
What is the dutiable value of a relevant acquisition
*** 222 What is the dutiable value of a relevant acquisition ***
     (1) The dutiable value of the relevant acquisition is the total of
     the amounts worked out by applying the acquirer’s share interest to
     the unencumbered value, when the liability for corporate trustee duty
     arises, of—
          (a) the dutiable property held on trust by the corporate
          trustee; and
          (b) any indirect interest in dutiable property held on
          trust by the corporate trustee.
          Notes—
                    1 Under section 213 (1), dutiable
                    property includes contracted property.
                    Also, under section 213 (1A), the
                    corporate trustee may be taken to hold
                    an indirect interest in dutiable
                    property through a trust interest that
                    is the subject of a purchase or sale
                    agreement.
                    2 See section 14 (What is the
                    "unencumbered value" of property).
     (2) For subsection (1) (b), the unencumbered value of an indirect
     interest of a corporate trustee under section 210 (a) is the amount
     worked out by applying to the unencumbered value of the dutiable
     property held by the entity in which the corporate trustee has a
     trust interest or partnership interest the corporate trustee’s
     trust interest or partnership interest in the entity.
     (3) For subsection (1) (b), the unencumbered value of an indirect
     interest of a corporate trustee under section 210 (b) is the amount
     worked out by—
          (a) first applying to the unencumbered value of the
          dutiable property held by the ultimate entity, the trust
          interest or partnership interest of the trust or
          partnership (the
          "last beneficiary or partner") that is a beneficiary or
          partner of the ultimate entity; and
          (b) applying to the amount worked out under paragraph (a),
          and the unencumbered value of any dutiable property held by
          the last beneficiary or partner, the trust interest or
          partnership interest of the next trust or partnership in
          the series of trusts or partnerships that is a beneficiary
          or partner of the last beneficiary or partner; and
          (c) applying the calculation in paragraph (b) for each of
          the other trusts or partnerships in the series until the
          first entity’s trust interest or partnership interest is
          used in the calculation; and
          (d) applying to the amount last worked out under paragraph
          (c) and the unencumbered value of any dutiable property
          held by the first entity, the trust interest or partnership
          interest of the corporate trustee.
     (4) Schedule 4 contains an example of how the dutiable value of a
     relevant acquisition is worked out.
     (5) If the corporate trustee is trustee of more than 1 discretionary
     trust, the unencumbered value of the dutiable property of each trust
     and each indirect interest held on trust by the corporate trustee
     must be aggregated in working out the dutiable value of the relevant
     acquisition.
 
Aggregation of particular relevant acquisitions
*** 223 Aggregation of particular relevant acquisitions ***
     (1) This section applies for aggregating relevant acquisitions that
     together form, evidence, give effect to or arise from what is,
     substantially 1 arrangement.
     (2) For assessing corporate trustee duty on each of the relevant
     acquisitions, the acquisitions must be aggregated and treated as a
     single relevant acquisition.
     (3) For subsection (1), all relevant circumstances relating to the
     relevant acquisitions must be taken into account in deciding whether
     they together form, evidence, give effect to or arise from what is,
     substantially 1 arrangement.
     (4) For subsection (3), relevant circumstances include the
     following—
          (a) whether any of the acquisitions are conditional on
          entry into, or completion of, any of the other
          acquisitions;
          (b) whether the parties to any of the acquisitions are the
          same;
          (c) whether any party to an acquisition is a related person
          of another party to any of the other acquisitions;
          (d) the time over which the acquisitions take place;
          (e) whether, after the acquisitions take place, the
          acquirers’ interests will be used together or dependently
          with one another;
          (f) whether, before the acquisitions take place, the
          interests were used together or dependently with one
          another.
     (5) Corporate trustee duty imposed on the relevant acquisition
     aggregated under this section must—
          (a) be assessed on the total of the dutiable values of the
          acquisitions when the liability for corporate trustee duty
          for each of the acquisitions arose; and
          (b) be apportioned between the acquisitions as decided by
          the commissioner.
     (6) The acquirer must, when lodging the corporate trustee duty
     statement relating to the acquisition, give notice to the
     commissioner stating details known to the acquirer about—
          (a) all of the interests of the acquirer and related
          persons of the acquirer included or to be included in the
          arrangement mentioned in subsection (1); and
          (b) the dutiable value of each relevant acquisition.
          Note—
               Under the Administration Act, the requirement
               under this subsection is a lodgement requirement
               for which a failure to comply is an offence under
               section 121 of that Act.
 
Exemption—change of trustee
*** 224 Exemption—change of trustee ***
Corporate trustee duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition for the sole
purpose of giving effect to a change of a trustee if—
     (a) the acquisition is not part of an arrangement—
          (i) involving a change in the rights or interest of a
          beneficiary of the trust; or
          (ii) terminating the trust; and
     (b) the acquisition is not part of an arrangement to avoid the
     imposition of duty; and
     (c) transfer duty has been paid on all trust acquisitions for which
     transfer duty is imposed for the trust before the acquisition.
 
Exemption—relevant acquisition in family trust
*** 225 Exemption—relevant acquisition in family trust ***
     (1) Corporate trustee duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition
     if—
          (a) the trust of which the corporate trustee is trustee is
          established and maintained primarily for the benefit of the
          members of a particular family or a family company; and
          (b) the acquirer under the relevant acquisition is a member
          of the family who, or is a family company that, does not
          hold the shares acquired as trustee.
     (2) A trust is established and maintained primarily for the benefit
     of the members of a particular family or a family company if—
          (a) the primary beneficiaries of the trust consist only of
          members of the family or the family company; and
          (b) the takers in default of an appointment for capital by
          the trustee of the trust consist only of members of the
          family or the family company.
     (3) However, subsection (2) (b) is taken to be satisfied if the last
     taker in default of an appointment for capital by the trustee of the
     trust is—
          (a) a person decided under the Succession Act 1981; or
          (b) a charitable institution.
     (4) For applying this section, a person (the
     "first person") is a member of the particular family of another
     person (the
     "other person") if—
          (a) the first person is the spouse of the other person; or
          (b) the first person, or the first person’s spouse, is
          any of the following in relation to the other person, or
          the other person’s spouse—
               (i) child, stepchild or adopted child;
               (ii) grandchild or great grandchild;
               (iii) brother, sister, aunt, uncle or cousin;
               (iv) parent, step-parent, adoptive parent,
               grandparent or great grandparent.
     (5) In this section—

     "family company", for a trust, means a corporation in which all its
     directors and shareholders are members of the particular family for
     which the trust is established and maintained.

     "spouse" includes former spouse.
 
Exemption—if transfer duty not imposed
*** 226 Exemption—if transfer duty not imposed ***
Corporate trustee duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition that is a
dutiable transaction on which transfer duty is not imposed because of an
exemption under sections 123 to 126.
 
Deduction—interstate transfer duty for shares
*** 227 Deduction—interstate transfer duty for shares ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) interstate transfer duty is paid or payable for a
          transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of shares of a
          corporate trustee or relevant corporation for a corporate
          trustee; and
          (b) the transfer or agreement is a relevant acquisition.
     (2) Corporate trustee duty imposed on the relevant acquisition must
     be reduced by the amount of the interstate transfer duty.
     (3) In this section—

     "interstate transfer duty" means a duty in another State equivalent
     to transfer duty under this Act.
 
Deduction—transfer duty for trust acquisition
*** 228 Deduction—transfer duty for trust acquisition ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a person makes a trust acquisition for which transfer
          duty is paid or payable; and
          (b) the acquisition is a relevant acquisition.
     (2) Corporate trustee duty imposed on the relevant acquisition must
     be reduced by the amount of transfer duty paid or payable.
 
When commissioner must make reassessment
*** 229 When commissioner must make reassessment ***
     (1) The commissioner must make a reassessment of corporate trustee
     duty imposed for a relevant acquisition if at the time of the
     relevant acquisition a person is taken to have acquired a share
     interest in a corporation under an agreement to acquire the interest
     but the agreement is not completed.
     (2) When reassessing the corporate trustee duty under subsection (1),
     the commissioner must disregard the interest mentioned in the
     subsection.
     (3) For the reassessment, the acquirer under the relevant acquisition
     must lodge the corporate trustee duty statement for the acquisition.
 
Relevant transactions
*** 230 Relevant transactions ***
This chapter applies to the following transactions (
"relevant transactions")—
     (a) dutiable transactions on which transfer duty is imposed under
     chapter 2;
     (b) relevant acquisitions on which landholder duty or corporate
     trustee duty is imposed under chapter 3.
 
Imposition of AFAD
*** 231 Imposition of AFAD ***
     (1) This chapter imposes an additional amount of transfer duty,
     landholder duty or corporate trustee duty on particular relevant
     transactions.
     (2) The additional amount of duty is
     "additional foreign acquirer duty" or
     "AFAD".
     (3) Part 3 provides for when AFAD is imposed on a relevant
     transaction.
          Note—
               An exemption for AFAD is dealt with in part 4A.
     (4) Part 4 provides for how AFAD is calculated.
     (5) The AFAD imposed on a relevant transaction is added to the duty
     imposed on the transaction under chapter 2 or 3.
     (6) To remove any doubt, it is declared that, unless the contrary
     intention appears—
          (a) a reference in this Act to transfer duty is a reference
          to duty imposed under chapter 2 and AFAD relating to
          transfer duty imposed under this chapter; and
          (b) a reference in this Act to landholder duty is a
          reference to duty imposed under chapter 3, part 1 and AFAD
          relating to landholder duty imposed under this chapter; and
          (c) a reference in this Act to corporate trustee duty is a
          reference to duty imposed under chapter 3, part 2 and AFAD
          relating to corporate trustee duty imposed under this
          chapter.
 
What is AFAD residential land
*** 232 What is AFAD residential land ***
     (1)
     "AFAD residential land" is land in Queensland—
          (a) that is, or will be, solely or primarily used for
          residential purposes; and
          (b) to which any of the following applies—
               (i) on the land there is, or will be constructed,
               a building designed or approved by a local
               government for human habitation by a single
               family unit;
               (ii) on the land there is a building that a
               person will refurbish, renovate or extend so it
               becomes a building mentioned in subparagraph (i);
               (iii) the land is a lot on which there is a
               building or a part of a building that, for the
               separate area the lot comprises, is designed or
               approved by a local government for human
               habitation by a single family unit;
               (iv) the land will be a lot on which there is a
               building or a part of a building that, for the
               separate area the lot comprises, is designed or
               approved by a local government for human
               habitation by a single family unit;
               (v) the land is a lot on which there will be a
               building or a part of a building that, for the
               separate area the lot comprises, is designed or
               approved by a local government for human
               habitation by a single family unit;
               (vi) a person is undertaking, or will undertake,
               development of the land so it becomes land
               mentioned in any of subparagraphs (i) to (v).
     (2) For the purpose of imposing AFAD relating to transfer duty, a
     reference to AFAD residential land includes a reference to a chattel
     in Queensland if—
          (a) the chattel and the land are included in the same
          dutiable transaction under section 29 or 30, whether or not
          the chattel is the subject of a separate agreement for
          transfer; and
          (b) the use of the chattel can be directly linked to, or is
          incidental to, the use and occupation of the land.
 
Who is an acquirer
*** 233 Who is an acquirer ***
     (1) For the purpose of imposing AFAD relating to transfer duty on a
     dutiable transaction, a person is an
     "acquirer" if the person is—
          (a) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (a) or (b) —a transferee of the dutiable property under
          the transaction; or
          (b) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (c) to (e) —a person who, under the transaction, acquires
          the dutiable property; or
          (c) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (f) —a person who, under the transaction, acquires the
          new right; or
          (d) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (g) —a person who, under the transaction, acquires a
          partnership interest; or
          (e) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (h) that is the creation of a trust of dutiable
          property—a person who, under the transaction, starts to
          hold the dutiable property in a way mentioned in section
          53; or
          (f) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (h) that is the termination of a trust of dutiable
          property—a person who, under the transaction, starts to
          hold the dutiable property other than as trustee; or
          (g) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (i) that is a trust acquisition—a person who makes a
          trust acquisition under the transaction; or
          (h) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (i) that is a trust surrender—a person who is a trustee
          of the trust in which, under the transaction, the trust
          interest is surrendered; or
          (i) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in paragraph (a)
          to (h) —a partner in a partnership in which any of the
          other partners is (in the capacity of a partner) a person
          mentioned in the paragraph.
     (2) For the purpose of imposing AFAD relating to landholder duty on a
     relevant acquisition, a person is an
     "acquirer" if the person is—
          (a) a person who makes the relevant acquisition under the
          transaction; or
          (b) if a person makes a relevant acquisition because
          interests are aggregated under section 158 (1) (b) (ii),
          the person or a related person of the person; or
          (c) a partner in a partnership in which any of the other
          partners is (in the capacity of a partner) a person
          mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b).
     (3) For the purpose of imposing AFAD relating to corporate trustee
     duty on a relevant acquisition, a person is an
     "acquirer" if the person—
          (a) makes the relevant acquisition under the transaction;
          or
          (b) is a partner in a partnership in which any of the other
          partners (in the capacity of a partner) makes the relevant
          acquisition under the transaction.
     (4) In this section—

     "related person" see section 164.
 
Who is a foreign person
*** 234 Who is a foreign person ***
Each of the following is a
"foreign person" —
     (a) a foreign individual;
     (b) a foreign corporation;
     (c) the trustee of a foreign trust.
 
Who is a foreign individual
*** 235 Who is a foreign individual ***
A
"foreign individual" is an individual other than an Australian citizen or
permanent resident.
 
What is a foreign corporation
*** 236 What is a foreign corporation ***
     (1) Each of the following is a
     "foreign corporation" —
          (a) a corporation incorporated outside Australia;
          (b) a corporation in which foreign persons have a
          controlling interest.
     (2) A corporation is taken to be a corporation mentioned in
     subsection (1) (b) if, taking their interests together, 1 or more
     persons who are foreign persons or related persons of foreign
     persons—
          (a) are in a position to control at least 50% of the voting
          power in the corporation; or
          (b) are in a position to control at least 50% of the
          potential voting power in the corporation; or
          (c) have an interest in at least 50% of the issued shares
          in the corporation.
     (3) In this section—

     "potential voting power" see the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers
     Act 1975 (Cwlth), section 22.

     "voting power" see the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975
     (Cwlth), section 22.
 
What is a foreign trust
*** 237 What is a foreign trust ***
     (1) A trust is a
     "foreign trust" if at least 50% of the trust interests in the trust
     are foreign interests.
     (2) In this section—

     "foreign interest" means—
          (a) a trust interest of a foreign individual; or
          (b) a trust interest of a foreign corporation; or
          (c) a trust interest of a trustee of a foreign trust; or
          (d) a trust interest held by a related person of a person
          mentioned in paragraph (a) to (c).
 
Who are related persons
*** 238 Who are related persons ***
Persons are
"related persons" if they are—
     (a) related persons under section 61; or
     (b) partners in a partnership.
 
Property held by partnership or trust
*** 239 Property held by partnership or trust ***
A reference in this chapter to a partnership or trust holding property is a
reference to the holding of the property by the partners for the partnership or
trustees on trust.
 
Conditions for imposing AFAD
*** 240 Conditions for imposing AFAD ***
     (1) AFAD is imposed on a relevant transaction if, at the time the
     liability for transfer duty, landholder duty or corporate trustee
     duty on the transaction arises—
          (a) the property condition under section 241 applies; and
          (b) an acquirer under the transaction is a foreign person.
     (2) Also, AFAD is imposed on a relevant transaction that is an
     agreement for the transfer of dutiable property if—
          (a) the commissioner is satisfied—
               (i) a person (the
               "agent") is appointed in writing as an agent for
               another person (the
               "principal"); and
               (ii) under the appointment, the agent enters into
               the agreement for the transfer of the dutiable
               property from a person to the agent on behalf of
               the principal (the
               "agreement"); and
               (iii) the principal provided all the
               consideration, including any deposit paid; and
          (b) at the time the liability for transfer duty on the
          agreement arises—
               (i) the property condition under section 241
               applies; and
               (ii) AFAD is not imposed on the agreement under
               subsection (1); and
               (iii) the principal is a foreign person.
     (3) For subsection (2) (a) (i), the commissioner must not be
     satisfied the person was properly appointed as agent unless the
     original instrument of appointment, or a copy of it, is lodged.
 
Property condition for imposing AFAD
*** 241 Property condition for imposing AFAD ***
     (1) This section states the property condition for section 240.
     (2) If the relevant transaction is a dutiable transaction, the
     property condition is that—
          (a) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (a) to (e) or (h) for dutiable property other than an
          existing right—the dutiable property is AFAD residential
          land; or
          (b) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (a) to (e) or (h) for dutiable property that is an existing
          right—the existing right is—
               (i) AFAD residential land; or
               (ii) an existing right mentioned in schedule 6,
               definition existing right, paragraph (g) or (i)
               to (m) for which the dutiable property is AFAD
               residential land; or
          (c) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (f) —the new right is—
               (i) AFAD residential land; or
               (ii) a new right mentioned in schedule 6,
               definition new right, paragraph (c) for which the
               dutiable property is AFAD residential land; or
          (d) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (g) —the partnership acquisition is an acquisition of a
          partnership interest in a partnership that—
               (i) holds dutiable property that is AFAD
               residential land; or
               (ii) has an indirect interest in dutiable
               property that is AFAD residential land; or
          (e) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (i) —the trust acquisition or trust surrender is an
          acquisition or surrender of a trust interest in a trust
          that—
               (i) holds dutiable property that is AFAD
               residential land; or
               (ii) has an indirect interest in dutiable
               property that is AFAD residential land.
     (3) If the relevant transaction is a relevant acquisition, the
     property condition is that—
          (a) for landholder duty—the landholder has land-holdings
          that include AFAD residential land; or
          (b) for corporate trustee duty—the dutiable property held
          on trust by the corporate trustee, or in which the
          corporate trustee has an indirect interest that is held on
          trust, includes AFAD residential land.
 
Imposition of AFAD—pre-incorporation contracts
*** 241A Imposition of AFAD—pre-incorporation contracts ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a transferee enters into an agreement for the transfer
          of dutiable property for, or for the benefit of, a company
          proposed to be registered under the Corporations Act; and
          (b) the company is named in the agreement; and
          (c) the company, or a company that is reasonably
          identifiable with it, is registered under the Corporations
          Act; and
          (d) under the Corporations Act, section 131, the company
          ratifies the agreement after it is registered; and
          (e) the dutiable property is AFAD residential land; and
          (f) the company is a foreign corporation when the dutiable
          property is transferred to it.
     (2) AFAD is imposed on the dutiable transaction that is the
     agreement.
          Note—
               Under section 116 (4), transfer duty is not
               imposed on the transfer of the dutiable property
               to the company if transfer duty imposed on the
               agreement (including AFAD imposed under
               subsection (2)) is paid. See also section 231
               (6).
 
Definitions for pt 4
*** 242 Definitions for pt 4 ***
In this part—

"foreign acquirer" means an acquirer who is a foreign person.

"foreign acquirer’s interest", under a relevant transaction, means the
proportion that the share of the foreign acquirer under the transaction bears
to the total of the shares of all acquirers under the transaction.
     Example—
          Under a relevant transaction that is a relevant acquisition
          on which landholder duty is imposed, person A (a foreign
          acquirer) and person B (not a foreign acquirer) each
          acquire a 45% interest in a public landholder. The
          proportion of person A’s share under the transaction is
          50% (a 45% interest of a total interest of 90% acquired
          under the transaction). Person A’s foreign acquirer’s
          interest is therefore 50%.
 
Non-application of concessions
*** 243 Non-application of concessions ***
The following provisions do not apply to the calculation or payment of AFAD
imposed under this chapter—
     • chapter 2, part 9
     • chapter 2, part 10
     • section 173.
 
AFAD for transfer duty
*** 244 AFAD for transfer duty ***
     (1) This section applies if, under part 3, AFAD relating to transfer
     duty is imposed on a dutiable transaction.
     (2) AFAD is imposed at the rate of 8% on the following amount—
          (a) for a dutiable transaction under section 9 (1) (a) to
          (e) or (h) for dutiable property other than an existing
          right—the dutiable value of the transaction to the extent
          of the foreign acquirer’s interest in the AFAD
          residential land that is the subject of the transaction;
          (b) for a dutiable transaction under section 9 (1) (a) to
          (e) or (h) for dutiable property that is an existing
          right—the dutiable value of the transaction to the extent
          of the foreign acquirer’s interest in the existing right
          mentioned in section 241 (2) (b) that is the subject of the
          transaction;
          (c) for a dutiable transaction under section 9 (1) (f)
          —the dutiable value of the transaction to the extent of
          the foreign acquirer’s interest in the new right
          mentioned in section 241 (2) (c) that is the subject of the
          transaction;
          (d) for a dutiable transaction under section 9 (1) (g) or
          (i) —the dutiable value of the transaction—
               (i) to the extent the partnership acquisition,
               trust acquisition or trust surrender relates to
               AFAD residential land; and
               (ii) to the extent of the foreign acquirer’s
               interest in the partnership acquisition, trust
               acquisition or trust surrender.
     (3) However, if AFAD is imposed on a dutiable transaction under
     section 240 (2) or 241A, AFAD is imposed at the rate of 8% on the
     dutiable value of the transaction to the extent of the acquirer’s
     interest in—
          (a) the AFAD residential land that is the subject of the
          transaction; or
          (b) the existing right mentioned in section 241 (2) (b)
          that is the subject of the transaction.
 
AFAD for landholder duty
*** 245 AFAD for landholder duty ***
     (1) This section applies if, under part 3, AFAD relating to
     landholder duty is imposed on a relevant acquisition.
     (2) AFAD is imposed on a relevant acquisition made in a private
     landholder at the rate of 8% on the dutiable value of the
     acquisition—
          (a) to the extent the dutiable value relates to land-
          holdings of the landholder that are AFAD residential land;
          and
          (b) to the extent of the foreign acquirer’s interest in
          the relevant acquisition.
     (3) AFAD is imposed on a relevant acquisition made in a public
     landholder, to the extent of the foreign acquirer’s interest in the
     relevant acquisition, in the amount calculated in the way landholder
     duty is calculated under section 179A but with the changes stated in
     subsection (4).
     (4) For subsection (3), in relation to the calculation of transfer
     duty as mentioned in section 179A —
          (a) the dutiable transaction mentioned in that section is
          treated as being limited to the transfer of the AFAD
          residential land; and
          (b) the amount of transfer duty that would be imposed on
          the transaction as mentioned in that section is calculated
          at the rate of 8%.
 
AFAD for corporate trustee duty
*** 245A AFAD for corporate trustee duty ***
     (1) This section applies if, under part 3, AFAD relating to corporate
     trustee duty is imposed on a relevant acquisition.
     (2) AFAD is imposed at the rate of 8% on the dutiable value of a
     relevant acquisition—
          (a) to the extent the dutiable property held on trust by
          the corporate trustee, or in which the corporate trustee
          has an indirect interest that is held on trust, is AFAD
          residential land; and
          (b) to the extent of the foreign acquirer’s interest in
          the relevant acquisition.
 
Application of part
*** 245B Application of part ***
     (1) This part applies in relation to a relevant transaction that—
          (a) is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of
          dutiable property that is AFAD residential land; and
          (b) is entered into on or after 1 July 2023.
     (2) However, this part does not apply in relation to a relevant
     transaction mentioned in subsection (1) if—
          (a) the transfer or agreement replaces a transfer, or an
          agreement for transfer, that—
               (i) included the dutiable property; and
               (ii) was made before 1 July 2023; or
          (b) the transferee had an option to purchase the dutiable
          property, or the transferor had an option to require the
          transferee to purchase the dutiable property, that was
          granted before 1 July 2023 and exercised on or after 1 July
          2023; or
          (c) another arrangement was made before 1 July 2023 the
          sole or main purpose of which was to defer the making of
          the transfer or agreement until 1 July 2023 or later so a
          concession under this part would apply in relation to the
          relevant transaction.
 
Definitions for part
*** 245C Definitions for part ***
In this part—

"acquisition year", in relation to a relevant transaction, means the financial
year during which the liability for transfer duty on the relevant transaction
arises.

"build to rent development" see the Land Tax Act 2010, section 58D.

"completed stage", of a staged development, see the Land Tax Act 2010, section
58E (4).

"eligible BTR development" see the Land Tax Act 2010, section 58E.

"ineligible to obtain a BTR land tax concession", in relation to land for a
financial year, see section 245D (3).

"land used for an eligible BTR development", for a financial year, see the Land
Tax Act 2010, section 58C.

"obtains a BTR land tax concession", in relation to land for a financial year,
see section 245D (1).

"staged development" see the Land Tax Act 2010, section 58D (4).
 
When a person obtains a BTR land tax concession or is ineligible to obtain a
BTR land tax concession
*** 245D When a person obtains a BTR land tax concession or is ineligible to
obtain a BTR land tax concession ***
     (1) A person
     "obtains a BTR land tax concession", in relation to land for a
     financial year, if the person’s liability under the Land Tax Act
     2010 for land tax for the financial year is assessed on the basis
     that a concession under section 58B of that Act applies in relation
     to the land.
          Note—
               See the Land Tax Act 2010, section 7 for when a
               liability for land tax arises.
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that subsection (1) does not
     apply if the person’s liability for the financial year is later
     reassessed under the Land Tax Act 2010, part 6A, division 5 on the
     basis that the concession under section 58B of that Act does not
     apply in relation to the land.
     (3) A person is
     "ineligible to obtain a BTR land tax concession", in relation to land
     for a financial year, if the person’s liability under the Land Tax
     Act 2010 for land tax for the financial year would be assessed on the
     basis that a concession under section 58B of that Act does not apply
     in relation to the land, whether or not—
          (a) a liability for land tax for the financial year has
          arisen; or
          (b) the time for making an assessment has arisen.
 
Particular references to land, acquirer and land used for an eligible BTR
development
*** 245E Particular references to land, acquirer and land used for an eligible
BTR development ***
     (1) In this part—
          (a) a reference to the land, in relation to a relevant
          transaction, is a reference to the land the subject of the
          relevant transaction; and
          (b) a reference to the acquirer, in relation to a relevant
          transaction, is a reference to the acquirer under the
          relevant transaction.
     (2) Also, a reference in this part to land used for an eligible BTR
     development at a particular time, rather than for a financial year,
     is a reference to land to which both of the following apply—
          (a) the land is land used for an eligible BTR development
          for the financial year during which the particular time
          occurs;
          (b) during the period starting at midnight on 30 June
          immediately preceding the particular time and ending at the
          particular time, nothing has happened that would prevent
          the land being land used for an eligible BTR development
          for the financial year starting on the next 1 July.
               Examples of matters that would prevent the land
               being land used for an eligible BTR development
               for the financial year starting on the next 1
               July—
                         1 During the period mentioned
                         in paragraph (b), the
                         percentage of dwellings in
                         the eligible BTR development
                         that are discounted rent
                         dwellings within the meaning
                         of the Land Tax Act 2010 is
                         less than 10% for more than
                         30 days.
                         2 During the period mentioned
                         in paragraph (b), the
                         dwellings in the eligible BTR
                         development cease to be
                         managed in compliance with
                         the Land Tax Act 2010,
                         section 58M.
 
Concession—land to be used for eligible BTR development
*** 245F Concession—land to be used for eligible BTR development ***
     (1) This section applies for calculating the amount of AFAD imposed
     under this chapter on a relevant transaction if—
          (a) at the time the liability for transfer duty on the
          relevant transaction arises, a build to rent development is
          not located on the land; and
          (b) the acquirer is a foreign acquirer; and
          (c) the acquirer will—
               (i) construct a build to rent development on the
               land on or before 30 June 2030; and
                    Note—
                         See the Land Tax Act 2010,
                         section 58D for the period
                         during which a building must
                         become suitable for
                         occupation to be a build to
                         rent development and for the
                         modification of that
                         requirement for a staged
                         development.
     (ii) use the land and the build to rent development in a way that
     makes the acquirer eligible to obtain a BTR land tax concession in
     relation to the land for at least 5 consecutive financial years; and
     (d) the acquirer will not transfer or subdivide the land before the
     acquirer—
          (i) has obtained a BTR land tax concession in relation to
          the land for any financial year; or
          (ii) has obtained a BTR land tax concession in relation to
          the land for at least 5 consecutive financial years.
     (2) To the extent of the foreign acquirer’s interest under the
     relevant transaction, the dutiable value of the dutiable property
     must be discounted by 100%.
 
Concession—land used for eligible BTR development
*** 245G Concession—land used for eligible BTR development ***
     (1) This section applies for calculating the amount of AFAD imposed
     under this chapter on a relevant transaction if—
          (a) at the time the liability for transfer duty on the
          relevant transaction arises—
               (i) the land is land used for an eligible BTR
               development; and
               (ii) if the eligible BTR development is a staged
               development—each stage of the development is a
               completed stage; and
          (b) the transferor obtained a BTR land tax concession in
          relation to the land for the financial year before the
          acquisition year; and
          (c) the acquirer is a foreign acquirer; and
          (d) the acquirer will use the land and the eligible BTR
          development in a way that makes the acquirer eligible to
          obtain a BTR land tax concession in relation to the land
          for at least 5 consecutive financial years; and
          (e) the acquirer will not transfer or subdivide the land
          before the acquirer has obtained a BTR land tax concession
          in relation to the land for at least 5 consecutive
          financial years.
     (2) To the extent of the foreign acquirer’s interest under the
     relevant transaction, the dutiable value of the dutiable property
     must be discounted by 100%.
 
Application for concession
*** 245H Application for concession ***
     (1) An application for a concession under division 2 for AFAD on a
     relevant transaction must be made in the approved form.
     (2) The application must be made—
          (a) when the instrument that effects or evidences the
          relevant transaction is lodged for assessment; or
          (b) when the acquirer first applies under the Land Tax Act
          2010, section 58S to have the acquirer’s liability for
          land tax for a financial year assessed on the basis that
          the land is land used for an eligible BTR development for
          the financial year.
 
Application for ruling about concession
*** 245I Application for ruling about concession ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a person proposes—
               (i) to be a party to a transaction that would be
               a relevant transaction to which this part
               applies; and
               (ii) to construct a build to rent development on
               the land on or before 30 June 2030 and use the
               land and the build to rent development in the way
               mentioned in section 245F (1) (c) (ii); and
          (b) the person has applied under the Land Tax Act 2010,
          section 58T for a ruling on whether, if the proposed
          development is carried out, the person’s liability for
          land tax for a financial year will be assessed on the basis
          that a concession under section 58B of that Act applies in
          relation to the land.
     (2) The person may apply to the commissioner for a ruling on whether,
     if the proposed development is carried out, the concession under
     section 245F will apply in relation to the relevant transaction.
     (3) The application must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) be supported by enough information to enable the
          commissioner to make a ruling.
     (4) The commissioner must give the applicant notice of the
     commissioner’s ruling on the application.
 
Effect of ruling about concession
*** 245J Effect of ruling about concession ***
     (1) This section applies if the commissioner has, on an application
     for a ruling under section 245I, decided that a relevant transaction
     will be assessed on the basis that the concession under section 245F
     will apply in relation to the transaction.
     (2) The commissioner must, on an application under section 245H for a
     concession under section 245F, decide to assess the relevant
     transaction on the basis that the concession under section 245F
     applies in relation to the transaction.
     (3) However, subsection (2) does not apply if—
          (a) the information given with the application for the
          concession differs in a material particular from the
          information given with the application for the ruling; or
          (b) the circumstances existing at the time the application
          for the concession is made are materially different from
          the circumstances existing at the time the application for
          the ruling was made; or
          (c) the information given with the application for the
          ruling was false or misleading in a material particular; or
          (d) both of the following apply—
               (i) after the ruling is made but before the
               application for the concession is decided, a
               legislative change takes effect, a judgment of a
               court is given or a decision by QCAT is made;
               (ii) the legislative change, judgment or decision
               would, if it had taken effect or been given or
               made before the ruling was made, have materially
               affected the ruling made by the commissioner.
     (4) In this section—

     "information" includes a document.
 
Reassessment—application for AFAD concession made with application for land
tax concession
*** 245K Reassessment—application for AFAD concession made with application
for land tax concession ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an application is made under section 245H, at the time
          mentioned in section 245H (2) (b), for a concession for
          AFAD on a relevant transaction; and
          (b) the commissioner decides the concession applies in
          relation to the relevant transaction.
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment of the relevant
     transaction on the basis that the concession is applied in relation
     to the transaction.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies despite the limitation period under the
     Administration Act for reassessments.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 3 (Assessments
               of tax), division 3 (Reassessments).
 
Reassessment—avoidance arrangement
*** 245L Reassessment—avoidance arrangement ***
     (1) This section applies if the commissioner is satisfied an acquirer
     under a relevant transaction has entered into an arrangement, whether
     in writing or otherwise, to circumvent limitations on, or
     requirements affecting, eligibility for a concession under division
     2.
     (2) The commissioner may make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the
     relevant transaction, to the extent of the acquirer’s interest in
     the dutiable property, on the basis that the acquirer was not
     entitled to the concession.
 
Reassessment—noncompliance with requirements for AFAD concession under s 245F
*** 245M Reassessment—noncompliance with requirements for AFAD concession
under s 245F ***
     (1) This section applies if AFAD is not imposed on a relevant
     transaction only because a concession under section 245F is applied
     in relation to the transaction.
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment under subsection (3) if
     the commissioner is satisfied any of the following circumstances
     apply in relation to the land—
          (a) the acquirer does not construct a build to rent
          development on the land on or before 30 June 2030;
               Note—
                    See the Land Tax Act 2010, section 58D
                    for the period during which a building
                    must become suitable for occupation to
                    be a build to rent development and for
                    the modification of that requirement
                    for a staged development.
     (b) the acquirer transfers or subdivides the land before the acquirer
     has obtained a BTR land tax concession in relation to the land for
     any financial year;
     (c) if the acquirer has not obtained a BTR land tax concession in
     relation to the land for any financial year before the 2032–2033
     financial year—the acquirer does not obtain a BTR land tax
     concession in relation to the land for the 2032–2033 financial
     year;
     (d) if the acquirer has not obtained a BTR land tax concession in
     relation to the land for any financial year—an event happens, or
     does not happen, as a result of which the acquirer is ineligible to
     obtain a BTR land tax concession in relation to the land for any
     financial year;
     (e) if the acquirer first obtains a BTR land tax concession in
     relation to the land for the 2032–2033 financial year or an earlier
     financial year (in either case the
     "first concession year")—
          (i) an event happens, or does not happen, as a result of
          which the acquirer is ineligible to obtain a BTR land tax
          concession in relation to the land for any 1 of the 4
          financial years following the first concession year; or
          (ii) the acquirer transfers or subdivides the land before
          the acquirer has obtained a BTR land tax concession in
          relation to the land for at least 5 consecutive financial
          years.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the
     relevant transaction as if, at the time the liability for transfer
     duty on the transaction arose, the concession did not apply in
     relation to the transaction.
     (4) For subsection (3), the circumstance mentioned in subsection (2)
     (c) is taken to apply if the acquirer does not make an application
     under the Land Tax Act 2010, section 58S in relation to the land for
     the 2032–2033 financial year within the period mentioned in section
     58S (2) (b) of that Act.
     (5) The reassessment must be made—
          (a) for a circumstance mentioned in subsection (2) (a)
          —on or before 30 June 2035; or
          (b) for a circumstance mentioned in subsection (2) (b), (c)
          or (d) —on or before 30 June 2037; or
          (c) for a circumstance mentioned in subsection (2) (e) (i)
          or (ii) —within 5 years after the end of the last
          financial year for which the acquirer obtains a BTR land
          tax concession in relation to the land.
     (6) This section applies despite the limitation period under the
     Administration Act for reassessments.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 3 (Assessments
               of tax), division 3 (Reassessments).
 
Reassessment—noncompliance with requirements for AFAD concession under s 245G
*** 245N Reassessment—noncompliance with requirements for AFAD concession
under s 245G ***
     (1) This section applies if AFAD is not imposed on a relevant
     transaction only because a concession under section 245G is applied
     in relation to the transaction.
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment under subsection (3) if
     the commissioner is satisfied any of the following circumstances
     apply in relation to the land—
          (a) the acquirer transfers or subdivides the land during
          the acquisition year;
          (b) a reassessment is made under the Land Tax Act 2010,
          part 6A, division 5 of the acquirer’s liability for land
          tax for a financial year because—
               (i) a reassessment has been made under that
               division of the transferor’s liability for land
               tax for the financial year on the basis that the
               land was not land used for an eligible BTR
               development for the financial year; and
               (ii) section 58I of that Act does not apply;
          (c) the acquirer will be ineligible to obtain a BTR land
          tax concession in relation to the land for the financial
          year immediately following the acquisition year because—
               (i) a reassessment has been made under the Land
               Tax Act 2010, part 6A, division 5 of the
               transferor’s liability for land tax for the
               acquisition year on the basis that the land was
               not land used for an eligible BTR development for
               the acquisition year; and
               (ii) section 58I of that Act does not apply;
          (d) another event happens, or does not happen, as a result
          of which the acquirer is ineligible to obtain a BTR land
          tax concession in relation to the land for the financial
          year immediately following the acquisition year;
          (e) if the acquirer obtains a BTR land tax concession in
          relation to the land for the financial year immediately
          following the acquisition year (the
          "first concession year")—
               (i) an event happens, or does not happen, as a
               result of which the acquirer is ineligible to
               obtain a BTR land tax concession in relation to
               the land for any 1 of the 4 financial years
               following the first concession year; or
               (ii) the acquirer transfers or subdivides the
               land before the acquirer has obtained a BTR land
               tax concession in relation to the land for at
               least 5 consecutive financial years.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the
     relevant transaction as if, at the time the liability for transfer
     duty on the transaction arose, the concession did not apply in
     relation to the transaction.
     (4) The reassessment must be made—
          (a) for a circumstance mentioned in subsection (2) (a) or
          (d) —within 5 years after the end of the acquisition
          year; or
          (b) for a circumstance mentioned in subsection (2) (b) or
          (c) —within 5 years after an assessment notice is given
          to the transferor in relation to the reassessment; or
          (c) for a circumstance mentioned in subsection (2) (e) (i)
          or (ii) —within 5 years after the end of the last
          financial year for which the acquirer obtains a BTR land
          tax concession in relation to the land.
     (5) This section applies despite the limitation period under the
     Administration Act for reassessments.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 3 (Assessments
               of tax), division 3 (Reassessments).
 
Application of division
*** 245O Application of division ***
This division applies if AFAD is not imposed on a relevant transaction because
a concession under division 2 is applied in relation to the transaction.
 
Notice of particular decisions about future use of land
*** 245P Notice of particular decisions about future use of land ***
     (1) This section applies if the acquirer decides not to use the land
     for the purpose, or otherwise in the way, proposed when the
     concession was applied in relation to the relevant transaction.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1), each of the following is a
     decision for this section—
          (a) a decision not to construct a build to rent development
          on the land;
          (b) a decision to construct a build to rent development on
          the land of a smaller scale than the development originally
          proposed;
          (c) if the land is land used for an eligible BTR
          development that is a staged development and at least 1
          stage of the development is not a completed stage—
               (i) a decision not to proceed with the stage; or
               (ii) a decision to change the nature of the
               stage;
          (d) a decision to transfer or subdivide the land.
     (3) Within 1 month after making the decision, the acquirer must give
     the commissioner notice in the approved form of the decision.
          Note—
               Under the Administration Act, the requirement
               under this section is a lodgement requirement for
               which a failure to comply is an offence under
               section 121 of that Act.
     (4) However, subsection (3) does not apply in relation to a decision
     mentioned in subsection (2) (d) if, when the decision is made, the
     acquirer has obtained a BTR land tax concession in relation to the
     land for at least 5 consecutive financial years.
     (5) If the acquirer gives notice under this section of a decision for
     which the acquirer is also required to give notice under the Land Tax
     Act 2010, section 58ZA, the acquirer is taken to have complied with
     that section in relation to the decision.
 
Notice of particular circumstances applying to land—concession under s 245F
*** 245Q Notice of particular circumstances applying to land—concession under
s 245F ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the concession is applied under section 245F; and
          (b) any of the circumstances mentioned in section 245M
          apply in relation to the land.
     (2) Within 1 month after the circumstance starts to apply in relation
     to the land, the acquirer must—
          (a) give the commissioner notice in the approved form of
          the application of the circumstance; and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty for the relevant transaction are lodged for a
          reassessment of duty on the transaction.
          Note—
               Under the Administration Act, the requirement
               under this section is a lodgement requirement for
               which a failure to comply is an offence under
               section 121 of that Act.
 
Notice of particular circumstances applying to land—concession under s 245G
*** 245R Notice of particular circumstances applying to land—concession under
s 245G ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the concession is applied under section 245G; and
          (b) any of the circumstances mentioned in section 245N
          apply in relation to the land.
     (2) Within 1 month after the circumstance starts to apply in relation
     to the land, the acquirer must—
          (a) give the commissioner notice in the approved form of
          the application of the circumstance; and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty for the relevant transaction are lodged for a
          reassessment of duty on the transaction.
          Note—
               Under the Administration Act, the requirement
               under this section is a lodgement requirement for
               which a failure to comply is an offence under
               section 121 of that Act.
 
Requirement to keep particular records
*** 245S Requirement to keep particular records ***
     (1) This section applies if, on an application under section 245H,
     the commissioner assesses a relevant transaction on the basis that a
     concession under division 2 applies in relation to the transaction.
     (2) The acquirer must keep records that show—
          (a) for a concession under section 245F —
               (i) when the acquirer satisfies the condition
               mentioned in section 245F (1) (c) (i); and
               (ii) the acquirer’s continued satisfaction of
               the condition mentioned in section 245F (1) (c)
               (ii); or
          (b) for a concession under section 245G —the acquirer’s
          continued satisfaction of the condition mentioned in
          section 245G (1) (d).
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, section 118 (Period
               for keeping records).
 
Exemption—specified foreign retirees
*** 246 Exemption—specified foreign retirees ***
     (1) AFAD is not imposed on a relevant transaction to the extent of a
     relevant acquirer’s interest in dutiable property under the
     transaction if—
          (a) the transaction is the transfer, or agreement for
          transfer, of the property; and
          (b) at the time the liability for transfer duty on the
          transaction arises—
               (i) the relevant acquirer is a specified foreign
               retiree; and
               (ii) the property is AFAD residential land; and
               (iii) the relevant acquirer’s interest in the
               property is not held on trust; and
          (c) the relevant acquirer will occupy a residence on the
          land as the acquirer’s principal place of residence—
               (i) for a residence on the land at the time the
               liability for transfer duty on the transaction
               arises—within 1 year after the day on which the
               acquirer is entitled to possession of the land
               under the transaction; or
               (ii) otherwise—within 2 years after the day on
               which the acquirer is entitled to possession of
               the land under the transaction.
     (2) In this section—

     "class of visa" means a class of visa under the Migration Act 1958
     (Cwlth), section 31.

     "interest", of a relevant acquirer in dutiable property under a
     relevant transaction, means the proportion that the share of the
     acquirer under the transaction bears to the total of the shares of
     all acquirers under the transaction.

     "relevant acquirer", of dutiable property, means—
          (a) for the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of
          dutiable property under a dutiable transaction—a
          transferee of the property; or
          (b) for an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property
          entered into by an agent on behalf of a principal within
          the meaning of section 240 (2) (a) —the principal for the
          property.

     "specified foreign retiree" means—
          (a) a foreign individual who holds a class of visa referred
          to as a Subclass 405 (Investor Retirement) visa or Subclass
          410 (Retirement) visa; or
          (b) a foreign individual—
               (i) who applied on or after 8 May 2018 for a
               class of visa referred to as a Subclass 103
               (Parent) visa or Subclass 143 (Contributory
               Parent) visa; and
               (ii) whose last substantive visa, held before
               making the application, was the class of visa
               mentioned in paragraph (a); and
               (iii) whose application has not been decided.

     "substantive visa" see the Migration Act 1958 (Cwlth), section 5.
 
- NOTES
*** Note to Part 5 Note— ***
See also the reassessment provisions in part 4AA, division 4 relating to
concessions for eligible BTR developments.
 
Reassessment if corporation or trust becomes foreign
*** 246A Reassessment if corporation or trust becomes foreign ***
     (1) This section applies if AFAD is not imposed on a relevant
     transaction only because an acquirer under the transaction is not a
     foreign person.
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment under subsection (3)
     if—
          (a) within 3 years after the time the liability for
          transfer duty, landholder duty or corporate trustee duty on
          the transaction arose, a corporation that was an acquirer
          under the transaction becomes a foreign corporation; or
          (b) both of the following apply—
               (i) a person was an acquirer under the
               transaction in the person’s capacity as
               trustee;
               (ii) within 3 years after the time the liability
               for transfer duty, landholder duty or corporate
               trustee duty on the transaction arose, the trust
               becomes a foreign trust.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the
     transaction as if, at the time the liability for transfer duty,
     landholder duty or corporate trustee duty on the transaction arose,
     the acquirer was a foreign person.
     (4) Within 28 days after an event mentioned in subsection (2) (a) or
     (b) (ii) happens, the corporation or trustee of the trust must—
          (a) give notice in the approved form to the commissioner;
          and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty on the transaction are lodged for a reassessment of
          duty on the transaction.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (5) The commissioner is not required to make a reassessment under
     subsection (3) if the commissioner is required to make a reassessment
     under section 246AC.
 
Application of division
*** 246AA Application of division ***
     (1) This division applies if the commissioner is satisfied—
          (a) a person (the
          "agent") is appointed in writing as an agent for another
          person (the
          "principal"); and
          (b) under the appointment, the agent enters into a dutiable
          transaction that is an agreement for the transfer of
          dutiable property from a person (the
          "original transferor") to the agent on behalf of the
          principal (the
          "agreement"); and
          (c) the principal provided all the consideration, including
          any deposit paid.
     (2) For subsection (1) (a), the commissioner must not be satisfied
     the person was properly appointed as agent unless the original
     instrument of appointment, or a copy of it, is lodged.
 
Reassessment if principal not foreign person at time of transfer
*** 246AB Reassessment if principal not foreign person at time of transfer ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the commissioner is satisfied transfer duty imposed on
          the agreement is paid; and
          (b) AFAD is imposed on the agreement, including on a
          reassessment under section 246AC, because the agent is a
          foreign person; and
          (c) the dutiable property is later transferred to the
          principal by the original transferor or the agent; and
          (d) at the time of the later transfer of the dutiable
          property, the principal is not a foreign person.
     (2) The principal may lodge an application for a reassessment in the
     approved form within 6 months after the dutiable property is later
     transferred to the principal.
     (3) The principal must lodge the agreement with the application.
     (4) The commissioner must make a reassessment of transfer duty on the
     agreement as if, at the time the liability for transfer duty arose,
     the acquirer was not a foreign person.
 
Reassessment if agent or principal becomes foreign person before transfer
*** 246AC Reassessment if agent or principal becomes foreign person before
transfer ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) AFAD is not imposed on the agreement only because the
          agent is not a foreign person and the principal is not a
          foreign person; and
          (b) the dutiable property has not been transferred to the
          principal by the original transferor or the agent.
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment under subsection (3) if
     any of the following events happen—
          (a) the agent was a corporation and within 3 years after
          the time the liability for transfer duty on the agreement
          arose the agent becomes a foreign corporation;
          (b) the agent acted in the agent’s capacity as trustee
          and within 3 years after the time the liability for
          transfer duty on the agreement arose the trust becomes a
          foreign trust;
          (c) the principal was a corporation and within 3 years
          after the time the liability for transfer duty on the
          agreement arose the principal becomes a foreign
          corporation;
          (d) the principal acted in the principal’s capacity as
          trustee and within 3 years after the time the liability for
          transfer duty on the agreement arose the trust becomes a
          foreign trust.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the
     agreement as if, at the time the liability for transfer duty on the
     agreement arose—
          (a) for a reassessment because an event mentioned in
          subsection (2) (a) or (b) happens—the acquirer was a
          foreign person; or
          (b) otherwise—the agent was not a foreign person but the
          principal was a foreign person.
     (4) Within 28 days after an event mentioned in subsection (2) (a) to
     (d) happens, the corporation or trustee of the trust must—
          (a) give notice in the approved form to the commissioner;
          and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty on the agreement are lodged for a reassessment of duty
          on the agreement.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
 
Reassessment if principal becomes foreign person after transfer
*** 246AD Reassessment if principal becomes foreign person after transfer ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the dutiable property has been transferred to the
          principal by the original transferor or the agent; and
          (b) AFAD is not imposed on the agreement, including on a
          reassessment under section 246AB, only because the agent is
          not a foreign person and the principal is not a foreign
          person.
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment under subsection (3)
     if—
          (a) the principal was a corporation and within 3 years
          after the time the liability for transfer duty on the
          agreement arose the principal becomes a foreign
          corporation; or
          (b) both of the following apply—
               (i) the principal acted in the principal’s
               capacity as trustee;
               (ii) within 3 years after the time the liability
               for transfer duty on the agreement arose the
               trust becomes a foreign trust.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the
     agreement as if, at the time the liability for transfer duty on the
     agreement arose, the agent was not a foreign person but the principal
     was a foreign person.
     (4) Within 28 days after an event mentioned in subsection (2) (a) or
     (b) (ii) happens, the corporation or trustee of the trust must—
          (a) give notice in the approved form to the commissioner;
          and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty on the agreement are lodged for a reassessment of duty
          on the agreement.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
 
Reassessment of pre-incorporation contract—company is foreign corporation
when property is transferred
*** 246AE Reassessment of pre-incorporation contract—company is foreign
corporation when property is transferred ***
     (1) If section 241A applies, the commissioner must make a
     reassessment to impose AFAD on the dutiable transaction that is the
     agreement for the transfer of the dutiable property.
     (2) Within 28 days after the dutiable property is transferred to the
     company, the company must—
          (a) give notice in the approved form to the commissioner;
          and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty on the agreement are lodged for a reassessment of duty
          on the agreement.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
 
Reassessment of pre-incorporation contract—company becomes foreign
corporation within 3 years
*** 246AF Reassessment of pre-incorporation contract—company becomes foreign
corporation within 3 years ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction
          because of section 116 (4); and
          (b) AFAD is not imposed on the agreement for the transfer
          of the dutiable property; and
          (c) the dutiable property is AFAD residential land; and
          (d) the company is not a foreign corporation when the
          dutiable property is transferred to the company.
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment under subsection (3)
     if, within 3 years after the dutiable property is transferred to the
     company, the company becomes a foreign corporation.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the
     agreement as if the company were a foreign corporation.
     (4) Within 28 days after the event mentioned in subsection (2)
     happens, the company must—
          (a) give notice in the approved form to the commissioner;
          and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty on the agreement are lodged for a reassessment of duty
          on the agreement.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
 
Definitions for division
*** 246AG Definitions for division ***
In this division—

"AFAD exemption" means the exemption from a liability for AFAD under section
246.

"dispose", of a relevant acquirer’s interest in dutiable property that is
AFAD residential land—
     (a) means transfer, lease or otherwise grant exclusive possession of
     part or all of the property; and
     (b) includes acquire the property subject to a lease, that was in
     existence when the property was transferred, over part or all of the
     property.

"notification event" means an event mentioned in section 246AH (1) (b) or 246AI
(1) (c).

"occupy", in relation to a relevant acquirer’s residence, means the acquirer,
as owner of the residence, starts occupying it as the acquirer’s principal
place of residence.

"relevant acquirer", of dutiable property, see section 246 (2).

"relevant period", in relation to a residence, means the period required for
occupying the residence under section 246 (1) (c).

"transfer day", in relation to a relevant transaction, means the day on which
the relevant acquirer of dutiable property that is AFAD residential land is
entitled to possession of the land under the transaction.
 
Reassessment of AFAD exemption for not occupying residence
*** 246AH Reassessment of AFAD exemption for not occupying residence ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the AFAD exemption applies to the extent of a relevant
          acquirer’s interest in dutiable property that is AFAD
          residential land under a relevant transaction; and
          (b) the relevant acquirer—
               (i) disposes of the acquirer’s interest in the
               property before occupying a residence on the
               land; or
               (ii) does not occupy a residence on the land
               within the relevant period for the residence.
     (2) Subject to section 246AJ, the commissioner must make a
     reassessment to impose AFAD on the relevant transaction to the extent
     of the relevant acquirer’s interest in dutiable property under the
     transaction as if the AFAD exemption did not apply to the relevant
     acquirer.
 
Reassessment of AFAD exemption for disposal after occupation
*** 246AI Reassessment of AFAD exemption for disposal after occupation ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the AFAD exemption applies to the extent of a relevant
          acquirer’s interest in dutiable property that is AFAD
          residential land under a relevant transaction; and
          (b) the relevant acquirer occupies a residence on the land
          within the relevant period for the residence; and
          (c) the relevant acquirer disposes of the acquirer’s
          interest in the property within 1 year after the day the
          acquirer occupies the residence.
     (2) Subject to section 246AJ, the commissioner must make a
     reassessment to impose AFAD on the relevant transaction to the extent
     of the relevant acquirer’s interest in dutiable property under the
     transaction, worked out using the following formula—
     where—

     "A" means the AFAD payable on the reassessment.

     "E" means the AFAD that would have been imposed to the extent of the
     relevant acquirer’s interest if the AFAD exemption had not applied.

     "D" means the number of days between the day the relevant acquirer
     occupied the residence and the day of disposal of the acquirer’s
     interest in the dutiable property, both days inclusive.
 
When reassessment is not required
*** 246AJ When reassessment is not required ***
     (1) This section applies if section 246AH or 246AI (each the
     "relevant section") applies in relation to a relevant transaction to
     the extent of a relevant acquirer’s interest in dutiable property
     that is AFAD residential land under the transaction.
     (2) Despite the relevant section, the commissioner is not required to
     make a reassessment to impose AFAD under the section if—
          (a) the notification event to which the section applies
          happens only because of an intervening event; or
          (b) the relevant acquirer disposes of dutiable property
          that is an accommodation unit in a retirement village by
          entering a retirement village leasing arrangement for the
          unit; or
          (c) another person (the
          "occupier") has exclusive possession of the AFAD
          residential land before it is occupied by the relevant
          acquirer if—
               (i) the occupier is the transferor of the land
               and vacates the land as soon as reasonably
               practicable, or within 6 months after the
               transfer day, whichever is the earlier; or
               (ii) the occupier has exclusive possession of the
               land under a lease granted before the transfer
               day and vacates the land on the termination of
               the current term of the lease, or within 6 months
               after the transfer day, whichever is the earlier;
               or
          (d) for a notification event mentioned in section 246AH (1)
          (b) (i) or 246AI (1) (c) —the relevant acquirer disposes
          of part of the dutiable property to the acquirer’s spouse
          in a way that is exempt from transfer duty under section
          151.
     (3) However, subsection (4) applies if AFAD is not reassessed under
     subsection (2) because—
          (a) the relevant acquirer disposes of part of the dutiable
          property to the acquirer’s spouse, as mentioned in
          subsection (2) (d); and
          (b) the relevant acquirer later disposes of the property or
          part of the property.
     (4) The relevant section applies to the later disposal as if the
     relevant acquirer had not transferred the part of the land to the
     acquirer’s spouse.
 
Notification of commissioner for reassessment
*** 246AK Notification of commissioner for reassessment ***
     (1) This section applies if a notification event happens in relation
     to a relevant acquirer’s interest in dutiable property under a
     relevant transaction.
     (2) Within 28 days after the notification event happens, the relevant
     acquirer must—
          (a) give notice of the event in the approved form to the
          commissioner; and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty for the relevant transaction are lodged for a
          reassessment of duty on the transaction.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
 
Charge over interest in land for unpaid transfer duty
*** 246B Charge over interest in land for unpaid transfer duty ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) transfer duty including AFAD is imposed on a dutiable
          transaction; and
          (b) all or part of the transfer duty is not paid by the
          date the amount (the
          "outstanding liability") is payable.
     (2) The outstanding liability is a first charge on the interest of
     the following person (the
     "chargee") in the AFAD residential land that is the subject of the
     transaction—
          (a) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (a) to (f) —
               (i) if AFAD is imposed on the transaction under
               section 240 (2) and the land has not been
               transferred to the principal—the acquirer under
               the transaction; or
               (ii) if AFAD is imposed on the transaction under
               section 240 (2) and the land has been transferred
               to the principal—the principal; or
               (iii) if AFAD is imposed on the transaction under
               section 241A —the company; or
               (iv) otherwise—the foreign acquirer under the
               transaction;
          (b) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (g) —each partner who holds the AFAD residential land to
          which the partnership acquisition relates;
          (c) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (h) that is the creation of a trust of dutiable
          property—the person who, under the transaction, starts to
          hold the AFAD residential land in a way mentioned in
          section 53;
          (d) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (h) that is the termination of a trust of dutiable
          property—the person who, under the transaction, starts to
          hold the AFAD residential land other than as trustee;
          (e) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (i) that is a trust acquisition—the trustee of the trust
          in which the trust acquisition is made;
          (f) for a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9 (1)
          (i) that is a trust surrender—
               (i) the trustee of the trust in which the trust
               interest is surrendered; or
               (ii) if there is no longer a trustee as a result
               of the surrender, the person who holds the AFAD
               residential land as a result of the surrender.
     (3) The charge has priority over all other encumbrances over the
     chargee’s interest in the land other than a charge under section
     156P or 246V.
     (4) Subsection (3) applies—
          (a) whether the other encumbrances over the chargee’s
          interest in the land—
               (i) are registered or unregistered; or
               (ii) were created before or after the charge
               arises under subsection (2); and
          (b) despite the Land Title Act 1994, part 3, divisions 2
          and 2A.
     (5) The commissioner may lodge, under the Administration Act, part 4,
     division 5, a request to register the charge on the land that is the
     subject of the transaction.
     (6) Despite the Administration Act, section 47B, the registrar must
     not register the charge if the chargee is no longer the registered
     owner of the land.
     (7) On its registration, the charge is not affected by a disposition
     of the chargee’s interest in the land.
 
Commissioner may apply to Supreme Court for order to sell
*** 246C Commissioner may apply to Supreme Court for order to sell ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a charge has been registered over the land under
          section 246B; and
          (b) the outstanding liability has not been paid within 18
          months after registration.
     (2) The commissioner may apply to the Supreme Court for an order to
     sell the land stated in the application.
     (3) At least 6 months before making the application, the commissioner
     must give the persons mentioned in subsection (4) notice of the
     commissioner’s intention to apply to the Supreme Court for an order
     to sell the land unless the outstanding liability is paid within 6
     months after the date of the notice.
     (4) The persons to whom notice must be given are—
          (a) the persons liable to pay the outstanding liability;
          and
          (b) the owner of the land.
 
When court must order sale of land
*** 246D When court must order sale of land ***
     (1) The court must order the sale of the land if it is satisfied—
          (a) proper notice of the application for the order was
          given under section 246C; and
          (b) there is an outstanding liability payable to the State.
     (2) However, the court may make an order only for the land the court
     considers is sufficient to realise proceeds to pay the amounts
     mentioned in section 246E (a) to (d).
 
Application of proceeds of sale
*** 246E Application of proceeds of sale ***
     The proceeds of the sale of land sold under the order must be applied
     as follows—
          (a) first, in payment of the commissioner’s expenses on
          the application to the court for the order;
          (b) second, in payment of expenses properly incurred by the
          commissioner on the sale or any attempted sale;
          (c) third, in payment of the outstanding liability under
          the Administration Act, section 42;
          (d) fourth, in payment of amounts secured by a security
          interest or charge on the land recorded before the charge
          mentioned in section 246C (1) (a), unless the land is sold
          subject to the security interest or charge;
          (e) fifth, any balance must be applied as the court orders.
 
Registration of transfer
*** 246F Registration of transfer ***
     (1) If land is sold under the order to sell, the person stated in the
     order for this section must—
          (a) sign a transfer in the appropriate form in favour of
          the purchaser; and
          (b) lodge the transfer with the registrar.
     (2) The registrar must register the transfer as if it had been signed
     by the registered owner of the land.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies despite non-production of the relevant
     instrument of title.
 
Former owner may recover proceeds of sale as debt
*** 246G Former owner may recover proceeds of sale as debt ***
     (1) The amount equal to the proceeds of the sale of land under the
     order to sell less an amount paid under section 246E (d) is a debt
     payable to the former owner of the land by the persons liable to pay
     the outstanding liability for which the order was made.
     (2) The former owner may recover the debt in a court of competent
     jurisdiction.
     (3) In this section—

     "former owner", of land sold under the order to sell, means the
     person who owned the land immediately before its sale.
 
Acquirer must lodge AFAD statement
*** 246H Acquirer must lodge AFAD statement ***
     (1) The acquirer under a relevant transaction on which AFAD is
     imposed, or to which an AFAD exemption or an AFAD concession applies,
     must, within 30 days after the date of the transaction, lodge a
     statement in the approved form.
          Note—
               Failure to lodge the statement is an offence
               under the Administration Act, section 121.
     (2) In this section—

     "AFAD concession" means a concession under section 245F or 245G.
 
Recovery of transfer duty payment from foreign persons
*** 246I Recovery of transfer duty payment from foreign persons ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) AFAD relating to transfer duty is imposed on a dutiable
          transaction; and
          (b) a person who is liable under this Act to pay the
          transfer duty pays an amount to the commissioner as payment
          for—
               (i) all or part of the transfer duty; or
               (ii) interest or penalty tax relating to the
               transfer duty; and
          (c) the person—
               (i) is not a foreign acquirer under the
               transaction; and
               (ii) is not an agent for a principal who is a
               foreign person as mentioned in section 240 (2);
               and
               (iii) is not a transferee mentioned in section
               241A if the dutiable property has been
               transferred to the company.
     (2) The person is entitled to recover the amount from a following
     person as a debt, to the extent the amount exceeds the amount that
     would have been payable if AFAD had not been imposed on the
     transaction—
          (a) the foreign acquirer;
          (b) the agent for the principal who is a foreign person as
          mentioned in section 240 (2);
          (c) the transferee mentioned in section 241A if the
          dutiable property has been transferred to the company.
 
Application of chapter
*** 246J Application of chapter ***
     (1) This chapter applies if—
          (a) AFAD was purportedly imposed on a relevant transaction;
          and
          (b) the purported liability for the AFAD for the
          transaction arose before 8 April 2024; and
          (c) the purported liability for the AFAD for the
          transaction is or was assessed, and an assessment notice
          for the assessment is or was given by the commissioner,
          before the decision day; and
          (d) the purported imposition of the AFAD on the transaction
          under this Act was invalid only because chapter 4 and
          section 688 were to any extent invalid or inoperative under
          the Commonwealth Constitution, section 109.
     (2) Subsection (1) (d) is taken to be satisfied if a corresponding
     provision is to any extent invalid or inoperative under the
     Commonwealth Constitution, section 109.
     (3) AFAD described in subsection (1) is
     "invalid AFAD".
     (4) For subsection (1) (c), the
     "decision day" is the earlier of the following days—
          (a) the day a court first decides chapter 4 and section 688
          were to any extent invalid or inoperative as mentioned in
          subsection (1) (d);
          (b) the day a court first decides a corresponding provision
          is to any extent invalid or inoperative as mentioned in
          subsection (2).
     (5) In this section—

     "corresponding provision" means any of the following provisions, to
     the extent the provisions impose duty on a transaction involving
     residential land and a foreign entity, or impose or provide for a
     rate of tax for a foreign entity who owns land that is taxable—
          (a) the Duties Act 1997 (NSW), chapter 2A or chapter 4,
          part 2B;
          (b) the Duties Act 2000 (Vic), both—
               (i) section 282A; and
               (ii) either section 18A or 28A;
          (c) the Duties Act 2001 (Tas), chapter 2, part 3A or
          section 71A or 72A;
          (d) the Duties Act 2008 (WA), chapter 3A;
          (e) the Stamp Duties Act 1923 (SA), section 72 or 102AB;
          (f) the Land Tax Act 2010 —
               (i) both sections 32 (1) (b) (ii) and 104; or
               (ii) both sections 32 (1) (c) and 105;
          (g) the Land Tax Act 1956 (NSW), section 5A;
          (h) the Land Tax Act 2000 (Tas), part 2, division 1A;
          (i) the Land Tax Act 2004 (ACT), part 2A;
          (j) the Land Tax Act 2005 (Vic), both—
               (i) section 106A; and
               (ii) either schedule 1, part 4 or 5.
 
Commissioner must publish decision day
*** 246K Commissioner must publish decision day ***
The commissioner must, within 5 business days after the commissioner becomes
aware the decision day has happened, give notice of the decision day by
publishing it on the commissioner’s website.
 
Imposition of windfall duty
*** 246L Imposition of windfall duty ***
     (1) This chapter imposes duty (
     "windfall duty") on a claim for an AFAD windfall.
     (2) Windfall duty is imposed on the amount of an AFAD windfall.
 
What is an AFAD windfall
*** 246M What is an AFAD windfall ***
An
"AFAD windfall", in relation to a relevant transaction on which invalid AFAD is
purportedly imposed, is an amount equal to the total of the following—
     (a) the invalid AFAD;
     (b) any assessed interest and penalty tax for the invalid AFAD;
     (c) any amount paid for late payment interest in relation to the
     invalid AFAD.
 
What is a claim for an AFAD windfall
*** 246N What is a claim for an AFAD windfall ***
     (1) A person makes a
     "claim" for an AFAD windfall if the person, on or after the decision
     day, gives notice to the commissioner that the person disputes the
     person’s liability for invalid AFAD purportedly imposed on a
     relevant transaction, including, for example, by—
          (a) asking the commissioner for a reassessment to decrease
          the person’s purported liability for the invalid AFAD to
          nil; or
          (b) objecting to the assessment of the person’s purported
          liability for the invalid AFAD under the Administration
          Act, part 6; or
          (c) starting a proceeding in relation to the person’s
          purported liability for the invalid AFAD; or
          (d) advising the commissioner that the person does not
          intend to pay an amount relating to the person’s
          purported liability for the invalid AFAD; or
          (e) asking the commissioner to refund an amount paid for
          the person’s purported liability for the invalid AFAD.
     (2) Also, a person is taken to have made a
     "claim" for an AFAD windfall if—
          (a) the commissioner is required, under a court order, to
          repay to the person an amount paid to the commissioner in
          relation to the person’s purported liability for invalid
          AFAD, other than an order in a proceeding mentioned in
          subsection (1) (c); or
          (b) all of the following apply—
               (i) the person had, before the decision day
               (whether before or after the commencement of this
               section), objected to an assessment of AFAD for a
               relevant transaction;
               (ii) the question of whether the AFAD is invalid
               AFAD is relevant to the decision on the
               objection;
               (iii) the commissioner had not, before the
               decision day, given a written notice to the
               person of the commissioner’s decision on the
               objection under the Administration Act, section
               68;
               (iv) the person does not, before the written
               notice of the commissioner’s decision is given,
               withdraw the objection; or
          (c) both of the following apply—
               (i) the commissioner and the person are aware of
               the person’s purported liability for invalid
               AFAD;
               (ii) the person does not, by the following day
               (the
               "payment day"), pay an amount that would, if the
               invalid AFAD had been validly imposed, have been
               payable—
                    (A) if the person withdrew an objection
                    mentioned in paragraph (b) —the day
                    that is 30 days after the person
                    notified the commissioner of the
                    withdrawal;
                    (B) otherwise—the day that is 30 days
                    after the decision day.
     (3) Subsection (2) (a) applies in relation to a proceeding started
     before or after the commencement of this section.
 
When liability for windfall duty arises
*** 246O When liability for windfall duty arises ***
     (1) A person’s liability for windfall duty arises when the person
     makes a claim for an AFAD windfall.
     (2) For subsection (1), a claim is made by a person on the following
     day—
          (a) if the person gives notice to the commissioner
          disputing the person’s liability for invalid AFAD imposed
          on a relevant transaction—the day the commissioner is
          notified;
          (b) if the person is taken to have made a claim under
          section 246N (2) (a) —the day the order is made;
          (c) if the person is taken to have made a claim under
          section 246N (2) (b) —on the day written notice of the
          commissioner’s decision on the objection is given;
          (d) if the person is taken to have made a claim under
          section 246N (2) (c) —the day after the payment day.
 
Who is liable to pay windfall duty
*** 246P Who is liable to pay windfall duty ***
Windfall duty must be paid by—
     (a) if a person gives notice to the commissioner disputing the
     person’s liability for invalid AFAD imposed on a relevant
     transaction—the person; or
     (b) if a person is taken to have made a claim under section 246N (2)
     (a) —the person required to be repaid under the order; or
     (c) if a person is taken to have made a claim under section 246N (2)
     (b) —the person who made the objection; or
     (d) if a person is taken to have made a claim under section 246N (2)
     (c) —the person who does not pay the amount by the payment day.
 
Rate of windfall duty
*** 246Q Rate of windfall duty ***
The rate of windfall duty imposed on a claim for an AFAD windfall is 100% of
the amount of the AFAD windfall.
 
Commissioner must apply amounts paid for invalid AFAD to liability for windfall
duty
*** 246R Commissioner must apply amounts paid for invalid AFAD to liability for
windfall duty ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a person liable for windfall duty has paid an amount to
          the commissioner in relation to a purported liability for
          invalid AFAD; and
          (b) the person’s purported liability for invalid AFAD is,
          on a reassessment, decreased to nil.
     (2) Despite the Administration Act, section 37 (1) (a), the person is
     not entitled to a refund of the amount.
     (3) The commissioner must apply the amount to the person’s
     liability for windfall duty in the following order—
          (a) firstly, any amount of the AFAD windfall attributable
          to assessed interest or penalty tax that would have been
          payable in relation to the invalid AFAD if it had been
          validly imposed;
          (b) secondly, any amount of the AFAD windfall attributable
          to an amount paid by the person for late payment interest
          in relation to the invalid AFAD;
          (c) thirdly, the amount of the AFAD windfall attributable
          to the invalid AFAD that would have been payable if it had
          been validly imposed.
     (4) If the commissioner is required, because of an order of a court
     or tribunal, to repay an amount to a person for an amount paid in
     relation to invalid AFAD, the commissioner is taken to have complied
     with the order if the commissioner applies the amount under
     subsection (3).
     (5) To remove any doubt, it is declared that this section does not
     affect the operation of the Administration Act, section 42 in
     relation to payments received by the commissioner for windfall duty.
 
Reassessment of windfall duty
*** 246S Reassessment of windfall duty ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) windfall duty is assessed on a claim for an AFAD
          windfall in relation to a relevant transaction; and
          (b) the commissioner would, if the invalid AFAD to which
          the AFAD windfall relates had been validly imposed on the
          relevant transaction, have been required or permitted to
          make a reassessment of liability for AFAD for the relevant
          transaction under chapter 4 or the Administration Act.
     (2) If a reassessment would have been required for the AFAD, the
     commissioner must make a reassessment of the windfall duty.
     (3) If a reassessment would have been permitted for the AFAD, the
     commissioner may make a reassessment of the windfall duty.
     (4) For reassessing the windfall duty—
          (a) chapter 4 applies for working out the amount of the
          invalid AFAD as if it were validly imposed AFAD; and
          (b) the Administration Act, part 5 applies for working out
          unpaid tax interest and penalty tax in relation to the
          amount of the invalid AFAD as if it were validly imposed
          AFAD.
 
Limitation period does not apply for particular reassessments
*** 246T Limitation period does not apply for particular reassessments ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) invalid AFAD is purportedly imposed on a relevant
          transaction; and
          (b) a person makes a claim for an AFAD windfall in relation
          to the transaction.
     (2) Despite the Administration Act, section 21, a reassessment to
     decrease the person’s liability for the invalid AFAD to nil may be
     made at any time.
 
Unpaid tax interest
*** 246U Unpaid tax interest ***
For applying the Administration Act, section 54 to an amount of unpaid windfall
duty for an AFAD windfall—
     (a) a reference in that section to the amount of primary tax is taken
     to be a reference to the amount of the AFAD windfall that is
     attributable to invalid AFAD; and
     (b) the Administration Act, section 54 (5) does not apply; and
     (c) the start date for the Administration Act, section 54 (2) and (3)
     is—
          (i) if the person has paid an amount to the commissioner in
          relation to the purported liability for the invalid AFAD
          and, when the last payment was made, late payment interest
          for the purported liability was paid in full—the day
          after the last payment was made to the commissioner; or
          (ii) otherwise—the day after an assessment notice was
          given for the assessment of the purported liability for the
          invalid AFAD.
 
Charge over interest in land for unpaid windfall duty relating to dutiable
transaction
*** 246V Charge over interest in land for unpaid windfall duty relating to
dutiable transaction ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) transfer duty has been imposed, and invalid AFAD was
          purportedly imposed, on a dutiable transaction; and
          (b) a person is liable for windfall duty in relation to the
          invalid AFAD; and
          (c) all or part of the windfall duty is not paid by the
          date the amount (the
          "outstanding liability") is payable.
     (2) The outstanding liability is a first charge on the person’s
     interest in AFAD residential land the subject of the dutiable
     transaction.
     (3) The charge has priority over all other encumbrances over the
     person’s interest in the AFAD residential land other than a charge
     under section 156P.
     (4) Subsection (3) applies—
          (a) whether the other encumbrances over the person’s
          interest in the land—
               (i) are registered or unregistered; or
               (ii) were created before or after the charge
               arises under subsection (2); and
          (b) despite the Land Title Act 1994, part 3, divisions 2
          and 2A.
     (5) The commissioner may lodge, under the Administration Act, part 4,
     division 5, a request to register the charge on the land that is the
     subject of the transaction.
     (6) Despite the Administration Act, section 47B, the registrar must
     not register the charge if the person is no longer the registered
     owner of the land.
     (7) On its registration, the charge is not affected by a disposition
     of the person’s interest in the land.
 
Application of ss 246C–246G in relation to charge
*** 246W Application of ss 246C–246G in relation to charge ***
Sections 246C to 246G apply in relation to a charge on land registered under
section 246V as if—
     (a) a reference in the provisions to land were a reference to the
     AFAD residential land mentioned in section 246V (2); and
     (b) a reference in the provisions to a charge mentioned in section
     246C (1) (a) were a reference to the charge registered under section
     246V; and
     (c) a reference in the provisions to an outstanding liability were a
     reference to the outstanding liability under section 246V (1) (c).
 
Duty validly imposed under chs 2 and 3 not affected by invalid AFAD
*** 246X Duty validly imposed under chs 2 and 3 not affected by invalid AFAD
***
     (1) This section applies in relation to assessments of duty for a
     relevant transaction if invalid AFAD was purportedly imposed on the
     transaction.
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that—
          (a) an assessment of duty for the relevant transaction
          under chapter 2 or 3 is, and always has been, made
          separately from an assessment of AFAD under chapter 4 for
          the same transaction, whether or not the assessments are
          the subject of the same assessment notice; and
          (b) the purported imposition of the invalid AFAD does not
          affect—
               (i) the validity of an assessment of any other
               duty for the transaction; or
               (ii) any other right or liability acquired or
               incurred, or an act or omission done or made, in
               relation to the assessment of other duty for the
               transaction.
 
Right to recovery of transfer duty payment under s 246I not affected by invalid
AFAD
*** 246Y Right to recovery of transfer duty payment under s 246I not affected
by invalid AFAD ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a person was entitled to recover an amount from another
          person in relation to an amount of transfer duty imposed on
          a dutiable transaction under section 246I; and
          (b) invalid AFAD was purportedly imposed on the
          transaction.
     (2) The person’s entitlement to recover the amount is not affected
     merely because the amount is invalid AFAD.
     (3) The person may recover the amount from the person as a debt as if
     the invalid AFAD had been validly imposed.
 
No payment of interest by commissioner for payment in relation to purported
liability for invalid AFAD
*** 246Z No payment of interest by commissioner for payment in relation to
purported liability for invalid AFAD ***
A reference in the Administration Act, section 61 (1) to a refund of tax or
late payment interest does not include a reference to a refund of an amount
paid to the commissioner because of the purported imposition of invalid AFAD on
a relevant transaction.
 
Imposition of mortgage duty
*** 247 Imposition of mortgage duty ***
     (1) This chapter imposes duty (
     "mortgage duty") on instruments that are mortgages, particular
     caveats claiming an interest under mortgages and particular releases
     of mortgages.
          Note—
               Concessions and exemptions for mortgage duty are
               dealt with in parts 6 and 7. Also, other
               exemptions are dealt with in chapter 10.
     (2) Mortgage duty is imposed on the amount secured by a mortgage.
          Note—
               See part 4 (Amount secured by a mortgage).
 
Abolition of mortgage duty from 1 July 2008
*** 247A Abolition of mortgage duty from 1 July 2008 ***
     (1) Despite anything to the contrary in this chapter, mortgage duty
     is not imposed—
          (a) on a mortgage first signed, or that first affects
          property in the State, on or after 1 July 2008; or
          (b) in relation to an advance or further advance made on or
          after 1 July 2008, under a mortgage first signed, or that
          first affects property in the State, before 1 July 2008; or
          (c) on an instrument that, on the deposit of instruments of
          title to property in Queensland, first becomes a mortgage
          or evidences the terms of a mortgage on or after 1 July
          2008.
     (2) This section is subject to chapter 17, part 9, division 1.
 
What is a mortgage
*** 248 What is a mortgage ***
     (1) An instrument is a
     "mortgage" if it is—
          (a) a security by way of mortgage or charge over property
          wholly or partly in Queensland; or
          (b) a security by way of a transfer of property wholly or
          partly in Queensland to a trustee, to be sold or otherwise
          converted into money, redeemable before the sale or
          conversion, other than if the transfer is made for the
          benefit of creditors who accept the transfer in full
          satisfaction of debts owed to them; or
          (c) any transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of
          property wholly or partly in Queensland that is apparently
          absolute but is intended only as security; or
               Note—
                    See section 32 (Transfer by way of
                    security—land).
     (d) an instrument that, on the deposit of instruments of title to
     property wholly or partly in Queensland, becomes a mortgage or
     evidences the terms of a mortgage.
     (2) However, for this chapter, an instrument mentioned in subsection
     (1) (a) is a mortgage only if it is a security by way of mortgage or
     charge over property wholly or partly in Queensland at the liability
     date.
     (3) For sections 262, 268, 269, 276 and 281, a reference to a
     mortgage or previous mortgage includes a reference to a mortgage
     first signed before the repeal of the repealed Act.
 
What is an advance
*** 249 What is an advance ***
     (1) An
     "advance" is the provision or obtaining of funds by way of financial
     accommodation by—
          (a) a loan; or
          (b) a bill facility that is 1 or more agreements,
          understandings or arrangements as a consequence of which a
          bill of exchange or promissory note—
               (i) is drawn, accepted, endorsed or made; or
               (ii) is held, negotiated or discounted.
     (2) Subsection (1) (b) applies whether or not the funds are obtained
     from—
          (a) the person who draws, accepts, endorses or makes the
          bill of exchange or promissory note; or
          (b) a person who is a party to any of the agreements,
          understandings or arrangements.
     (3) An
     "advance" includes a contingent liability under section 259.
     (4) However, the term does not include an amount provided or obtained
     on the security of a mortgage for—
          (a) insurance of the secured property against fire; or
          (b) keeping or effecting a policy of life insurance; or
          (c) payment of duty for the security or any loan other than
          a current account secured by the mortgage.
 
What is a loan
*** 250 What is a loan ***
Each of the following is a
"loan" —
     (a) an advance of money;
     (b) the payment of money for or on account of, or at the request of,
     any person;
     (c) a forbearance to require the payment of money owing on any
     account;
     (d) any transaction, whatever its terms or form, that in substance
     effects a loan of money.
 
Location of property
*** 251 Location of property ***
     (1) For this chapter, the following property is taken to be located
     in the place stated—
          (a) marketable securities of a company—in the State the
          company is taken to be registered under the Corporations
          Act;
          (b) units in a unit trust—in the place where the register
          on which the units are registered is kept or, if the
          register is not kept in Australia, in the place of
          residence of the manager or responsible entity of the unit
          trust;
          (c) debt securities of a government of a State—in that
          State;
          (d) an insured person’s interest in, or right to receive
          amounts payable under, a policy of insurance that is
          security for a premium funding agreement—the place of
          residence of the insured person.
     (2) Subsection (1) (a) is declared to be a Corporations legislation
     displacement provision for the Corporations Act, section 5G, in
     relation to section 1070A (4) of that Act.
 
Treatment of mortgages affecting property in Victoria or Tasmania
*** 251A Treatment of mortgages affecting property in Victoria or Tasmania ***
     (1) For this chapter, a mortgage or mortgage package affecting
     property located in Victoria is taken to have been properly stamped,
     stamped with similar duty, duly stamped or exempt from duty under the
     Duties Act 2000 (Vic) only to the extent the mortgage or mortgage
     package was properly stamped, stamped with similar duty, duly stamped
     or exempt from duty under that Act before 1 July 2004.
     (2) For this chapter, a mortgage or mortgage package affecting
     property located in Tasmania is taken to have been properly stamped,
     stamped with similar duty, duly stamped or exempt from duty under the
     Duties Act 2001 (Tas) only to the extent the mortgage or mortgage
     package was properly stamped, stamped with similar duty, duly stamped
     or exempt from duty under that Act before 1 July 2007.
 
When liability for mortgage duty arises
*** 252 When liability for mortgage duty arises ***
     (1) A mortgage is liable to mortgage duty when it is first signed.
     (2) A mortgage is liable to mortgage duty on the making of an advance
     or further advance that results in the total amount secured by the
     mortgage exceeding the amount secured by it for which it has been
     properly stamped, or is exempt from duty, under this or a
     corresponding Act.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies to an instrument of security if—
          (a) the instrument does not affect property in Queensland
          when it is first signed; and
          (b) the instrument affects property in Queensland—
               (i) for land, other than a security
               interest—within 1 year after the instrument is
               first signed; or
               (ii) for other property—at any time after the
               instrument is first signed; and
          (c) for other property mentioned in paragraph (b) (ii) —
               (i) the property is specifically identified,
               whether or not in the instrument, when the
               instrument is first signed; and
               (ii) under an arrangement in place when the
               instrument is first signed, the property is
               intended to be secured by the security.
     (4) The instrument of security is liable for mortgage duty when it
     first affects the property or land unless it is stamped with, or is
     exempt from, similar duty under a corresponding Act.
     (5) An instrument that, on the deposit of instruments of title to
     property in Queensland, becomes a mortgage or evidences the terms of
     a mortgage is liable to mortgage duty on the deposit of the
     instruments.
 
Who is liable to pay mortgage duty
*** 253 Who is liable to pay mortgage duty ***
Mortgage duty imposed on a mortgage must be paid by the mortgagor.
 
Rate of mortgage duty
*** 254 Rate of mortgage duty ***
The rate of mortgage duty imposed on a mortgage is 20c for each $100, or part
of $100, of the amount secured by the mortgage as determined under part 4.
 
Lodging mortgage
*** 255 Lodging mortgage ***
The mortgagor or mortgagee under a mortgage must, within 30 days after the
liability for mortgage duty arises, lodge the mortgage.
 
Effect of lodging mortgage by mortgagor or mortgagee
*** 256 Effect of lodging mortgage by mortgagor or mortgagee ***
The lodging, under section 255, of a mortgage by the mortgagor or mortgagee
relieves the other person from complying with the section.
 
Stamping before advance
*** 257 Stamping before advance ***
     (1) A mortgage may be stamped before an advance whether or not an
     earlier advance has been made.
     (2) A mortgage mentioned in section 260 or 261 may be stamped to
     secure any amount exceeding that to which it is already stamped based
     on the dutiable proportion for the mortgage when it is stamped.
 
What is the amount secured by a mortgage
*** 258 What is the amount secured by a mortgage ***
     (1) The amount secured by a mortgage is the amount of advances
     actually secured by it and recoverable under it.
     (2) However, if—
          (a) a mortgage has been properly stamped, or is exempt from
          duty, under this or a corresponding Act for an amount of
          advances secured by the mortgage; and
          (b) a further advance secured by the mortgage is made; and
          (c) the total amount secured by the mortgage exceeds the
          amount for which the mortgage has been properly stamped;
     the amount secured by the mortgage is, for section 247 (2), the
     excess amount mentioned in paragraph (c).
 
Contingent liabilities
*** 259 Contingent liabilities ***
     (1) This section applies to a mortgage securing or capable of
     securing, whether directly or indirectly, an amount contingently
     payable (the
     "secured amount") in connection with an advance (the
     "primary advance")—
          (a) by a guarantor or indemnifying party under a guarantee
          or indemnity; or
          (b) by another party under another type of instrument.
     (2) Mortgage duty must be assessed on the secured amount as if it
     were a separate advance secured by the mortgage.
     (3) For subsection (2), the contingent liability is limited to the
     amount of the primary advance.
     (4) This section—
          (a) does not apply if the commissioner is satisfied there
          is no connection between the mortgage and the primary
          advance; and
          (b) does not require mortgage duty to be paid more than
          once for an advance.
 
Mortgage over property not wholly in Queensland
*** 260 Mortgage over property not wholly in Queensland ***
     (1) Mortgage duty must be assessed for a mortgage over property that
     is partly in and partly outside Queensland as if the amount secured
     by it were only the dutiable proportion.
     (2) For subsection (1), the dutiable proportion is the proportion of
     the amount secured by the mortgage on which mortgage duty is imposed
     that, at the liability date, the value of property in Queensland
     affected by the mortgage bears to the value of all property affected
     by it, other than property located outside Australia or in a
     Territory or in Victoria or Tasmania.
     (3) The dutiable proportion must be worked out by reference to the
     property values according to a referable point.
     (4) For subsection (3), a referable point is any of the following
     prepared in the year before the liability date for the mortgage—
          (a) an independent valuation of the secured property;
          (b) a statement of the mortgagee based on information
          obtained by the mortgagee in deciding to make the advance
          to the mortgagor;
          (c) property valuations used by the mortgagor in preparing
          an annual return to be lodged under the Corporations Act;
          (d) a financial report of the mortgagor, certified by an
          independent auditor as presenting a true and fair view of a
          corporation’s financial position;
          (e) agreed property valuations that form the basis of the
          mortgagor’s insurance policies;
          (f) another document the commissioner considers to be
          appropriate for working out the dutiable proportion.
     (5) However, if there is more than 1 referable point for a mortgage,
     the referable point is the later or latest of the referable points.
     (6) Also, the acceptable referable point must be the same acceptable
     referable point used to determine liability to duty under a
     corresponding Act.
 
Advances secured by mortgage package
*** 261 Advances secured by mortgage package ***
     (1) If—
          (a) at a liability date, 2 or more security instruments
          secure or partly secure the same amount; and
          (b) at least 1 of the instruments is a security affecting
          property wholly or partly outside Queensland; and
          (c) at least 1 of the instruments is a mortgage;
     the instruments are a
     "mortgage package".
     (2) Also, a
     "mortgage package" includes—
          (a) a mortgage signed after the liability date if the
          commissioner is satisfied the mortgage was intended to be
          part of the package; and
          (b) a mortgage previously collateral to an earlier advance
          under 1 or more of the other mortgages in the package.
     (3) Mortgage duty must be assessed under this part on the mortgage
     package as if the instruments comprising the mortgage package were 1
     mortgage, first signed on the day the last of the signed instruments
     was signed.
     (4) One of the mortgages in the mortgage package must be stamped with
     the mortgage duty paid in Queensland for the mortgage package and all
     other mortgages in the mortgage package must be stamped as a
     collateral mortgage.
 
Collateral mortgage
*** 262 Collateral mortgage ***
     (1) Mortgage duty is not imposed on the part of the amount secured by
     a collateral mortgage that is secured by—
          (a) a mortgage or security instrument that is properly
          stamped under this Act or a corresponding Act; or
          (b) a mortgage package that has been properly stamped under
          section 261 or a corresponding Act.
     (1A) However, a mortgage (a
     "secondary mortgage") that secures all or part of the same amount as
     another mortgage, security instrument or mortgage package that
     affects property located in Victoria or Tasmania and has been
     properly stamped under this Act or a corresponding Act is taken not
     to be a collateral mortgage if the commissioner is satisfied there
     was an arrangement to avoid the imposition of mortgage duty on the
     secondary mortgage.
     (2) A collateral mortgage that no longer secures an amount secured by
     a mortgage, instrument or mortgage package mentioned in subsection
     (1) is not security for another advance unless mortgage duty for the
     amount of the other advance is paid.
 
Extent mortgage is enforceable
*** 263 Extent mortgage is enforceable ***
     (1) A mortgage or mortgage package for which mortgage duty is imposed
     or a similar duty is chargeable under a corresponding Act is
     enforceable only to the extent of the amount secured by the mortgage
     or mortgage package for which duty has been paid, or the mortgage or
     mortgage package is exempt from duty, under this Act or the
     corresponding Act.
     (2) For subsection (1), mortgage duty has been paid on a mortgage or
     mortgage package affecting property that is partly in and partly
     outside Queensland if—
          (a) duty has been paid on the total advances under the
          mortgage or mortgage package when the mortgage duty paid is
          taken with the duty paid under a corresponding Act; and
          (b) the dutiable proportion of the mortgage or mortgage
          package is not incorrect by more than 5%.
          Note—
               Under section 260 (3), the dutiable proportion
               must be worked out by reference to property
               values according to a referable point.
     (3) For subsection (1), if an advance is made on or after 1 July 2004
     under a mortgage or mortgage package that, before 1 July 2004,
     affected property located in Victoria and was properly stamped under
     the Duties Act 2000 (Vic), the mortgage or mortgage package is taken
     to be a mortgage or mortgage package for which a similar duty is
     chargeable under a corresponding Act.
     (4) For subsection (1), if an advance is made on or after 1 July 2007
     under a mortgage or mortgage package that, before 1 July 2007,
     affected property located in Tasmania and was properly stamped under
     the Duties Act 2001 (Tas), the mortgage or mortgage package is taken
     to be a mortgage or mortgage package for which a similar duty is
     chargeable under a corresponding Act.
 
Limit on security provided by stamped and collateral mortgages
*** 264 Limit on security provided by stamped and collateral mortgages ***
     (1) A stamped or collateral mortgage that was, but is no longer, part
     of the same mortgage package and no longer secures the same amount
     secured by the package is not security for another advance unless
     mortgage duty for the amount of the other advance is paid.
          Example for subsection (1)—
               A has property in 5 States, each valued at
               $150,000. A borrows $100,000 secured by a
               mortgage package comprising 5 mortgages. The
               mortgages secure the full $100,000 and are
               stamped under this Act and the corresponding Acts
               of the other States on the basis that the
               dutiable proportion for each mortgage is $20,000.
               Under a restructure of the loans, the Queensland
               mortgage no longer secures the $100,000 which
               remains secured by the other mortgages on which
               duty has been paid in the other States.
               Under this subsection, if A takes out a new loan,
               the Queensland mortgage is not security for the
               new loan unless mortgage duty imposed on it is
               paid.
     (2) The fact that the stamped or collateral mortgage is no longer
     part of the mortgage package does not affect the amounts for which
     the remaining mortgages in the mortgage package provide security.
 
Multi-jurisdictional statement
*** 265 Multi-jurisdictional statement ***
     (1) If mortgage duty is imposed on the dutiable proportion of a
     mortgage, (whether for a mortgage over property not wholly in
     Queensland, a mortgage package or on original or subsequent
     advances), the mortgagor or mortgagee must make a statement in the
     approved form about the location and value of the secured property.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
     (2) The making of a statement under subsection (1) by the mortgagor
     or mortgagee relieves the other person from complying with the
     subsection.
     (3) The statement may be taken to be the mortgage, or mortgages
     comprising the mortgage package.
 
Mortgage duty associated with particular debenture issues
*** 266 Mortgage duty associated with particular debenture issues ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a corporation offers debentures to the public for
          subscription; and
          (b) the corporation is a party to an instrument of trust
          relating to the debentures; and
          (c) a mortgage secures the repayment of debentures issued
          by the corporation.
     (2) Mortgage duty must be assessed on the mortgage for the offer of
     debentures as if it were a mortgage securing the payment of an amount
     equal to the total amount of debentures, other than exempt short-term
     debentures, subscribed for by the public in Queensland from time to
     time.
     (3) On or before 31 July in each year, the trustee under the
     instrument of trust must—
          (a) lodge a statutory declaration stating the total amount
          subscribed for in Queensland for the corporation’s
          debentures and exempt short-term debentures in the year
          ending on the previous 30 June; and
          (b) pay to the commissioner mortgage duty on the amount
          subscribed for in the year for the debentures, other than
          exempt short-term debentures.
     (4) If mortgage duty is paid under subsection (3), the instrument of
     trust and debentures are not liable to duty under this Act.
     (5) In this section, a reference to an amount subscribed for relating
     to debentures does not include an amount represented by debentures
     issued on the conversion or renewal of an existing holding of
     debentures or other marketable securities.
 
What is an exempt short-term debenture
*** 267 What is an exempt short-term debenture ***
     (1) A debenture issued by a public company is an
     "exempt short-term debenture" if—
          (a) the amount repayable under the debenture is repayable
          within 6 months after it is issued or is not repayable
          within a fixed or certain period but the amount is later
          paid or repaid within 6 months after it is issued; and
          (b) the debenture is not part of an arrangement, the effect
          of which is to extend the period for repayment of an amount
          to more than 6 months after it is issued.
     (2) If a debenture is reissued or renewed, the combined terms of
     debentures is taken into account when deciding when the amount under
     the debenture is repayable for subsection (1).
     (3) Also, for subsection (1), debentures subscribed for by a
     corporation include debentures subscribed for by a related body
     corporate unless the commissioner decides otherwise.
 
Caveats
*** 268 Caveats ***
     (1) Mortgage duty is imposed on a caveat claiming an interest in
     land, or a water allocation, under a mortgage if mortgage duty is
     imposed, but not paid, on the mortgage.
     (2) The amount of mortgage duty imposed on the caveat is the amount
     of mortgage duty that would be imposed on the mortgage.
     (3) The mortgagor must pay the duty as if it were assessed on the
     mortgage.
     (4) To the extent that mortgage duty is paid on the caveat, mortgage
     duty is not imposed on the mortgage.
 
Releases of mortgages
*** 269 Releases of mortgages ***
     (1) Mortgage duty is imposed on a release of mortgage to the extent
     that mortgage duty is imposed, but not paid, on the mortgage.
     (2) Immediately after the release, the mortgagor must—
          (a) lodge a statement in the approved form; and
          (b) pay the duty as if it were assessed on the mortgage.
 
Purpose of pt 6
*** 270 Purpose of pt 6 ***
The purpose of this part is to provide for concessions for mortgage duty on
home mortgages and home refinance mortgages.
 
What is a home mortgage
*** 271 What is a home mortgage ***
     (1) A
     "home mortgage" is a mortgage given by a person to the extent that
     the mortgage secures an advance to the person to finance the purchase
     or construction of the person’s home or a further interest in the
     person’s home.
     (2) A home mortgage or, if there is more than 1 home mortgage, at
     least 1 of them, must be over the residential land.
 
What is a home and first home for div 2
*** 272 What is a home and first home for div 2 ***
     (1) For this division—
          (a) a residence that is constructed is a person’s
          "home" or
          "first home" if it is the person’s home or first home
          under section 86; and
          (b) a residence that is to be constructed is a person’s
          "home" or
          "first home" if, when constructed, it will be the
          person’s home or first home under section 86.
     (2) For subsection (1), section 86 (2) (b) does not apply.
     (3) For subsection (1) (b), section 86 applies as if the reference to
     a period of 1 year after the person’s transfer date for the
     residential land were a reference to a period of 2 years after the
     date the mortgage was first signed.
 
Who is a home borrower and a first home borrower
*** 273 Who is a home borrower and a first home borrower ***
     (1) A person is a
     "home borrower" if the person is the mortgagor under a home mortgage.
     (2) A home borrower is a
     "first home borrower" if—
          (a) the borrower’s home mortgage secures an advance to
          the borrower to finance the purchase or construction of the
          borrower’s first home; and
          (b) the borrower is an individual of at least 18 years of
          age on the day the liability for mortgage duty arises.
     (3) The commissioner may exempt an individual from the requirement
     that the individual be at least 18 years of age if the commissioner
     is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the home
     mortgage.
 
Concession for mortgage duty—home mortgage
*** 274 Concession for mortgage duty—home mortgage ***
     (1) If all owners of a home are home borrowers, mortgage duty is not
     imposed on the part of the amount secured by the home mortgage that
     is the lesser of the following—
          (a) the qualifying amount;
          (b) if—
               (i) all the owners are first home
               borrowers—$250,000; or
               (ii) all the owners are not first home
               borrowers—$70,000.
     (2) For owners who are home borrowers to which subsection (1) does
     not apply, mortgage duty is not imposed on the part of the amount
     secured by the home mortgage that is the lesser of the following—
          (a) the total of—
               (i) for each home borrower—the borrower’s
               interest multiplied by $70,000; and
               (ii) for each first home borrower—the
               borrower’s interest multiplied by $250,000;
          (b) the qualifying amount.
     (3) The total amount of concessions for mortgage duty on all home
     mortgages must not be more than the maximum amount of concessions
     applicable to the borrowers under subsection (1) (b) or (2) (a).
     (4) For subsection (2), a home borrower or first home borrower’s
     interest is the proportion that the value of the borrower’s
     interest in the residential land bears to the value of the land.
     (5) Also, for subsections (1) and (2), the qualifying amount is the
     proportion of—
          (a) for a home mortgage to which section 260 applies or a
          mortgage package—the dutiable proportion; or
          (b) for another home mortgage—the amount secured by the
          mortgage;
     that corresponds to the part of the advances secured by the mortgage
     that are used or to be used to finance the purchase or construction
     of the home by the borrowers to whom the concession relates.
     (6) For subsection (5), advances used to refinance an existing home
     mortgage for the home must be disregarded in working out the advances
     that are used or to be used to finance the purchase or construction
     of the home.
 
Concession for mortgage duty—particular trusts
*** 275 Concession for mortgage duty—particular trusts ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the trustee of a trust, other than a discretionary or
          unit trust, gives a mortgage to secure an advance to the
          trustee to finance the purchase or construction of a home
          or a further interest in a home; and
          (b) the beneficiaries are individuals all of whom are under
          a legal disability; and
          (c) the residence is the home of all or some of the
          beneficiaries.
     (2) This division applies as if—
          (a) the mortgage were a home mortgage; and
          (b) the beneficiaries were the home borrowers or first home
          borrowers under it; and
          (c) the beneficiaries were the owners of the home.
     (3) However, section 273 (2) (b) and (3) applies in relation to a
     beneficiary only if the beneficiary is under a legal disability only
     because the beneficiary is not at least 18 years of age.
 
What is a home refinance mortgage
*** 276 What is a home refinance mortgage ***
     (1) A
     "home refinance mortgage" is a mortgage securing advances to the
     person, all or part of which are used or to be used to repay the
     balance outstanding under a previous mortgage over the person’s
     home.
     (2) A home refinance mortgage, or if there is more than 1 home
     refinance mortgage, at least 1 of them must be over the person’s
     home.
 
What is a home for div 3
*** 277 What is a home for div 3 ***
For this division, a person’s
"home" is a residence the person has occupied as the person’s principal place
of residence for whichever is the shorter of the following—
     (a) 6 months before signing the home refinance mortgage;
     (b) since the borrower has owned the residence.
 
Who is a home refinance borrower
*** 278 Who is a home refinance borrower ***
A person is a
"home refinance borrower" if the person is the mortgagor under a home refinance
mortgage.
 
Concession for mortgage duty—home refinance mortgage
*** 279 Concession for mortgage duty—home refinance mortgage ***
     (1) If all of the owners of a home are home refinance borrowers,
     mortgage duty is not imposed on the part of the amount secured by the
     home refinance mortgage that is the lesser of the following—
          (a) the refinance qualifying amount;
          (b) $100,000.
     (2) If all of the owners of a home are not home refinance borrowers,
     mortgage duty is not imposed on the part of the amount secured by the
     home refinance mortgage up to the amount that is the lesser of the
     following—
          (a) home refinance borrowers’ interests multiplied by
          $100,000;
          (b) the refinance qualifying amount.
     (3) The total amount of concessions for mortgage duty on all home
     refinance mortgages must not be more than the maximum amount of
     concessions applicable to the borrowers under subsection (1) (b) or
     (2) (a).
     (4) For subsection (2), a home refinance borrower’s interest is the
     proportion that the value of the home refinance borrower’s interest
     in the residential land bears to the value of the land.
     (5) Also, for subsections (1) and (2), the refinance qualifying
     amount is the proportion of—
          (a) for a home refinance mortgage to which section 260
          applies or a mortgage package—the amount of the dutiable
          proportion; or
          (b) for another home refinance mortgage—the amount
          secured or to be secured by the home refinance mortgage;
     that corresponds to the part of the advances secured by the mortgage
     that are used or to be used to repay the balance outstanding on the
     previous mortgage by the borrowers to whom the concession relates.
     (6) For subsection (5), advances used to finance the acquisition of a
     home or first home must be disregarded in working out the advances
     that are used or to be used to repay the balance outstanding under
     the previous mortgage.
 
Concession for mortgage duty—particular trusts
*** 280 Concession for mortgage duty—particular trusts ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the trustee of a trust, other than a discretionary or
          unit trust, gives a mortgage to secure an advance to the
          trustee, all or part of which is used, or to be used, to
          repay the balance outstanding under a previous mortgage
          over a home; and
          (b) the beneficiaries are individuals all of whom are under
          a legal disability; and
          (c) the residence is the home of all or some of the
          beneficiaries.
     (2) This division applies as if—
          (a) the mortgage were a home refinance mortgage; and
          (b) the beneficiaries were the home refinance borrowers
          under it; and
          (c) the beneficiaries were the owners of the home.
 
Further concession for particular home refinance mortgages
*** 281 Further concession for particular home refinance mortgages ***
     (1) This section applies if the amount secured by a home refinance
     mortgage, or the dutiable proportion of a home refinance mortgage, is
     more than—
          (a) the amount determined under section 279 (1) or (2); or
          (b) if there is also a home borrower for the mortgage—the
          total of the amount determined under section 279 (2) and
          any amount determined under section 274 (2) for the
          borrower.
     (2) The non-concessional balance for the home refinance mortgage is
     reduced by the amount by which the amount secured for which duty has
     been paid in Queensland under the previous mortgage is more than—
          (a) for a mortgage or mortgage package to which section 260
          or 261 applies—the balance outstanding under the previous
          mortgage multiplied by the dutiable proportion; or
          (b) for another mortgage—the balance outstanding under
          the previous mortgage.
     (3) For subsection (2), the non-concessional balance for the home
     refinance mortgage is—
          (a) the part of the amount secured by the mortgage for
          which a concession for mortgage duty is not given under
          section 279; or
          (b) if there is also a home borrower for the mortgage—the
          total of the amount mentioned in paragraph (a) and the part
          of the amount secured by the mortgage for which a
          concession for mortgage duty is not given under section
          274.
 
Application for concession for mortgage duty
*** 282 Application for concession for mortgage duty ***
An application for a concession for mortgage duty on a home mortgage or home
refinance mortgage must be made in the approved form.
 
Exemption—particular debentures and instruments of trust
*** 283 Exemption—particular debentures and instruments of trust ***
     (1) Mortgage duty is not imposed on an exempt short-term debenture.
     (2) Mortgage duty is not imposed on a mortgage that is—
          (a) a debenture issued by a financial corporation or
          related corporation of a financial corporation under an
          instrument of trust—
               (i) to which the financial corporation or related
               corporation is a party; and
               (ii) that protects the interests of the holders
               of the debentures; or
          (b) a debenture issued by a financial corporation or
          related corporation of a financial corporation, the
          repayment for which is secured by a mortgage given by the
          financial corporation or related corporation; or
          (c) an instrument of trust—
               (i) to which a financial corporation or related
               corporation of a financial corporation is a
               party; and
               (ii) that protects the interests of the holders
               of debentures issued under the instrument of
               trust.
     (3) Mortgage duty is not imposed on a mortgage given by a financial
     corporation or a related corporation of a financial corporation to
     secure the repayment of debentures issued by the financial
     corporation or related corporation.
     (4) This section applies to debentures issued, a mortgage given or an
     instrument of trust signed, by a related corporation of a financial
     corporation only so far as the debentures are issued, the mortgage is
     given or the instrument of trust is signed, for raising funds to be
     used by the financial corporation.
     (5) In this section—

     "financial corporation" means a corporation whose sole or principal
     business is providing finance to the public.

     "related corporation", of a financial corporation, means a
     corporation that is a related body corporate of the financial
     corporation.
 
Exemption—transfer of land by way of security
*** 284 Exemption—transfer of land by way of security ***
Mortgage duty is not imposed on a mortgage that is a transfer of land by way of
security if transfer duty is paid on the dutiable transaction that is the
transfer.
 
Exemption—mortgages under particular Acts
*** 285 Exemption—mortgages under particular Acts ***
Mortgage duty is not imposed on the following instruments—
     (a) a mortgage given to secure an advance to a co-operative under the
     Co-operatives National Law (Queensland) whose members are primary
     producers, if the mortgage secures advances to finance—
          (i) the acquisition of primary produce; or
          (ii) payments to suppliers on account of primary produce
          marketed for the suppliers; or
          (iii) working or other expenses, other than capital
          expenses, incidental to the acquisition, processing or
          marketing of primary produce;
     (b) a mortgage given to secure an advance to a parents and citizens
     association formed under the Education (General Provisions) Act 2006;
     (c) a mortgage given by a society registered as a cooperative housing
     society under the Financial Intermediaries Act 1996 to secure—
          (i) an advance made, or to be made to the society, by the
          Treasurer; or
          (ii) an advance guaranteed by the Treasurer and made, or to
          be made, to the society by—
               (A) a financial institution; or
               (B) another entity prescribed under a regulation;
     (d) a mortgage given to secure an advance made by the Brigalow
     Corporation under the Land Act 1994, chapter 8, part 7A;
     (e) a mortgage of a tenure, or interest in a tenure, under the
     Offshore Minerals Act 1998;
     (f) a mortgage of, or a mortgage of an interest in, an access
     authority, licence, permit or pipeline licence under the Petroleum
     (Submerged Lands) Act 1982.
 
What is a mortgage-backed security
*** 286 What is a mortgage-backed security ***
     (1) A
     "mortgage-backed security" is—
          (a) an entitlement or interest of a person in—
               (i) an entitlement of a mortgagee or another
               entitlement for a mortgage or pool of mortgages;
               or
               (ii) amounts payable by a mortgagor under a
               mortgage or pool of mortgages whether or not on
               the same conditions applying under the mortgage
               and whether or not the person is entitled to a
               transfer of the mortgage or pool of mortgages; or
          (b) a debenture, promissory note, bill of exchange, stock,
          bond, note or other security creating, evidencing or
          acknowledging indebtedness issued or made by a corporation
          if the payments under the security are received by the
          corporation—
               (i) substantially from the receipts, whether of
               capital or income, from a mortgage or pool of
               mortgages; or
               (ii) if another extent is prescribed under a
               regulation—to the extent prescribed, from the
               receipts, whether of capital or income, from a
               mortgage or pool of mortgages; or
          (c) a security by which an interest in, or mortgage or
          charge over, an entitlement, interest or security mentioned
          in paragraph (a) or (b) is created; or
          (d) a covered bond within the meaning of the Banking Act
          1959 (Cwlth), section 26, if the cover pool for the covered
          bond under that section consists of either of the
          following—
               (i) a loan secured by a mortgage;
               (ii) a pool of mortgages, if all mortgages in the
               pool or collection of assets comprising the pool
               of mortgages under section 288 are loans secured
               by a mortgage.
     (2) However, the term does not include—
          (a) a mortgage, other than a mortgage mentioned in
          subsection (1) (c); or
          (b) a transfer of a mortgage.
     (3) It does not matter whether a mortgage-backed security is effected
     by an instrument or another way.
 
What is a mortgage
*** 287 What is a mortgage ***
A
"mortgage" is a mortgage of, or charge over, land regardless of whether the
land is situated in Queensland or elsewhere.
 
What is a pool of mortgages
*** 288 What is a pool of mortgages ***
     (1) A
     "pool of mortgages" is a pool or collection of assets that consists
     solely of mortgages.
     (2) Also, a
     "pool of mortgages" is a pool or collection of assets that consists
     substantially or, if another extent is prescribed under a regulation,
     to the extent prescribed, of mortgages or amounts paid under
     mortgages, or a combination of them, if the other assets in the pool
     or collection are cash or an authorised investment.
 
What is an authorised investment
*** 289 What is an authorised investment ***
An
"authorised investment", for a pool of mortgages, is any of the following—
     (a) a bond, debenture, stock or Treasury bill of the Commonwealth or
     a State;
     (b) a debenture or stock of a public statutory body established under
     an Act of the Commonwealth or a State;
     (c) a note or other security of the Commonwealth or a State;
     (d) a deposit with, or a certificate of deposit or another security
     issued by, a financial institution;
     (e) a bill of exchange, promissory note or other negotiable
     instrument accepted, drawn or endorsed by a financial institution;
     (f) an asset-backed security or mortgage-backed security.
 
Exemption—asset-backed security
*** 289A Exemption—asset-backed security ***
Mortgage duty is not imposed on the following—
     (a) a mortgage of an asset-backed security or release of mortgage of
     an asset-backed security;
     (b) a mortgage of a financial asset or pool of financial assets or
     part of a pool of financial assets for creating, issuing, marketing
     or securing an asset-backed security—
          (i) to a person entitled to an asset-backed security or a
          trustee or agent for a person entitled to an asset-backed
          security; or
          (ii) by or to a person who issues, makes or endorses an
          asset-backed security; or
          (iii) to a person who provides security, whether as
          guarantor, surety or otherwise, to a person entitled to an
          asset-backed security or a trustee or agent for a person
          entitled to an asset-backed security;
     (c) a mortgage of an instrument—
          (i) issued or made for creating, issuing, marketing or
          securing payments under an asset-backed security; and
          (ii) that is of a class prescribed under a regulation.
 
Exemption—mortgage-backed security
*** 290 Exemption—mortgage-backed security ***
Mortgage duty is not imposed on the following—
     (a) a mortgage of a mortgage-backed security or release of mortgage
     of a mortgage-backed security;
     (b) a mortgage of a mortgage or pool of mortgages or part of a pool
     of mortgages for creating, issuing, marketing or securing a mortgage-
     backed security—
          (i) to a person entitled to a mortgage-backed security or a
          trustee or agent for a person entitled to a mortgage-backed
          security; or
          (ii) by or to a person who issues, makes or endorses a
          mortgage-backed security; or
          (iii) to a person who provides security, whether as
          guarantor, surety or otherwise, to a person entitled to a
          mortgage-backed security or a trustee or agent for a person
          entitled to a mortgage-backed security;
     (c) a mortgage of an instrument—
          (i) issued or made for creating, issuing, marketing or
          securing payments under a mortgage-backed security; and
          (ii) that is of a class prescribed under a regulation.
 
Reassessment—stamping before advance—Victorian property
*** 290A Reassessment—stamping before advance—Victorian property ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a mortgage mentioned in
     section 260 or 261 if—
          (a) the mortgage was first signed before 1 July 2004 and
          partly affected property located in Victoria; and
          (b) the mortgage was properly stamped or exempt from duty,
          and mortgage duty was paid for the mortgage before 1 July
          2004, under the Duties Act 2000 (Vic), section 161, in
          relation to an advance made under the mortgage on or after
          the commencement of this section; and
          (c) before 1 July 2004, the mortgage was stamped under
          section 257 (1) and (2) in relation to the advance; and
          (d) after the commencement of this section, the duty
          mentioned in paragraph (b) (the
          "Victorian duty") is refunded because the mortgage is no
          longer stamped before the advance.
     (2) Section 257 (1) and (2) are taken not to have authorised the
     stamping of the mortgage and the commissioner must make a
     reassessment to impose mortgage duty on the mortgage based on the
     dutiable proportion at the liability date.
     (3) The mortgagor or mortgagee must, within 28 days of the Victorian
     duty being refunded—
          (a) give written notice to the commissioner stating that
          the Victorian duty has been refunded; and
          (b) ensure the mortgage is lodged for a reassessment of
          mortgage duty on the mortgage.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (4) Compliance with subsection (3) by the mortgagor or mortgagee
     relieves the other person from complying with the subsection.
 
Reassessment—stamping before advance—Tasmanian property
*** 290B Reassessment—stamping before advance—Tasmanian property ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a mortgage mentioned in
     section 260 or 261 if—
          (a) the mortgage was first signed before 1 July 2007 and
          partly affected property located in Tasmania; and
          (b) the mortgage was properly stamped or exempt from duty,
          and mortgage duty was paid for the mortgage before 1 July
          2007, under the Duties Act 2001 (Tas), section 151, in
          relation to an advance made under the mortgage on or after
          the commencement of this section; and
          (c) before 1 July 2007, the mortgage was stamped under
          section 257 (1) and (2) in relation to the advance; and
          (d) after the commencement of this section, the duty
          mentioned in paragraph (b) (the
          "Tasmanian duty") is refunded because the mortgage is no
          longer stamped before the advance.
     (2) Section 257 (1) and (2) are taken not to have authorised the
     stamping of the mortgage and the commissioner must make a
     reassessment to impose mortgage duty on the mortgage based on the
     dutiable proportion at the liability date.
     (3) The mortgagor or mortgagee must, within 28 days of the Tasmanian
     duty being refunded—
          (a) give written notice to the commissioner stating that
          the Tasmanian duty has been refunded; and
          (b) ensure the mortgage is lodged for a reassessment of
          mortgage duty on the mortgage.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (4) Compliance with subsection (3) by the mortgagor or mortgagee
     relieves the other person from complying with the subsection.
 
Reassessment—concession under pt 6
*** 291 Reassessment—concession under pt 6 ***
     (1) This section applies if mortgage duty on a home mortgage is
     assessed on the basis of a concession under part 6 and one of the
     following events happen other than because of an intervening event—
          (a) before the occupation date for the residence, the home
          borrower disposes of the residential land under section 154
          (2);
          (b) the home borrower’s occupation date for the residence
          is not within the prescribed period after the later of the
          transfer date for the land or when the mortgage was first
          signed;
          (c) in the year following the home borrower’s occupation
          date for the residence, the home borrower disposes of the
          residential land by—
               (i) transferring part or all of it; or
               (ii) leasing or otherwise granting exclusive
               possession of part or all of it to another
               person.
     (1A) For subsection (1) (a) or (c), a home borrower does not dispose
     of land if—
          (a) the home borrower transfers part of the land to the
          home borrower’s spouse; and
          (b) the transfer is exempt from duty under section 151.
     (1AB) Also, for subsection (1) (a) or (c), a home borrower does not
     dispose of land that is an accommodation unit in a retirement village
     only by entering into a retirement village leasing arrangement for
     the unit.
     (1B) For subsection (1) (b), the prescribed period is—
          (a) for a home mortgage given over residential land on
          which a residence is constructed—1 year; or
          (b) for a home mortgage given over residential land on
          which a residence is to be constructed—2 years.
     (2) Within 28 days after the event happens, each home borrower under
     the mortgage must—
          (a) give notice in the approved form to the commissioner;
          and
          (b) ensure the mortgage is lodged for a reassessment of
          mortgage duty on the mortgage.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (3) If subsection (1) (a) or (b) applies, the commissioner must make
     a reassessment to impose mortgage duty on the mortgage as if the
     concession for mortgage duty had never applied.
     (4) If subsection (1) (c) applies, the commissioner must make a
     reassessment to impose further mortgage duty on the mortgage worked
     out using the following formula—
     where—

     "C" means the concession received by the home borrower, being the
     difference between the mortgage duty that would have been imposed on
     the home mortgage if the concession had not applied and the mortgage
     duty assessed on the mortgage.

     "MD" means the further mortgage duty payable on the reassessment.

     "OD" means the number of days between the home borrower’s
     occupation date for the residence and the date of disposal of the
     residential land, both days inclusive.
     (5) If—
          (a) under subsection (1A), this section does not apply to a
          home borrower’s transfer of part of the land to the home
          borrower’s spouse; and
          (b) under subsection (1) (a) or (c), the home borrower
          later disposes of the land or part of it;
     this section applies to the later disposal as if the home borrower
     had not transferred the part of the land to the home borrower’s
     spouse.
 
Reassessment—noncomplying use by co-operatives
*** 292 Reassessment—noncomplying use by co-operatives ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) under section 285 (a), mortgage duty is not imposed on
          a mortgage given to secure an advance to a co-operative
          under the Co-operatives National Law (Queensland); and
          (b) the advance or part of it is not used for a purpose
          mentioned in the section (the
          "noncomplying use").
     (2) Within 28 days after starting to use the advance or part of it
     for the noncomplying use, the co-operative must—
          (a) give notice in the approved form to the commissioner;
          and
          (b) ensure the mortgage is lodged for a reassessment of
          mortgage duty on the mortgage.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose mortgage duty
     on the mortgage as if the exemption from duty had never applied.
          Note—
               Unpaid tax interest and penalty tax may be
               payable under the Administration Act, part 5.
     (4) Subsection (3) applies to the reassessment despite the limitation
     period under the Administration Act for reassessments.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 3 (Assessments
               of tax), division 3 (Reassessments).
 
Imposition of insurance duty
*** 349 Imposition of insurance duty ***
     (1) This chapter imposes duty (
     "insurance duty") on each of the following—
          (a) a contract of insurance that effects general insurance;
          (b) a contract of insurance that effects life insurance;
          (c) accident insurance.
          Note—
               Exemptions for insurance duty are dealt with in
               part 7. Also, other exemptions are dealt with in
               chapter 10.
     (2) Insurance duty is imposed on the following—
          (a) for general insurance—
               (i) if a regulation states that duty is payable
               only on a part of the premium—that part of the
               premium; or
               (ii) otherwise—premiums for the insurance;
          (b) for life insurance—premiums for the insurance or the
          sum insured, depending on the type of the insurance;
          (c) for accident insurance—net premiums charged for the
          insurance.
 
What is general insurance
*** 350 What is general insurance ***
     (1)
     "General insurance" is any kind of insurance that is applicable to
     either or both of the following—
          (a) property in Queensland;
          (b) a risk, contingency or event concerning an act or
          omission that in the normal course of events may happen
          wholly or partly in Queensland.
     (2) However, the term does not include the following—
          (a) life insurance;
          (b) accident insurance.
 
What is life insurance
*** 351 What is life insurance ***

"Life insurance" is insurance applying to a life or lives, or any event or
contingency relating to or depending on a life or lives, of a person or persons
whose place of residence is in Queensland when the policy effecting the
insurance is issued.
 
What is accident insurance
*** 352 What is accident insurance ***

"Accident insurance" is accident insurance under the Workers’ Compensation
and Rehabilitation Act 2003.
 
What is a premium
*** 353 What is a premium ***
     (1) A
     "premium" for general insurance or life insurance is the total
     consideration given to an insurer by or for the insured person to
     effect the insurance without deductions for any amounts paid or
     payable, allowed or allowable, by way of commission or discount to an
     insurance intermediary.
     (2) However, a
     "premium" does not include—
          (a) an amount paid to an insurance intermediary by the
          insured person as a fee under a contract between the
          insured person and the intermediary if the amount can be
          clearly identified as a fee; or
          (b) an amount of duty under this or a corresponding Act.
     (3) It is immaterial where the amount is paid or where the insurance
     is effected.
 
Who is a general insurer
*** 354 Who is a general insurer ***
     (1) A
     "general insurer" is a person who writes general insurance whether or
     not the person is authorised under the Insurance Act 1973 (Cwlth) to
     carry on an insurance business.
     (2) An insurance intermediary is not a general insurer.
 
Who is a life insurer
*** 355 Who is a life insurer ***
     (1) A
     "life insurer" is a person who writes life insurance whether or not
     the person is registered under the Life Insurance Act 1995 (Cwlth).
     (2) An insurance intermediary is not a life insurer.
 
What are net premiums charged
*** 356 What are net premiums charged ***

"Net premiums charged", for accident insurance, are all amounts charged to
policy holders under the Workers’ Compensation and Rehabilitation Act 2003
for premiums after any adjustments are made for any previous period.
 
Who is liable to pay insurance duty
*** 357 Who is liable to pay insurance duty ***
     (1) Insurance duty imposed on general insurance must be paid by the
     insurer.
     (2) Insurance duty imposed on life insurance must be paid by the
     insurer.
     (3) Insurance duty imposed on accident insurance must be paid by
     WorkCover Queensland.
 
When insurance duty is payable—general insurance
*** 358 When insurance duty is payable—general insurance ***
Insurance duty must be paid each time a premium is paid for a contract of
general insurance.
 
When premium is paid—general insurance
*** 359 When premium is paid—general insurance ***
     (1) For this chapter, a premium is paid when the first of the
     following happens—
          (a) the premium is received by the insurer;
          (b) a part of the premium is received by the insurer.
     (2) For subsection (1), a premium or part of a premium is taken to be
     received by an insurer if—
          (a) it is received by the insurer or another person on
          behalf of the insurer; or
          (b) an account of the insurer is credited with the amount
          of the premium or part of the premium.
 
When insurance duty is payable—life insurance
*** 360 When insurance duty is payable—life insurance ***
Insurance duty must be paid each time an insurer writes a contract of life
insurance.
 
When insurance duty is payable—accident insurance
*** 361 When insurance duty is payable—accident insurance ***
Insurance duty must be paid each time net premiums are charged for accident
insurance.
 
Rate of insurance duty—general and accident insurance
*** 362 Rate of insurance duty—general and accident insurance ***
     (1) The rate of insurance duty imposed on a premium for general
     insurance or, if section 349 (2) (a) (i) applies, the part of the
     premium, is—
          (a) 9% of the premium or part of the premium to the extent
          to which the premium or part of the premium is paid to
          effect class 1 general insurance; or
          (b) 9% of the premium or part of the premium to the extent
          to which the premium or part of the premium is paid to
          effect class 2 general insurance.
     (2) The rate of insurance duty imposed on a premium for CTP insurance
     is 10c.
     (3) The rate of insurance duty imposed on net premiums charged for
     accident insurance is 5%.
     (4) This section has effect subject to part 4.
 
Rate of insurance duty—life insurance
*** 363 Rate of insurance duty—life insurance ***
     (1) The rate of insurance duty imposed on a contract of life
     insurance that effects temporary or term insurance is 5% of the first
     year’s premium.
     (2) The rate of insurance duty imposed on another contract of life
     insurance is—
          (a) if the sum insured is not more than $2,000—.05% of
          the sum insured; or
          (b) if the sum insured is more than $2,000—
               (i) .05% of the first $2,000; and
               (ii) .1% of the balance of the sum insured.
 
Application of div 1
*** 364 Application of div 1 ***
     (1) This division applies to a contract of general insurance that
     insures either or both of the following—
          (a) property in Queensland as well as property in another
          State;
          (b) a risk, contingency or event about an act or omission
          that in the normal course of events may happen wholly or
          partly in Queensland as well as wholly or partly in another
          State.
     (2) Also, this division applies to a contract of life insurance that
     insures lives, or any event or contingency relating to or depending
     on lives, of persons resident in Australia, at least one of whom has
     a place of residence in Queensland when the policy effecting the
     insurance is issued.
 
Purpose of div 1
*** 365 Purpose of div 1 ***
The purpose of this division is—
     (a) to provide a way for apportioning premiums or parts of premiums
     paid for insurance; and
     (b) to avoid multiple duty between the States; and
     (c) to give the States their appropriate share of duty by way of the
     apportionment.
 
Apportionment of premiums
*** 366 Apportionment of premiums ***
     (1) A regulation may state how premiums for insurance are to be
     apportioned.
     (2) A premium or part of a premium must be apportioned under the
     regulation.
     (3) However, the commissioner may, on the written application of an
     insurer or an insured person, apportion a premium or part of a
     premium on another basis if the commissioner is satisfied the
     apportionment on that basis would result in less insurance duty being
     paid.
 
Apportionment between different types or classes of insurance
*** 367 Apportionment between different types or classes of insurance ***
If the commissioner is not satisfied a premium paid for a contract of insurance
effecting different types or classes of insurance has been properly apportioned
for assessing insurance duty, the commissioner may decide the basis of the
apportionment.
 
Apportionment of premiums between 2 or more policies
*** 368 Apportionment of premiums between 2 or more policies ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) 2 or more contracts of insurance (the
          "primary contracts") are effected with—
               (i) 1 insurer; or
               (ii) separate insurers between whom there is an
               arrangement about the insurance; and
          (b) 1 or more of the premiums under the primary
          contracts—
               (i) are conditional on 1 or more other contracts
               of insurance (the
               "secondary contracts") being effected; or
               (ii) are part of an arrangement that applies only
               if 1 or more other contracts of insurance (also
               the
               "secondary contracts") are effected; and
          (c) 1 or more of the premiums under the primary contracts
          attract insurance duty at a different rate to 1 or more of
          the premiums under the secondary contracts; and
          (d) the commissioner is not satisfied a premium for 1 of
          the contracts reflects the relative risk of the contract.
     (2) The commissioner may apportion part of the total premiums payable
     to each of the contracts of insurance as the commissioner considers
     appropriate.
          Note—
               For objections and appeals against assessments,
               see the Administration Act, part 6.
 
Insurers to be registered
*** 369 Insurers to be registered ***
A general insurer or life insurer must not carry on business in Queensland as
an insurer unless the insurer is registered under chapter 12, part 1, to carry
on the business.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—200 penalty units.
 
Lodging returns and payment of insurance duty
*** 370 Lodging returns and payment of insurance duty ***
     (1) If a registered insurer has a liability to insurance duty for a
     return period, the insurer must on or before the return date—
          (a) lodge a return in the approved form; and
          (b) pay to the commissioner the amount of insurance duty
          based on the following—
               (i) for general insurance—the total amount of
               the premiums received in the return period by the
               insurer;
               (ii) for life insurance—
                    (A) for contracts of life insurance
                    that effect temporary or term
                    insurance—the total amount of the
                    premiums received in the return period
                    by the insurer; and
                    (B) for other contracts of life
                    insurance—the amounts of the sums
                    insured for the contracts written in
                    the return period by the insurer; and
          (c) pay to the commissioner any assessed interest and
          penalty tax.
     (3) If an insurer refunds the whole or part of a premium for a
     contract of insurance for which insurance duty has been paid, the
     insurer may deduct from the amount required to be paid under
     subsection (1) the insurance duty paid on the amount of the premium
     refunded.
          Note—
               For provisions about reassessments and refunds,
               see the Administration Act, part 3 (Assessments
               of tax), division 2 (Self assessments) and part 4
               (Payments and refunds of tax and other amounts),
               division 2 (Refunds of tax and other amounts).
     (4) If WorkCover Queensland has a liability to insurance duty for a
     month, it must—
          (a) lodge a statement in the approved form; and
          (b) pay to the commissioner the amount of insurance duty
          based on the total amount of the net premiums charged in
          the month and any assessed interest and penalty tax.
     (5) WorkCover Queensland must comply with subsection (4) within 21
     days after the end of the month or the longer period the commissioner
     allows.
     (6) For the Administration Act, the statement is taken to be a return
     for a self assessment for the accident insurance.
 
Application of pt 6
*** 371 Application of pt 6 ***
     (1) This part applies to a person (the
     "insured person") who effects or renews general insurance or life
     insurance with a person (the
     "insurer") who is not registered under chapter 12, part 1 or 2.
     (2) However, this part does not apply to an insured person who has
     been charged, by the insurer, an amount for insurance duty in
     relation to the premium for the insurance.
 
Lodging statement and payment of insurance duty
*** 372 Lodging statement and payment of insurance duty ***
     (1) The insured person must, within 30 days after payment of the
     premium for the insurance—
          (a) lodge a statement in the approved form; and
          (b) pay to the commissioner the amount of insurance duty
          for the insurance.
     (2) For the Administration Act, the statement is taken to be a return
     for a self assessment for the insurance.
 
Exemption—particular marine insurance
*** 373 Exemption—particular marine insurance ***
Insurance duty is not imposed on a contract of insurance for the physical loss
or damage to the hull of a boat used primarily for commercial purposes.
 
Exemption—goods in transit
*** 374 Exemption—goods in transit ***
Insurance duty is not imposed on a contract of insurance for the physical loss
or damage to goods in transit or for the loss of freight of goods in transit.
 
Exemption—health insurance
*** 375 Exemption—health insurance ***
Insurance duty is not imposed on a contract of insurance that—
     (a) is issued by a private health insurer under the Private Health
     Insurance Act 2007 (Cwlth); and
     (b) provides hospital benefits or medical benefits, or both, whether
     or not other benefits are also provided.
 
Exemption—reinsurance
*** 376 Exemption—reinsurance ***
Insurance duty is not imposed on a contract of reinsurance between one insurer
and another insurer.
 
Imposition of vehicle registration duty
*** 377 Imposition of vehicle registration duty ***
     (1) This chapter imposes duty (
     "vehicle registration duty") on—
          (a) an application to register a vehicle; and
          (b) an application to transfer a vehicle if the person in
          whose name the vehicle is to be registered differs from the
          person in whose name the vehicle is registered.
          Note—
               Exemptions for vehicle registration duty are
               dealt with in part 4. Also, other exemptions are
               dealt with in chapter 10.
     (2) Vehicle registration duty is imposed on the dutiable value of the
     vehicle.
     (3) However, the vehicle registration duty imposed on an application
     for a special vehicle is the amount stated in section 382 (2) (a).
 
What is the dutiable value of a vehicle
*** 378 What is the dutiable value of a vehicle ***
     (1) The
     "dutiable value" of a vehicle that has not previously been
     registered, whether in Queensland or another State, and for which
     there is a list price is the total of the following—
          (a) the vehicle’s list price;
          (b) the price of all items of optional equipment not
          included in the list price.
     (2) The
     "dutiable value" of a vehicle that has previously been registered,
     whether in Queensland or another State, or for which there is no list
     price is the greater of the following—
          (a) the total consideration, in monetary terms, payable by
          the purchaser including any deposit, trade-in allowance and
          the price of all items of optional equipment;
          (b) the market value of the vehicle.
     (3) However, if a vehicle is modified for a person with a disability,
     the
     "dutiable value" of the vehicle is—
          (a) for a vehicle mentioned in subsection (1) —the amount
          worked out under subsection (1) reduced by the value of the
          modifications; or
          (b) for a vehicle mentioned in subsection (2) —the market
          value of the vehicle without having regard to the value of
          the modifications.
 
What is the market value of a vehicle
*** 379 What is the market value of a vehicle ***
The
"market value" of a vehicle is the amount for which the vehicle might
reasonably be sold, free of encumbrances, on the open market when the
transaction to which an application to register or transfer the vehicle is
made.
 
Who is a relative
*** 379A Who is a relative ***
A
"relative" of a person is any of the following—
     (a) the person’s spouse;
     (b) a parent or grandparent of the person;
     (c) a parent or grandparent of the person’s spouse;
     (d) a child, stepchild or grandchild of the person;
     (e) a child, stepchild or grandchild of the person’s spouse;
     (f) the spouse of anyone in paragraphs (b) to (e).
 
When is a vehicle modified for a person with a disability
*** 379B When is a vehicle modified for a person with a disability ***
A vehicle is
"modified for a person with a disability" if—
     (a) an application to register or transfer the vehicle is made by a
     person with a disability, or a relative or carer of a person with a
     disability; and
     (b) the vehicle will be used by, or to transport, the person with a
     disability; and
     (c) modifications have been made to the vehicle to enable the person
     with a disability to—
          (i) drive the vehicle; or
          (ii) be transported in the vehicle.
 
Who is liable to pay vehicle registration duty
*** 380 Who is liable to pay vehicle registration duty ***
     (1) For an application to register a vehicle, the applicant is liable
     to pay the vehicle registration duty.
     (2) For an application to transfer a vehicle, the transferee and the
     transferor are liable to pay the vehicle registration duty.
 
When vehicle registration duty must be paid
*** 381 When vehicle registration duty must be paid ***
     (1) For an application to register a vehicle, the applicant must pay
     the vehicle registration duty on the application when making it.
     (2) For an application to transfer a vehicle, the transferee and the
     transferor must pay the vehicle registration duty on the application
     when making it.
 
Assessment of vehicle registration duty
*** 382 Assessment of vehicle registration duty ***
     (1) On the making of an application to register or transfer a
     vehicle—
          (a) the commissioner is taken to have made an assessment of
          vehicle registration duty on the application; and
          (b) the application is taken to be an assessment notice for
          the duty; and
          (c) the commissioner is taken to have given the assessment
          notice to the persons liable to pay the duty.
     (2) The liability for the vehicle registration duty on the
     application is—
          (a) if the application is for a special vehicle—$25; or
          (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply—the amount worked out
          by applying the rate of vehicle registration duty to the
          dutiable value of the vehicle at the dutiable day.
 
Rate of vehicle registration duty, other than for a special vehicle
*** 383 Rate of vehicle registration duty, other than for a special vehicle ***
     (1) The rate of vehicle registration duty imposed on an application
     to register or transfer a vehicle, other than a special vehicle, is
     the total of—
          (a) the rate stated in schedule 4C; and
          (b) if the dutiable value of the vehicle at the dutiable
          day is more than $100,000—the rate of $2 for each $100,
          and each part of $100, of the vehicle’s dutiable value.
     (2) Subsection (1) (b) does not apply to a vehicle that has a GVM
     under the Vehicle Registration Act of more than 4.5t.
 
Reduction in vehicle registration duty payable
*** 384 Reduction in vehicle registration duty payable ***
     (1) The amount of vehicle registration duty assessed under section
     382 (2) must be reduced if—
          (a) the application to register or transfer the vehicle is
          made in relation to a dutiable transaction; and
          (b) the dutiable value of the dutiable transaction relating
          to the dutiable property includes an amount representing
          the market value or part of the market value of the
          vehicle; and
          (c) transfer duty in schedule 3 has been paid or is payable
          on the dutiable transaction.
     (2) The reduction must be worked out using the following formula—
     where—

     "DP" means the duty paid or payable on the dutiable transaction that
     was worked out by applying the rate of transfer duty under schedule
     3.

     "DVDP" means the dutiable value of the dutiable transaction relating
     to the dutiable property on which transfer duty in schedule 3 was
     worked out.

     "MVV" means the market value of the vehicle or part of the market
     value of the vehicle mentioned in subsection (1) (b).

     "R" means the amount of the reduction.
          Example for subsection (2)—
               A dutiable transaction comprises the transfer of
               the following dutiable property for the
               consideration stated—
                    • a statutory business licence
                    ($5,000)
                    • personal property ($15,000)
                    including a vehicle ($10,000).
               Assuming the consideration for the transaction is
               the dutiable value, transfer duty of $225 is
               imposed on the transaction under chapter 2, being
               the amount worked out at the applicable rate of
               duty stated in schedule 3.
               In working out the reduction—
                    • factor DP is $225, being transfer
                    duty on the transaction
                    • factor MVV is $10,000, being the
                    market value of the vehicle
                    • factor DVDP is $20,000, being the
                    dutiable value of the transaction on
                    which transfer duty is imposed at the
                    applicable rate of duty stated in
                    schedule 3.
               Applying the formula, the reduction is $112.50.
     (3) However, the reduction must not be more than the amount of
     vehicle registration duty that is otherwise payable under section 382
     (2).
 
Exemption—registration of previously registered vehicle
*** 385 Exemption—registration of previously registered vehicle ***
Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to register a
vehicle if—
     (a) the vehicle was registered under the Vehicle Registration Act;
     and
     (b) the registration expired or was cancelled under that Act; and
     (c) the application is made by—
          (i) the same person in whose name the vehicle was
          registered immediately before the expiry or cancellation
          (the
          "previous registered operator"); or
          (ii) a relative of the previous registered operator; or
          (iii) the previous registered operator and a relative of
          the previous registered operator.
 
Exemption—registration of interstate registered vehicle or previously
registered vehicle
*** 386 Exemption—registration of interstate registered vehicle or previously
registered vehicle ***
     (1) Subject to subsection (3), vehicle registration duty is not
     imposed on an application to register a vehicle if—
          (a) either—
               (i) the vehicle is registered under an Act of
               another State that corresponds to the Vehicle
               Registration Act (a
               "corresponding Act"); or
               (ii) the vehicle was registered under a
               corresponding Act and the registration expired or
               was cancelled under that Act; and
          (b) duty under a corresponding Act was paid in that State
          for the registration of the vehicle; and
          (c) the application is made by a person or persons
          mentioned in subsection (2).
     (2) For subsection (1) (c), the applicant or applicants must be—
          (a) if there is only 1 registered operator—
               (i) the registered operator; or
               (ii) the registered operator and a relative of
               the registered operator; or
               (iii) a relative of the registered operator; or
          (b) if there is more than 1 registered operator—
               (i) the registered operators; or
               (ii) 1 of the registered operators if the other
               registered operators are the applicant’s
               relatives; or
               (iii) 1 of 2 registered operators and a relative
               of the other registered operator; or
               (iv) a relative of the registered operators; or
               (v) a relative of each of 2 registered operators.
     (3) Subsection (1) applies only if the registration of the vehicle,
     or an interest in the vehicle, in the name of a relative of a
     registered operator constitutes a gift of the vehicle or interest by
     the operator to the relative.
     (4) In this section—

     "registered operator", of a vehicle mentioned in subsection (1) (a)
     (ii), means the person in whose name the vehicle was registered
     immediately before the expiry or cancellation.
 
Exemption—registration of heavy vehicle
*** 387 Exemption—registration of heavy vehicle ***
     (1) Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to
     register a vehicle if—
          (a) the vehicle has a GVM under the Vehicle Registration
          Act of more than 4.5t; and
          (b) immediately before 1 July 1995, the vehicle was
          registered under the Interstate Road Transport Act 1985
          (Cwlth); and
          (c) the application is the first application for
          registration of the vehicle in a State; and
          (d) the application is made by the same person in whose
          name the vehicle is registered under the Act mentioned in
          paragraph (b).
     (2) Also, vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application
     to register a heavy vehicle if—
          (a) the application is made during the period starting on 1
          July 2018 and ending on 30 June 2019; and
          (b) immediately before the application is made, the vehicle
          is registered under the Interstate Road Transport Act 1985
          (Cwlth); and
          (c) the application is the first application to register
          the vehicle in a State; and
          (d) the application is made by the same person in whose
          name the vehicle is registered under the Interstate Road
          Transport Act 1985 (Cwlth).
     (3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the application is part of an
     arrangement the sole or dominant purpose of which is to avoid the
     imposition of vehicle registration duty on the application.
     (4) In this section—

     "heavy vehicle" means a heavy vehicle under the Heavy Vehicle
     National Law (Queensland).
 
Exemption—business name
*** 388 Exemption—business name ***
Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to register or
transfer a vehicle if—
     (a) the vehicle is registered in the name of a business; and
     (b) vehicle registration duty or duty under a corresponding Act was
     paid for the registration of the vehicle; and
     (c) the application is made by or for the owners of the business to
     register or transfer the vehicle—
          (i) in the sole names of the owners; or
          (ii) in the name of another business owned solely by the
          owners; or
          (iii) for an application to register a vehicle registered
          under a corresponding Act in a business name—in the name
          of the business owned solely by the owners.
 
Exemption—vehicle dealer
*** 389 Exemption—vehicle dealer ***
Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on—
     (a) an application to register a vehicle in the name of a vehicle
     dealer or to transfer a vehicle to a vehicle dealer if the vehicle is
     acquired as trading stock; or
     (b) an application to register a new vehicle in the name of a vehicle
     dealer if the vehicle is acquired for the dealer’s use as a
     demonstrator.
 
Exemption—particular persons and entities
*** 390 Exemption—particular persons and entities ***
     (1) Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to
     register a vehicle in the name of, or an application to transfer a
     vehicle to, any of the following persons—
          (a) the Governor;
          (b) the personal representative of the estate of a deceased
          person;
          (c) a person who is beneficially entitled to the vehicle in
          the estate of a deceased person;
          (d) a person who is in the business of financing the
          purchase or use of vehicles if the vehicle the subject of
          the application is repossessed by, or voluntarily
          surrendered to, the person;
          (e) a hirer who redeems a previously repossessed vehicle if
          the registration will be in the same name as before the
          repossession;
          (f) a government entity;
          (g) a local government;
          (h) a consul or officer of a consulate if the person is a
          national of the country represented;
          (i) a primary producer if—
               (i) the vehicle is a vehicle with a GVM under the
               Vehicle Registration Act of more than 6t; and
               (ii) the primary producer lodges a statutory
               declaration stating that the primary producer
               intends to use the vehicle solely in a business
               of primary production;
          (j) an ex-serviceperson who, under the Vehicle Registration
          Act, is entitled to concessional registration fees for the
          vehicle;
          (k) an entity if the vehicle is a motorised wheelchair for
          a disabled person’s use;
          (l) a person who has lost the use of 1 or both legs if the
          vehicle is for use for transport to and from the person’s
          place of employment because the person can not use public
          transport;
          (m) a person who has lost the use of 1 or both legs if—
               (i) the vehicle is for use for transport to and
               from the person’s place of education because
               the person can not use public transport; and
               (ii) the education is for the purpose of
               obtaining employment.
     (2) Also, vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application
     to transfer a vehicle or an interest in a vehicle wholly by way of
     gift to a relative of the registered operator.
 
Exemption—forfeiture orders
*** 391 Exemption—forfeiture orders ***
Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to transfer a
vehicle under—
     (a) any of the following under the Criminal Proceeds Confiscation Act
     2002 —
          (i) third party order;
          (ii) an exclusion order;
          (iii) an innocent interests exclusion order;
          (iv) a buy-back order;
          (v) a request under section 175; or
     (b) the Drugs Misuse Act 1986, section 38 (4) or 39 (4).
 
Exemption—industrial organisations
*** 392 Exemption—industrial organisations ***
Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application, under the
Industrial Relations Act 2016, chapter 12, part 14, to register a vehicle in
the name of, or to transfer a vehicle to, an organisation under that Act.
 
Exemption—disposal under particular Acts
*** 393 Exemption—disposal under particular Acts ***
Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to transfer a
vehicle under—
     (a) the Libraries Act 1988, section 28; or
     (b) the Queensland Art Gallery Act 1987, section 28; or
     (c) the Queensland Museum Act 1970, section 21; or
     (d) the Queensland Performing Arts Trust Act 1977, section 19; or
     (e) the Queensland Theatre Company Act 1970, section 18.
 
Reassessment—noncomplying use by vehicle dealer
*** 393A Reassessment—noncomplying use by vehicle dealer ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) vehicle registration duty is not paid on an application
          to register a vehicle in the name of a vehicle dealer, or
          to transfer a vehicle to a vehicle dealer, on the basis of
          an exemption under section 389; and
          (b) the vehicle stops being trading stock, or stops being
          used as a demonstrator, other than because of a sale of the
          vehicle in the ordinary course of business.
     (2) Within 28 days after the event mentioned in subsection (1) (b)
     happens, the vehicle dealer must give notice in the approved form to
     the commissioner.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose vehicle
     registration duty on the application to register or transfer the
     vehicle as if the exemption from duty had never applied.
          Note—
               Unpaid tax interest and penalty tax may be
               payable under the Administration Act, part 5.
     (4) For subsection (1) (b), the vehicle is taken to stop being
     trading stock, or stop being used as a demonstrator, on the day that
     is the prescribed period after the registration or transfer mentioned
     in subsection (1) (a), unless the vehicle dealer sells the vehicle in
     the ordinary course of business before that day.
     (5) In this section—

     "prescribed period" means the period, at least 1 year, prescribed
     under a regulation for this section or, if no period is prescribed, 1
     year.
 
Reassessment—noncomplying use by primary producer
*** 394 Reassessment—noncomplying use by primary producer ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) vehicle registration duty is not paid on an application
          to register or transfer a vehicle in the name of a primary
          producer on the basis of an exemption under section 390 (1)
          (i); and
          (b) within 5 years after the application to register or
          transfer the vehicle, the primary producer starts using the
          vehicle other than in the business of primary production,
          or sells or otherwise transfers the vehicle.
     (2) Within 28 days after the event mentioned in subsection (1) (b)
     happens, the primary producer must give notice in the approved form
     to the commissioner.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose vehicle
     registration duty on the application to register the vehicle as if
     the exemption from duty had never applied.
          Note—
               Unpaid tax interest and penalty tax may be
               payable under the Administration Act, part 5.
 
Reassessment of vehicle registration duty
*** 395 Reassessment of vehicle registration duty ***
     (1) This section applies if the commissioner is satisfied that—
          (a) after an application to register or transfer a vehicle
          is made, the vehicle is repossessed from a person because
          it was stolen before it was acquired by the person; or
          (b) vehicle registration duty was paid for an application
          to register or transfer a vehicle and the transaction is
          cancelled within 3 months after the application is made.
     (2) On application made by the person who paid the vehicle
     registration duty on the application to register or transfer the
     vehicle, the commissioner must make a reassessment of the duty paid
     as if it were exempt from vehicle registration duty.
     (3) An application under subsection (2) must be made within 1 year
     after the application to register or transfer the vehicle was made.
 
Obligations of vehicle dealers
*** 396 Obligations of vehicle dealers ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) under section 389, vehicle registration duty is not
          imposed on an application to register a vehicle in the name
          of a vehicle dealer or to transfer a vehicle to a vehicle
          dealer; and
          (b) the vehicle dealer sells the vehicle.
     (2) The vehicle dealer must—
          (a) give the purchaser of the vehicle a statement showing
          the consideration for the purchase of the vehicle and the
          value of any trade-in; and
          (b) keep a copy of the statement.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     Note—
          See the Administration Act, section 118 (Period for keeping
          records).
 
Purpose of pt 1
*** 397 Purpose of pt 1 ***
This part provides for exemptions for particular duties on particular
transactions carried out for a corporate reconstruction.
 
What is a corporate reconstruction
*** 398 What is a corporate reconstruction ***
     (1) A
     "corporate reconstruction" happens if—
          (a) through a transaction or series of transactions,
          property is transferred, or agreed to be transferred, for
          the purpose of changing a corporate structure to make
          internal adjustments to corporate arrangements; and
          (b) the transaction or each transaction is necessary to
          give effect to the purpose and is not undertaken for any
          other purpose; and
          (c) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of the
          property is not part of an arrangement under which any
          company involved with any of the transactions will or may
          cease, at any time, to belong to the same corporate group
          other than in the circumstances mentioned in section 412
          (4).
     (2) For subsection (1) (b), a transaction that is 1 in a series of
     transactions is taken to be necessary to give effect to the purpose
     if it is necessary for an exemption to apply to the transaction.
 
What is a company
*** 399 What is a company ***
A
"company" is a body corporate other than a corporation sole.
 
What are group companies, a group company and a corporate group
*** 400 What are group companies, a group company and a corporate group ***
     (1) If a company is the subsidiary of another company, the companies
     are
     "group companies".
     (2) Also, if 2 or more companies are the subsidiary of another
     company, all the companies are
     "group companies".
     (3) Each of the group companies is a
     "group company".
     (4) All companies that are group companies form a
     "corporate group".
 
What is a parent company
*** 401 What is a parent company ***
A company is the
"parent company" of another company if—
     (a) it directly owns, other than as trustee, at least 90% of the
     issued shares in the other company; and
     (b) has voting control over the other company.
 
What is a subsidiary
*** 402 What is a subsidiary ***
A company (the
"first company") is a
"subsidiary" of another company if at least 90% of the issued shares in the
first company are owned, other than as trustee, and voting control of the first
company is held, by 1 or more of the following companies—
     (a) the other company;
     (b) 1 or more other subsidiaries of the other company;
     (c) the other company and 1 or more other subsidiaries of the other
     company.
 
Example of corporate group structure
*** 403 Example of corporate group structure ***
     (1) Schedule 5 contains an example of a corporate group structure.
     (2) The example shows the group companies, the parent companies and
     subsidiaries in the group.
 
How part applies to particular transactions
*** 404 How part applies to particular transactions ***
For this part—
     (a) an application to transfer a vehicle is treated as an agreement
     for the transfer of dutiable property to the applicant transferee
     from the applicant transferor; and
     (b) a vesting of dutiable property by, or expressly authorised by,
     statute law is treated as a transfer of the property to the person in
     whom it is vested from its owner immediately before the vesting takes
     place; and
     (c) a vesting, under a court order, of dutiable property is treated
     as a transfer of the property to the person in whom it is vested from
     its owner immediately before the order is made; and
     (d) a surrender of dutiable property is treated as a transfer of the
     property to the person to whom it is surrendered from the person who
     surrenders it; and
     (e) a partnership acquisition is treated as a transfer of dutiable
     property to the partner from the former owner; and
     (f) a trust acquisition, under which a person becomes a beneficiary
     or the person’s trust interest increases because of a transfer, or
     agreement for the transfer, of a trust interest, is treated as a
     transfer of dutiable property to the acquiring beneficiary from the
     transferor.
 
Exemption—intra-group transfers of property
*** 406 Exemption—intra-group transfers of property ***
     (1) Transfer duty or vehicle registration duty is not imposed on a
     transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property carried
     out for a corporate reconstruction if the conditions in subsection
     (2) are complied with.
          Note—
               See section 404 (How part applies to particular
               transactions).
     (2) For subsection (1), the conditions are as follows—
          (a) the transferor did not hold, and the transferee will
          not hold, the property as trustee;
          (b) the transferor and transferee of the property are group
          companies;
          (c) the dutiable transaction has not been made under an
          arrangement under which—
               (i) part or all of the consideration for the
               dutiable transaction has or is to be provided or
               received, directly or indirectly by a person
               other than a group company; or
               (ii) a group company is to be enabled to provide
               any of the consideration by a person other than
               as mentioned in subsection (3); or
               (iii) a group company is to dispose of any of the
               consideration through a payment or other
               disposition—
                    (A) to a person other than a group
                    company; or
                    (B) to a person other than by way of
                    loan on ordinary commercial terms;
          (d) the property transferred is, at the time of the
          transfer, group property under section 407.
     (3) For subsection (2) (c) (ii), consideration may be provided—
          (a) by a financial institution by way of loan on ordinary
          commercial terms; or
          (b) by a group company; or
          (c) under an offer and sale of shares to the public in the
          circumstances mentioned in section 412 (4) (b).
 
Group property for intra-group transfer of property
*** 407 Group property for intra-group transfer of property ***
     (1) For section 406 (2) (d), property is group property if—
          (a) the transferor and transferee—
               (i) were group companies before the property, or
               an interest of at least 90% in the property, was
               first owned by the transferor or another group
               company; and
               (ii) have been group companies at all times
               subsequent during which the property, or an
               interest of at least 90% in the property, has
               been continuously owned by the transferor or
               another group company; or
          (b) the transferor and transferee—
               (i) were group companies before the property, or
               an interest of at least 90% in the property, came
               into the ownership of the transferor or another
               group company by way of a transaction for which
               transfer duty, or an equivalent duty under a
               corresponding Act, has been paid; and
               (ii) have been group companies at all times
               subsequent during which the property, or an
               interest of at least 90% in the property, has
               been continuously owned by the transferor or the
               other group company; or
          (c) the transferor or transferee is the new parent company
          of the other party to the transfer and the transferor and
          the transferee became group companies in the circumstances
          mentioned in section 409 (1) (a) to (c); or
          (d) the transferee is the parent company of the transferor
          and landholder duty was imposed and paid for the transferee
          acquiring its shares in the transferor; or
          (e) the transferee is the parent company of the transferor,
          and the transferee acquired at least 70% of the shares of
          the transferor because of a takeover bid, under the
          Corporations Act, chapter 6, for the shares if they were
          quoted securities under that Act; or
               Note—
                    Section 498A includes provision about
                    when the quotation of securities is
                    suspended.
     (f) the transferor and transferee have been group companies for 3
     years.
     (2) For section 406 (2) (d), property is also group property if—
          (a) the transfer is between a parent company and a
          subsidiary of it; and
          (b) either of the following applies—
               (i) the parent company became the parent company
               of the subsidiary on its registration;
               (ii) the parent company became the parent company
               of the subsidiary after its registration and the
               subsidiary has been dormant since its
               registration; and
          (c) the parent company remained the parent company of the
          subsidiary from its registration or from when it became the
          subsidiary’s parent company until the property is
          transferred.
     (3) However, for subsection (1) (a) or (b), property that is a lot on
     a plan of subdivision registered after the transferor and the
     transferee became group companies is only group property to the
     extent that the property comprising the lot was group property under
     subsection (1) (a) or (b) immediately before registration of the plan
     of subdivision.
     (4) For property mentioned in subsection (3), transfer duty is not
     imposed on the dutiable value of the part of the lot that is group
     property, worked out using the following formula—
     where—

     "DVG" means the dutiable value of the part of the lot that is group
     property for section 406 (2) (d).

     "DVL" means the dutiable value of the lot.

     "TV" means the total value, immediately before the plan of
     subdivision was registered, of the property that forms the lot.

     "VP" means the value, immediately before the plan of subdivision was
     registered, of property that—
          (a) forms part of the lot; and
          (b) was group property under subsection (1) (a) or (b)
          immediately before the plan of subdivision was registered.
     (5) In this section—

     "lot" see the Land Title Act 1994, schedule 2.

     "plan of subdivision" means—
          (a) a plan under the Building Units and Group Titles Act
          1980; or
          (b) a plan of subdivision under the Land Title Act 1994; or
          (c) a plan of subdivision under the Land Act 1994; or
          (d) a plan or scheme, however described, showing the
          division of, amalgamation into, dedication of or
          redefinition of, at least 1 lot, that is able to be
          registered in a land registry under the Land Act 1994 or
          the Land Title Act 1994.
 
Exemption—trustees
*** 408 Exemption—trustees ***
     (1) Transfer duty or vehicle registration duty is not imposed on a
     transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property carried
     out for a corporate reconstruction if the following conditions are
     complied with—
          (a) the transferor of the property holds the property as
          trustee for the beneficiaries of a fixed trust, including a
          unit trust;
          (b) the transferor of the property holds at least 90% of
          the issued shares of the transferee as trustee for the
          beneficiaries or, for a unit trust, the unitholders;
          (c) the conditions mentioned in section 406 (2) are
          complied with.
          Note—
               See section 404 (How part applies to particular
               transactions).
     (2) For subsection (1), section 406 (2) and division 5 apply as if—
          (a) a reference to the transferor of the property were a
          reference to the unitholders or beneficiaries; and
          (b) the issued shares in the transferee held by the
          transferor were held other than as trustee.
 
Exemption—landholder duty
*** 409 Exemption—landholder duty ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) there is a corporate reconstruction constituted by a
          parent company (the
          "new parent company") being interposed between a company
          (the
          "existing company") and the shareholders of the existing
          company; and
          (b) there is a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of
          shares from a shareholder of the existing company to the
          new parent company carried out solely for the corporate
          reconstruction; and
          (c) the following conditions are complied with—
               (i) the new parent company is a company with
               limited liability;
               (ii) the new parent company has been dormant from
               its registration until the resolution to become
               the new parent company of the existing company;
               (iii) under the transaction mentioned in
               paragraph (b), the new parent company acquires at
               least 90% of the issued shares, and voting
               control of, the existing company;
               (iv) at least 90% of the consideration for the
               acquisition is the issue of shares in the new
               parent company to the shareholders of the
               existing company;
               (v) each shareholder of the existing company
               whose shares are acquired by the new parent
               company receives consideration equal in value to
               the value of the shareholder’s shares in the
               existing company;
               (vi) immediately after the transfer of shares in
               the existing company, at least 90% of the issued
               shares in the new parent company consists of the
               shares it issued as consideration for the
               acquisition of the shares in the existing
               company;
               (vii) if the new parent company is interposed
               between more than 1 existing company and their
               shareholders—before the acquisition by the new
               parent company, the same shareholders—
                    (A) owned, directly or indirectly, at
                    least 90% of the issued shares in the
                    existing companies; and
                    (B) had voting control of the existing
                    companies; and
          (d) the acquisition of shares in the existing company by
          the new parent company or the issue of the shares in the
          new parent company to the shareholders of the existing
          company is a relevant acquisition.
     (2) This section also applies if, under section 406 or 408, a
     transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of shares is exempt from
     transfer duty and the acquisition of the shares by the transferee is
     a relevant acquisition.
     (3) Landholder duty is not imposed on the acquisition to the extent
     of the interest acquired by the new parent company or transferee
     under the transaction.
          Note—
               See section 179 (Working out dutiable value of
               relevant acquisition).
     (4) For subsection (2), sections 406, 407 and 408 apply as if a
     transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of shares were a dutiable
     transaction.
 
Application for ruling for proposed dutiable transaction or relevant
acquisition
*** 410 Application for ruling for proposed dutiable transaction or relevant
acquisition ***
     (1) A company that proposes being party to a dutiable transaction or
     relevant acquisition, may apply to the commissioner for a ruling
     whether the proposed transaction or acquisition will be exempt from
     duty under this part.
     (2) The application must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) be accompanied by enough information to enable the
          commissioner to make a ruling.
     (3) The commissioner must give the applicant notice of the
     commissioner’s ruling on the application.
 
Application for exemption for dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition
*** 411 Application for exemption for dutiable transaction or relevant
acquisition ***
     (1) The parties to a dutiable transaction or acquirer under a
     relevant acquisition may apply to the commissioner for an exemption
     from duty under division 3.
     (2) The application must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) be supported by enough information to enable the
          commissioner to make an assessment.
     (3) On the application, the commissioner must make an assessment of
     nil duty for the dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition if—
          (a) the commissioner is satisfied the transaction or
          acquisition is exempt from duty under division 3; or
          (b) the commissioner has, on an application for a ruling,
          decided the transaction or acquisition would be exempt from
          duty under division 3.
     (4) However, subsection (3) (b) does not apply if—
          (a) the instruments submitted with the application for
          exemption differ in a material particular to drafts of
          instruments lodged with the application for the ruling; or
          (b) the circumstances existing in relation to the
          transaction or acquisition at the time of the application
          for exemption are materially different from the
          circumstances existing at the time of the application for
          the ruling; or
          (c) the information given with the application for the
          ruling was false or misleading in a material particular; or
          (d) each of the following applies—
               (i) after the ruling is made but before the
               application for the exemption is decided, a
               legislative change takes effect, a judgment of a
               court is given or a decision is made by QCAT;
               (ii) the change, judgment or decision would, if
               it had taken effect or been given before the
               ruling was made, have materially affected the
               ruling made by the commissioner.
 
Reassessment—exemption for intra-group transfers of property, trustees and
landholder duty
*** 412 Reassessment—exemption for intra-group transfers of property,
trustees and landholder duty ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) duty is assessed on a dutiable transaction or relevant
          acquisition on the basis of an exemption under section 406,
          408 or 409; and
          (b) within 3 years after the transaction or acquisition—
               (i) the transferor or transferee has ceased to
               belong to the same corporate group; or
               (ii) part or all of the consideration for the
               transaction or acquisition is provided or
               received other than as permitted by section 406
               (2) (c) (ii) or (iii).
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose duty on the
     dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition as if the exemption from
     duty had never applied.
          Note—
               Unpaid tax interest and penalty tax may be
               payable under the Administration Act, part 5.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies to the reassessment despite the
     following—
          (a) the limitation period under the Administration Act for
          reassessments;
          (b) the commissioner’s ruling under section 410 for the
          dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 3 (Assessments
               of tax), division 3 (Reassessments).
     (4) However, subsection (2) does not apply—
          (a) if the transferor or transferee ceases to exist, other
          than under an arrangement, a significant purpose of which
          was to avoid the requirement that the transferor and
          transferee belong to the same corporate group for the 3
          years mentioned in subsection (1); or
          (b) if—
               (i) the transferor or transferee ceases to be a
               group company in the corporate group because its
               shares, or the shares of a new parent company
               interposed between the transferor and transferee,
               are offered and sold to the public; and
               (ii) the shares are quoted on the market operated
               by a recognised stock exchange within 1 year
               after the offer to the public; or
                    Note—
                         Section 498A includes
                         provision about when the
                         quotation of securities is
                         suspended.
     (c) if less than 5% of the value of the property held, directly or
     indirectly, by the company that ceases to be a group company is
     dutiable property.
     (5) Without limiting subsection (4) (a), a company registered under
     the Corporations Act ceases to exist if it is deregistered under that
     Act.
 
When parties must give notice for reassessment
*** 413 When parties must give notice for reassessment ***
     (1) This section applies if an event mentioned in section 412 (1) (b)
     happens within 3 years after a dutiable transaction or relevant
     acquisition to which an exemption under this part was applied.
     (2) Within 28 days after the event happens, a party to the dutiable
     transaction or person making the relevant acquisition must—
          (a) give notice in the approved form to the commissioner;
          and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment for
          the dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition are lodged
          for a reassessment of duty on the transaction or
          acquisition.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
 
What is a small business entity
*** 413A What is a small business entity ***
     (1) A
     "small business entity" is an individual, partnership or
     discretionary trust carrying on a relevant Queensland business with
     an annual turnover of not more than $5m.
     (2) In this section—

     "relevant Queensland business" means a business—
          (a) conducted on or from a place in Queensland; or
          (b) the conduct of which consists wholly or partly of
          supplying land, money, credit or goods or any interest in
          them, or providing any service, to Queensland customers.
 
What is small business property
*** 413B What is small business property ***
     (1)
     "Small business property", of a small business entity, is dutiable
     property that is directly held and used by a person for the purpose
     of carrying on the business of the entity.
     (2) However,
     "small business property" does not include dutiable property—
          (a) that is used as a residence by the person; or
          (b) that is investment property the person holds and uses
          to generate income to fund the business of the entity.
 
What is a transferee corporation
*** 413C What is a transferee corporation ***
A
"transferee corporation" is an unlisted corporation to which small business
property is, or is agreed to be, transferred that has not, since its
registration under the Corporations Act, and before the transfer or
agreement—
     (a) held any assets or liabilities; or
     (b) been a party to an agreement; or
     (c) been a beneficiary or trustee of a trust; or
     (d) issued or sold any shares or rights relating to shares.
 
What is a share interest
*** 413D What is a share interest ***
     (1) The
     "share interest", of a person in a transferee corporation, is the
     person’s entitlement as a shareholder of the corporation, expressed
     as a percentage of the total value of the transferee corporation’s
     property that would be distributed if—
          (a) the corporation were to be wound up; and
          (b) the property were distributed immediately after the
          person acquired the interest in the corporation.
     (2) For subsection (1), the entitlement of a person on a distribution
     of a transferee corporation’s property is taken to be the
     entitlement of a person on a distribution of a corporation’s
     property under section 161, as if a reference in that section to a
     corporation were a reference to a transferee corporation.
 
Who is a default beneficiary
*** 413E Who is a default beneficiary ***
A
"default beneficiary" of a discretionary trust is a beneficiary who is a taker
in default of an appointment by the trustee of the trust, other than a last
taker in default of an appointment that is—
     (a) a person decided under the Succession Act 1981; or
     (b) a charitable institution.
 
Exemption—transfer of small business property from individual to transferee
corporation
*** 413F Exemption—transfer of small business property from individual to
transferee corporation ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a dutiable transaction that
     is a transfer, or an agreement for the transfer, of small business
     property if—
          (a) a small business entity that is an individual
          transfers, or agrees to transfer, the property to a
          transferee corporation; and
          (b) the individual is a shareholder in the transferee
          corporation; and
          (c) the unencumbered value of the property the subject of
          the transfer or agreement is not more than $10m.
     (2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction to the
     extent of the lesser of the following interests—
          (a) the individual’s ownership interest in the small
          business property immediately before the transfer or the
          agreement was entered into;
          (b) the individual’s share interest in the transferee
          corporation immediately after the transfer or the agreement
          was entered into.
     (3) Also, if the small business property includes a vehicle, vehicle
     registration duty is not imposed on an application to transfer the
     vehicle.
     (4) In this section—

     "ownership interest", of an individual in small business property, is
     the interest, other than a beneficial interest, that the individual
     has in the property, expressed as a percentage.
 
Exemption—transfer of small business property from partnership to transferee
corporation
*** 413G Exemption—transfer of small business property from partnership to
transferee corporation ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a dutiable transaction that
     is a transfer, or an agreement for the transfer, of small business
     property if—
          (a) 1 or more partners of a small business entity that is a
          partnership transfer, or agree to transfer, the property of
          the entity to a transferee corporation; and
          (b) all the partners of the partnership are shareholders in
          the transferee corporation; and
          (c) the unencumbered value of the property the subject of
          the transfer or agreement is not more than $10m.
     (2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction to the
     extent of the lesser of the following interests in relation to each
     partner—
          (a) the partner’s partnership interest in the partnership
          that held the small business property immediately before
          the transfer or the agreement was entered into;
          (b) the partner’s share interest in the transferee
          corporation immediately after the transfer or the agreement
          was entered into.
     (3) Also, if the small business property is a vehicle, vehicle
     registration duty is not imposed on an application to transfer the
     vehicle.
 
Exemption—transfer of small business property from trustee to transferee
corporation
*** 413H Exemption—transfer of small business property from trustee to
transferee corporation ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a dutiable transaction that
     is a transfer, or an agreement for the transfer, of small business
     property if—
          (a) the trustee of a small business entity that is a
          discretionary trust transfers, or agrees to transfer, the
          property of the entity to a transferee corporation; and
          (b) all default beneficiaries of the trust are shareholders
          in the transferee corporation; and
          (c) the unencumbered value of the property the subject of
          the transfer or agreement is not more than $10m.
     (2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction to the
     extent of the lesser of the following interests in relation to each
     default beneficiary—
          (a) the beneficiary’s trust interest in the discretionary
          trust that held the small business property immediately
          before the transfer or the agreement was entered into;
          (b) the beneficiary’s share interest in the transferee
          corporation immediately after the transfer or the agreement
          was entered into.
     (3) For applying subsection (2) in relation to more than 1 default
     beneficiary of a discretionary trust, the default beneficiaries are
     taken to hold the trust interests in equal shares if the trust deed
     does not state the percentage of income or property each beneficiary
     is to receive from the trust.
     (4) Also, if the small business property includes a vehicle, vehicle
     registration duty is not imposed on an application to transfer the
     vehicle.
 
Exemption—transfer of small business property from trustee to transferee
corporation with sole shareholder
*** 413I Exemption—transfer of small business property from trustee to
transferee corporation with sole shareholder ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a dutiable transaction that
     is a transfer, or an agreement for the transfer, of small business
     property if—
          (a) the trustee of a small business entity that is a
          discretionary trust transfers, or agrees to transfer, the
          property of the entity to a transferee corporation; and
          (b) the trustee is the sole shareholder in the transferee
          corporation; and
          (c) the unencumbered value of the property the subject of
          the transfer or agreement is not more than $10m; and
          (d) the rights and interests of the small business
          beneficiaries of the trust immediately before the transfer
          or the agreement was entered into are the same immediately
          after the transfer or the agreement was entered into.
     (2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction.
     (3) Also, if the small business property includes a vehicle, vehicle
     registration duty is not imposed on an application to transfer the
     vehicle.
     (4) In this section—

     "small business beneficiary", of a discretionary trust, means—
          (a) a default beneficiary of the trust; or
          (b) a person entitled to income or property from the trust
          on appointment by the trustee of the trust.
 
Exemption—particular duties for charitable institutions
*** 414 Exemption—particular duties for charitable institutions ***
     (1) Duty is not imposed on the following—
          (a) a dutiable transaction under which a charitable
          institution acquires dutiable property;
          (b) a dutiable transaction that is—
               (i) the creation or termination of a trust of
               dutiable property for the benefit of a charitable
               institution; or
               (ii) a trust acquisition or trust surrender by a
               charitable institution;
          (c) a premium for general insurance for property or
          undertaking of a charitable institution;
          (d) an application to register or transfer a vehicle in the
          name of a charitable institution.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies only if the use requirements under
     division 2 are complied with.
 
Use requirement
*** 415 Use requirement ***
     (1) Property acquired or insured by, or property held on trust for, a
     charitable institution must be used solely or almost solely by the
     institution for 1 or more of the following purposes (a
     "qualifying exempt purpose")—
          (a) activities of a religious nature;
          (b) public benevolent purposes;
          (c) educational purposes;
          (d) conducting a kindergarten or preschool;
          (e) the care of the sick, aged, infirm, afflicted or
          incorrigible persons;
          (f) the relief of poverty;
          (g) the care of children under the Administration Act,
          section 149C (2) (h);
          (h) another charitable purpose or promotion of the public
          good;
          (i) providing a residence to a minister, or members of a
          religious order who are engaged in an object or pursuit of
          a kind mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (h).
     (2) For subsection (1) (a) to (h), the property acquired, insured or
     held is not used solely or almost solely for a qualifying exempt
     purpose if the property is used for an employment or salary package
     of an officer or employee of the institution.
 
Start of use requirement
*** 416 Start of use requirement ***
     (1) For property held on trust for a charitable institution, the
     commissioner must be satisfied—
          (a) the property will start to be used for the institution
          for a qualifying exempt purpose on or before the date that
          is 6 months after the liability for transfer duty on the
          transaction would, apart from the exemption under division
          1, arise or the later date fixed by the commissioner by
          notice given to the institution (the
          "start date"); and
          (b) the property will be used solely or almost solely for
          the institution for a qualifying exempt purpose for the
          period starting on the date the property is used for the
          institution for a qualifying exempt purpose and ends 1 year
          after that date or the later date fixed by the commissioner
          by notice given to the institution (the
          "duration period").
          Note—
               In relation to subsection (1) (a), see also
               section 620.
     (2) For other property, the commissioner must be satisfied—
          (a) the property acquired or insured will start to be used
          by the charitable institution for a qualifying exempt
          purpose on or before the date stated in subsection (3)
          (also the
          "start date"); and
          (b) the property will be used solely or almost solely by
          the institution for a qualifying exempt purpose for the
          period stated in subsection (4) (also the
          "duration period").
     (3) For subsection (2) (a), the start date is—
          (a) for a dutiable transaction that is an acquisition of
          dutiable property—6 months after the liability for
          transfer duty on the transaction would, apart from the
          exemption under division 1, arise or the later date fixed
          by the commissioner by notice given to the institution; or
          (c) for a premium for a contract of general
          insurance—immediately after the premium is paid; or
          (d) for an application to register or transfer a
          vehicle—immediately after the application is made.
          Note—
               In relation to subsection (3) (a), see also
               section 620.
     (4) For subsection (2) (b), the duration period starts—
          (a) for a dutiable transaction that is an acquisition of
          dutiable property—on the date the charitable institution
          starts to use the property for a qualifying exempt purpose
          and ends 1 year after that date or the later date fixed by
          the commissioner by notice given to the institution; or
          (c) for a premium for a contract of general insurance—on
          the start date and ends 1 year after payment of the
          premium; or
          (d) for an application to register or transfer a
          vehicle—on the start date and ends 9 months after the
          application is made.
 
Commissioner to extend start date and duration period
*** 417 Commissioner to extend start date and duration period ***
     (1) This section applies if, after an assessment made on the basis of
     an exemption under division 1, the commissioner is satisfied the
     property acquired, insured or held—
          (a) has not been used solely or almost solely for a
          qualifying exempt purpose; but
          (b) will be used solely or almost solely for a qualifying
          exempt purpose by a later date (the
          "new start date"), and for the period, fixed by the
          commissioner (the
          "new duration period") by notice given to the institution.
     (2) The commissioner must not make a reassessment merely because the
     property has not been used solely or almost solely for a qualifying
     exempt purpose if the property starts to be so used by the new start
     date.
 
Reassessment on application of charitable institution
*** 418 Reassessment on application of charitable institution ***
     (1) This section applies if, under an assessment, duty is imposed on
     an instrument or transaction because the use requirements under
     division 2 will not be complied with.
     (2) If, on application by the charitable institution concerned, the
     commissioner is satisfied the property acquired, insured or held has
     been used solely, or almost solely, for a qualifying exempt purpose
     from the start date for the duration period, the commissioner must
     make a reassessment on the basis of compliance with division 2.
     (3) For the reassessment, the charitable institution must lodge the
     instruments required for the original assessment.
 
Reassessment—noncompliance with use requirements
*** 419 Reassessment—noncompliance with use requirements ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) duty is assessed on an instrument or transaction on the
          basis of an exemption under division 1; and
          (b) after the assessment, the property acquired, insured or
          held—
               (i) is used for a purpose other than a qualifying
               exempt purpose; or
               (ii) is not used for a qualifying exempt purpose
               by the start date or new start date; or
               (iii) is not used for a qualifying exempt purpose
               for the duration period or new duration period.
     (2) Within 28 days after the event mentioned in subsection (1) (b)
     happens, the charitable institution must—
          (a) give notice in the approved form to the commissioner;
          and
          (b) ensure the instruments required for the assessment of
          duty are lodged for a reassessment of duty on the
          instrument or transaction.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose duty on the
     instrument or transaction as if the exemption had never applied.
          Note—
               Unpaid tax interest and penalty tax may be
               payable under the Administration Act, part 5.
 
What is a matrimonial instrument
*** 420 What is a matrimonial instrument ***
     (1) An instrument mentioned in subsection (2) that provides for the
     transfer of matrimonial property from 1 party to a marriage to only
     the other party to the marriage is a
     "matrimonial instrument" on the dissolution or annulment of the
     marriage.
     (2) For subsection (1), the instruments are the following—
          (a) an agreement registered or approved under the Family
          Law Act 1975 (Cwlth);
          (b) an order of a court under the Family Law Act 1975
          (Cwlth);
          (c) an instrument made under an instrument mentioned in
          paragraph (a) or (b);
          (d) an instrument made after the start of a proceeding for
          the dissolution or annulment of the marriage.
 
What is matrimonial property
*** 421 What is matrimonial property ***

"Matrimonial property" is property of the parties to a marriage or of either of
them that is—
     (a) residential land, the residence on which is for use as the
     principal residence of the party to whom it is to be or is being
     transferred; or
     (b) a vehicle for use for private purposes by the party to whom it is
     to be or is being transferred.
 
What is a de facto relationship instrument
*** 422 What is a de facto relationship instrument ***
A
"de facto relationship instrument" is any of the following instruments to the
extent it deals with de facto relationship property—
     (a) a recognised agreement under the Property Law Act 1974, section
     266;
     (b) an order of a court under the Property Law Act 1974, part 19;
     (c) an instrument made under an instrument mentioned in paragraph (a)
     or (b).
 
What is de facto relationship property
*** 423 What is de facto relationship property ***

"De facto relationship property" is property of the de facto partners of a de
facto relationship or of either of them.
 
Exemption—matrimonial and de facto relationship instruments
*** 424 Exemption—matrimonial and de facto relationship instruments ***
Duty is not imposed on a transaction to the extent that it gives effect to a
matrimonial instrument or de facto relationship instrument.
     Notes—
               1 Exemptions for duty for particular instruments
               and maintenance agreements are provided in the
               Family Law Act 1975 (Cwlth), section 90.
               2 Exemptions for duty for particular instruments
               and agreements relating to financial matters, in
               the event of a breakdown in a marriage, are
               provided in the Family Law Act 1975 (Cwlth),
               section 90L.
               3 Exemptions for duty for particular instruments
               and agreements relating to financial matters, in
               the event of a breakdown of a de facto
               relationship, are provided in the Family Law Act
               1975 (Cwlth), section 90WA.
 
Reassessment on application
*** 425 Reassessment on application ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) duty has been paid on a transaction to the extent that
          it gives effect to an instrument for the transfer, or
          agreement for the transfer, of—
               (i) matrimonial property from 1 party to a
               marriage to the other party; or
               (ii) de facto relationship property from 1 de
               facto partner to the other; and
          (b) duty was paid on the basis that the instrument was not
          a matrimonial instrument or de facto relationship
          instrument; and
          (c) either of the following applies—
               (i) when the duty was paid, the instrument was a
               matrimonial instrument or de facto relationship
               instrument for the property;
               (ii) after the duty was paid, the instrument
               becomes a matrimonial instrument or de facto
               relationship instrument for the property.
     (2) On application made by a party to the marriage or 1 of the de
     facto partners, the commissioner must make a reassessment of duty for
     the transfer as if it were exempt from duty under section 424.
     (3) The application must be made within 6 months after—
          (a) if subsection (1) (c) (i) applies—the instrument is
          made; or
          (b) if subsection (1) (c) (ii) applies—the instrument
          becomes a matrimonial instrument or de facto relationship
          instrument for the property.
     (4) The applicant must lodge the matrimonial instrument or de facto
     relationship instrument for the property with the application.
 
Exemption—State
*** 426 Exemption—State ***
The State is not liable to pay duty unless this Act expressly provides
otherwise.
     Note—
          See sections 17 (Who is liable to pay transfer duty) and
          357 (Who is liable to pay insurance duty).
 
Exemption—particular instruments and transactions relating to incorporated
associations
*** 427 Exemption—particular instruments and transactions relating to
incorporated associations ***
     (1) Duty is not imposed on an instrument or transaction for a vesting
     of property in an incorporated association under the Associations
     Incorporation Act 1981, because of its incorporation under part 2 or
     part 9, division 2, of that Act.
     (2) Duty is not imposed on an instrument or transaction for vesting
     property in an association incorporated under the Corporations Act
     if—
          (a) the association was formed with the object of—
               (i) providing recreation or amusement; or
               (ii) promoting religion, charity, patriotism or
               the arts; or
               (iii) achieving another object the commissioner
               is satisfied is useful to the community; and
          (b) the association’s constitution—
               (i) provides for the application of its funds to
               its objects; and
               (ii) prohibits the distribution of any part of
               its funds or profits to its members; and
          (c) because of the association’s incorporation, the
          instrument or transaction is necessary for vesting the
          property in the association’s corporate name.
 
Exemption—particular instruments and transactions under National Gas
(Queensland) Act
*** 428 Exemption—particular instruments and transactions under National Gas
(Queensland) Act ***
Duty is not imposed on—
     (a) a transaction that is an exempt matter under the National Gas
     (Queensland) Act 2008, section 13; or
     (b) an instrument or transaction for an exempt matter mentioned in
     paragraph (a).
 
Instruments and transactions under Housing Act 2003
*** 429 Instruments and transactions under Housing Act 2003 ***
     (1) Duty is not imposed on an instrument or transaction entered into
     or made under the Housing Act 2003 by the housing chief executive on
     behalf of the State.
     (2) However, subsection (1) does not apply to any of the following
     transactions or an instrument entered into for the transaction—
          (a) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of land to
          a person who does not receive financial assistance from the
          housing chief executive on behalf of the State to enable
          the person to purchase the land;
          (b) a transfer, agreement for the transfer, grant of
          freehold title or grant of a perpetual lease for
          residential purposes of land by the housing chief executive
          on behalf of the State to a person to enable the person to
          build a residence on the land, unless the consideration
          under the instrument or for the transaction includes the
          future provision of a housing service;
          (c) a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of land by
          the housing chief executive on behalf of the State if—
               (i) immediately before the transfer, or agreement
               for the transfer, was entered into, the land was
               subject to a lease to a person to enable the
               person to provide housing for an employee of the
               person; and
               (ii) the transferee is the lessee under the lease
               mentioned in subparagraph (i) or a related person
               of the lessee.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not make the housing chief executive or the
     State liable to pay duty.
     (4) In this section—

     "housing chief executive" means the chief executive of the department
     in which the Housing Act 2003 is administered.

     "housing service" see the Housing Act 2003, section 8.
 
Exemption—instruments and transactions under other Acts
*** 430 Exemption—instruments and transactions under other Acts ***
Duty is not imposed on an instrument or transaction entered into or made—
     (a) because of, or for a purpose connected with or arising out of,
     the Government Owned Corporations Act 1993, chapter 2 or chapter 3,
     part 3; or
     (b) for giving effect to a provision of the Ipswich Trades Hall Act
     1986; or
     (c) for implementing a local government change under the Local
     Government Act 2009; or
     (d) under the River Improvement Trust Act 1940, section 14B, by a
     trust constituted under that Act.
 
Exemption—Queensland Investment Corporation
*** 431 Exemption—Queensland Investment Corporation ***
Duty is not imposed on an instrument or transaction entered into or made by the
Queensland Investment Corporation established under the Queensland Investment
Corporation Act 1991.
 
Exemption—Queensland Treasury Corporation and its affiliates
*** 431A Exemption—Queensland Treasury Corporation and its affiliates ***
     (1) This section applies to a financial arrangement, or other
     arrangement, entered into or made by the Queensland Treasury
     Corporation or an affiliate of the corporation.
     (2) Subject to the conditions in subsection (3), duty is not imposed
     on an instrument or transaction that gives effect to, or is a part
     of, the arrangement.
     (3) The conditions are—
          (a) the corporation or affiliate must be a party to the
          instrument or transaction or another instrument or
          transaction that gives effect to, or is part of, the
          arrangement; and
          (b) the Treasurer must certify the arrangement has as its
          objective—
               (i) the advancement of the State’s financial
               interests; or
               (ii) the development of the State or a part of
               the State; or
               (iii) the benefit of persons, or a class of
               person, resident in or having or likely to have
               an association with the State.
     (4) In this section—

     "affiliate", of the Queensland Treasury Corporation, means an
     affiliate of the corporation under the Queensland Treasury
     Corporation Act 1988.

     "financial arrangement" means a financial arrangement under the
     Queensland Treasury Corporation Act 1988.

     "Queensland Treasury Corporation" means the Queensland Treasury
     Corporation constituted under the Queensland Treasury Corporation Act
     1988.
 
Exemption—particular dutiable transactions or relevant acquisitions for
Queensland Future (Debt Retirement) Fund
*** 431B Exemption—particular dutiable transactions or relevant acquisitions
for Queensland Future (Debt Retirement) Fund ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies in relation to a dutiable transaction or
     relevant acquisition that is, or is part of an arrangement that is,
     intended to advance the purpose of the Queensland Future (Debt
     Retirement) Fund.
     (2) Transfer duty or landholder duty is not imposed on the dutiable
     transaction or relevant acquisition if the transaction or acquisition
     is, or is part of an arrangement that is—
          (a) for making a contribution to, or an investment for the
          purpose of, the Queensland Future (Debt Retirement) Fund;
          or
          (b) for a purpose connected with, or arising out of—
               (i) a contribution or investment mentioned in
               paragraph (a); or
               (ii) an arrangement prescribed by regulation.
     (3) Also, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that
     is a trust acquisition of a unit in a unit trust if—
          (a) the trust acquisition is, or is part of an arrangement
          that is, intended to advance the purpose of the Queensland
          Future (Debt Retirement) Fund; and
          (b) each unit acquired in the unit trust is held solely and
          directly for the Queensland Future (Debt Retirement) Fund.
     (4) In addition, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable
     transaction that is a trust surrender of a unit in a unit trust if—
          (a) the trust surrender is part of an arrangement that is
          intended to advance the purpose of the Queensland Future
          (Debt Retirement) Fund; and
          (b) under the arrangement, the trust surrender of the unit
          is because of a trust acquisition of a unit in the unit
          trust for which an exemption under subsection (3) applies.
     (5) In this section—

     "Queensland Future (Debt Retirement) Fund" means the Queensland
     Future (Debt Retirement) Fund established under the Queensland Future
     Fund Act 2020.
 
Purpose and operation of ch 11
*** 432 Purpose and operation of ch 11 ***
     (1) The purpose of this chapter is to deter artificial, blatant or
     contrived schemes to reduce liability to duty.
     (2) Subject to subsection (1), nothing in this Act limits the
     operation of this chapter.
 
Application of ch 11
*** 433 Application of ch 11 ***
     (1) This chapter applies if—
          (a) an entity (the
          "avoider") has obtained, or would apart from this chapter
          obtain, a duty benefit from a scheme started to be carried
          out after the commencement of this chapter; and
          (b) taking into account the matters mentioned in section
          435, it is reasonable to conclude that an entity, whether
          alone or with others, that entered into or carried out the
          scheme, or part of the scheme, did so for the sole or
          dominant purpose of enabling the entity or another entity
          to obtain a duty benefit from the scheme.
     (2) It does not matter—
          (a) whether the scheme, or any part of the scheme is
          entered into or carried out inside or outside Queensland;
          or
          (b) whether or not the duty benefit the entity obtained is
          the same kind of duty benefit mentioned in subsection (1)
          (a).
     (3) However, despite subsection (1), this chapter does not apply in
     relation to a duty benefit that is attributable to an exemption or
     concession under this Act for duty, unless an entity entered into or
     carried out a scheme or part of a scheme for the sole or dominant
     purpose of creating a circumstance or state of affairs to which the
     exemption or concession would apply.
     (4) For this section, for deciding what was an entity’s sole or
     dominant purpose for entering into or carrying out a scheme or part
     of a scheme, any purpose relating to eliminating, reducing or
     postponing a liability for a foreign tax is to be disregarded.
     (5) In this section—

     "foreign tax" means a tax, duty or other impost imposed under a law
     of another State, the Commonwealth or a jurisdiction outside
     Australia.
 
When is a duty benefit obtained
*** 434 When is a duty benefit obtained ***
     (1) An entity obtains a
     "duty benefit" if an amount of duty payable by the entity under this
     Act apart from this chapter is, or could reasonably be expected to
     be, less than it would have been apart from the scheme or a part of
     the scheme.
     (2) The amount of the duty benefit is the difference between the
     amount of duty payable and the amount of duty that would have been
     payable apart from the scheme or part of the scheme.
 
Matters to be considered in deciding purpose for scheme
*** 435 Matters to be considered in deciding purpose for scheme ***
     (1) For section 433, the following matters must be taken into account
     in deciding an entity’s purpose in entering into or carrying out
     the scheme from which the avoider obtained, or would obtain, a duty
     benefit—
          (a) the way in which the scheme was entered into or carried
          out;
          (b) the form and substance of the scheme, including—
               (i) the legal rights and obligations involved in
               the scheme; and
               (ii) the economic and commercial substance of the
               scheme;
          (c) when the scheme was entered into and the length of the
          period during which the scheme was carried out;
          (d) the purpose of this Act or a provision of this Act,
          whether or not the purpose is expressly stated;
          (e) the effect that this Act would have in relation to the
          scheme apart from this chapter;
          (f) any change in the avoider’s financial position that
          has resulted, will result, or may reasonably be expected to
          result from the scheme;
          (g) any change in the financial position of any person who
          has, or has had, any connection, whether of a business,
          family or other nature, with the avoider, being a change
          that has resulted, will result, or may reasonably be
          expected to result from the scheme;
          (h) any other consequence for the avoider or a person
          mentioned in paragraph (g) of the scheme having been
          entered into or carried out;
          (i) the nature of the connection, whether of a business,
          family or other nature, between the avoider and any person
          mentioned in paragraph (g);
          (j) the circumstances surrounding the scheme.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies for considering an entity’s purpose in
     entering into or carrying out part of a scheme from which the avoider
     obtains, or would obtain, a duty benefit, as if the part were itself
     the scheme from which the avoider obtains, or would obtain, the
     benefit.
 
Assessments because of duty benefit from scheme
*** 436 Assessments because of duty benefit from scheme ***
     (1) If a duty benefit has been obtained, or would apart from this
     chapter be obtained, by the avoider from a scheme, the commissioner
     may decide that the amount of the duty benefit is payable as duty as
     decided by the commissioner.
     (2) The commissioner must—
          (a) give notice of the decision, and the reasons for the
          decision, to the avoider; and
          (b) make an assessment of duty on the basis of the
          decision.
          Note—
               For objections and appeals against assessments,
               see the Administration Act, part 6.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if the commissioner—
          (a) has made an assessment under subsection (2); and
          (b) is satisfied—
               (i) a person, other than the avoider is liable to
               duty that would not have been assessed if the
               scheme had not been entered into or carried out;
               and
               (ii) it would be fair and reasonable that the
               amount or part of the amount of duty should not
               have been assessed.
     (4) Despite the limitation period under the Administration Act for
     reassessments, the commissioner must, for the other person, make a
     reassessment on the basis that the amount or part of the amount of
     duty is not payable.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 3 (Assessments
               of tax), division 3 (Reassessments).
     (5) For the reassessment, the other person must lodge the instruments
     required for the original assessment.
 
Application for registration to carry on particular businesses
*** 437 Application for registration to carry on particular businesses ***
     (1) A person may apply to be registered to carry on business in
     Queensland as an insurer.
     (2) The application must be made to the commissioner in the approved
     form.
 
Registration to carry on business
*** 438 Registration to carry on business ***
On receipt of the application, the commissioner must register the person to
carry on the business.
 
Registration as self assessor
*** 439 Registration as self assessor ***
On registration of the person to carry on the business, the commissioner must
also register the person as a self assessor for duty on instruments or
transactions to which the person is or becomes a party for carrying on the
business.
 
Notice of registration
*** 440 Notice of registration ***
     (1) The commissioner must give notice to the person of the person’s
     registration to carry on the business and as a self assessor.
     (2) The notice must state the following—
          (a) the date of registration;
          (b) the dates for lodging returns, and for paying duty, by
          the self assessor;
          (c) the periods to be covered by the returns;
          (d) the records required to be kept relating to the
          instruments and transactions to which the registration
          relates;
          (e) the types of reassessments the self assessor is
          required or permitted to make;
          (f) whether the self assessor is permitted to remit the
          whole or part of unpaid tax interest or penalty tax.
 
Application for registration
*** 441 Application for registration ***
     (1) A person may apply to the commissioner to be registered as a self
     assessor for duty on particular instruments or transactions to which
     the person is or becomes a party.
     (2) The application must be in the approved form.
 
Decision on application
*** 442 Decision on application ***
The commissioner must approve or refuse the application for registration.
 
Approval of application
*** 443 Approval of application ***
If the commissioner approves the application, the commissioner must register
the person as a self assessor for duty on the instruments or transactions
mentioned in the application.
 
Registration of self assessor without application
*** 444 Registration of self assessor without application ***
The commissioner may, by notice given to a person, register the person as a
self assessor for duty on particular instruments or transactions to which the
person is or becomes a party.
 
Notice of registration
*** 445 Notice of registration ***
     (1) On registration of a person as a self assessor, the commissioner
     must give notice to the person of the registration.
     (2) The notice must state the following—
          (a) the date of registration;
          (b) the instruments and transactions to which the
          registration relates and for which returns or transaction
          statements are required or permitted to be lodged;
          (c) the dates for lodging returns, and for paying duty, by
          the self assessor;
          (ca) the dates for lodging transaction statements by the
          self assessor and the dates for paying duty;
          (d) the periods to be covered by the returns;
          (e) the documents required to accompany the returns or
          transaction statements;
          (f) the records required to be kept relating to the
          instruments and transactions;
          (g) any endorsements to be made on the instruments or ELN
          transaction documents;
          (h) the types of reassessments the self assessor is
          required or permitted to make;
          (i) whether the self assessor is permitted to remit the
          whole or part of unpaid tax interest or penalty tax;
          (j) the self assessor’s client number.
     (3) However, a matter mentioned in subsection (2) may, instead of
     being stated in the notice, be stated in a document issued by the
     commissioner and accompanying the notice.
     (4) A matter mentioned in subsection (2) and stated in a document
     mentioned in subsection (3) is taken to have been stated in the
     notice.
 
Refusal of application
*** 446 Refusal of application ***
If the commissioner refuses the application, the commissioner must give the
applicant an information notice for the decision.
 
Restriction on assessment by commissioner
*** 447 Restriction on assessment by commissioner ***
     (1) A self assessor who, under the self assessor’s notice of
     registration, is required to lodge returns or transaction statements
     for particular instruments or transactions, must not lodge an
     instrument, or an instrument or ELN transaction document for the
     transaction, of that type for assessment by the commissioner.
     (2) This section has effect subject to the Administration Act,
     section 11 (2) (a).
 
Application for registration
*** 448 Application for registration ***
     (1) A person who, in the ordinary course of business, acts as an
     agent for parties to instruments or transactions on which duty is
     imposed may apply to be registered as a self assessor for the duty on
     the instruments or transactions.
     (2) The application must be in the approved form.
 
Decision on application
*** 449 Decision on application ***
The commissioner must approve or refuse the application.
 
Approval of application
*** 450 Approval of application ***
If the commissioner approves the application, the commissioner must register
the person as a self assessor for duty on the instruments or transactions
mentioned in the application.
 
Registration of self assessor without application
*** 451 Registration of self assessor without application ***
The commissioner may, by notice given to a person who, in the ordinary course
of business, acts as an agent for parties to instruments or transactions on
which duty is imposed, register the person as a self assessor for the duty on
the instruments or transactions.
 
Notice of registration
*** 452 Notice of registration ***
     (1) On registration of a person as a self assessor, the commissioner
     must give notice to the person of the registration.
     (2) The notice must state the following—
          (a) the date of registration;
          (b) the instruments and transactions to which the
          registration relates and for which returns or transaction
          statements are required or permitted to be lodged;
          (c) the dates for lodging returns, and for paying duty, by
          the self assessor;
          (ca) the dates for lodging transaction statements by the
          self assessor and the dates for paying duty;
          (d) the periods to be covered by the returns;
          (e) the documents required to accompany the returns or
          transaction statements;
          (f) the records required to be kept relating to the
          instruments and transactions;
          (g) any endorsements to be made on the instruments or ELN
          transaction documents;
          (h) the types of reassessments the self assessor is
          required or permitted to make;
          (i) whether the self assessor is permitted to remit the
          whole or part of unpaid tax interest or penalty tax;
          (j) the self assessor’s client number.
     (3) However, a matter mentioned in subsection (2) may, instead of
     being stated in the notice, be stated in a document issued by the
     commissioner and accompanying the notice.
     (4) A matter mentioned in subsection (2) and stated in a document
     mentioned in subsection (3) is taken to have been stated in the
     notice.
 
Refusal of application
*** 453 Refusal of application ***
If the commissioner refuses the application, the commissioner must give the
applicant an information notice for the decision.
 
Restriction on assessment by commissioner
*** 454 Restriction on assessment by commissioner ***
     (1) A self assessor who, under the self assessor’s notice of
     registration, is required to lodge returns or transaction statements
     for particular instruments or transactions, must not lodge an
     instrument, or an instrument or ELN transaction document for the
     transaction, of that type for assessment by the commissioner.
     (2) This section has effect subject to the Administration Act,
     section 11 (2) (a).
 
Lodging returns
*** 455 Lodging returns ***
     (1) A self assessor registered under part 2 or 3 must for return self
     assessments—
          (a) lodge returns, and documents required to accompany
          returns, for the return periods as required by the notice
          of the self assessor’s registration; and
          (b) pay any duty, assessed interest and penalty tax to the
          commissioner when each return is lodged; and
          (c) stamp the instruments to which each return relates by
          endorsing them in the way mentioned in subsection (2) not
          later than when the duty, assessed interest and penalty tax
          on the instruments has been paid to the commissioner.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     Note—
          For provisions about payments by self assessors who are tax
          agents under the Administration Act, see section 35 of that
          Act.
     (1A) Subsection (1) (c) does not apply if the self assessor’s
     notice of registration states that no endorsements are required on
     the instruments.
     (2) For subsection (1) (c) —
          (a) an instrument for which duty is imposed must be
          endorsed—
               (i) if the self assessor’s notice of
               registration states the way in which the
               instrument must be endorsed—in the way stated;
               or
               (ii) otherwise, with the following—
                    (A) a reference to this Act’s short
                    title;
                    (B) the self assessor’s client
                    number;
                    (C) the transaction number for the
                    instrument;
                    (D) the amounts of any duty, assessed
                    interest and penalty tax paid on the
                    instrument;
                    (E) the date the endorsement is made;
                    (F) the signature of the individual
                    completing the endorsement; and
          (b) another instrument must be endorsed in the way stated
          in the self assessor’s notice of registration.
     (3) However, a self assessor registered under part 3, does not have
     to comply with subsection (1) to the extent that the self assessor
     has not received payment of duty, assessed interest or penalty tax by
     the persons liable to pay it.
 
Lodging transaction statements
*** 455A Lodging transaction statements ***
     (1) A self assessor registered under part 2 or 3 must for a standard
     self assessment—
          (a) lodge a transaction statement, and the documents
          required to accompany the statement, for an instrument or
          transaction as required by the notice of the self
          assessor’s registration; and
          (b) stamp the instrument or ELN transaction document to
          which the transaction statement relates by endorsing it in
          the way mentioned in subsection (4) —
               (i) for a self assessor registered under part 2
               —not later than when the duty, assessed
               interest and penalty tax on the instrument or
               transaction are paid by the self assessor to the
               commissioner; or
               (ii) for a self assessor registered under part 3
               —
                    (A) if the duty, assessed interest and
                    penalty tax on the instrument or
                    transaction are received by the self
                    assessor—not later than when the
                    duty, assessed interest and penalty tax
                    are paid by the self assessor to the
                    commissioner; or
                    (B) otherwise—within 1 day after the
                    self assessor becomes aware that the
                    duty, assessed interest and penalty tax
                    on the instrument or transaction have
                    been paid to the commissioner.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     Notes—
               1 For provisions about payments by self assessors
               who are tax agents under the Administration Act,
               see section 35 of that Act.
               2 For when a self assessor is taken to have
               stamped an ELN transaction document, see
               subsection (7).
     (1A) Subsection (1) (b) does not apply if the self assessor’s
     notice of registration states that no endorsements are required on
     the instruments or ELN transaction documents.
     (2) For subsection (1) (a), if the self assessor is registered under
     part 2, the self assessor must lodge the transaction statement and
     documents by the date that is 30 days after the date liability for
     duty for the instrument or transaction arises.
     (3) For subsection (1) (a), if the self assessor is registered under
     part 3, the self assessor must lodge the transaction statement and
     documents by the later of the following dates—
          (a) the date that is 30 days after the date liability for
          duty for the instrument or transaction arises;
          (b) the date that is 7 days after the self assessor
          receives, under section 471E (1) (a), all instruments and
          other documents relating to the instrument or transaction.
     (4) For subsection (1) (b) —
          (a) an instrument or ELN transaction document for which
          duty is imposed must be endorsed—
               (i) if the self assessor’s notice of
               registration states the way in which the
               instrument or ELN transaction document must be
               endorsed—in the way stated; or
               (ii) otherwise, with the following—
                    (A) a reference to this Act’s short
                    title;
                    (B) the self assessor’s client
                    number;
                    (C) the transaction number for the
                    instrument or ELN transaction document;
                    (D) the amounts of any duty, assessed
                    interest and penalty tax paid on the
                    instrument or ELN transaction document;
                    (E) the date the endorsement is made;
                    (F) the signature of the individual
                    completing the endorsement; and
          (b) another instrument must be endorsed in the way stated
          in the self assessor’s notice of registration.
     (5) Subsection (4) (a) (ii) (F) does not apply to an ELN transaction
     document.
     (6) Subsection (7) applies if—
          (a) a self assessor registered under part 2 or 3 validly
          assigns a transaction number to an ELN transaction document
          for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement; or
          (b) a transaction number is assigned to an ELN transaction
          document for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement, and notified
          to a self assessor registered under part 2 or 3, by a
          system administered by the commissioner.
     (7) For subsection (1) (b), the ELN transaction document is taken to
     have been stamped by the self assessor immediately after the ELN
     workspace for the ELN transfer or ELN lodgement is locked.
          Note—
               An endorsement of an ELN transaction document
               stops having effect if the ELN workspace for the
               ELN transfer or ELN lodgement is unlocked—see
               section 156W.
     (8) Subsection (7) does not affect the self assessor’s compliance
     with the requirements mentioned in subsection (4).
 
When self assessor may make reassessments
*** 456 When self assessor may make reassessments ***
     (1) A self assessor may make a reassessment only if—
          (a) the assessor is required or permitted under the
          assessor’s notice of registration; and
          (b) the assessor is satisfied the duty imposed under a self
          assessment is not correct.
     (2) A self assessor must not make a self assessment of a reassessment
     made by the commissioner.
 
Amendment of self assessor’s registration
*** 464 Amendment of self assessor’s registration ***
     (1) The commissioner may amend a self assessor’s registration by
     notice given to the self assessor.
     (2) The notice must state the particulars of the self assessor’s
     notice of registration that are amended.
     (3) If the commissioner amends a self assessor’s registration, the
     commissioner must give the self assessor an information notice for
     the decision.
 
Grounds for suspension or cancellation
*** 465 Grounds for suspension or cancellation ***
Each of the following is a ground for suspending or cancelling a self
assessor’s registration—
     (a) the self assessor or a representative of the self assessor has
     been convicted of an offence against this Act, the Administration Act
     or the repealed Act;
     (b) the self assessor or a representative of the self assessor has
     contravened a provision of this Act or the repealed Act (being a
     provision a contravention of which is not an offence against this
     Act, the Administration Act or the repealed Act);
     (c) the self assessor was registered because of a materially false or
     misleading representation or declaration;
     (d) the self assessor has been given a notice under section 488 (2)
     and has failed to pay—
          (i) the penalty amount by the date for payment stated in
          the notice; or
          (ii) if the commissioner enters into an arrangement for
          payment of the penalty amount by instalments under section
          488 (5) —an instalment by the date the instalment is
          required to be paid under the arrangement;
     (e) if section 470 applies to the self assessor—the self assessor
     has failed to give notice to the commissioner as required under
     section 470 (3);
     (f) each of the following applies—
          (i) the self assessor has endorsed an ELN transaction
          document on the basis that section 22 (2A) applies to the
          ELN transfer;
          (ii) the ELN transaction document is registered under the
          Land Title Act 1994;
          (iii) the commitment amount for the payment commitment made
          for the relevant transfer agreement was not paid to the
          commissioner in full as required;
     (g) the commissioner reasonably believes that, having regard to the
     self assessor’s conduct, the self assessor’s registration poses
     an unacceptable risk that the self assessor will not comply with an
     obligation under this Act or the Administration Act.
 
Show cause notice
*** 466 Show cause notice ***
     (1) If the commissioner believes a ground exists to suspend or cancel
     a self assessor’s registration, the commissioner may give the self
     assessor a notice under this section (a
     "show cause notice").
     (2) The show cause notice must state the following—
          (a) the commissioner proposes to suspend or cancel the self
          assessor’s registration (the
          "proposed action");
          (b) the grounds for the proposed action;
          (c) an outline of the facts and circumstances forming the
          basis for the grounds;
          (d) if the proposed action is suspension of
          registration—the proposed suspension period;
          (e) an invitation to the self assessor to show within a
          stated period (the
          "show cause period") why the proposed action should not be
          taken.
     (3) The show cause period must be a period ending at least 21 days
     after the show cause notice is given to the self assessor.
 
Representations about show cause notices
*** 467 Representations about show cause notices ***
     (1) The self assessor may make representations about the show cause
     notice to the commissioner in the show cause period.
     (2) The commissioner must consider all written representations (the
     "accepted representations") made under subsection (1).
 
Ending show cause process without further action
*** 468 Ending show cause process without further action ***
     (1) This section applies if, after considering the accepted
     representations for the show cause notice, the commissioner no longer
     believes a ground exists to suspend or cancel the self assessor’s
     registration.
     (1A) Also, this section applies if—
          (a) the ground mentioned in section 465 (f) is the only
          ground for the proposed action stated in the show cause
          notice; and
          (b) after considering the accepted representations for the
          show cause notice, the commissioner is reasonably satisfied
          the reason the commitment amount was not paid to the
          commissioner in full as required was beyond the self
          assessor’s control.
          Example for subsection (1A)—
               The commitment amount was not paid because an ELN
               system occurrence prevented the ELN distributing
               funds for duty, assessed interest or penalty tax.
     (2) The commissioner must not take any further action about the show
     cause notice.
     (3) Notice that no further action is to be taken about the show cause
     notice must be given to the self assessor by the commissioner.
 
Suspension or cancellation of registration
*** 469 Suspension or cancellation of registration ***
     (1) This section applies if, after considering the accepted
     representations for the show cause notice, the commissioner—
          (a) still believes a ground exists to suspend or cancel the
          self assessor’s registration; and
          (b) believes suspension or cancellation of the self
          assessor’s registration is warranted.
     (2) This section also applies if there are no accepted
     representations for the show cause notice.
     (3) The commissioner may—
          (a) if the proposed action stated in the show cause notice
          was to suspend the self assessor’s registration for a
          stated period—suspend the registration for not longer
          than the stated period; or
          (b) if the proposed action stated in the show cause notice
          was to cancel the self assessor’s registration—either
          cancel the registration or suspend the self assessor for a
          period.
     (4) The commissioner must immediately give the self assessor an
     information notice for the decision.
     (5) The decision takes effect on—
          (a) the day the information notice is given to the self
          assessor; or
          (b) if a later day of effect is stated in the information
          notice—the later day.
 
Immediate suspension
*** 469A Immediate suspension ***
     (1) This section applies if the commissioner reasonably believes—
          (a) a ground exists for suspending or cancelling a self
          assessor’s registration; and
          (b) the self assessor’s registration must be suspended
          immediately to—
               (i) ensure the integrity of the self assessment
               system is not jeopardised; or
               (ii) remove an immediate, unacceptable risk that
               the self assessor will not comply with an
               obligation under this Act or the Administration
               Act.
     (2) The commissioner may decide to immediately suspend the self
     assessor’s registration.
     (3) The commissioner must give the self assessor an information
     notice for the decision.
     (4) The information notice must include the period of the suspension.
          Note—
               See also schedule 6, definition information
               notice for other matters the information notice
               must state.
     (5) The suspension—
          (a) starts immediately after the self assessor is given the
          information notice; and
          (b) ends on the earliest of the following—
               (i) the day that is 56 days after the day on
               which the period started;
               (ii) a decision is made by the commissioner under
               section 469 about a show cause notice given to
               the self assessor;
               (iii) notice is given by the commissioner to the
               self assessor ending the suspension under
               subsection (6).
     (6) During the period of the suspension, if the commissioner no
     longer believes subsection (1) (a) or (b) is satisfied, the
     commissioner must end the suspension by giving notice to the self
     assessor stating the suspension has ended.
     (7) In this section—

     "self assessment system" means the system under this Act and the
     Administration Act for—
          (a) the registration of persons as self assessors; and
          (b) the making of self assessments, payments of duty, and
          compliance with other obligations under the Act s, by self
          assessors.
 
Suspension or cancellation of registration—ceasing to carry on business
*** 470 Suspension or cancellation of registration—ceasing to carry on
business ***
     (1) This section applies if a self assessor registered under part 1
     or 3 permanently ceases to carry on, in Queensland, the business for
     which the self assessor is registered.
     (2) Also, this section applies if a self assessor registered under
     part 3 temporarily ceases to carry on, in Queensland, the business
     for which the self assessor is registered.
     (3) Within 14 days after the ceasing to carry on the business, the
     self assessor must give notice of the ceasing to the commissioner.
     (4) If the self assessor is a self assessor mentioned in subsection
     (2), the notice given under subsection (3) must state the period (the

     "temporary cessation period") for which the self assessor will
     temporarily cease to carry on the business.
     (5) On receiving the notice, the commissioner must give notice to the
     self assessor stating—
          (a) for a self assessor registered under part 1 —the self
          assessor’s registration to carry on the business and as
          self assessor is cancelled effective from the day stated in
          the notice; or
          (b) for a self assessor registered under part 3 —
               (i) if the self assessor permanently ceases to
               carry on the business—the self assessor’s
               registration is cancelled effective from the day
               stated in the notice; or
               (ii) if the self assessor temporarily ceases to
               carry on the business—the self assessor’s
               registration is suspended for the period stated
               in the notice.
     (6) For subsection (5) (b) (ii), the period stated in the notice must
     not be longer than the temporary cessation period.
 
Cancellation of registration—type of duty abolished
*** 470A Cancellation of registration—type of duty abolished ***
     (1) The commissioner may cancel a self assessor’s registration if
     the type of duty to which the registration relates is no longer
     imposed under this Act.
     (2) If the commissioner cancels a self assessor’s registration, the
     commissioner must give notice to the self assessor that the
     registration is cancelled effective from the date stated in the
     notice.
     (3) Sections 466 to 469 do not apply in relation to the cancellation
     of a self assessor’s registration under this section.
 
Who is a liable party
*** 471A Who is a liable party ***
A party to an instrument or transaction who is liable to pay duty on it is a
"liable party" to the instrument or transaction.
 
What is a relevant lodgement requirement
*** 471B What is a relevant lodgement requirement ***
     (1) A
     "relevant lodgement requirement" for an instrument or transaction is
     a lodgement requirement, within the meaning of the Administration
     Act, that applies to the instrument or a document for the instrument
     or transaction.
     (2) However, a requirement under this Act to lodge a return or
     transaction statement for a self assessment for the instrument or
     transaction is not a relevant lodgement requirement.
     (3) For subsection (2), a return for a self assessment does not
     include another document that is, under a provision of this Act,
     taken to be a return for a self assessment.
          Example of another document taken to be a return—
               a statement under section 370 (4) (a) or 372 (1)
               (a)
 
Application of pt 2
*** 471C Application of pt 2 ***
     (1) This part applies to an instrument or transaction for which a
     liable party engages a self assessor who is—
          (a) registered under chapter 12, part 3; and
          (b) required or permitted under the self assessor’s
          notice of registration to lodge returns or transaction
          statements for the instrument or transaction.
     (2) However, if the self assessor is not permitted to make a
     reassessment of duty on the instrument or transaction, this part does
     not apply to the instrument or transaction for the making of the
     reassessment.
 
Effect of engagement of self assessor on relevant lodgement requirement
*** 471D Effect of engagement of self assessor on relevant lodgement
requirement ***
A relevant lodgement requirement for the instrument or transaction does not
apply for the instrument or transaction.
 
Liable party must give documents, and pay duty, to self assessor
*** 471E Liable party must give documents, and pay duty, to self assessor ***
     (1) A liable party to the instrument or transaction must, not later
     than the date mentioned in subsection (2) —
          (a) ensure that the self assessor is given all instruments
          and other documents relating to the instrument or
          transaction to which a relevant lodgement requirement for
          the instrument or transaction would apply if section 471D
          did not apply; and
          (b) for a return self assessment—pay to the self assessor
          the amount of the duty, assessed interest and penalty tax
          on the instrument or transaction.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (2) For subsection (1), the date is—
          (a) for a return self assessment—the return date for
          lodgement by the self assessor of a return, and any
          document required to accompany the return, for the
          instrument or transaction; or
          (b) for a standard self assessment—the date that is 30
          days after the date liability for duty for the instrument
          or transaction arises.
     (3) The liable party complies with subsection (1) (a) only if—
          (a) all instruments or documents required to be given to
          the self assessor under the subsection have been given as
          required under section 471F; and
          (b) for a document required under the subsection to be
          given as an approved form—the form contains enough
          information for the purpose for which it is given.
     (4) To remove doubt, it is declared that compliance with subsection
     (1) (b) does not limit the party’s liability to pay unpaid tax
     interest on the duty payable on the instrument or transaction.
 
Liability not discharged until commissioner receives payment
*** 471EA Liability not discharged until commissioner receives payment ***
     (1) This section applies to the liability of a liable party to the
     instrument or transaction to pay an amount of duty, assessed interest
     or penalty tax on the instrument or transaction.
     (2) The liability is not discharged until the amount is paid to the
     commissioner.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies even though the liable party has paid the
     amount to the self assessor.
 
Giving documents to self assessor
*** 471F Giving documents to self assessor ***
     (1) A document is given by a liable party to a self assessor only if
     the document is—
          (a) left at an office of the self assessor; or
          (b) sent by post to the self assessor.
     (2) A document given to the self assessor in the way mentioned in
     subsection (1) (a) is taken to be given to the self assessor when it
     is actually received by the self assessor.
          Note—
               For the time of giving a document by post, see
               the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 39A (1)
               (b).
 
Prohibition on giving false or misleading documents to self assessor
*** 471G Prohibition on giving false or misleading documents to self assessor
***
     (1) A liable party to the instrument or transaction must not give the
     instrument or a document relating to the instrument or transaction to
     the self assessor if the instrument or document contains information
     the party knows, or should reasonably know, is false or misleading in
     a material particular.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     Note—
          This provision is an executive liability provision under
          the Taxation Administration Act 2001, section 140.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a liable party who, when giving
     the instrument or document to the self assessor—
          (a) tells the self assessor of the extent to which the
          instrument or document is false or misleading; and
          (b) to the extent the party has, or can reasonably get, the
          correct information—gives the correct information to the
          self assessor.
     (3) It is enough for a complaint against a person for an offence
     against subsection (1) to state the instrument or document was
     ‘false or misleading’, without specifying which.
 
Prohibition on giving false or misleading information to self assessor
*** 471H Prohibition on giving false or misleading information to self assessor
***
     (1) A liable party to the instrument or transaction must not state to
     the self assessor anything relating to the instrument or transaction
     that the party knows is false or misleading in a material particular.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     Note—
          This provision is an executive liability provision under
          the Taxation Administration Act 2001, section 140.
     (2) It is enough for a complaint against a person for an offence
     against subsection (1) to state the statement made was ‘false or
     misleading’, without specifying which.
 
Application of pt 3
*** 471I Application of pt 3 ***
     (1) This part applies to an instrument or transaction for which there
     is a self assessor who is—
          (a) registered under chapter 12, part 2; and
          (b) required or permitted under the self assessor’s
          notice of registration to lodge returns or transaction
          statements for the instrument or transaction.
     (2) However, if the self assessor is not permitted to make a
     reassessment of duty on the instrument or transaction, this part does
     not apply to the instrument or transaction for the making of the
     reassessment.
 
Effect of engagement of self assessor on relevant lodgement requirement
*** 471J Effect of engagement of self assessor on relevant lodgement
requirement ***
A relevant lodgement requirement for the instrument or transaction does not
apply for the instrument or transaction if—
     (a) the self assessor is required to lodge a return or transaction
     statement for the instrument or transaction; or
     (b) the self assessor—
          (i) is permitted to lodge a return or transaction statement
          for the instrument or transaction; and
          (ii) includes the instrument or transaction in a return
          lodged as required under section 455, or lodges a
          transaction statement for the instrument or transaction
          under section 455A.
 
Applying for a review of an original decision
*** 472 Applying for a review of an original decision ***
     (1) A dissatisfied person may apply for a review of an original
     decision.
          Note—
               For objections and appeals against assessments of
               duty, see the Administration Act, part 6.
     (2) The application must—
          (a) be made to the commissioner within 28 days after the
          applicant receives notice of the decision; and
          (b) state fully and in detail the grounds of the review.
     (3) If the commissioner is satisfied a dissatisfied person has a
     reasonable excuse for failing to apply for a review within the 28 day
     period, the commissioner may extend the time for applying for the
     review.
     (4) The application does not stay the original decision.
 
Deciding review
*** 473 Deciding review ***
     (1) After considering the application, the commissioner may make a
     decision (the
     "review decision") to—
          (a) confirm the decision; or
          (b) set aside the decision and substitute another decision.
     (2) If the original decision was made by a delegate of the
     commissioner, the delegate must not decide the application.
 
Notice of review decision
*** 474 Notice of review decision ***
     (1) The commissioner must give notice to the applicant of the review
     decision.
     (2) The notice must comply with the QCAT Act, section 157 (2).
 
Applying for review by QCAT of a review decision
*** 475 Applying for review by QCAT of a review decision ***
The applicant for the review of the original decision who is dissatisfied with
the review decision may apply, as provided under the QCAT Act, to QCAT for a
review of the review decision.
 
QCAT to decide external review on evidence given in the proceeding for the
review
*** 476 QCAT to decide external review on evidence given in the proceeding for
the review ***
     (1) This section applies to a proceeding for a review by QCAT of a
     review decision.
     (2) QCAT must—
          (a) hear and decide the review of the decision by way of a
          reconsideration of the evidence before the commissioner
          when the decision was made, unless QCAT considers it
          necessary in the interests of justice to allow new
          evidence; and
          (b) decide the review of the decision in accordance with
          the same law that applied to the making of the original
          decision to which the proceeding for the review relates.
     (3) The grounds for the review by QCAT are limited to the grounds of
     the review by the commissioner, unless QCAT orders otherwise.
     (4) If QCAT decides, under the QCAT Act, section 139, that the
     proceeding should be reopened, the issues in the proceeding that are
     reheard must be—
          (a) heard and decided by way of a reconsideration of the
          evidence given in the proceeding for the review of the
          decision; and
          (b) decided in accordance with the same law that applied to
          the making of the original decision to which the proceeding
          for the review relates.
     (5) In this section—

     "new evidence" means evidence that was not before the commissioner
     when the review decision was made.
 
Representation of parties before QCAT
*** 477 Representation of parties before QCAT ***
     (1) This section applies to a party in a proceeding before QCAT
     relating to an application under section 475.
     (2) The party may be represented by a lawyer.
 
Offences about self assessments—endorsements of instruments
*** 480 Offences about self assessments—endorsements of instruments ***
     (1) A self assessor registered under chapter 12, part 2, must not
     endorse an instrument under section 455 or 455A unless the amount of
     duty and any assessed interest and penalty tax has—
          (a) if paragraph (b) does not apply—been paid to the
          commissioner; or
          (b) if the self assessor is a financial institution and the
          instrument is a mortgage under which the self assessor is
          the mortgagee—been received by the self assessor.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—200 penalty units.
     Note—
          This provision is an executive liability provision under
          the Taxation Administration Act 2001, section 140.
     (2) A self assessor registered under chapter 12, part 3, must not
     endorse an instrument under section 455 or 455A unless the amount of
     duty and any assessed interest and penalty tax has been paid to the
     commissioner or received by the self assessor.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—200 penalty units.
     Note—
          This provision is an executive liability provision under
          the Taxation Administration Act 2001, section 140.
 
Offences about self assessments—endorsements of ELN transaction documents
*** 480A Offences about self assessments—endorsements of ELN transaction
documents ***
     (1) A self assessor registered under chapter 12, part 2 or 3 must not
     endorse an ELN transaction document for an ELN transfer or ELN
     lodgement under section 455A on the basis that section 22 (2) applies
     to the ELN transfer or ELN lodgement unless the duty amount for the
     agreement for the transfer of dutiable property has been—
          (a) if the self assessor is registered under chapter 12,
          part 2 —paid to the commissioner; or
          (b) if the self assessor is registered under chapter 12,
          part 3 —paid to the commissioner or received by the self
          assessor.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—200 penalty units.
     Note—
          This provision is an executive liability provision under
          the Administration Act, section 140.
     (2) A self assessor registered under chapter 12, part 2 or 3 must not
     endorse an ELN transaction document for an ELN transfer under section
     455A on the basis that section 22 (2A) applies to the ELN transfer
     unless a payment commitment has been made for the relevant transfer
     agreement.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—200 penalty units.
     Note—
          This provision is an executive liability provision under
          the Administration Act, section 140.
     (3) However, a self assessor does not commit an offence against this
     section only because—
          (a) the self assessor endorses an ELN transaction document
          for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement; and
          (b) either—
               (i) for an ELN transfer—the ELN transfer
               becomes an incomplete ELN transfer within the
               meaning of chapter 2, part 15; or
               (ii) for an ELN lodgement—the ELN lodgement
               becomes an incomplete ELN lodgement within the
               meaning of chapter 2, part 15.
     (4) In this section—

     "duty amount", for an agreement for the transfer of dutiable
     property, means the amount of duty and any assessed interest and
     penalty tax imposed on the agreement.
 
Offence for person other than self assessor to endorse instrument or ELN
transaction document
*** 481 Offence for person other than self assessor to endorse instrument or
ELN transaction document ***
     (1) A person must not make any notation or endorsement on an
     instrument or ELN transaction document indicating or implying duty
     has been paid for the instrument or ELN transaction document unless
     the person is authorised to do so under this Act.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—200 penalty units.
     Note—
          This provision is an executive liability provision under
          the Administration Act, section 140.
     (2) A person does not commit an offence against subsection (1) if the
     person makes a notation on an ELN transaction document required under
     the Electronic Conveyancing National Law (Queensland) for the
     completion of an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement.
     (3) In this section—

     "make", a notation or endorsement on an ELN transaction document,
     includes enter information into the ELN workspace for the ELN
     transfer or ELN lodgement to which the ELN transaction document
     relates.
 
Offence to endorse instrument or ELN transaction document incorrectly or
illegibly
*** 481A Offence to endorse instrument or ELN transaction document incorrectly
or illegibly ***
     (1) This section applies if an instrument or ELN transaction document
     is endorsed—
          (a) by a self assessor registered under chapter 12, part 2
          or 3 or an officer or employee of a self assessor
          registered under chapter 12, part 2 or 3; or
          (b) by someone else in contravention of section 481.
     (2) The person making the endorsement commits an offence if—
          (a) for a person mentioned in subsection (1) (a), the
          endorsement incorrectly states—
               (i) the self assessor’s client number; or
               (ii) the transaction number for the instrument or
               ELN transaction document; or
          (b) for a person mentioned in subsection (1) (b), the
          endorsement states a number purporting to be—
               (i) a client number; or
               (ii) a transaction number for the instrument or
               ELN transaction document; or
          (c) the endorsement incorrectly states the amount of duty,
          assessed interest or penalty tax paid on the instrument or
          ELN transaction document; or
          (d) the endorsement contains other information that the
          person knows, or should reasonably know, is false or
          misleading in a material particular; or
          (e) the person—
               (i) obscures all or part of the endorsement; or
               (ii) otherwise makes all or part of the
               endorsement illegible.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     Note—
          This provision is an executive liability provision under
          the Taxation Administration Act 2001, section 140.
     (3) However, the person does not commit an offence against subsection
     (2) (c) in relation to an endorsement made on an ELN transaction
     document for an ELN transfer only because—
          (a) the endorsement was made on the basis that section 22
          (2A) applies to the ELN transfer; and
          (b) when the endorsement was made, the commitment amount
          for the payment commitment had not been paid to the
          commissioner.
 
Obligations relating to unstamped instruments or ELN transaction documents
*** 482 Obligations relating to unstamped instruments or ELN transaction
documents ***
     (1) A person who acts under an instrument or ELN transaction document
     that has not been properly stamped must immediately give notice in
     the approved form to the commissioner.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—200 penalty units.
     (2) However, a person does not commit an offence against subsection
     (1) if the person proves the person did not know and could not
     reasonably have been expected to have known that—
          (a) duty is imposed on the instrument or transaction to
          which it relates; or
          (b) the instrument or ELN transaction document was not
          properly stamped.
 
Registration of instruments and transactions
*** 483 Registration of instruments and transactions ***
A person must not record an instrument or transaction in a register of
interests in property unless the instrument or ELN transaction document that
effects or evidences the transaction, or the instrument, is properly stamped.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
 
Registration of instrument relating to an interest in a corporation
*** 484 Registration of instrument relating to an interest in a corporation ***
A person must not enter in the records of a corporation or society an
instrument that effects or evidences a relevant acquisition under chapter 3,
part 1 or 2, unless the instrument is properly stamped.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
 
Registration of instrument disposing of units in unit trust etc.
*** 485 Registration of instrument disposing of units in unit trust etc. ***
The trustee or responsible entity of a unit trust must not record in the
trust’s records an instrument that effects or evidences a trust acquisition
or trust surrender of units in a unit trust, unless the instrument is properly
stamped.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
 
Saving of title—marketable securities and units in unit trust
*** 486 Saving of title—marketable securities and units in unit trust ***
The right or title of the transferee or subsequent holder of a marketable
security or unit in a unit trust, other than a public unit trust, is not
invalidated merely because the instrument that effects or evidences the
transaction, acquisition or surrender was recorded in contravention of section
484 or 485.
 
Receipt of instruments or ELN transaction documents in evidence
*** 487 Receipt of instruments or ELN transaction documents in evidence ***
     (1) Unless an instrument or ELN transaction document is properly
     stamped, it—
          (a) is not available for use in law or equity or for any
          purpose; and
          (b) must not be received in evidence in a legal proceeding,
          other than a criminal proceeding.
     (2) However, a court may receive an instrument or ELN transaction
     document in evidence if—
          (a) after it is received in evidence, the instrument or ELN
          transaction document is given to the commissioner as
          required by arrangements approved by the court; or
          (b) if the person who produces the instrument or ELN
          transaction document is not the person liable to pay the
          duty, the name and address of the person so liable, and the
          instrument or ELN transaction document, is given to the
          commissioner as required by arrangements approved by the
          court.
     (3) A court may receive in evidence an unsigned copy of an instrument
     or ELN transaction document that is imposed with duty or effects or
     evidences a transaction that is imposed with duty if the court is
     satisfied—
          (a) the instrument or ELN transaction document of which it
          is a copy is properly stamped; or
          (b) the copy is properly stamped under section 494.
 
Limitation on use of ELN transaction document endorsed on basis of payment
commitment
*** 487A Limitation on use of ELN transaction document endorsed on basis of
payment commitment ***
     (1) This section applies if an ELN transaction document has been
     endorsed under section 455A on the basis that section 22 (2A) applies
     to the ELN transfer to which the document relates.
     (2) Until the ELN transaction document is registered under the Land
     Title Act 1994, a person must not use the endorsed ELN transaction
     document for a purpose other than the completion of the ELN transfer.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—200 penalty units.
 
Commissioner may require payment of penalty
*** 488 Commissioner may require payment of penalty ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a self assessor does not lodge a return or pay an
          amount in contravention of section 455 (1) (a) or (b); or
          (b) a self assessor does not lodge a transaction statement
          in contravention of section 455A (1) (a); or
          (ba) a self assessor who is a tax agent to which the
          Administration Act, section 35 applies contravenes
          paragraph (b) of that section; or
          (bb) a self assessor contravenes section 455 (1) (c) or
          455A (1) (b) in relation to the stamping of an instrument
          or ELN transaction document; or
          (bc) a self assessor contravenes section 480 in relation to
          the endorsement of an instrument; or
          (bd) a self assessor contravenes section 480A in relation
          to the endorsement of an ELN transaction document; or
          (be) a person contravenes section 481 in relation to making
          a notation or endorsement on an instrument or ELN
          transaction document without authority; or
          (c) a person contravenes section 481A in relation to the
          endorsement of an instrument or ELN transaction document;
          or
          (d) a self assessor gives the commissioner a return or
          transaction statement containing false or misleading
          information in contravention of the Administration Act,
          section 122 or 123; or
          (e) a person, in making an application to register or
          transfer a vehicle, other than a special vehicle, gives
          false or misleading information about the dutiable value of
          the vehicle in contravention of the Transport Operations
          (Road Use Management) Act 1995, section 53.
               Note—
                    The self assessor does not commit an
                    offence against the Administration Act,
                    section 122 or 123, if the self
                    assessor merely gives the commissioner
                    a return containing information
                    provided by a taxpayer that the self
                    assessor does not know, or could not
                    reasonably know, is false or
                    misleading.
     (2) The commissioner may, by notice given to the person, require the
     person to pay a penalty (the
     "penalty amount") of the greater of the following—
          (a) not more than 75% of the amount of duty payable in
          relation to the return, transaction statement, instrument
          or application;
          (b) $100.
     (3) The notice must state the following—
          (a) the date for payment of the penalty amount being a day
          that is at least 30 days after the person receives the
          notice;
          (b) the reasons for the decision to require payment of the
          penalty amount;
          (c) the person may apply for a review of the decision
          within 28 days;
          (d) how to apply for the review.
          Note—
               The penalty amount is a debt payable to the
               commissioner and may be recovered in a court of
               competent jurisdiction, see the Administration
               Act, section 45.
     (4) The commissioner must give the person an information notice for
     the requirement to pay the penalty amount.
     (5) The commissioner may enter into an arrangement for payment of the
     penalty amount by instalments.
     (6) The arrangement may include provision for the payment of interest
     calculated at the rate for unpaid tax interest for the period
     starting on the start date and ending on the date the penalty amount
     is paid in full, both dates inclusive.
     (7) For subsection (6), the start date is the day after the failure
     or contravention mentioned in subsection (1).
     (8) In this section—

     "self assessor" means a self assessor registered under chapter 12,
     part 2 or 3.
 
Penalty amounts to be alternative to prosecution
*** 489 Penalty amounts to be alternative to prosecution ***
     (1) This section applies if a penalty amount, including a part of a
     penalty amount, becomes payable by a person because of the person’s
     contravention of a provision mentioned in section 488 (1).
     (2) If a proceeding is started against the person for an offence
     against the provision for the contravention and the penalty amount
     has not been paid to the commissioner, the penalty amount is payable
     only if the proceeding is withdrawn.
     (3) If the penalty amount has been paid to the commissioner, but a
     proceeding is started against the person for an offence against the
     provision for the contravention, the penalty amount must be refunded
     by the commissioner.
     (4) Despite subsection (3), if the commissioner withdraws the
     proceeding for the offence, the person again becomes liable to pay
     the penalty amount.
 
When is an instrument first signed
*** 490 When is an instrument first signed ***
     (1) An instrument is
     "first signed" the first time it is signed by a party to it.
     (2) However, an agreement made by acceptance of an offer contained in
     an instrument is
     "first signed" when the offer is accepted.
 
When is an instrument or ELN transaction document properly stamped
*** 491 When is an instrument or ELN transaction document properly stamped ***
     (1) An instrument is
     "properly stamped" if it is stamped under section 455 (1) (c), 455A
     (1) (b) or 492.
     (1A) An ELN transaction document is
     "properly stamped" if it is stamped under section 455A (1) (b).
     (2) An application to register or transfer a vehicle is taken to be
     "properly stamped" if—
          (a) duty imposed on the application and any assessed
          interest or penalty tax on the application is paid in full;
          or
          (b) no duty is imposed on the application because of an
          exemption under this or another Act.
     (3) Also, a mortgage, security instrument or mortgage package is
     taken to be
     "properly stamped" for the following provisions if a self assessor
     has deferred the endorsement of the instrument under section 455 (4)
     as in force before 1 July 2008—
          • section 252 (2)
          • section 258 (2) (a) or (c)
          • section 262 (1) (a) or (b)
          • schedule, definition
          "collateral mortgage".
 
Way instruments are stamped
*** 492 Way instruments are stamped ***
The commissioner must stamp an instrument that has been lodged—
     (a) if duty imposed on the instrument or transaction to which the
     instrument relates, and any assessed interest or penalty tax on the
     instrument or transaction, is paid in full—by endorsing it with
     particulars of the payment; or
     (b) if no duty is imposed on the instrument or transaction to which
     the instrument relates, because of an exemption under this or another
     Act—by endorsing it with an indication that no duty is imposed on
     the instrument or transaction because of the exemption; or
     (c) if no duty is imposed on the instrument or transaction to which
     the instrument relates, other than because of an exemption under this
     or another Act—by endorsing it with an indication that no duty is
     payable on the instrument or transaction.
 
Stamping of instrument dependent on another instrument or transaction
*** 493 Stamping of instrument dependent on another instrument or transaction
***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) duty imposed on an instrument (the
          "first instrument") or a transaction (the
          "first transaction") depends in any way on the payment of
          duty imposed on another instrument or transaction (the
          "second instrument or transaction"); and
          (b) all instruments are produced to the commissioner.
     (2) On application made by the parties liable to pay the duty on the
     second instrument or transaction, the commissioner may indicate the
     payment of that duty on the first instrument or the instrument
     relating to the first transaction in the way the commissioner
     considers appropriate.
 
Copies of instruments
*** 494 Copies of instruments ***
     (1) Duty may be imposed on a copy of an original instrument as if it
     had been signed in the same way and at the same time as the original
     instrument, unless the commissioner is satisfied the original
     instrument has been properly stamped.
     (2) A copy of an original instrument may be stamped as if it had been
     signed in the same way as the original instrument, unless the
     commissioner is satisfied the original instrument has been properly
     stamped.
     (3) For this section, an original instrument is taken to be properly
     stamped if a copy of it is properly stamped.
     (4) In this section—

     "copy", of an original instrument, includes a facsimile copy,
     duplicate copy and a photocopy, of the original instrument.
 
Instrument must not be delivered until duty or fee paid
*** 495 Instrument must not be delivered until duty or fee paid ***
     (1) If an instrument that is not properly stamped comes into the
     commissioner’s possession, other than in the circumstances
     mentioned in subsection (2), the commissioner must keep the
     instrument until any duty, assessed interest and penalty tax on the
     instrument or transaction is paid.
     (2) Subsection (3) applies if—
          (a) a person lodges an instrument for a decision by the
          commissioner as to whether the instrument, or transaction
          to which it relates, is imposed with duty; and
          (b) the commissioner decides the instrument or transaction
          is not imposed with duty.
     (3) The commissioner must keep the instrument until the fee
     prescribed under a regulation is paid.
     (4) However, the commissioner may waive payment of the fee if the
     commissioner considers it is appropriate having regard to the type of
     instrument and the circumstances in which the instrument was lodged.
 
Lodging declaration stating facts and circumstances
*** 496 Lodging declaration stating facts and circumstances ***
     (1) This section applies if, for the assessment of a person’s
     liability to duty, the person lodges an instrument or ELN transaction
     document that does not state all the facts and circumstances
     affecting the liability to duty or the amount of duty that may be
     imposed on it or a transaction to which it relates.
     (2) The person must lodge a statutory declaration stating the facts
     and circumstances when lodging the instrument or ELN transaction
     document.
          Note—
               Failure to lodge the declaration is an offence
               under the Administration Act, section 121.
     (3) For determining the person’s liability to duty, the
     commissioner must take into account the facts and circumstances
     stated in the declaration as if they were in the instrument or ELN
     transaction document.
 
Recognition of duty paid for Commonwealth places
*** 497 Recognition of duty paid for Commonwealth places ***
If this Act requires regard to be had to duty previously paid or payable,
regard must be had to any duty previously paid or payable under the applied Act
if regard would have been had under this Act to that duty if that duty were
paid or payable under this Act.
 
Special provisions for working out value of particular shares
*** 498 Special provisions for working out value of particular shares ***
     (1) For chapters 2 to 4, a reference to property in Queensland or
     dutiable property includes shares in a landholder if, the holder of
     the shares and all related persons of the holder were to newly
     acquire the shares in the landholder, a relevant acquisition under
     the chapter would have been made.
          Note—
               See section 164 (Who is a
               "related person").
     (2) If it is necessary to determine the unencumbered value of the
     shares for imposing duty, the value is taken to be the amount worked
     out by applying the interests of the shareholder and related persons,
     or the total of their interests, in the landholder to the
     unencumbered value of all the landholder’s Queensland land-
     holdings.
     (3) For chapters 2 to 4, a reference to property in Queensland or
     dutiable property includes shares in a corporate trustee or relevant
     corporation for a corporate trustee.
     (4) If it is necessary to determine the unencumbered value of the
     shares for imposing duty, the value is taken to be the dutiable value
     under section 222 had they been acquired.
     (5) This section applies despite any provision of chapter 2, 3 or 4.
 
Suspension of quotation of securities as part of an avoidance arrangement
*** 498A Suspension of quotation of securities as part of an avoidance
arrangement ***
     (1) This section applies to securities quoted on the market operated
     by a recognised stock exchange if the quotation of the securities is
     suspended.
     (2) The commissioner may regard the securities as not being quoted on
     the market during the period of the suspension if the suspension is
     part of an arrangement to avoid the imposition of duty.
     (3) In this section—

     "security" includes a share and a unit in a unit trust.
 
Reassessments of duty in particular circumstances
*** 499 Reassessments of duty in particular circumstances ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) transfer duty has been assessed on an instrument, or
          transaction effected or evidenced by an instrument or ELN
          transaction document; and
          (b) 1 of the events in subsection (2) happens.
     (2) For subsection (1) (b), the events are—
          (a) before having any legal effect, the instrument or ELN
          transaction document is—
               (i) inadvertently damaged, defaced or destroyed;
               or
               (ii) in any way, rendered unfit for the purpose
               intended; or
          (b) the instrument or ELN transaction document is void on
          its making; or
          (c) the instrument or ELN transaction document was voidable
          on its making and is rendered void before having legal
          effect; or
          (d) before having any legal effect, the instrument or ELN
          transaction document is unfit for the purpose intended
          because of an error or mistake in it; or
          (e) the instrument or ELN transaction document has no legal
          effect, but on having legal effect would have an unintended
          effect because of a mistake in it, and is imposed with duty
          because of the unintended effect; or
          (f) for a mortgage—
               (i) the mortgagor is not and does not become, nor
               has a right to become, the owner of the property
               purported to be mortgaged; or
               (ii) it secures an unlimited amount and the
               highest amount advanced under the mortgage has
               been wrongly overstated; or
               (iii) duty has been wrongly paid on more than 1
               instrument for the advance secured by the
               mortgage; or
          (g) for a transfer—the transferor is not and does not
          become, nor has a right to become, the owner of the
          property purported to be transferred; or
          (h) for a transfer by way of gift—the gift is not
          accepted by the donee.
     (3) Even though the signing of an instrument or ELN transaction
     document by the parties is evidence the instrument or ELN transaction
     document gives effect to the intention of the parties, the instrument
     or ELN transaction document has an unintended effect for subsection
     (2) (e) if—
          (a) when it was signed, the parties had a specific
          intention that was to be given effect to by the instrument
          or ELN transaction document; and
          (b) the instrument or ELN transaction document does not
          give effect to the intention or gives effect to the
          intention but also achieves some other effect that was not
          contemplated by the parties.
     (4) For this section an instrument or ELN transaction document is
     taken to have legal effect only if—
          (a) a right has been exercised under it; or
          (b) an obligation has been fulfilled under it; or
          (c) it has been relied on in another way.
     (5) The person may lodge an application for a reassessment in the
     approved form within 1 year after the event happens.
     (6) The person must lodge the instrument, ELN transaction document or
     a copy of the ELN transaction document with the application.
     (7) The commissioner must make a reassessment of duty for the
     instrument or transaction to which it relates.
     (8) The commissioner may keep or otherwise dispose of the instrument,
     ELN transaction document or a copy of the ELN transaction document in
     the way the commissioner considers appropriate.
 
Application of Administration Act, pt 6, to particular decisions
*** 500 Application of Administration Act, pt 6, to particular decisions ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) under a provision of this Act, the commissioner is
          required to make a reassessment for a particular instrument
          or transaction if particular circumstances apply; and
          (b) a person asks the commissioner to make a reassessment
          for the instrument or transaction; and
          (c) the commissioner decides not to make the reassessment
          because the commissioner is not satisfied the circumstances
          apply for the instrument or transaction.
     (2) As soon as practicable after making the decision, the
     commissioner must give the person notice stating the following—
          (a) the decision;
          (b) the reasons for the decision;
          (c) the person may, within 60 days after the notice is
          given, object to the decision;
          (d) how to object.
     (3) The Administration Act, part 6, applies for the decision as if—
          (a) the decision were an assessment; and
          (b) the notice were an assessment notice.
 
Consideration for instruments and transactions on which duty imposed
*** 501 Consideration for instruments and transactions on which duty imposed
***
     (1) It does not matter whether the consideration for an instrument or
     transaction on which duty is imposed is paid or given or is required
     to be paid or given.
     (2) If the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for an
     instrument or transaction on which duty is imposed consists of
     property, other than a security, the consideration or part of the
     consideration is the unencumbered value of the property when the
     liability for duty arises.
     (3) If the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for an
     instrument or transaction on which duty is imposed consists of a
     security, other than a marketable security or debenture issued, or to
     be issued, by a corporation, the consideration or part of the
     consideration is the amount of principal and interest owing when the
     liability for duty arises.
     (4) If the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for an
     instrument or transaction on which duty is imposed is a marketable
     security or debenture issued, or to be issued, by a corporation, the
     value of the consideration is the market value of the security or
     debenture when the liability for duty arises.
     (5) However, if the marketable security or debenture has not issued
     when the liability for duty arises, the value of the consideration is
     the market value of the security or debenture at the date of issue.
 
Consideration based on contingency
*** 502 Consideration based on contingency ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies for determining the consideration payable
     under an instrument or transaction if the consideration payable—
          (a) may be increased or decreased depending on a particular
          thing happening or not happening; or
          (b) may or may not actually become payable depending on a
          particular thing happening or not happening; or
          (c) is agreed to be a minimum amount, whether or not
          depending on a particular thing happening or not happening;
          or
          (d) is agreed to be a maximum amount, whether or not
          depending on a particular thing happening or not happening;
          or
          (e) is agreed to be either a minimum or maximum amount,
          whether or not depending on a particular thing happening or
          not happening.
     (2) Regardless of whether the thing happens or does not happen, the
     consideration is—
          (a) if subsection (1) (a) or (b) applies—the highest
          consideration payable under the instrument or transaction;
          or
          (b) if subsection (1) (c) applies—the minimum amount; or
          (c) if subsection (1) (d) or (e) applies—the maximum
          amount.
 
Amounts stated in foreign currency
*** 503 Amounts stated in foreign currency ***
If, in an instrument or ELN transaction document, an amount is stated in a
foreign currency for an instrument or transaction, for imposing duty, the
amount is the amount expressed in Australian dollars according to the rate of
exchange applicable in Queensland at—
     (a) the date the instrument or ELN transaction document was signed or
     the date of the transaction; or
     (b) if the rate is not obtainable for Queensland on that date—the
     last preceding date on which the rate was obtainable for Queensland.
 
Aggregate minimum value and unencumbered value of particular shares
*** 504 Aggregate minimum value and unencumbered value of particular shares ***
     (1) Despite any other provision of this Act, the shares comprising
     all of the issued capital of a corporation or society are taken to
     have an aggregate minimum value of $800.
     (2) The unencumbered value of each share is taken to be not less than
     the proportion of $800 that the share bears to the total issued share
     capital of the corporation or society.
 
Valuation or evidence of value of property
*** 505 Valuation or evidence of value of property ***
     (1) For determining whether a person is liable for duty or a
     person’s liability for duty, the commissioner may—
          (a) by notice given to the person, require the person to
          lodge a valuation of property prepared by a registered
          valuer or to provide the other evidence of value the
          commissioner considers appropriate; or
          (b) have property valued; or
          (c) rely on a valuation of property prepared by a
          registered valuer, or other person the commissioner is
          satisfied is properly qualified to provide evidence of
          value of the property, for any purpose, whether or not for
          determining liability for duty.
     (2) If the commissioner is not satisfied with the valuation or
     evidence lodged or provided under subsection (1) (a), the
     commissioner may—
          (a) have the property valued; or
          (b) rely on a valuation of the property prepared by a
          registered valuer, or another person the commissioner is
          satisfied is properly qualified to provide evidence of
          value of the property, for any purpose, whether or not for
          determining liability for duty under this Act.
     (3) The commissioner may recover the cost of obtaining a valuation
     under this section from the person or persons liable for the duty.
     (4) The commissioner may assess duty on the basis of a valuation or
     evidence obtained under this section.
 
Requirement to keep particular instruments
*** 506 Requirement to keep particular instruments ***
     (1) The trustee of a unit trust must keep an instrument that effects
     or evidences—
          (a) an acquisition or disposition of a unit in the trust;
          or
          (b) for a listed unit trust—any other acquisition of an
          interest in the trust.
     (2) A corporation or society must keep an instrument that effects or
     evidences an acquisition of an interest in the corporation or
     society.
     (3) For subsections (1) (b) and (2), an
     "acquisition" of an interest in a corporation, society or listed unit
     trust includes an acquisition of an interest to which section 162
     would apply if the reference in that section to a landholder were a
     reference to a corporation, society or listed unit trust.
 
Refunding stamp duty
*** 506A Refunding stamp duty ***
     (1) This section applies to a stamp duty refund that, on or after the
     commencement of this section, the State is required to, or may, make
     to a person.
     (2) The State must not make the refund unless the commissioner is
     satisfied—
          (a) the person has not received, and will not receive, an
          amount from another person for all or part of the stamp
          duty paid; or
          (b) if the person has received an amount (the
          "amount received") from another person for all or part of
          the stamp duty paid—the person will reimburse the other
          person for the amount received.
     (3) A court or QCAT must not make an order relating to the refund
     that is inconsistent with subsection (2).
     (4) If subsection (2) (b) applies, the person must—
          (a) within 90 days after receiving the refund (the
          "relevant period"), reimburse the other person for the
          amount received; and
          (b) within 7 days after the relevant period, give the
          commissioner written notice that the other person has been
          reimbursed for the amount received.
     (5) Also, if subsection (2) (b) applies and the person does not,
     within the relevant period, reimburse the other person for the amount
     received, the person must, within 7 days after the relevant period—
          (a) give the commissioner written notice that the other
          person was not reimbursed for the amount received; and
          (b) pay the commissioner the amount received plus interest
          at the rate of 10% a year calculated from the date the
          refund was made to the date the amount received is paid to
          the commissioner.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—50 penalty units.
     (6) An amount payable under subsection (5) (b) is a debt payable by
     the person to the State.
     (7) In this section—

     "stamp duty" means stamp duty paid, or purportedly paid, under the
     repealed Act, whether or not under a mistake of law or fact.
 
Approved forms
*** 507 Approved forms ***
     (1) The commissioner may approve forms for use under this Act.
     (2) A form may be approved for use under this Act that is combined
     with, or is to be used together with, an approved form under another
     Act.
 
Regulation-making power
*** 508 Regulation-making power ***
     (1) The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
     (2) A regulation may—
          (a) be made about fees payable under this Act; or
          (b) provide for a maximum penalty of not more than 20
          penalty units for a contravention of a regulation.
     (3) A regulation may exempt from the imposition of duty an instrument
     or transaction for a financial arrangement entered into by a
     statutory body as defined in the Statutory Bodies Financial
     Arrangements Act 1982 as provided in that or another Act.
 
Section 508A
*** 508A ***
 
Act repealed
*** 509 Act repealed ***
The Stamp Act 1894 is repealed.
 
Definition for pt 2
*** 510 Definition for pt 2 ***
In this part—

"commencement day" means the day section 509 commences.
 
Application of this Act
*** 511 Application of this Act ***
     (1) This Act applies to instruments signed, and transactions entered
     into, on or after the commencement day.
     (2) Subsection (1) has effect subject to the following provisions—
          (a) division 3, subdivision 1 and sections 521, 522, 528,
          530, 530A and 538;
               Note—
                    Sections 530 and 530A stopped applying
                    on 1 January 2006 (see section 532A).
     (b) a regulation made under section 550.
 
Continued application of repealed Act
*** 512 Continued application of repealed Act ***
     (1) Despite its repeal, the repealed Act continues to apply in
     relation to instruments signed, and transactions entered into, before
     the commencement day.
          Note—
               Because of this declaration, a provision of the
               repealed Act that, for example, provides for an
               exemption, concession or reassessment for duty
               for an instrument or transaction continues to
               apply to it.
     (2) This section has effect subject to the following provisions—
          (a) sections 523(4), 526, 527 and 535;
          (b) the Administration Act, part 13, division 2;
          (c) a regulation made under section 550.
 
Delegations
*** 513 Delegations ***
A delegation under the repealed Act and in force immediately before the
commencement day continues in force.
 
Repealed Act applies to particular agreements to transfer
*** 514 Repealed Act applies to particular agreements to transfer ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) under section 54 of the repealed Act, stamp duty is
          chargeable on a contract or agreement for the sale of
          property; and
          (b) a transfer of the property to the transferee under the
          contract or agreement is entered into on or after the
          commencement day.
     (2) The repealed Act applies to the transfer of the property to the
     transferee.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if—
          (a) under section 54 of the repealed Act, stamp duty is
          chargeable on a contract or agreement for the sale of
          property; and
          (b) the transferee under the contract or agreement is
          acting as agent of another person; and
          (c) a transfer of the property to the other person is
          entered into on or after the commencement day.
     (4) The repealed Act applies to the transfer of the property to the
     other person.
 
Repealed Act applies to particular acquisitions after transfer by way of
security of other property
*** 515 Repealed Act applies to particular acquisitions after transfer by way
of security of other property ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) before the commencement day, a conveyance or transfer
          by way of security of property, other than land, was
          assessed to or exempted from duty under the repealed Act or
          another Act; and
          (b) after the commencement day, the transferee or the
          transferee’s assignee, acquires ownership of the property
          free from any interest of the transferor or the
          transferor’s assignee.
     (2) The repealed Act applies to the acquisition.
          Note—
               See the Stamp Act 1894, section 56E (Conveyance
               of other property by way of security).
 
Repealed Act applies to particular dealings with statutory business licences
*** 516 Repealed Act applies to particular dealings with statutory business
licences ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) before the commencement day, the holder of a statutory
          business licence surrendered or relinquished, or agreed not
          to apply for an extension of, the licence as mentioned in
          section 54AD(2) of the repealed Act; and
          (b) after the commencement day, the licence or an extension
          or renewal of the licence or another licence for the same
          type of activity is granted.
     (2) The repealed Act applies to the grant, extension or renewal of
     the licence.
 
Repealed Act applies to particular dispositions of units in unit trust schemes
*** 517 Repealed Act applies to particular dispositions of units in unit trust
schemes ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) under section 56B of the repealed Act, stamp duty is
          chargeable on an agreement to dispose of units in a unit
          trust scheme; and
          (b) a disposition of the units under the agreement is made
          on or after the commencement day.
     (2) The repealed Act applies to the disposition.
 
Aggregation of dutiable transactions
*** 518 Aggregation of dutiable transactions ***
     (1) An instrument of conveyance as defined in section 53(1) of the
     repealed Act that was made or entered into before the commencement
     day is taken to be a dutiable transaction for section 30.
     (2) For applying section 30, a reference to the dutiable value of the
     dutiable transaction is taken to be a reference to the full
     unencumbered value, under the repealed Act, of the property the
     subject of the transaction.
 
Transfers by way of security—land
*** 519 Transfers by way of security—land ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) a dutiable transaction that is the retransfer of land
          mentioned in section 32(1)(d) is entered into on or after
          the commencement day; and
          (b) before the commencement day, a conveyance or transfer
          by way of security of the land was made to the transferor
          under the retransfer.
     (2) Section 32 applies to the retransfer as if—
          (a) a reference to the original transfer were a reference
          to the conveyance or transfer mentioned in subsection (1)
          (b); and
          (b) a reference to mortgage duty were a reference to stamp
          duty that would have been chargeable under the repealed
          Act.
 
Particular transfers for deceased persons’ estates not dutiable transactions
*** 520 Particular transfers for deceased persons’ estates not dutiable
transactions ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) under the repealed Act, stamp duty is paid on an
          agreement to convey or transfer property for carrying into
          effect any distribution under a will or in intestacy; and
          (b) a transfer of the property is made on or after the
          commencement day.
     (2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the transfer.
 
Repealed Act applies to particular trust acquisitions and trust surrenders in
widely held unit trusts
*** 521 Repealed Act applies to particular trust acquisitions and trust
surrenders in widely held unit trusts ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) a disposition of units in a public unit trust scheme
          mentioned in repealed Act, section 56B(1), definition
          "public unit trust scheme", paragraphs (b) to (d), that is
          one in a series of dispositions relating to the trust was
          not chargeable with stamp duty under that Act; and
          (b) a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust
          interest in the series mentioned in paragraph (a) in the
          unit trust is made on or after the commencement day; and
          (c) under section 70(2), the unit trust is not a widely
          held unit trust.
     (2) The repealed Act applies to the disposition that is the trust
     acquisition or trust surrender.
 
Repealed Act applies to issue of particular units in widely held unit trusts
*** 522 Repealed Act applies to issue of particular units in widely held unit
trusts ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) a unit trust scheme is taken to be a public unit trust
          scheme under section 56B(1A) of the repealed Act; and
          (b) the start-up period for the scheme ends on or after the
          commencement day; and
          (c) the disqualifying circumstances mentioned in section 71
          (3) apply to the issue of units in the unit trust.
     (2) The repealed Act applies to the issue of units during the start-
     up period.
 
Aggregations for land rich duty
*** 523 Aggregations for land rich duty ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) before the commencement day, an interest was acquired
          in a corporation to which the prescribed provisions under
          section 56F of the repealed Act apply; and
          (b) the interest may have been aggregated under the
          prescribed provisions.
     (2) The acquisition of the interest is an acquisition of an interest
     in the corporation for chapter 3, part 1.
     (3) However, section 158(1)(b)(iii) applies only to aggregate
     interests of persons who become related persons on or after the
     commencement day.
     (4) If an option mentioned in section 158(2) is exercised on or after
     the commencement day, chapter 3, part 1, applies to the preliminary
     acquisition to which the option relates.
     (5) Subsection (4) applies regardless of whether the option or
     preliminary acquisition was given or made before or after the
     commencement day.
     (6) For section 179(2)(b)(ii), the reference to interests previously
     aggregated includes a reference to interests aggregated under the
     repealed Act.
 
References to majority interests in land rich corporations
*** 524 References to majority interests in land rich corporations ***
For chapter 3, part 1—
     (a) a reference to a land rich corporation includes a reference to a
     corporation to which the prescribed provisions under section 56F of
     the repealed Act apply; and
     (b) a reference to a majority interest in a corporation includes a
     reference to a majority interest in a corporation under section 56FN
     of the repealed Act.
 
Particular acquisitions included as exempt acquisitions
*** 525 Particular acquisitions included as exempt acquisitions ***
For section 163(2), the reference to an exempt acquisition under section 190
includes a reference to a transfer by way of security mentioned in the repealed
Act, section 56FA(1), definition
"acquire", paragraph (e).
 
Application of ch 3, pt 1, to particular acquisitions of security interests
*** 526 Application of ch 3, pt 1, to particular acquisitions of security
interests ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) before the commencement day, stamp duty under the
          repealed Act was paid on a transfer of shares by way of
          security; and
          (b) on or after the commencement day, the commissioner
          ceases to be satisfied of the matter mentioned in section
          190.
     (2) Chapter 3, part 1, applies to the acquisition mentioned in
     paragraph (a).
 
Application of ch 3, pt 1, div 7, to particular amounts
*** 527 Application of ch 3, pt 1, div 7, to particular amounts ***
     (1) This section applies if, before the commencement day, the
     commissioner may have requested registration of a charge, under
     section 56FD(1) of the repealed Act, for an amount of stamp duty
     chargeable, or penalty payable, on or in relation to a statement
     mentioned in the section.
     (2) Chapter 3, part 1, division 7, applies to the amount of stamp
     duty or penalty as if it were an outstanding amount of land rich
     duty.
 
Repealed Act applies to particular dispositions of shares
*** 528 Repealed Act applies to particular dispositions of shares ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) under section 56C of the repealed Act, stamp duty is
          chargeable on an agreement to dispose of shares in a
          company to which the section applied; and
          (b) a disposition of the shares under the agreement is made
          on or after the commencement day.
     (2) The repealed Act applies to the disposition.
 
Aggregation of relevant acquisitions for corporate trustee duty
*** 529 Aggregation of relevant acquisitions for corporate trustee duty ***
     (1) An acquisition made before the commencement day that was
     chargeable with stamp duty under section 56C of the repealed Act is
     taken to be a relevant acquisition for section 223.
     (2) For applying section 223, a reference to the dutiable value of
     the relevant acquisition is taken to be a reference to the value of
     the acquisition on which duty was calculated under the repealed Act.
 
Repealed Act applies to particular leases and agreements for leases
*** 530 Repealed Act applies to particular leases and agreements for leases ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) before the commencement day, stamp duty under the
          repealed Act was chargeable or paid on an agreement for
          lease; and
          (b) a lease that is in substantial conformity with the
          agreement is entered into on or after the commencement day.
     (2) The repealed Act applies to the lease.
          Note—
               Because of this declaration, a provision of the
               repealed Act, including, for example, section 64C
               (Refund of duty) applies to it.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if—
          (a) before the commencement day, stamp duty under the
          repealed Act was chargeable or paid on—
               (i) a written offer for a lease; or
               (ii) a written offer for a lease and an agreement
               for lease that is in substantial conformity with
               the offer; and
          (b) on or after the commencement day—
               (i) if paragraph (a)(i) applies—a lease or
               agreement for lease that is in substantial
               conformity with the offer is entered into; or
               (ii) if paragraph (a)(ii) applies—a lease that
               is in substantial conformity with the agreement
               for lease is entered into.
     (4) The repealed Act applies to the lease or agreement for lease
     mentioned in subsection (3)(b).
     (5) Also, the repealed Act applies to a lease entered into in
     substantial conformity with an agreement for lease to which the
     repealed Act applies under subsection (4).
 
Repealed Act applies to instruments increasing rent in relation to particular
leases etc.
*** 530A Repealed Act applies to instruments increasing rent in relation to
particular leases etc. ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) before the commencement day, stamp duty under the
          repealed Act was chargeable or paid on any of the following
          (a
          "prescribed lease")—
               (i) a lease or agreement for lease;
               (ii) a transaction mentioned in section 54AB(1)
               (b) of the repealed Act;
               (iii) a contract or agreement for which a
               statement under section 64D(3) of the repealed
               Act was or should have been made; and
          (b) the rent payable in relation to the prescribed lease is
          increased by an instrument effected on or after the day
          this section commences.
     (2) The repealed Act applies to the instrument mentioned in
     subsection (1)(b).
 
Credit allowed for particular leases
*** 531 Credit allowed for particular leases ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) before the commencement day, stamp duty under the
          repealed Act was chargeable or paid on an agreement for
          lease; and
          (b) a lease that is in substantial conformity with the
          agreement is entered into on or after the commencement day;
          and
          (c) on the exercise of an option for a further period
          contained in the lease, a new lease is entered into.
     (2) For assessing lease duty imposed on the new lease, a credit must
     be allowed for stamp duty paid on the lease mentioned in subsection
     (1)(b) for the option period.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if—
          (a) before the commencement day, stamp duty under the
          repealed Act was chargeable or paid on a lease; and
          (b) on the exercise of an option for a further period
          contained in the lease, a new lease is entered into on or
          after the commencement day.
     (4) For assessing lease duty imposed on the new lease, a credit must
     be allowed for stamp duty paid on the lease mentioned in subsection
     (3)(a) for the option period.
 
Credit or refund for termination of particular leases etc.
*** 532 Credit or refund for termination of particular leases etc. ***
     (1) This section applies if, before the commencement day, stamp duty
     under the repealed Act was paid for any of the following—
          (a) a lease or agreement for lease;
          (b) a transaction mentioned in section 54AB (1) (b) of that
          Act;
          (c) a contract or agreement mentioned in section 64D of
          that Act.
     (2) If the lease, transaction, contract or agreement is terminated on
     or after the commencement day, section 242 applies to the termination
     as if it were the termination of a lease or occupancy right.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if, on or after the commencement day—
          (a) the lease, transaction, contract or agreement is
          terminated; and
          (b) a lease or occupancy right is entered or granted in
          replacement of the lease, transaction, contract or
          agreement in circumstances mentioned in section 243(1).
     (4) Section 243(2) applies to the replacement lease or right.
 
Ending of application of div 6
*** 532A Ending of application of div 6 ***
This division stops applying on 1 January 2006.
     Note—
          See also section 563 (Leases etc. to which repealed Act
          applied).
 
Liability for mortgage duty for particular mortgages first signed before
commencement day
*** 533 Liability for mortgage duty for particular mortgages first signed
before commencement day ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a mortgage is first signed before the commencement day;
          and
          (b) an advance or further advance is made on or after the
          commencement day; and
          (c) the amount of the advances secured by the mortgage
          exceeds the amount for which the mortgage has been duly
          stamped under the repealed Act or a corresponding Act.
     (1A) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the mortgage is a
     mortgage for section 248 and section 252(2) applies to it.
     (2) Section 261 applies as if a reference to liability to duty
     arising under this Act were a reference to liability to stamp duty
     arising under the repealed Act.
          Note—
               Section 261 (Advances secured by mortgage
               package). See also section 252 (When liability
               for mortgage duty arises).
 
Credit allowed for particular agreements for mortgage
*** 534 Credit allowed for particular agreements for mortgage ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) before the commencement day, stamp duty under the
          repealed Act was paid on an agreement to grant a mortgage;
          and
          (b) under the agreement, a mortgage as defined in section
          248 is first signed on or after the commencement day.
     (2) For assessing mortgage duty imposed on the mortgage, a credit
     must be allowed for stamp duty paid on the agreement to grant the
     mortgage.
 
Particular mortgages imposed with mortgage duty on commencement day
*** 535 Particular mortgages imposed with mortgage duty on commencement day ***
     (1) A mortgage, as defined in section 248(1), that was first signed
     before the commencement day and had not been duly stamped under the
     repealed Act immediately before that day is, on that day, taken to be
     imposed with mortgage duty under chapter 5.
     (2) Despite subsection (1), for a mortgage that is over property
     partly in and partly outside Queensland, mortgage duty is worked out
     in the way stamp duty on the mortgage would have been worked out
     under the repealed Act.
 
Reduction in vehicle registration duty
*** 537 Reduction in vehicle registration duty ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) ad valorem duty chargeable on an instrument under the
          repealed Act was paid; and
          (b) the duty was worked out by including the value of a
          vehicle; and
          (c) an application to register or transfer the vehicle is
          made on or after the commencement day.
     (2) Section 384(2) and (3) apply for reducing the vehicle
     registration duty assessed under section 382(2) as if—
          (a) factor DP were a reference to the stamp duty paid under
          the repealed Act; and
          (b) factor DVDP were the value of the property on which the
          ad valorem duty was paid under the repealed Act, schedule
          1, paragraph 4(a) under the heading ‘Conveyance or
          transfer’; and
          (c) factor MVV were a reference to the value of the vehicle
          or the part the value of the vehicle used to calculate the
          duty paid under the repealed Act.
 
Repealed Act applies to particular agreements
*** 538 Repealed Act applies to particular agreements ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) under section 49C(1) or (2) of the repealed Act, stamp
          duty is not chargeable on an agreement for or in connection
          with the transfer of shares or for conveying, transferring
          or assigning a beneficial interest in property; and
          (b) the conveyance, transfer or assignment of the property
          under the agreement is made on or after the commencement
          day.
     (2) The repealed Act applies to the conveyance, transfer or
     assignment.
 
Group property for intra-group transfers of property
*** 539 Group property for intra-group transfers of property ***
For section 407(1)(c)—
     (a) the reference to new parent company includes a reference to the
     transferee company under section 49C(1) of the repealed Act; and
     (b) the reference to the transferor and transferee becoming group
     companies in the circumstances mentioned in section 409(1)(a) to (c)
     includes a reference to the transferor and transferee becoming
     associated companies in the circumstances mentioned in section 49C(1)
     of the repealed Act.
 
Approved persons
*** 540 Approved persons ***
A person who, immediately before the commencement day, was an approved person
under section 13A of the repealed Act is taken to be a self assessor registered
under—
     (a) if the person’s approval relates to instruments signed by or in
     favour of the person—chapter 12, part 2; and
     (b) if the person’s approval relates to instruments regularly
     received by or on which the person acts in the course of the
     person’s business—chapter 12, part 3.
 
Approved insurers
*** 543 Approved insurers ***
     (1) A person who, immediately before the commencement day, was an
     approved insurer under section 46F of the repealed Act is taken to
     be—
          (a) if the person’s approval relates to carrying on
          insurance business as a general insurer—a registered
          general insurer; or
          (b) if the person’s approval relates to carrying on
          insurance business as a life insurer—a registered life
          insurer.
     (2) Also, the person is taken to be a self assessor, registered under
     chapter 12, part 1.
 
Effect of continued registration of persons
*** 544 Effect of continued registration of persons ***
     (1) This section applies to a person who, under sections 540 to 543,
     is taken to be registered under chapter 12, parts 1 to 3.
     (2) The person’s date of registration is the commencement day.
     (3) Subject to section 464, the matters required to be stated in a
     notice of registration for a self assessor are, for the person, the
     matters applying to the person immediately before the commencement
     day.
 
Exempt charitable institutions
*** 545 Exempt charitable institutions ***
     (1) An institution that before the commencement day received an
     exemption from stamp duty under the repealed Act because it was an
     exempt charitable institution is taken to be an exempt institution.
          Note—
               From 30 June 2010, the registration of charitable
               institutions is provided for under the
               Administration Act, part 11A.
     (2) The institution’s date of registration is the commencement day.
     (3) As soon as practicable after the commencement, the commissioner
     must give a notice of registration to the institution.
 
Registration of particular institutions following reassessment
*** 546 Registration of particular institutions following reassessment ***
     (1) This section applies if, before the commencement day, the
     commissioner had given a notice under section 59E(8), 69A(2) or 72(4)
     of the repealed Act to an institution stating a later time to decide
     whether an instrument would be exempt from stamp duty under that Act
     and the later time is after the commencement day.
     (2) If, at the later time, the commissioner is satisfied the
     institution is an exempt institution, the commissioner must register
     the institution under chapter 12, part 5, and give the institution a
     notice of registration.
          Notes—
                    1 The reassessment of stamp duty is
                    made under the repealed Act, see
                    section 512.
                    2 From 30 June 2010, chapter 12, part 5
                    is repealed and the registration of
                    charitable institutions is provided for
                    under the Administration Act, part 11A.
 
Particular references to related persons
*** 547 Particular references to related persons ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if, for imposing duty on an instrument or
     transaction, it is necessary to take into account a transaction or
     other arrangement entered into before the commencement day by or in
     relation to a related person of another person.
     (2) A reference in this Act to a related person of another person is
     taken to be a reference to a related person of the other person
     within the meaning of section 56FA(3) of the repealed Act.
 
Instruments stamped under repealed Act
*** 548 Instruments stamped under repealed Act ***
An instrument that has been stamped under the repealed Act is taken to have
been properly stamped to the extent it is duly stamped under that Act.
 
References in Acts or documents
*** 549 References in Acts or documents ***
     (1) In an Act or document—
          (a) a reference to the repealed Act is, if the context
          permits, taken to be a reference to this Act; and
          (b) a reference to stamp duty is, if the context permits,
          taken to be a reference to—
               (i) if the reference is made in relation to a
               particular instrument or transaction—the duty
               under this Act applicable to the instrument or
               transaction; or
               (ii) otherwise—duty under this Act.
     (2) A reference in this Act to a particular type of duty for the
     imposition or assessment of, or a deduction or credit for, the duty
     includes a reference to stamp duty under the repealed Act.
     (3) Also, a reference in another Act to duty, or a particular type of
     duty, is, if the context permits, taken to be a reference to stamp
     duty under the repealed Act.
     (4) A reference in this Act to a dutiable transaction or relevant
     acquisition is, if the context permits, taken to be a reference to an
     instrument chargeable with or exempt from stamp duty under the
     repealed Act that gives effect to or evidences an equivalent
     transaction or acquisition.
 
Section 550
*** 550 ***
 
Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty or mortgage duty
for first home
*** 551 Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty or
mortgage duty for first home ***
     (1) Chapter 2, part 9, division 3 and chapter 5, part 6, division 2
     as in force on 1 May 2004 apply to dutiable transactions and
     mortgages only if liability for transfer duty or mortgage duty arises
     on or after 1 May 2004.
     (2) However, chapter 2, part 9, division 3, as in force immediately
     before 1 May 2004, applies to a dutiable transaction that is the
     transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of residential land made on
     or after 1 May 2004 if—
          (a) the transfer or agreement replaces a transfer, or an
          agreement for the transfer, that included the residential
          land and was made before 1 May 2004; or
          (b) the transferee had an option to purchase the
          residential land, or the transferor had an option to
          require the transferee to purchase the residential land,
          granted before 1 May 2004 and exercised on or after 1 May
          2004; or
          (c) another arrangement was made before 1 May 2004 the sole
          or main purpose of which was to defer the making of the
          transfer or agreement until 1 May 2004 or later so the
          concession for transfer duty under the division, as in
          force on or after 1 May 2004, would apply in relation to
          the dutiable transaction.
 
Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty for home
*** 552 Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty for home
***
     (1) Chapter 2, part 9, division 3 as in force on 1 August 2004
     applies to dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty
     arises on or after 1 August 2004.
     (2) However, the division as in force immediately before 1 August
     2004 applies to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or
     agreement for the transfer, of residential land made on or after 1
     August 2004 if—
          (a) the transfer or agreement replaces a transfer, or an
          agreement for the transfer, that included the residential
          land and was made before 1 August 2004; or
          (b) the transferee had an option to purchase the
          residential land, or the transferor had an option to
          require the transferee to purchase the residential land,
          granted before 1 August 2004 and exercised on or after 1
          August 2004; or
          (c) another arrangement was made before 1 August 2004 the
          sole or main purpose of which was to defer the making of
          the transfer or agreement until 1 August 2004 or later so
          the concession for transfer duty under the division, as in
          force on or after 1 August 2004, would apply in relation to
          the dutiable transaction.
 
Application of amendments about credit card duty
*** 553 Application of amendments about credit card duty ***
     (1) Chapter 6, part 2 as in force immediately before 1 August 2004
     applies in relation to credit card transactions in a partial period.
     (2) For subsection (1), a partial period is taken to be a billing
     period.
     (3) A term used in this section and defined in chapter 6, part 2 as
     in force immediately before 1 August 2004 has the meaning given by
     the part as in force immediately before 1 August 2004.
     (4) In this section—

     "partial period" for a billing period that starts, but has not ended,
     before 1 August 2004 means the period from the start to 31 July 2004.
 
Meaning of particular terms used in div 1
*** 554 Meaning of particular terms used in div 1 ***
     (1) In this division—

     "pre-repeal credit transaction" means a credit transaction entered
     into by a credit provider before 1 January 2006.

     "registered credit provider" means a person who was, immediately
     before 1 January 2006, registered under chapter 12, part 1, to carry
     on business in Queensland as a credit provider and as a self
     assessor.

     "repealed", for a provision of this Act, means the provision as in
     force immediately before 1 January 2006.
     (2) A term used in this division and defined in repealed chapter 6
     has the meaning given to it under repealed chapter 6.
 
Savings provision for pre-repeal credit transactions
*** 555 Savings provision for pre-repeal credit transactions ***
     (1) The credit business duty provisions continue to apply for rights,
     privileges and liabilities that would have been acquired, accrued or
     incurred on or after 1 January 2006 in relation to a relevant credit
     amount for a pre-repeal credit transaction if the provisions had not
     been repealed.
          Example of how the credit business duty provisions continue
          to apply under this section—
               A credit provider may be required to lodge a
               return or statement, and pay credit business
               duty, on or after 1 January 2006 in relation to a
               relevant credit amount for a pre-repeal credit
               transaction.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies subject to section 556.
     (3) In this section—

     "credit business duty provisions" means—
          (a) repealed chapter 6; and
          (b) schedule 6, repealed definition
          "short-term".

     "relevant credit amount", for a pre-repeal credit transaction, means
     a credit amount for the transaction that exists before 1 January
     2006.
 
Cash price for particular credit arrangements not included in credit amount
*** 556 Cash price for particular credit arrangements not included in credit
amount ***
Repealed section 303(4) does not apply under section 555(1) to the extent it
would otherwise provide that the cash price for a credit arrangement that is a
pre-repeal credit transaction is an amount debited under the arrangement if—
     (a) the cash price is not paid within the period mentioned in the
     repealed section; and
     (b) the period ends on or after 1 January 2006.
 
Ending of registration of credit providers
*** 557 Ending of registration of credit providers ***
     (1) This section applies to a registered credit provider.
     (2) The following are cancelled on 1 January 2006—
          (a) the person’s registration under chapter 12, part 1,
          to carry on business in Queensland as a credit provider;
          (b) the person’s registration under chapter 12, part 1,
          as a self assessor for duty on instruments or transactions
          to which the person becomes a party for carrying on
          business as a credit provider.
     (3) However, subsection (2) does not affect—
          (a) the registration of the person under this Act for any
          other purpose; or
          (b) a requirement that applies to the person under this Act
          or the Administration Act in relation to a pre-repeal
          credit transaction.
 
Meaning of particular terms used in div 2
*** 558 Meaning of particular terms used in div 2 ***
     (1) In this division—

     "pre-repeal lease duty liability" means a liability for lease duty
     arising under repealed chapter 4 before 1 January 2006.

     "repealed", for a provision of this Act, means the provision as in
     force immediately before 1 January 2006.
     (2) A term used in this division and defined in repealed chapter 4
     has the meaning given to it under repealed chapter 4.
 
Savings provision for particular leases and occupancy rights
*** 559 Savings provision for particular leases and occupancy rights ***
     (1) Repealed chapter 4 continues to apply for rights, privileges and
     liabilities that would have been acquired, accrued or incurred on or
     after 1 January 2006 in relation to a lease or occupancy right for
     which there is a pre-repeal lease duty liability if chapter 4 had not
     been repealed.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies subject to section 560 and 561.
 
Application of repealed s 241
*** 560 Application of repealed s 241 ***
     (1) Repealed section 241(2) and (4) applies under section 559(1) only
     if the relevant event happened before 1 January 2006.
     (2) Repealed section 241(9) does not apply under section 559(1) in
     relation to an agreement increasing the cost of a lease or occupancy
     right that is made on or after 1 January 2006.
     (3) In this section—

     "relevant event" means—
          (a) for repealed section 241(2)—the event mentioned in
          repealed section 241(3)(a) or (b) that starts the 30 day
          period mentioned in the subsection; or
          (b) for repealed section 241(4)—the event mentioned in
          repealed section 241(5)(a) or (b) that starts the 30 day
          period mentioned in the subsection.
 
Reassessments under repealed s 242
*** 561 Reassessments under repealed s 242 ***
     (1) Repealed section 242 applies under section 559(1) only for a
     lease or occupancy right that is terminated before 1 January 2016.
     (2) Repealed section 242 also applies, despite its repeal, to a
     section 532 instrument that is terminated before 1 January 2016.
     (3) For subsection (2), repealed section 242 applies with any
     necessary changes to the termination of the instrument as if it were
     the termination of a lease or occupancy right.
     (4) In this section—

     "section 532 instrument" means a lease, transaction, contract or
     agreement—
          (a) mentioned in section 532(1); and
          (b) that was in force immediately before 1 January 2006.
 
Saving of particular provisions for exempt institutions
*** 562 Saving of particular provisions for exempt institutions ***
     (1) This section applies if an assessment for lease duty was made
     before 1 January 2006.
     (2) If the assessment was made on the basis that an exemption under
     chapter 10, part 2, division 1, applied, previous sections 417 and
     419 continue to apply in relation to the lease.
     (3) For subsection (2), a reassessment made as required under
     previous section 419(3) imposing duty on the lease must be made as if
     chapter 4 had not been repealed.
     (4) If duty was imposed on the lease because the use requirements
     under chapter 10, part 2, division 2 would not be complied with,
     previous section 418 continues to apply for the lease, even if the
     duration period ends on or after 1 January 2006.
     (5) In this section—

     "previous", for a provision of this Act, means the provision as in
     force immediately before 1 January 2006.
 
Leases etc. to which repealed Act applied
*** 563 Leases etc. to which repealed Act applied ***
     (1) This section applies for the following—
          (a) a lease or agreement to lease to which the repealed Act
          applied, immediately before 1 January 2006, under section
          530;
          (b) an instrument increasing rent to which the repealed Act
          applied, immediately before 1 January 2006, under section
          530A.
     (2) Section 64C of the repealed Act continues to apply for the lease,
     agreement to lease or instrument.
 
Ending of registration of self assessor
*** 564 Ending of registration of self assessor ***
     (1) This section applies to a person who is registered, immediately
     before 1 January 2006, as a self assessor under chapter 12, part 2 or
     3.
     (2) The registration mentioned in subsection (1) is cancelled on 1
     January 2006 to the extent it applies for duty on leases or occupancy
     rights.
     (3) However, subsection (2) does not affect—
          (a) the registration of the person under this Act for any
          other purpose; or
               Example—
                    registration of the person under
                    chapter 12, part 2 or 3, as a self
                    assessor for duty on instruments or
                    transactions other than leases or
                    occupancy rights
     (b) a requirement that applies to the person under this Act or the
     Administration Act in relation to a lease or occupancy right for
     which there is a pre-repeal lease duty liability.
 
No refund of lease duty merely because lease or occupancy right ends on or
after 1 January 2006
*** 565 No refund of lease duty merely because lease or occupancy right ends on
or after 1 January 2006 ***
     (1) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a person is not
     entitled, under a relevant Act or otherwise, to a refund of lease
     duty paid for a lease or occupancy right only because the lease or
     right ends on or after the repeal of chapter 4.
     (2) In this section—

     "relevant Act" means this Act, the Administration Act or the repealed
     Act.
 
Application of amendments about rates of duty on dutiable transactions and
relevant acquisitions for land rich and corporate trustee duty
*** 566 Application of amendments about rates of duty on dutiable transactions
and relevant acquisitions for land rich and corporate trustee duty ***
Schedule 3 as in force on 1 July 2006 applies to dutiable transactions and
relevant acquisitions if liability for transfer duty, land rich duty or
corporate trustee duty arises on or after 1 July 2006.
 
Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty for home
*** 567 Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty for home
***
     (1) Chapter 2, part 9, division 3 as in force on 1 July 2006 applies
     to dutiable transactions if liability for transfer duty arises on or
     after 1 July 2006.
     (2) However, the division as in force immediately before 1 July 2006
     applies to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement
     for the transfer, of residential land made on or after 1 July 2006
     if—
          (a) the transfer or agreement replaces a transfer, or an
          agreement for the transfer, that included the residential
          land and was made before 1 July 2006; or
          (b) the transferee had an option to purchase the
          residential land, or the transferor had an option to
          require the transferee to purchase the residential land,
          granted before 1 July 2006 and exercised on or after 1 July
          2006; or
          (c) another arrangement was made before 1 July 2006 the
          sole or main purpose of which was to defer the making of
          the transfer or agreement until 1 July 2006 or later so the
          concession for transfer duty under the division, as in
          force on or after 1 July 2006, would apply in relation to
          the dutiable transaction.
 
Definitions for pt 6
*** 568 Definitions for pt 6 ***
In this part—

"amending Act" means the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2006.

"omitted definition" means a definition that was in schedule 6 or another
provision of this Act but was omitted by the amending Act.
 
References to terms with omitted definitions
*** 569 References to terms with omitted definitions ***
A term used in this part that, immediately before 1 January 2007, was defined
in an omitted definition has the meaning given to it under the omitted
definition.
 
Retrospective operation of new s 92(1)(c)
*** 570 Retrospective operation of new s 92(1)(c) ***
Section 92(1)(c), as inserted by the amending Act, section 12, applies in
relation to a dutiable transaction relating to residential land entered into on
or after 1 May 2004.
 
Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty for residential
land or vacant land
*** 571 Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty for
residential land or vacant land ***
     (1) The relevant provisions, as in force on 1 January 2007, apply to
     dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty arises on
     or after 1 January 2007.
     (2) The relevant provisions, as in force immediately before 1 January
     2007, apply to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or
     agreement for the transfer, of residential land or vacant land made
     on or after 1 January 2007 if—
          (a) the transfer or agreement replaces a transfer, or an
          agreement for the transfer, that included the land and was
          made before 1 January 2007; or
          (b) the transferee had an option to purchase the land, or
          the transferor had an option to require the transferee to
          purchase the land, granted before 1 January 2007 and
          exercised on or after 1 January 2007; or
          (c) another arrangement was made before 1 January 2007 the
          sole or main purpose of which was to defer the making of
          the transfer or agreement until 1 January 2007 or later so
          the concession for transfer duty under the relevant
          provisions, as in force on or after 1 January 2007, would
          apply in relation to the dutiable transaction.
     (3) In this section—

     "relevant provisions" means the following provisions—
          • chapter 2, part 9, divisions 2 and 3
          • chapter 2, part 14, division 1
          • schedule 4A.
 
Meaning of pre-repeal marketable security transaction
*** 572 Meaning of pre-repeal marketable security transaction ***
A transaction is a
"pre-repeal marketable security transaction" if—
     (a) a liability for transfer duty imposed on the transaction arose,
     or would, apart from an exemption or concession, have arisen, before
     1 January 2007; and
     (b) the transaction concerned a Queensland marketable security or a
     Queensland marketable security was otherwise relevant to the
     imposition of the duty.
 
Savings provision for pre-repeal marketable security transactions
*** 573 Savings provision for pre-repeal marketable security transactions ***
This Act, as in force immediately before 1 January 2007, continues to apply for
powers, rights, privileges and liabilities that would have been exercisable,
acquired, accrued or incurred on or after 1 January 2007 in relation to a pre-
repeal marketable security transaction if the amendments in the amending Act
had not commenced.
     Example of how this Act continues to apply under this section—
          A person or other entity may be required to lodge an
          instrument or transfer duty statement, and pay transfer
          duty, on or after 1 January 2007 in relation to a pre-
          repeal marketable security transaction.
 
Deduction relating to transfer duty for marketable securities
*** 574 Deduction relating to transfer duty for marketable securities ***
Section 227, as in force immediately before 1 January 2007, continues to apply
in relation to transfer duty that was paid or payable, before 1 January 2007,
for a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of shares of a corporate trustee
or relevant corporation for a corporate trustee.
 
Saving of particular provisions for exempt institutions
*** 575 Saving of particular provisions for exempt institutions ***
     (1) This section applies to an assessment for transfer duty made in
     relation to a pre-repeal marketable security transaction.
     (2) If the assessment was made on the basis of an exemption under
     chapter 10, part 2, division 1, then previous sections 417 and 419
     continue to apply in relation to the transaction.
     (3) For subsection (2), a reassessment made as required under
     previous section 419(3) imposing duty on the transaction must be made
     as if the amending Act had not commenced.
     (4) If duty was imposed on the transaction because the use
     requirements under chapter 10, part 2, division 2 would not be
     complied with, previous section 418 continues to apply for the
     transaction.
     (5) In this section—

     "previous", for a provision of this Act, means the provision as in
     force immediately before 1 January 2007.
 
Ending of registration as self assessors
*** 576 Ending of registration as self assessors ***
     (1) This section applies to a person who, immediately before 1
     January 2007, was registered as a self assessor under chapter 12,
     part 2 or 3.
     (2) On 1 January 2007, the person’s registration is cancelled to
     the extent it applied for transfer duty on transactions relating to
     Queensland marketable securities.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not affect—
          (a) the registration of the person under this Act for any
          other purpose; or
          (b) a requirement that applies to the person under this Act
          or the Administration Act in relation to a pre-repeal
          marketable security transaction.
 
Transitional provision for s 484
*** 577 Transitional provision for s 484 ***
Section 484, as in force immediately before 1 January 2007, continues to apply
to an instrument that effects or evidences a dutiable transaction for a share
or right relating to a share entered into before 1 January 2007.
 
Definitions for div 4
*** 578 Definitions for div 4 ***
In this division—

"pre-repeal hire" means a hire of goods, mentioned in previous section 325(1)
(a) or (b), made or effected before 1 January 2007.

"pre-repeal hiring charge" means—
     (a) for a pre-repeal hire that is a credit purchase agreement or an
     agreement under previous section 345—the total hiring charges paid
     or payable under the hire; or
     (b) for another pre-repeal hire—the hiring charges paid or payable
     for a period before 1 January 2007.

"previous", in relation to a provision of this Act, means the provision as in
force immediately before 1 January 2007.
 
Savings provision for pre-repeal hires
*** 579 Savings provision for pre-repeal hires ***
     (1) The hire duty provisions continue to apply for powers, rights,
     privileges and liabilities that would have been exercisable,
     acquired, accrued or incurred on or after 1 January 2007 in relation
     to a pre-repeal hiring charge if the hire duty provisions had not
     been repealed.
          Examples of how the hire duty provisions continue to apply
          under this section—
                    1 A commercial hirer may be required to
                    lodge a return or statement, and pay
                    hire duty, on or after 1 January 2007
                    in relation to a pre-repeal hiring
                    charge.
                    2 A person other than a commercial
                    hirer may be required to lodge the
                    instrument by which a pre-repeal hire
                    is effected, and pay hire duty, on or
                    after 1 January 2007 in relation to a
                    pre-repeal hiring charge.
                    3 The commissioner may make an
                    assessment or reassessment under
                    previous section 339 of the hire duty
                    payable in relation to a pre-repeal
                    hiring charge.
                    4 A pre-repeal hire was made in the
                    circumstances mentioned in previous
                    section 345. The hire was for an
                    indefinite period but ended, or ends,
                    within 6 months after it was entered
                    into. An application may be made, and
                    must be dealt with, under previous
                    section 347.
     (2) In this section—

     "hire duty provisions" means previous chapter 7 and the omitted
     definitions.
 
Duty payable for pre-repeal hire relating to a period ending on or after 1
January 2007
*** 580 Duty payable for pre-repeal hire relating to a period ending on or
after 1 January 2007 ***
     (1) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a person is not
     entitled, under a relevant Act or otherwise, to a refund of hire duty
     paid on a pre-repeal hire only because the period for which the pre-
     repeal hire was made or effected ends on or after 1 January 2007.
     (2) In this section—

     "relevant Act" means this Act, the Administration Act or the repealed
     Act.
 
Ending of registration of commercial hirers
*** 581 Ending of registration of commercial hirers ***
     (1) This section applies to a person who, immediately before 1
     January 2007, was a registered commercial hirer.
     (2) The following are cancelled on 1 January 2007—
          (a) the person’s registration under chapter 12, part 1,
          to carry on business in Queensland as a commercial hirer;
          (b) the person’s registration under chapter 12, part 1,
          as a self assessor for duty on instruments or transactions
          to which the person is or becomes a party for carrying on
          the business.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not affect—
          (a) the registration of the person under this Act for any
          other purpose; or
          (b) a requirement that applies to the person under this Act
          or the Administration Act in relation to a pre-repeal hire.
 
Saving of particular provisions for exempt institutions
*** 582 Saving of particular provisions for exempt institutions ***
     (1) This section applies to an assessment for hire duty made in
     relation to a pre-repeal hire.
     (2) If the assessment is or was made on the basis of an exemption
     under chapter 10, part 2, division 1, then previous sections 417 and
     419 continue to apply in relation to the hire.
     (3) For subsection (2), a reassessment made as required under
     previous section 419(3) imposing duty in relation to the pre-repeal
     hiring charges must be made as if chapter 7 had not been repealed.
     (4) If duty is or was imposed on the hire because the use
     requirements under chapter 10, part 2, division 2 would not be
     complied with, previous section 418 continues to apply for the hire,
     even if the duration period ends on or after 1 January 2007.
 
Application of amendments about concession for mortgage duty for home or first
home
*** 583 Application of amendments about concession for mortgage duty for home
or first home ***
Chapter 5, part 6 as in force on 1 January 2007 applies to mortgages only if
liability for mortgage duty arises on or after 1 January 2007.
 
Application of amendment about rate of mortgage duty
*** 584 Application of amendment about rate of mortgage duty ***
     (1) Section 254, as in force on 1 January 2008, applies to a mortgage
     only if the liability date for the mortgage is on or after 1 January
     2008.
     (2) However, section 254, as in force immediately before 1 January
     2008, applies to a mortgage if an arrangement was made before 1
     January 2008 the sole or main purpose of which was to defer a
     liability date for the mortgage until 1 January 2008 or later so the
     rate of mortgage duty under section 254, as in force on or after 1
     January 2008, would apply in relation to the liability date.
     (3) Also, a person is not entitled, under a relevant Act or
     otherwise, to a refund of mortgage duty paid before 1 January 2008
     only because a liability date for the mortgage is on or after 1
     January 2008.
     (4) In this section—

     "relevant Act" means this Act or the Administration Act.
 
Mortgage duty associated with debenture subscriptions in financial year ending
30 June 2008
*** 585 Mortgage duty associated with debenture subscriptions in financial year
ending 30 June 2008 ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to mortgage duty payable under
     section 266(3) on the amount subscribed for, in the financial year
     ending 30 June 2008, for debentures.
     (2) The rate of mortgage duty is—
          (a) 40c for each $100, or part of $100, of the amount
          subscribed for in the period from 1 July 2007 to 31
          December 2007; and
          (b) 20c for each $100, or part of $100, of the amount
          subscribed for in the period from 1 January 2008 to 30 June
          2008.
     (3) The rate of mortgage duty under subsection (2)(a) applies to an
     amount subscribed for debentures if an arrangement was made before 1
     January 2008 the sole or main purpose of which was to defer the
     subscription until 1 January 2008 or later so the rate of mortgage
     duty under subsection (2)(b) would apply in relation to the
     subscription.
 
Mortgage duty associated with caveats and releases of mortgage
*** 586 Mortgage duty associated with caveats and releases of mortgage ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to—
          (a) mortgage duty imposed under section 268 on a caveat
          claiming an interest under a mortgage; and
          (b) mortgage duty imposed under section 269 on a release of
          mortgage.
     (2) To the extent an amount of mortgage duty imposed on the relevant
     mortgage is calculated by reference to the rate under pre-amended
     section 254, the amount of mortgage duty imposed on the caveat or
     release is also calculated under pre-amended section 254, even if the
     caveat or release is effected on or after 1 January 2008.
     (3) In this section—

     "pre-amended section 254" means section 254 as in force before 1
     January 2008.
 
Definitions for pt 8
*** 587 Definitions for pt 8 ***
In this part—

"agent self assessor" means a self assessor registered under chapter 12, part
3.

"amending Act" means the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2)
2007.
 
Delayed application of amendments to agent self assessors
*** 588 Delayed application of amendments to agent self assessors ***
For the period up to and including 2 March 2008—
     (a) sections 455, 488 and 491 apply to an agent self assessor as if
     the amending Act, part 2, division 3, had not commenced; and
     (b) section 481A does not apply to an agent self assessor.
 
Savings provision about properly stamped instruments
*** 589 Savings provision about properly stamped instruments ***
     (1) A reference in this Act to an instrument that is properly stamped
     includes—
          (a) an instrument endorsed under section 455(1)(c) before
          the commencement day; and
          (b) an instrument stamped with an impressed stamp or other
          stamp under section 492 before the commencement day; and
          (c) an instrument stamped with an impressed stamp or other
          stamp, during the transitional period, in a way that
          complies with section 492 as in force immediately before
          the commencement day.
     (2) In this section—

     "commencement day" means—
          (a) for an instrument endorsed under section 455(1)(c) by
          an agent self assessor—3 March 2008; or
          (b) for another instrument endorsed under section 455(1)
          (c)—4 February 2008; or
          (c) otherwise—7 January 2008.

     "transitional period" means the period of 1 year starting on 7
     January 2008.
 
Definition for div 1
*** 590 Definition for div 1 ***
In this division—

"previous", in relation to a provision of this Act, means the provision as in
force immediately before 1 July 2008.
 
Requirement to lodge mortgage
*** 591 Requirement to lodge mortgage ***
On and from 1 July 2008, section 255 continues to apply to a mortgage if the
liability for mortgage duty on the mortgage arose before 1 July 2008.
 
Mortgage packages
*** 592 Mortgage packages ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) a mortgage package consists of 2 or more security
          instruments signed before 1 July 2008; and
          (b) the commissioner is satisfied that a mortgage signed on
          or after 1 July 2008 was intended to be part of the
          package.
     (2) Mortgage duty must be assessed on the mortgage package—
          (a) under previous chapter 5; and
          (b) as if the instruments comprising the package were 1
          mortgage first signed on the day the last of the
          instruments signed before 1 July 2008 was signed.
 
Reassessment—stamping before advance
*** 593 Reassessment—stamping before advance ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a mortgage was first signed before 1 July 2008; and
          (b) the mortgage was, under section 257, properly stamped
          for an amount of advances secured by the mortgage; and
          (c) the advances were not all made before 1 July 2008.
     (2) The mortgagor may apply to the commissioner for a reassessment of
     mortgage duty paid in relation to the advances not made before 1 July
     2008.
     (3) The application must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) include the mortgage document; and
          (c) be made by 31 December 2008.
     (4) The commissioner must make the reassessment.
 
Mortgage duty on caveats
*** 594 Mortgage duty on caveats ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) before 1 July 2008, mortgage duty was imposed on a
          mortgage but was not paid; and
          (b) on or after 1 July 2008, a caveat claimed an interest
          in land or a water allocation under the mortgage.
     (2) On and from 1 July 2008, section 268 continues to apply to impose
     mortgage duty on the caveat.
     (3) Mortgage duty is imposed on the caveat at the rate applicable at
     the time the duty was imposed on the mortgage.
 
Mortgage duty on releases of mortgages
*** 595 Mortgage duty on releases of mortgages ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) before 1 July 2008, mortgage duty was imposed on a
          mortgage but was not paid; and
          (b) on or after 1 July 2008, the mortgage is released.
     (2) On and from 1 July 2008, section 269 continues to apply to impose
     mortgage duty on the release of the mortgage.
     (3) Mortgage duty is imposed on the release at the rate applicable at
     the time the duty was imposed on the mortgage.
 
Reassessment—Victorian and Tasmanian property
*** 596 Reassessment—Victorian and Tasmanian property ***
     (1) This section applies if, before 1 July 2008, the commissioner was
     required under section 290A or 290B to make a reassessment to impose
     mortgage duty on a mortgage.
     (2) Sections 290A and 290B apply to require the reassessment to
     impose duty based on the dutiable proportion at the liability date.
 
Reassessment—concessions for home mortgages and first home mortgages
*** 597 Reassessment—concessions for home mortgages and first home mortgages
***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) before 1 July 2008, mortgage duty on a home mortgage
          was assessed on the basis of a concession under chapter 5,
          part 6; and
          (b) on or after 1 July 2008, one of the events mentioned in
          section 291(1) happens.
     (2) Section 291(2) to (4) applies to enable the commissioner to make
     a reassessment to impose mortgage duty on the mortgage at the rate
     applicable at the time that, but for the concession, the liability
     for mortgage duty would have arisen.
 
Reassessment—concessions for cooperatives
*** 598 Reassessment—concessions for cooperatives ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) before 1 July 2008, a mortgage was given to secure an
          advance to a cooperative registered under the Cooperatives
          Act 1997; and
          (b) mortgage duty was not imposed on the mortgage; and
          (c) on or after 1 July 2008, the advance or part of it was
          used for a noncomplying use within the meaning of section
          292(1).
     (2) Section 292(2) to (4) applies to enable the commissioner to make
     a reassessment to impose mortgage duty on the mortgage at the rate
     applicable at the time that, but for the exemption, the liability for
     mortgage duty would have arisen.
 
Saving of previous provisions for exempt institutions
*** 599 Saving of previous provisions for exempt institutions ***
     (1) This section applies to an assessment for mortgage duty on a
     mortgage given to secure an advance made—
          (a) to an exempt institution on the basis of an exemption
          under chapter 10, part 2, division 1; and
          (b) before 1 July 2008.
          Note—
               From 30 June 2010, the registration of charitable
               institutions is provided for under the
               Administration Act, part 11A. See the
               Administration Act, section 168 in relation to
               institutions that were, immediately before 30
               June 2010, exempt institutions.
     (2) On and after 1 July 2008, previous sections 417 and 419 continue
     to apply in relation to the advance.
     (3) For subsection (2), a reassessment made as required under
     previous section 419(3) imposing duty in relation to the advance must
     be made as if the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2008,
     part 2 had not commenced.
     (4) If mortgage duty was imposed in relation to the advance because
     the use requirements under chapter 10, part 2, division 2 would not
     be complied with, previous section 418 continues to apply in relation
     to the advance.
 
Cancellation of registration to defer endorsement—s 446A
*** 600 Cancellation of registration to defer endorsement—s 446A ***
     (1) This section applies if, immediately before 1 July 2008, a self
     assessor was registered under previous section 446A to defer
     endorsement, under section 455(1)(c), of mortgages for further
     advances under the mortgages.
     (2) On 1 July 2008, the registration is cancelled.
     (3) However, the self assessor must, by 1 January 2009, comply with
     section 455(1)(c) in relation to any endorsement deferred under
     previous section 455(4).
 
Lapsing of application for registration to defer endorsement
*** 601 Lapsing of application for registration to defer endorsement ***
     (1) This section applies to an application to be registered under
     previous section 446A made but not finally decided before 1 July
     2008.
     (2) On 1 July 2008, the application lapses.
 
Requirement to lodge returns
*** 602 Requirement to lodge returns ***
On and from 1 July 2008, section 455 continues to apply, to a self assessor
registered under part 2 or 3 for mortgage duty, in relation to a return period
that started before 1 July 2008.
 
Reassessment of duty in particular circumstances
*** 603 Reassessment of duty in particular circumstances ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) before 1 July 2008, a person paid mortgage duty on a
          mortgage; and
          (b) on or after 1 July 2008, an event mentioned in section
          499(2)(f) happens.
     (2) Section 499(5) to (8) continues to apply in relation to a
     reassessment of the duty paid.
 
Impact of div 1
*** 604 Impact of div 1 ***
The inclusion in this division of a provision affecting the application of a
provision of chapter 5 or chapter 10 following the abolition of mortgage duty
on 1 July 2008 does not by implication limit the continuing application of
another provision of the chapter.
 
Application of amendments about rates of transfer duty, land rich duty and
corporate trustee duty
*** 605 Application of amendments about rates of transfer duty, land rich duty
and corporate trustee duty ***
Schedule 3 as in force on 1 July 2008 applies to dutiable transactions and
relevant acquisitions if liability for transfer duty, land rich duty or
corporate trustee duty arises on or after 1 July 2008.
 
Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty—residential land
*** 606 Application of amendments about concession for transfer
duty—residential land ***
     (1) The relevant provisions, as in force on 1 July 2008, apply to
     dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty arises on
     or after 1 July 2008.
     (2) The relevant provisions, as in force immediately before 1 July
     2008, apply to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or
     agreement for the transfer, of residential land made on or after 1
     July 2008 if—
          (a) the transfer or agreement replaces a transfer, or an
          agreement for the transfer, that included the land and was
          made before 1 July 2008; or
          (b) the transferee had an option to purchase the land, or
          the transferor had an option to require the transferee to
          purchase the land, granted before 1 July 2008 and exercised
          on or after 1 July 2008; or
          (c) another arrangement was made before 1 July 2008 the
          sole or main purpose of which was to defer the making of
          the transfer or agreement until 1 July 2008 or later so the
          concession for transfer duty under the relevant provisions,
          as in force on or after 1 July 2008, would apply in
          relation to the dutiable transaction.
     (3) In this section—

     "relevant provisions" means the following provisions—
          • chapter 2, part 9, divisions 2 and 3
          • chapter 2, part 14, division 1
          • schedule 4A.
 
Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty—residential land
*** 607 Application of amendments about concession for transfer
duty—residential land ***
     (1) The relevant provisions, as in force on 1 September 2008, apply
     to dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty arises
     on or after 1 September 2008.
     (2) The relevant provisions, as in force immediately before 1
     September 2008, apply to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer,
     or agreement for the transfer, of residential land made on or after 1
     September 2008 if—
          (a) the transfer or agreement replaces a transfer, or an
          agreement for the transfer, that included the land and was
          made on or after 1 July 2008 and before 1 September 2008;
          or
          (b) the transferee had an option to purchase the land, or
          the transferor had an option to require the transferee to
          purchase the land, granted on or after 1 July 2008 and
          before 1 September 2008 and exercised on or after 1
          September 2008; or
          (c) another arrangement was made on or after 1 July 2008
          and before 1 September 2008 the sole or main purpose of
          which was to defer the making of the transfer or agreement
          until 1 September 2008 or later so the concession for
          transfer duty under the relevant provisions, as in force on
          or after 1 September 2008, would apply in relation to the
          dutiable transaction.
     (3) In this section—

     "relevant provisions" means the following provisions—
          • chapter 2, part 9, divisions 2 and 3
          • chapter 2, part 14, division 1
          • schedule 4A.
 
Meaning of commencement day
*** 608 Meaning of commencement day ***
In this part—

"commencement day" means the day of commencement of the provision in which the
term is used.
 
Limitation period—particular retirement village arrangements
*** 609 Limitation period—particular retirement village arrangements ***
     (1) This section applies to duty imposed before the commencement day
     if—
          (a) the duty was—
               (i) transfer duty on the transfer, or agreement
               for the transfer, of residential land; or
               (ii) mortgage duty imposed on a mortgage over
               residential land; and
          (b) the land was an accommodation unit in a retirement
          village; and
          (c) on or after the commencement day, the transferee enters
          into a retirement village leasing arrangement for the unit.
     (2) The limitation period for a reassessment of the duty does not
     apply.
 
Application of amendment about concession for transfer duty—first home
*** 610 Application of amendment about concession for transfer duty—first
home ***
A reference in section 607 to a relevant provision as in force on 1 September
2008 includes section 92, as amended by the Revenue and Other Legislation
Amendment Act (No. 2) 2008, as in force on 1 September 2008.
 
Reassessment of vehicle registration duty under s 393A
*** 611 Reassessment of vehicle registration duty under s 393A ***
Section 393A does not apply in relation to an application to register a vehicle
in the name of a vehicle dealer, or to transfer a vehicle to a vehicle dealer,
made before the commencement day.
 
Non-application of s 471EA to liabilities arising before commencement day
*** 612 Non-application of s 471EA to liabilities arising before commencement
day ***
Section 471EA does not apply to a liability to pay an amount of duty, assessed
interest or penalty tax that arose before the commencement day.
 
Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty—vacant land
*** 613 Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty—vacant
land ***
     (1) The relevant provisions, as in force on 1 July 2009, apply to
     dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty arises on
     or after 1 July 2009.
     (2) The relevant provisions, as in force immediately before 1 July
     2009, apply to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or
     agreement for the transfer, of vacant land made on or after 1 July
     2009 if—
          (a) the transfer or agreement replaces a transfer, or an
          agreement for the transfer, that included the land and was
          made before 1 July 2009; or
          (b) the transferee had an option to purchase the land, or
          the transferor had an option to require the transferee to
          purchase the land, granted before 1 July 2009 and exercised
          on or after 1 July 2009; or
          (c) another arrangement was made before 1 July 2009 the
          sole or main purpose of which was to defer the making of
          the transfer or agreement until 1 July 2009 or later so the
          concession for transfer duty under the relevant provisions,
          as in force on or after 1 July 2009, would apply in
          relation to the dutiable transaction.
     (3) In this section—

     "relevant provisions" means the following provisions—
          • chapter 2, part 9, divisions 2 and 3
          • chapter 2, part 14, division 1
          • schedule 4B.
 
References to an acquisition mentioned in s 85(b)
*** 614 References to an acquisition mentioned in s 85(b) ***
A provision in either of the following that, on the commencement of this
section, includes a reference to an acquisition mentioned in section 85(b) is
taken to have included that reference on and from 1 December 2003—
     (a) chapter 2, part 9;
     (b) chapter 2, part 14, division 1.
 
Exemption under s 117
*** 615 Exemption under s 117 ***
Section 117(2) as in force on the commencement of this section is taken to have
had effect on and from 13 August 2004.
 
Exemption under s 151
*** 616 Exemption under s 151 ***
Section 151(2) as in force on the commencement of this section is taken to have
had effect on and from 2 May 2003.
 
Charge mentioned in s 198
*** 617 Charge mentioned in s 198 ***
     (1) Section 198 as in force immediately before its amendment by the
     amending Act continues to apply to a relevant acquisition made before
     the amendment.
     (2) In this section—

     "amending Act" means the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act
     2010.
 
Registered general insurers and registered life insurers
*** 618 Registered general insurers and registered life insurers ***
A person who, immediately before 14 January 2010, was a registered general
insurer or registered life insurer is, on and from 14 January 2010, taken to be
a registered insurer.
 
Date of effect of particular provisions
*** 619 Date of effect of particular provisions ***
The following provisions as in force on the commencement of this section are
taken to have had effect on and from 14 January 2010—
     • section 73
     • sections 353 to 355
     • section 357
     • section 360
     • chapter 8, part 5
     • sections 371 and 372
     • section 437
     • the schedule, to the extent the definitions
     "insurer",
     "registered general insurer" and
     "registered life insurer" have been omitted and the definitions
     "insurer" and
     "registered insurer" have been inserted.
 
Start of use requirement under s 416
*** 620 Start of use requirement under s 416 ***
Section 416(1)(a) and (3)(a) as in force on the commencement of this section is
taken to have had effect on and from 1 March 2002.
 
Dutiable value of vehicles modified for a person with a disability
*** 621 Dutiable value of vehicles modified for a person with a disability ***
The following provisions as in force on the commencement of this section are
taken to have had effect on and from 4 March 2009—
     (a) sections 378(3) and 379B;
     (b) schedule 6, definition
     "modified for a person with a disability".
 
Definition for pt 15
*** 622 Definition for pt 15 ***
In this part—

"previous", if followed by a provision number, means the provision of that
number as in force immediately before 1 July 2011, as affected by any relevant
definition in force for the provision at that time.
     Note—
          1 July 2011 was the day on which amendments to this Act
          under the Community Ambulance Cover Levy Repeal and Revenue
          and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2011 commenced.
 
Particular references to landholder duty, majority interests and relevant
acquisitions
*** 623 Particular references to landholder duty, majority interests and
relevant acquisitions ***
     (1) In the provisions mentioned in subsection (2)—
          (a) a reference to landholder duty imposed or paid for a
          relevant acquisition includes a reference to land rich duty
          imposed or paid under previous chapter 3, part 1; and
          (b) a reference to a relevant acquisition includes a
          reference to a relevant acquisition made under previous
          chapter 3, part 1; and
          (c) a reference to a significant interest includes a
          reference to a majority interest under previous chapter 3,
          part 1.
     (2) For subsection (1), the provisions are the following—
          (a) section 82;
          (b) section 158(1)(c);
          (c) chapter 3, part 1, division 4;
          (d) section 407(1)(d).
 
Relevant acquisitions made in a land rich corporation before 1 July 2011
*** 624 Relevant acquisitions made in a land rich corporation before 1 July
2011 ***
     (1) This section applies if, before 1 July 2011, a person made a
     relevant acquisition in a land rich corporation under previous
     section 158.
     (2) Previous chapter 3, part 1 and chapter 10, part 1 continue to
     apply in relation to the relevant acquisition as if the Community
     Ambulance Cover Levy Repeal and Revenue and Other Legislation
     Amendment Act 2011 had not commenced.
 
Interests acquired before 1 July 2011 included for s 158
*** 625 Interests acquired before 1 July 2011 included for s 158 ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) before 1 July 2011, a person or related person of the
          person acquired an interest in an entity (the
          "original interest"); and
          (b) on or after 1 July 2011, the person or related person
          acquires a further interest in the entity; and
          (c) when the further interest is acquired, the person or
          related person still holds the original interest.
     (2) To avoid any doubt, it is declared that for section 158, the
     original interest is an interest held by the person or related person
     in the entity.
 
Particular interests taken to be excluded interests for s 179
*** 626 Particular interests taken to be excluded interests for s 179 ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) before 1 July 2011 a person acquired an interest in a
          corporation other than a land rich corporation as defined
          under this Act before that day; and
          (b) on or after 1 July 2011—
               (i) the corporation is or becomes a landholder;
               and
               (ii) the person makes a relevant acquisition in
               the corporation.
     (2) For working out the dutiable value of the relevant acquisition
     under section 179, the interest acquired before 1 July 2011 is taken
     to be an excluded interest.
     (3) Section 163(2) applies for working out when the interest was
     acquired.
 
Application of s 412
*** 627 Application of s 412 ***
A reference in section 412(1)(a) to duty assessed on the basis of an exemption
under section 409 includes a reference to duty assessed on the basis of an
exemption under previous section 409.
 
Pre-amended home concession provisions continue to apply for particular
transactions
*** 628 Pre-amended home concession provisions continue to apply for particular
transactions ***
     (1) This section applies to each of the following dutiable
     transactions for which liability for transfer duty arose before the
     commencement—
          (a) the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a home;
          (b) the acquisition, on its creation, grant or issue, of a
          new right that is a lease—
               (i) of residential land on which a home is
               constructed; and
               (ii) for which a premium, fine or other
               consideration is payable;
          (c) the vesting, as mentioned in section 9(1)(d), of a
          home.
     (2) The following pre-amended provisions continue to apply to the
     assessment of transfer duty in relation to the transaction—
          (a) sections 86, 91 and 93;
          (b) sections 153, 154 and 155;
          (c) schedules 3, 4A and 4B;
          (d) schedule 6, definitions
          "home" and
          "occupancy requirement".
     (3) This section does not limit the Acts Interpretation Act 1954,
     section 20.
     (4) In this section—

     "commencement" means the commencement of this section.

     "home" means a home under pre-amended section 86(1).

     "pre-amended", in relation to a provision, means the provision as it
     was in force immediately before the commencement.
 
Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty—home
*** 629 Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty—home ***
     (1) The relevant provisions, as in force on 1 July 2012, apply to
     dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty arises on
     or after 1 July 2012.
     (2) The relevant provisions, as in force immediately before 1 July
     2012, apply to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or
     agreement for the transfer, of residential or vacant land made on or
     after 1 July 2012 if—
          (a) the transfer or agreement replaces a transfer, or an
          agreement for the transfer, that included the land and was
          made before 1 July 2012; or
          (b) the transferee had an option to purchase the land, or
          the transferor had an option to require the transferee to
          purchase the land, granted before 1 July 2012 and exercised
          on or after 1 July 2012; or
          (c) another arrangement was made before 1 July 2012 the
          sole or main purpose of which was to defer the making of
          the transfer or agreement until 1 July 2012 or later so the
          concession for transfer duty under the relevant provisions,
          as in force on or after 1 July 2012, would apply in
          relation to the dutiable transaction.
     (3) In this section—

     "relevant provisions" means the following provisions—
          • chapter 2, part 9
          • chapter 2, part 14, division 1
          • schedule 3
          • schedule 4A
          • schedule 4B.
 
Definitions for pt 17
*** 630 Definitions for pt 17 ***
In this part—

"acquirer", in relation to a relevant acquisition in a landholder, includes a
related person of the acquirer who, under section 175(2), is jointly and
severally liable for the payment of landholder duty on the relevant
acquisition.

"amending Act" means the Fiscal Repair Amendment Act 2012.

"commencement day" means the day this section commences.

"retrospectivity period" means the period beginning at the start time and
ending immediately before the commencement day.

"start time" means 10.30a.m. on 13 January 2012.
 
Declaratory provision—effect of amending Act on meaning of land
*** 631 Declaratory provision—effect of amending Act on meaning of land ***
     (1) For deciding whether a resource authority, other than an
     exploration authority, was land under the pre-amended Act, the
     amendment of schedule 6 by the amending Act is to be disregarded.
     (2) In this section—

     "pre-amended Act" means this Act as in force before the commencement
     day.
 
Purpose of div 3
*** 632 Purpose of div 3 ***
The purpose of this division is to provide for the imposition of duty in
relation to exploration authorities during the retrospectivity period.
 
Meaning of land for retrospectivity period
*** 633 Meaning of land for retrospectivity period ***
     (1) During the retrospectivity period, this Act is taken to have
     applied as if schedule 6, definition
     "land" had provided as follows—

     "land" —
          (a) includes—
               (i) airspace above land and the coastal waters of
               the State; and
               (ii) an exploration authority; but
          (b) does not include an exploration permit under the
          Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1982.
     (2) For subsection (1), schedule 6, definition
     "exploration authority", as inserted by section 8 of the amending
     Act, is taken to have had effect on and from the start time.
 
Meaning of statutory licence for retrospectivity period
*** 634 Meaning of statutory licence for retrospectivity period ***
During the retrospectivity period, this Act is taken to have applied as if
schedule 6, definition
"statutory licence" had provided as follows—

"statutory licence" means a licence, permit or other authority issued or given
under a Queensland or Commonwealth Act, other than the following—
     (a) a chattel authority;
     (b) an exploration permit under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act
     1982.
 
Exemption from transfer duty for exploration authority granted during
retrospectivity period
*** 635 Exemption from transfer duty for exploration authority granted during
retrospectivity period ***
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9
(1)(f) that is the grant of an exploration authority if liability for transfer
duty arose during the retrospectivity period.
 
Exemption from transfer duty for transfer of exploration authority under
particular agreements
*** 636 Exemption from transfer duty for transfer of exploration authority
under particular agreements ***
     (1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction mentioned in
     section 9(1)(a) that is the transfer, on or after the start time, of
     an exploration authority if—
          (a) the transfer is made under an agreement for the
          transfer of the exploration authority, whether conditional
          or not; and
          (b) the agreement for the transfer was entered into before
          the start time.
     (2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction.
 
Particular exploration land-holdings not to be taken into account for working
out landholder duty
*** 637 Particular exploration land-holdings not to be taken into account for
working out landholder duty ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a relevant acquisition in a landholder is made on or
          after the start time; and
          (b) there was, before the start time, an agreement to
          acquire the interest that is the subject of the relevant
          acquisition, whether the agreement is conditional or not;
          and
          (c) the interest is, under section 163(2)(b), acquired
          after the start time.
     (2) Exploration land-holdings must be excluded from the Queensland
     land-holdings of the landholder for the purposes of—
          (a) if the landholder is a private landholder—working out
          the dutiable value of the relevant acquisition under
          section 179; or
          (b) if the landholder is a public landholder—working out
          the landholder duty imposed on the relevant acquisition
          under section 179A.
     (3) In this section—

     "exploration land-holdings", of a landholder, means land-holdings
     mentioned in section 167 if the land is an exploration authority.
 
Transfer duty—transactions previously not dutiable
*** 638 Transfer duty—transactions previously not dutiable ***
     (1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction for which
     liability for transfer duty arose during the retrospectivity period,
     if—
          (a) but for this division, the transaction would not have
          been a dutiable transaction under chapter 2; and
          (b) for assessing transfer duty on the dutiable
          transaction—
               (i) section 30 does not apply to the transaction;
               or
               (ii) if section 30 applies to the
               transaction—paragraph (a) applies to each of
               the dutiable transactions that are to be
               aggregated.
     (2) The period within which the parties liable to pay transfer duty
     relating to the dutiable transaction must comply with section 19(3)
     is taken to be 30 days after the commencement day.
     (3) For a standard self assessment of duty on the dutiable
     transaction—
          (a) the date liability for duty for the transaction arises
          is, for section 455A(3), taken to be the commencement day;
          and
          (b) the date by which a liable party to the instrument that
          effects or evidences the transaction must comply with
          section 471E(1) is taken to be 30 days after the
          commencement day.
 
Transfer duty—dutiable transactions not assessed before commencement day
*** 639 Transfer duty—dutiable transactions not assessed before commencement
day ***
     (1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction for which
     liability for transfer duty arose during the retrospectivity period,
     if—
          (a) but for this division, the dutiable value of the
          transaction would have been required to be assessed without
          having regard to an exploration authority; and
          (b) because of this division, the dutiable value of the
          transaction is required to be assessed having regard to
          dutiable property that is an exploration authority; and
          (c) before the commencement day, an assessment of a
          party’s liability for transfer duty on the dutiable
          transaction has not been made, or taken to have been made,
          by the commissioner.
          Note—
               A reference in this subsection to a dutiable
               transaction includes a reference to a dutiable
               transaction that should have been assessed under
               section 30 together with 1 or more other dutiable
               transactions that, but for this division, would
               not have been dutiable transactions.
     (2) Section 638(2) and (3) applies in relation to the dutiable
     transaction.
     (3) However, to the extent unpaid primary tax relating to the
     dutiable transaction is attributable to dutiable property other than
     an exploration authority, section 638(2) and (3) does not affect—
          (a) the start date for unpaid tax interest on the unpaid
          primary tax under the Administration Act, section 54; or
          (b) a party’s liability for penalty tax.
 
Transfer duty—dutiable transactions assessed before commencement day
*** 640 Transfer duty—dutiable transactions assessed before commencement day
***
     (1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction for which
     liability for transfer duty arose during the retrospectivity period,
     if—
          (a) but for this division, the dutiable value of the
          transaction would have been required to be assessed without
          having regard to an exploration authority; and
          (b) because of this division, the dutiable value of the
          transaction is required to be assessed having regard to
          dutiable property that is an exploration authority; and
          (c) before the commencement day, an assessment has been
          made, or taken to have been made, of a party’s liability
          for transfer duty on the dutiable transaction.
          Note—
               A reference in this subsection to a dutiable
               transaction includes a reference to a dutiable
               transaction that should have been assessed under
               section 30 together with 1 or more other dutiable
               transactions that, but for this division, would
               not have been dutiable transactions.
     (2) Transfer duty for the dutiable transaction must be reassessed.
     (3) Within 30 days after the commencement day, a party liable for
     transfer duty on the dutiable transaction must—
          (a) give notice in the approved form to the commissioner
          that the reassessment is required; and
          (b) lodge the instrument that effects or evidences the
          transaction or the transfer duty statement for the
          transaction.
          Note—
               Under the Administration Act, failure to give the
               commissioner notice about a matter under a tax
               law is an offence under section 120 of that Act.
               Also, under the Administration Act, the
               requirement under paragraph (b) is a lodgement
               requirement for which a failure to comply is an
               offence under section 121 of that Act.
     (4) If a party complies with subsection (3) for the dutiable
     transaction, the party is not liable for penalty tax under the
     Administration Act, section 58 (2) (c) to the extent the difference
     between the transfer duty assessed on the original assessment, and on
     the reassessment, is attributable to dutiable property that is an
     exploration authority.
     (5) Subsection (6) applies to unpaid tax interest that is payable on
     unpaid primary tax for the dutiable transaction, to the extent the
     tax is attributable to dutiable property that is an exploration
     authority.
     (6) For the Administration Act, section 54 (2) and (2A), the start
     date is—
          (a) the due date for the reassessment under this section;
          or
          (b) if the party has not complied with subsection (3)—the
          date that is the same number of days before the due date
          for the reassessment as the number of days in the periods
          of noncompliance with the subsection.
 
Landholder duty and corporate trustee duty—acquisitions not previously
dutiable
*** 641 Landholder duty and corporate trustee duty—acquisitions not
previously dutiable ***
     (1) This section applies to a relevant acquisition in a landholder or
     corporate trustee for which liability for duty arose during the
     retrospectivity period, if—
          (a) but for this division, the acquisition would not have
          been a relevant acquisition in a landholder or corporate
          trustee under chapter 3; and
          (b) for assessing landholder duty or corporate trustee duty
          on the relevant acquisition—
               (i) section 180 or 223 does not apply to the
               acquisition; or
               (ii) if section 180 or 223 applies to the
               acquisition—paragraph (a) applies to each of
               the acquisitions that are to be aggregated.
     (2) The period within which the acquirer must comply with section 177
     or 217 is taken to be 30 days after the commencement day.
 
Landholder duty and corporate trustee duty—relevant acquisitions not assessed
before commencement day
*** 642 Landholder duty and corporate trustee duty—relevant acquisitions not
assessed before commencement day ***
     (1) This section applies to a relevant acquisition in a landholder or
     corporate trustee for which liability for duty arose during the
     retrospectivity period, if—
          (a) but for this division, the following would have been
          required to be assessed without having regard to an
          exploration authority—
               (i) for a relevant acquisition in a public
               landholder—the amount of duty imposed on the
               relevant acquisition;
               (ii) otherwise—the dutiable value of the
               relevant acquisition; and
          (b) because of this division, the dutiable value of, or the
          amount of duty imposed on, the relevant acquisition is
          required to be assessed having regard to—
               (i) for landholder duty—land-holdings that are
               an exploration authority; or
               (ii) for corporate trustee duty—dutiable
               property, or an indirect interest in dutiable
               property, that is an exploration authority; and
          (c) before the commencement day, an assessment of the
          acquirer’s liability for landholder duty or corporate
          trustee duty on the relevant acquisition has not been made
          by the commissioner.
          Note—
               A reference in this subsection to a relevant
               acquisition includes a reference to a relevant
               acquisition that should have been assessed under
               section 180 or 233 together with 1 or more other
               relevant acquisitions that, but for this
               division, would not have been relevant
               acquisitions.
     (2) Section 641(2) applies in relation to the relevant acquisition.
     (3) However, to the extent unpaid primary tax relating the relevant
     acquisition is attributable to land-holdings or dutiable property
     other than an exploration authority, section 641(2) does not
     affect—
          (a) the start date for unpaid tax interest on the unpaid
          primary tax under the Administration Act, section 54; or
          (b) the acquirer’s liability for penalty tax.
 
Landholder duty and corporate trustee duty—relevant acquisition assessed
before commencement day
*** 643 Landholder duty and corporate trustee duty—relevant acquisition
assessed before commencement day ***
     (1) This section applies to a relevant acquisition in a landholder or
     corporate trustee for which liability for duty arose during the
     retrospectivity period, if—
          (a) but for this division, the following would have been
          required to be assessed without having regard to an
          exploration authority—
               (i) for a relevant acquisition in a public
               landholder—the amount of duty imposed on the
               relevant acquisition;
               (ii) otherwise—the dutiable value of the
               relevant acquisition; and
          (b) because of this division, the dutiable value of, or the
          amount of duty imposed on, the relevant acquisition is
          required to be assessed having regard to—
               (i) for landholder duty—land-holdings that are
               an exploration authority; or
               (ii) for corporate trustee duty—dutiable
               property, or an indirect interest in dutiable
               property, that is an exploration authority; and
          (c) before the commencement day, an assessment of the
          acquirer’s liability for landholder duty or corporate
          trustee duty on the relevant acquisition has been made by
          the commissioner.
          Note—
               A reference in this subsection to a relevant
               acquisition includes a reference to a relevant
               acquisition that should have been assessed under
               section 180 or 233 together with 1 or more other
               relevant acquisitions that, but for this
               division, would not have been relevant
               acquisitions.
     (2) Landholder duty or corporate trustee duty for the relevant
     acquisition must be reassessed.
     (3) Within 30 days after the commencement day, the acquirer must—
          (a) give notice in the approved form to the commissioner
          that the reassessment is required; and
          (b) lodge the landholder duty statement or corporate
          trustee duty statement for the relevant acquisition.
          Note—
               Under the Administration Act, failure to give the
               commissioner notice about a matter under a tax
               law is an offence under section 120 of that Act.
               Also, under the Administration Act, the
               requirement under paragraph (b) is a lodgement
               requirement for which a failure to comply is an
               offence under section 121 of that Act.
     (4) If the acquirer complies with subsection (3), the acquirer is not
     liable for penalty tax under the Administration Act, section 58 (2)
     (c) to the extent the difference between the duty assessed on the
     original assessment, and on the reassessment, is attributable to a
     land-holding or dutiable property that is an exploration authority.
     (5) Subsection (6) applies to unpaid tax interest that is payable on
     unpaid primary tax for the relevant acquisition, to the extent the
     tax is attributable to a land-holding or dutiable property that is an
     exploration authority.
     (6) For the Administration Act, section 54 (2) and (2A), the start
     date is—
          (a) the due date for the reassessment under this section;
          or
          (b) if the acquirer has not complied with subsection
          (3)—the date that is the same number of days before the
          due date for the reassessment as the number of days in the
          periods of noncompliance with the subsection.
 
Obligation for self assessor
*** 644 Obligation for self assessor ***
     (1) This section applies to a self assessor registered under chapter
     12, part 3 if—
          (a) during the retrospectivity period, the self assessor
          lodged a transaction statement under section 455 or 455A;
          and
          (b) the transaction statement relates to a dutiable
          transaction or relevant acquisition to which subdivision 3
          or 4 applies.
     (2) The self assessor must, within 30 days after the commencement
     day, give notice to the commissioner that the transaction statement
     was lodged.
          Note—
               Under the Administration Act, failure to give the
               commissioner notice about a matter under a tax
               law is an offence under section 120 of that Act.
     (3) Section 488 applies to a failure by a self assessor to comply
     with subsection (2).
 
Obligation for other persons in relation to registration of particular
instruments
*** 645 Obligation for other persons in relation to registration of particular
instruments ***
     (1) This section applies if, during the retrospectivity period—
          (a) a person—
               (i) recorded an instrument or transaction in a
               register of interests in property; and
               (ii) the instrument, or the instrument that
               effects or evidences the transaction, relates to
               a transaction or acquisition to which subdivision
               3 or 4 applies; or
          (b) the trustee or responsible entity of a unit trust—
               (i) recorded in the trust’s records an
               instrument that effects or evidences a trust
               acquisition or trust surrender of units in a unit
               trust; and
               (ii) section 638, 639 or 640 applies to the trust
               acquisition or trust surrender; or
          (c) a person—
               (i) entered in the records of a corporation or
               society an instrument that effects or evidences a
               relevant acquisition; and
               (ii) section 641, 642 or 643 applies to the
               relevant acquisition.
     (2) The person, trustee or responsible entity must, within 30 days
     after the commencement day, give notice to the commissioner that the
     record or entry was made.
          Note—
               Under the Administration Act, failure to give the
               commissioner notice about a matter under a tax
               law is an offence under section 120 of that Act.
 
Offences during retrospectivity period
*** 646 Offences during retrospectivity period ***
     (1) A person can not be prosecuted under this Act or the
     Administration Act for an act or omission done or omitted to be done
     during the retrospectivity period if, when the act or omission
     occurred, it would not have constituted an offence but for this
     division.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not limit the Criminal Code, section 11.
 
Properly stamped instruments not affected
*** 647 Properly stamped instruments not affected ***
     (1) This section applies to an instrument that was stamped during the
     retrospectivity period.
     (2) If, at the time the instrument was stamped, it was properly
     stamped under section 491 but for this division, the instrument is
     taken to have been properly stamped despite this division.
 
Application of s 167
*** 648 Application of s 167 ***
Section 167, as amended by the amending Act, section 5 applies to a relevant
acquisition made on or after the commencement day.
 
Application of amended sch 3
*** 649 Application of amended sch 3 ***
Schedule 3 as in force on the commencement day applies to dutiable transactions
and relevant acquisitions if liability for transfer duty, landholder duty or
corporate trustee duty arises on or after the commencement day.
 
Application of s 152A
*** 650 Application of s 152A ***
Section 152A is taken to apply to a previous dutiable transaction within the
meaning of section 152A(3) that happens before the commencement of this
section, if the third dutiable transaction under section 152A(1)(c) to correct
the clerical error in the previous dutiable transaction is entered into on or
after 4 February 2012.
 
Application of amendment of s 155
*** 651 Application of amendment of s 155 ***
     (1) Section 155, as in force on the commencement of this section,
     applies to a dutiable transaction only if liability for transfer duty
     for the transaction arises on or after the commencement of this
     section.
     (2) Section 155, as in force before the commencement of this section,
     continues to apply to a dutiable transaction if liability for
     transfer duty for the transaction arose before the commencement of
     this section.
 
Application of new rate of insurance duty under s 362
*** 652 Application of new rate of insurance duty under s 362 ***
     (1) The new rate of insurance duty applies to a premium paid for
     general insurance on or after the commencement of this section only
     if the contract that effects the general insurance is entered into on
     or after the commencement of this section.
     (2) In this section—

     "new rate", of insurance duty, means the rate of insurance duty
     imposed on the premium under section 362(1), as amended by the
     Revenue Amendment and Trade and Investment Queensland Act 2013,
     section 17.
 
Application of amended ch 2, pt 10 and related provisions
*** 653 Application of amended ch 2, pt 10 and related provisions ***
     (1) The relevant provisions, as in force on the commencement, apply
     to dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty arises
     on or after the commencement.
     (2) In this section—

     "commencement" means the day this section commences.

     "relevant provisions" means the following provisions—
          • chapter 2, part 10
          • sections 123 and 173
          • schedule 6, definitions
          "defined relative",
          "family partnership",
          "family trust" and
          "family unit trust"
 
Application of existing s 123 concession
*** 654 Application of existing s 123 concession ***
     (1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction to which section
     123 applies if, before the day this section commences, a concession
     for transfer duty has been provided under chapter 2, part 10 for the
     dutiable property the subject of the distribution.
     (2) Section 123, as in force immediately before the day this section
     commences, continues to apply in relation to the dutiable
     transaction.
 
Definitions for pt 20
*** 655 Definitions for pt 20 ***
In this part—

"retrospectivity period" means the period beginning at the start time and
ending immediately before the commencement.

"ruling" means the commissioner’s ruling called ‘DA000.12.1 Transfer
duty—exemption for farm-in transactions in the resources sector’.

"start time" means 10.30a.m. on 13 January 2012.
 
Retrospective operation of s 145
*** 656 Retrospective operation of s 145 ***
Section 145, as amended by the Payroll Tax Rebate, Revenue and Other
Legislation Amendment Act 2015, applies to a vesting of land in the State made
on or after 25 February 2014.
 
Retrospective operation of ch 2, pt 8A
*** 657 Retrospective operation of ch 2, pt 8A ***
     (1) Chapter 2, part 8A and any ancillary provision, as inserted or
     amended by the Payroll Tax Rebate, Revenue and Other Legislation
     Amendment Act 2015, is taken to have had effect on and from the start
     time.
     (2) In this section—

     "ancillary provision" means a provision of this Act necessary to give
     effect to chapter 2, part 8A.
 
Particular matters relating to upfront farm-in agreements for retrospectivity
period
*** 658 Particular matters relating to upfront farm-in agreements for
retrospectivity period ***
     (1) If, during the retrospectivity period, the farmee for an upfront
     farm-in agreement has lodged the agreement in compliance with
     paragraph 12 of the ruling the farmee is taken to have complied with
     section 84K.
     (2) Also, if, during the retrospectivity period, the farmee for an
     upfront farm-in agreement has notified the commissioner in compliance
     with paragraph 14 of the ruling, the farmee is taken to have complied
     with section 84L.
     (3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that if subsection (2)
     applies, the commissioner or an investigator under the Administration
     Act may, under that Act, require a person liable for transfer duty
     for the agreement to give the commissioner or investigator the
     agreement, or a transfer duty statement for the agreement, on or
     after the commencement.
     (4) If, during the retrospectivity period, a person to whom paragraph
     12 of the ruling applied did not comply with that paragraph, section
     84K applies as if the person were required to lodge the information
     and agreement or a transfer duty statement for the agreement under
     that section within 14 days after the commencement.
     (5) If, during the retrospectivity period, a person to whom paragraph
     14 of the ruling applied did not comply with that paragraph, section
     84L applies as if the person were required to give the notice and
     lodge the agreement or a transfer duty statement for the agreement
     under section 84L(2) within 30 days after the commencement.
 
Application of Administration Act, pt 6—farm-in agreements
*** 659 Application of Administration Act, pt 6—farm-in agreements ***
     (1) This section applies if liability for transfer duty arose and was
     assessed during the retrospectivity period for a dutiable transaction
     that was—
          (a) a farm-in agreement; or
          (b) a transfer of an interest in an exploration authority
          under a farm-in agreement.
     (2) Despite the Administration Act, section 65 (1) (d), the person
     liable for transfer duty on the agreement may object to the
     assessment within 30 days after the commencement.
 
Application of start of use requirement under s 416
*** 660 Application of start of use requirement under s 416 ***
     (1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction that is an
     application to register or transfer a vehicle in the name of a
     charitable institution—
          (a) if—
               (i) the application was made on or after 26
               February 2013 but before 25 February 2014; and
               (ii) the period for which the vehicle is used
               solely or almost solely by the institution for a
               qualifying exempt purpose has not ended before 25
               February 2014; or
          (b) if the application was made on or after 25 February
          2014.
     (2) Section 416(4)(d) as in force on the commencement applies in
     relation to the application to register or transfer the vehicle.
 
Application of amendments relating to s 105
*** 661 Application of amendments relating to s 105 ***
     (1) Sections 105 and 105A as amended or inserted by the Duties and
     Other Legislation Amendment Act 2016 apply to a dutiable transaction
     only if liability for transfer duty arises on or after the
     commencement.
     (2) Section 105 as in force before the commencement continues to
     apply to a dutiable transaction for dutiable property used to carry
     on particular family businesses of primary production if the
     liability for transfer duty arose before the commencement.
 
Application of ch 4
*** 662 Application of ch 4 ***
Chapter 4 applies to a relevant transaction if liability for transfer duty,
landholder duty or corporate trustee duty arises on or after 1 October 2016.
 
Application of s 154
*** 663 Application of s 154 ***
     (1) Section 154(2) and (2AA) apply to a dutiable transaction
     mentioned in section 154(1)(a) only if liability for transfer duty on
     the transaction arises on or after the commencement.
     (2) Section 154(2) as in force before the commencement continues to
     apply to a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 154(1)(a) if
     liability for transfer duty on the transaction arose before the
     commencement.
 
Continuing application of pre-amended s 154 for s 291
*** 664 Continuing application of pre-amended s 154 for s 291 ***
Section 154(2) as in force before the commencement continues to apply for the
purposes of section 291(1)(a).
 
Retrospective operation of s 375
*** 665 Retrospective operation of s 375 ***
Section 375, as amended by the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act
2016, applies to a contract of insurance for which insurance duty would
otherwise be payable on or after 14 October 2014.
 
Retrospective operation of s 404
*** 666 Retrospective operation of s 404 ***
Section 404, as amended by the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act
2016, applies to a vesting of dutiable property that takes place on or after 30
November 2015.
 
Application of amendments applying AFAD to particular agreements
*** 667 Application of amendments applying AFAD to particular agreements ***
Sections 240(2), 241A, and chapter 4, part 5, divisions 2 and 3, apply in
relation to an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property if liability for
transfer duty arises on or after the commencement.
 
Definition for part
*** 668 Definition for part ***
In this part—

"amending Act" means the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2018.
 
Application of amendments increasing the rate of AFAD
*** 669 Application of amendments increasing the rate of AFAD ***
Sections 244 to 246 as amended by the amending Act apply in relation to a
relevant transaction within the meaning of section 230 if liability for
transfer duty, landholder duty or corporate trustee duty arises on or after the
commencement.
 
Application of amendments about rate of vehicle registration duty
*** 670 Application of amendments about rate of vehicle registration duty ***
Section 383 as amended by the amending Act applies in relation to an
application to register or transfer a vehicle if the application is made on or
after the commencement.
 
Meaning of amending Act
*** 671 Meaning of amending Act ***
In this part—

"amending Act" means the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2018.
 
Retrospective effect of ss 76E–76G
*** 672 Retrospective effect of ss 76E–76G ***
     (1) This Act applies, and is taken to have applied since 9 August
     2017, to a trust acquisition or trust surrender happening on or after
     that day, as if sections 76E to 76G were in force from 9 August 2017.
     (2) However, to remove any doubt, it is declared that a person can
     not be prosecuted under this Act or the Administration Act for a
     contravention of section 76G before the commencement.
     (3) A pre-commencement approval has effect, and is taken to have had
     effect since it was given, to the extent it would have had effect if
     sections 76E to 76G were in force from 9 August 2017.
     (4) In this section—

     "pre-commencement approval" means an approval mentioned in section
     76F given by the commissioner on or after 9 August 2017 and before
     the commencement.
 
Retrospective effect of amended s 179(4)
*** 673 Retrospective effect of amended s 179(4) ***
     (1) The amended provision applies, and is taken to have applied since
     22 August 2017, to a relevant acquisition for which a liability for
     landholder duty arose on or after that day.
     (2) In this section—

     "amended provision" means section 179(4) as amended by the amending
     Act.
 
Retrospective effect of amended definition business property
*** 674 Retrospective effect of amended definition business property ***
     (1) The amended definition applies, and is taken to have applied
     since 12 October 2016, in relation to a dutiable transaction entered
     into on or after that day.
     (2) In this section—

     "amended definition" means schedule 6, definition
     "business property" as amended by the amending Act.
 
Retrospective effect of definition defined relative
*** 675 Retrospective effect of definition defined relative ***
     (1) The new definition applies, and is taken to have applied, in
     relation to a dutiable transaction for which liability for transfer
     duty arose on or after 23 May 2018.
     (2) Subsection (3) applies in relation to a dutiable transaction for
     which liability for transfer duty arose on or after 23 May 2017 but
     before 23 May 2018 (the
     "relevant period").
     (3) The former definition is, in relation to a person, taken to have
     included—
          (a) a child of an aunt or uncle of the person; and
          (b) the spouse of a person mentioned in paragraph (a).
     (4) In this section—

     "former definition" means schedule 6, definition
     "defined relative" as in force during the relevant period.

     "new definition" means schedule 6, definition
     "defined relative" as amended by the Royalty Legislation Amendment
     Act 2020.
 
Retrospective effect of new s 124
*** 676 Retrospective effect of new s 124 ***
     (1) New section 124(d) applies, and is taken to have applied from 3
     April 2017, in relation to a vesting of dutiable property, on or
     after that date, under the Succession Act 1981, section 45.
     (2) New section 124(e) applies, and is taken to have applied from 6
     August 2019, in relation to a vesting of dutiable property, on or
     after that date, under the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Land
     Holding Act 2013, section 69A.
     (3) In this section—

     "new section 124" means section 124 as amended by the Revenue
     Legislation Amendment Act 2022.
 
Retrospective effect of ss 413F–413H
*** 677 Retrospective effect of ss 413F–413H ***
     (1) Sections 413F to 413H apply, and are taken to have applied, in
     relation to a dutiable transaction for which liability for transfer
     duty or vehicle registration duty arose from 7 September 2020.
     (2) For subsection (1), words defined in chapter 10, part 1A,
     division 1 and used in sections 413F to 413H are also taken to apply,
     and have applied, from 7 September 2020.
 
Retrospective effect of s 413I
*** 678 Retrospective effect of s 413I ***
     (1) Section 413I applies, and is taken to have applied, in relation
     to a dutiable transaction for which liability for transfer duty or
     vehicle registration duty arose from 28 June 2021.
     (2) For subsection (1), words defined in chapter 10, part 1A,
     division 1 and used in section 413I are also taken to apply, and have
     applied, from 28 June 2021.
 
Application of AFAD exemption under s 246
*** 679 Application of AFAD exemption under s 246 ***
     (1) Section 246 applies in relation to a relevant transaction that is
     the transfer, or agreement for transfer, of dutiable property only if
     the property is transferred, or the agreement is entered into, from
     the commencement.
     (2) However, section 246 does not apply in relation to a transfer or
     agreement mentioned in subsection (1) if—
          (a) it replaces a transfer, or agreement for transfer, that
          included the dutiable property and was made before the
          commencement; or
          (b) the transferee had an option to purchase the dutiable
          property, or the transferor had an option to require the
          transferee to purchase the dutiable property, granted
          before the commencement and exercised from the
          commencement; or
          (c) another arrangement was made before the commencement
          the sole or main purpose of which was to defer the making
          of the transfer or agreement until 1 January 2023 or later
          so section 246 would apply in relation to the relevant
          transaction.
 
Section 680
*** 680 ***
 
Definitions for part
*** 681 Definitions for part ***
In this part—

"concession provisions" means section 92 and schedules 4A and 4B.

"former", for a provision of this Act, see section 682(1).

"new", for a provision of this Act, see section 682(2).
 
References to former or new provisions
*** 682 References to former or new provisions ***
     (1) A reference in a provision of this part (the
     "transitional provision") to a
     "former" provision of this Act is a reference to the provision as in
     force from time to time before the commencement of the transitional
     provision.
          Example—
               A reference in section 683 to the ‘former
               concession provisions’ is a reference to the
               concession provisions as in force from time to
               time before the commencement of section 683.
     (2) A reference in a provision of this part (the
     "transitional provision") to a
     "new" provision of this Act is a reference to the provision as in
     force from the commencement of the transitional provision.
          Example—
               A reference in section 683 to the ‘new
               concession provisions’ is a reference to the
               concession provisions as in force from the
               commencement of section 683.
 
Application of concession provisions generally
*** 683 Application of concession provisions generally ***
     (1) The former concession provisions apply in relation to a dutiable
     transaction if liability for transfer duty arose before 9 June 2024.
     (2) Subject to section 684, the new concession provisions apply in
     relation to a dutiable transaction if liability for transfer duty
     arises on or after 9 June 2024.
 
Application of concession provisions to particular transactions
*** 684 Application of concession provisions to particular transactions ***
Despite the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2024, the former
concession provisions apply in relation to a dutiable transaction if—
     (a) the transaction is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer,
     of residential land or vacant land; and
     (b) the land is transferred, or the agreement is made, on or after 9
     June 2024; and
     (c) any of the following applies—
          (i) the transaction replaces a transfer, or agreement for
          transfer, that included the land and was made before 9 June
          2024;
          (ii) the transferee had an option to purchase the land, or
          the transferor had an option to require the transferee to
          purchase the land, granted before 9 June 2024 and exercised
          on or after 9 June 2024;
          (iii) another arrangement was made before 9 June 2024 the
          sole or main purpose of which was to defer the making of
          the transfer or agreement until 9 June 2024 or later so the
          new concession provisions would apply in relation to the
          transaction.
 
Application of AFAD provisions
*** 685 Application of AFAD provisions ***
     (1) Former sections 244, 245 and 245A apply in relation to a relevant
     transaction for which liability for transfer duty, landholder duty or
     corporate trustee duty arose before 1 July 2024.
     (2) New sections 244, 245 and 245A apply in relation to a relevant
     transaction for which liability for transfer duty, landholder duty or
     corporate trustee duty arises on or after 1 July 2024.
     (3) In this section—

     "relevant transaction" see section 230.
 
Non-application of amendments of s 153 to residential leases entered into
before commencement
*** 686 Non-application of amendments of s 153 to residential leases entered
into before commencement ***
To remove any doubt, it is declared that a reference in section 153 (1C) to a
residential lease does not include a reference to a lease entered into, or
other exclusive possession granted, before the commencement.
 
Application of concession provisions to transactions
*** 687 Application of concession provisions to transactions ***
     (1) The former concession provisions apply in relation to a dutiable
     transaction if liability for transfer duty arose before 1 May 2025.
     (2) Subject to subsection (3), the new concession provisions apply in
     relation to a dutiable transaction if liability for transfer duty
     arises on or after 1 May 2025.
     (3) Despite the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2025, the former
     concession provisions apply in relation to a dutiable transaction
     if—
          (a) the transaction is the transfer, or agreement for the
          transfer, of residential land or vacant land; and
          (b) the land is transferred, or the agreement is made, on
          or after 1 May 2025; and
          (c) any of the following applies—
               (i) the transaction replaces a transfer, or
               agreement for transfer, that included the land
               and was made before 1 May 2025;
               (ii) the transferee had an option to purchase the
               land, or the transferor had an option to require
               the transferee to purchase the land, granted
               before 1 May 2025 and exercised on or after 1 May
               2025;
               (iii) another arrangement was made before 1 May
               2025 the sole or main purpose of which was to
               defer the making of the transfer or agreement
               until 1 May 2025 or later so the new concession
               provisions would apply in relation to the
               transaction.
     (4) In this section—

     "former concession provisions" means chapter 2, parts 9 and 14,
     division 1 and schedules 4A and 4B as in force from time to time
     before the commencement.

     "new concession provisions" means chapter 2, parts 9 and 14, division
     1 and schedule 4A as in force from the commencement.
 
Imposition of AFAD payable 1 January 2018 to 8 April 2024
*** 688 Imposition of AFAD payable 1 January 2018 to 8 April 2024 ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) AFAD was purportedly imposed on a relevant transaction
          under chapter 4; and
          (b) the AFAD was purportedly payable on or after 1 January
          2018 and before 8 April 2024; and
          (c) the purported imposition of AFAD on the relevant
          transaction was invalid only because the provisions of this
          Act that purportedly imposed the AFAD were to any extent
          invalid or inoperative under the Commonwealth Constitution,
          section 109 because of an inconsistency with a provision of
          an agreement given the force of law by the International
          Tax Agreements Act 1953 (Cwlth), section 5 (1).
     (2) AFAD is imposed on the relevant transaction.
     (3) The liability for AFAD imposed under subsection (2) is taken to
     have arisen, and to have always arisen, at the same time as liability
     for the purported duty would have arisen if the purported duty had
     been validly imposed.
     (4) AFAD imposed under subsection (2) is payable by, and is taken to
     have always been payable by, the person who would have been liable
     for the purported duty if the purported duty had been validly
     imposed.
     (5) The amount of AFAD payable under subsection (2) is the same
     amount, and is taken to have always been the same amount, as the
     amount of AFAD that would have been payable if the purported duty had
     been validly imposed.
     (6) The rights and liabilities of a person in relation to AFAD
     imposed under subsection (2) are taken to be, and to have always
     been, the same as the rights and liabilities that the person would
     have had in relation to the purported duty if the purported duty had
     been validly imposed.
     (7) Anything done or omitted to be done by a person in relation to
     the purported duty has, and is taken to have always had, the same
     force and effect as if it were done or omitted to be done in relation
     to AFAD imposed under subsection (2).
     (8) In this section—

     "purported duty", in relation to a relevant transaction, means AFAD
     referred to in subsection (1) that was purportedly imposed on the
     relevant transaction.

     "relevant transactions" see section 230.
 
- SCHEDULE 2
*** SCHEDULE 2 - When liability for transfer duty on dutiable transaction
arises ***
 _____________________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Dutiable transaction                 |When liability for transfer duty      |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                                     |The earlier of the following—(a)    |
||                                     |when the property is transferred;(b)  |
||                                     |if the transfer is an ELN             |
||                                     |transfer—when the ELN workspace for |
||                                     |the ELN transfer—(i) includes an ELN|
||                                     |transaction document for the ELN      |
||Transfer of dutiable property        |transfer signed by the parties to the |
||                                     |transaction; and(ii) is locked;(c) if |
||                                     |the transfer is an ELN                |
||                                     |lodgement—when the ELN workspace for|
||                                     |the ELN lodgement—(i) includes an   |
||                                     |ELN transaction document for the ELN  |
||                                     |lodgement signed by the parties to the|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                                     |(d) if an instrument effects, or when |
||                                     |recorded in a register will effect,   |
||                                     |the transfer and the transfer is not  |
||                                     |an ELN transfer or ELN                |
||                                     |lodgement—when the instrument is    |
||                                     |signed by the parties to the          |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Agreement for transfer of dutiable   |When the agreement is made            |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                                     |The earlier of the following—(a)    |
||                                     |when the property is surrendered;(b)  |
||                                     |if the surrender is an ELN            |
||                                     |lodgement—when the ELN workspace for|
||                                     |the ELN lodgement—(i) includes an   |
||Surrender of dutiable property that  |ELN transaction document for the ELN  |
||is land in Queensland or a           |lodgement signed by the parties to the|
||transferable site area               |transaction; and(ii) is locked;(c) if |
||                                     |an instrument effects, or when        |
||                                     |recorded in a register will effect,   |
||                                     |the surrender and the surrender is not|
||                                     |an ELN lodgement—when the instrument|
||                                     |is signed by the parties to the       |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                                     |The earlier of the following—(a)    |
||                                     |when the vesting takes place;(b) if an|
||Vesting of dutiable property by, or  |ELN transaction document for an ELN   |
||expressly authorised by, statute law |lodgement evidences the vesting—when|
||of this or another jurisdiction,     |the ELN workspace for the ELN         |
||whether inside or outside Australia  |lodgement—(i) includes the ELN      |
||                                     |transaction document signed by the    |
||                                     |parties to the transaction; and(ii) is|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                                     |The earlier of the following—(a)    |
||                                     |when the order is made;(b) if an ELN  |
||Vesting of dutiable property by a    |transaction document for an ELN       |
||court order, of this or another      |lodgement evidences the vesting—when|
||jurisdiction, whether inside or      |the ELN workspace for the ELN         |
||outside Australia                    |lodgement—(i) includes the ELN      |
||                                     |transaction document signed by the    |
||                                     |parties to the transaction; and(ii) is|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Foreclosure of a mortgage over       |When a foreclosure order is made for  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                                     |The earlier of the following—(a)    |
||                                     |when the right is acquired;(b) if the |
||                                     |acquisition is an ELN lodgement—when|
||                                     |the ELN workspace for the ELN         |
||                                     |lodgement—(i) includes an ELN       |
||                                     |transaction document for the ELN      |
||                                     |lodgement signed by the parties to the|
||Acquisition of a new right           |transaction; and(ii) is locked;(c) if |
||                                     |an instrument effects, or when        |
||                                     |recorded in a register will effect,   |
||                                     |the acquisition and the acquisition is|
||                                     |not an ELN lodgement—when the       |
||                                     |instrument is signed by the parties to|
||                                     |the transaction;(d) if a written      |
||                                     |agreement evidences the acquisition—|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                                     |The earlier of the following—(a)    |
||                                     |when the partnership interest is      |
||                                     |acquired;(b) if an instrument effects,|
||Partnership acquisition              |or when recorded in a register will   |
||                                     |effect, the acquisition— when the   |
||                                     |instrument is signed by the parties to|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                                     |(c) if a written agreement evidences  |
||                                     |the acquisition— when the agreement |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                                     |The earlier of the following—(a)    |
||                                     |when the trust is created or          |
||                                     |terminated;(b) if an instrument       |
||Creation or termination of a trust of|effects, or when recorded in a        |
||dutiable property                    |register will effect, the creation or |
||                                     |termination—when the instrument is  |
||                                     |signed by the parties to the          |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                                     |The earlier of the following—(a)    |
||                                     |when the interest is acquired or      |
||                                     |surrendered;(b) if an instrument      |
||                                     |effects, or when recorded in a        |
||Trust acquisition or trust surrender |register will effect, the acquisition |
||                                     |or surrender—when the instrument is |
||                                     |signed by the parties to the          |
||                                     |transaction;(c) if a written agreement|
||                                     |evidences the acquisition or          |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 
- SCHEDULE 3
*** SCHEDULE 3 - Rates of duty on dutiable transactions and relevant
acquisitions for landholder and corporate trustee duty ***
 _____________________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Dutiable value of dutiable transaction|Rate of duty                         |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||More than $5,000 but not more than    |$1.50 for each $100, or part of $100,|
||$75,000                               |by which the dutiable value is more  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||More than $75,000 but not more than   |$1,050 plus $3.50 for each $100, or  |
||$540,000                              |part of $100, by which the dutiable  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||More than $540,000 but not more than  |$17,325 plus $4.50 for each $100, or |
||$1m                                   |part of $100, by which the dutiable  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                                      |$38,025 plus $5.75 for each $100, or |
||More than $1m                         |part of $100, by which the dutiable  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 
- SCHEDULE 4
*** SCHEDULE 4 - Example for partnership and trust acquisitions and relevant
acquisitions for corporate trustees ***
This example shows how the value of a partnership acquisition or trust
acquisition or dutiable value of a relevant acquisition under chapter 3, part
2, is worked out in the following circumstances—
     (a) a person acquires a 20% interest in—
          (i) for a partnership acquisition—a relevant partnership
          under section 46; or
          (ii) for a trust acquisition—a relevant trust under
          section 63; or
          (iii) for a relevant acquisition under chapter 3, part 2
          —a corporate trustee;
     (b) the relevant partnership, relevant trust or corporate trustee
     holds dutiable property the unencumbered value of which is $100,000
     and has a 50% partnership interest in partnership AB;
     (c) partnership AB holds dutiable property the unencumbered value of
     which is $100,000 and has a 50% partnership interest in partnership
     BC;
     (d) partnership BC has a 50% partnership interest in partnership CD;
     (e) partnership CD holds dutiable property the unencumbered value of
     which is $500,000 and is the sole beneficiary in trust E;
     (f) trust E holds dutiable property the unencumbered value of which
     is $1,000,000.
In this example—
     (a) trust E is the ultimate entity because it holds dutiable property
     and there is no other partnership or trust lower in the series
     holding dutiable property; and
     (b) under section 46 (3) (a), 63 (4) (a) or 222 (3) (a), partnership
     CD is the last beneficiary.
The value of the partnership acquisition or trust acquisition or dutiable value
of the relevant acquisition is worked out as follows—
Step 1
Partnership CDs trust interest in trust E (100%) is applied to the unencumbered
value of the dutiable property held by the trust ($1,000,000).
The result is $1,000,000.
Step 2
Partnership BCs partnership interest in partnership CD (50%) is applied to—
     (a) the result under step 1 ($1,000,000); and
     (b) the unencumbered value of the dutiable property held by the
     partnership ($500,000).
The result is $750,000.
Step 3
Partnership ABs partnership interest in partnership BC (50%) is applied to the
amount worked out under step 2 ($750,000).
The result is $375,000.
Step 4
The partnership interest of the relevant partnership, relevant trust or
corporate trustee in partnership AB (50%) is applied to—
     (a) the result under step 3 ($375,000); and
     (b) the unencumbered value of the dutiable property held by the
     partnership ($100,000).
The result is $237,500.
Step 5
The acquirer’s interest (20%) is applied to—
     (a) the result under step 4 ($237,500); and
     (b) the unencumbered value of the dutiable property held by the
     relevant partnership, relevant trust or corporate trustee ($100,000).
The value of the partnership acquisition or trust acquisition or dutiable value
of the relevant acquisition is $67,500.
 
- SCHEDULE 4A
*** SCHEDULE 4A - Amount of concession for transfer duty—first home other
than new home—residential land ***
 _____________________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                                      |$17,350 or, if the transfer duty     |
||Not more than $709,999.99             |otherwise payable under section 91 is|
||                                      |less than $17,350, the amount of duty|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 
- SCHEDULE 4C
*** SCHEDULE 4C - Rate of vehicle registration duty other than for special
vehicles ***
 ____________________________________________________________________________
||                                  |Amount of vehicle registration duty for |
||Type of vehicle                   |each $100, and each part of $100, of the|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
||hybrid vehicle (with any number of|                                        |
||cylinders)                        |$2.00                                   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
||vehicle with 1 to 4 cylinders     |                                        |
||vehicle with 2 rotors             |$3.00                                   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
||vehicle with 5 or 6 cylinders     |$3.50                                   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
 
- SCHEDULE 5
*** SCHEDULE 5 - Example for corporate reconstruction ***
Parent companies —
Company A owns 90% of the shares in, and has voting control over, companies B
and E. Under section 401, company A is the parent company of companies B and E.
Company B owns 90% of the shares in, and has voting control over, company C.
Under section 401, company B is the parent company of company C.
Company C owns 90% of the shares in, and has voting control over, company D.
Under section 401, company C is the parent company of company D.
No company is the parent company of company F, because no company holds 90% of
its issued shares, and has voting control, over it.
Subsidiaries —
Under section 402 —
     • companies B and E are subsidiaries of company A
     • company C is a subsidiary of company B and, because company B is
     a subsidiary of company A, company C is also a subsidiary of company
     A
     • company D is a subsidiary of company C and, because company C is
     a subsidiary of companies B and A, company D is also a subsidiary of
     companies A and B.
     • company F is a subsidiary of company A because company A, with
     its subsidiary company E, holds 90% of the issued shares in, and has
     voting control over, company F.
Group companies —
Under section 400 (2), all the companies are group companies because companies
B, C, D, E and F are subsidiaries of company A.
Corporate group —
Under section 400 (4), the corporate group comprises the group companies A, B,
C, D, E and F.
 
- SCHEDULE 6
*** SCHEDULE 6 - Dictionary ***

"100% transfer farm-in agreement" see section 84D.

"accepted representations" see section 467 (2).

"accident insurance" see section 352.

"accommodation unit" see the Retirement Villages Act 1999, schedule.

"acquirable asset", for sections 130A and 130B, means an acquirable asset under
the Superannuation Industry Act, section 10.

"acquirer" —
     (a) for chapter 2, part 8, division 7, means a person who acquires an
     indirect interest in a land holding trust; or
     (b) for chapter 4, see section 233; or
     (c) for chapter 17, part 17, see section 630.

"acquisition year", in relation to a relevant transaction, for chapter 4, part
4AA, see section 245C.

"additional foreign acquirer duty" see section 231 (2).

"Administration Act" means the Taxation Administration Act 2001.

"advance" see section 249.

"AFAD" stands for additional foreign acquirer duty.

"AFAD exemption" see section 246AG.

"AFAD residential land", for chapter 4, see section 232.

"AFAD windfall", for chapter 4A, see section 246M.

"agent", for chapter 4, part 5, division 2, see section 246AA.

"agreement", for chapter 4, part 5, division 2, see section 246AA.

"amending Act" —
     (a) for chapter 17, part 6, see section 568; or
     (b) for chapter 17, part 17, see section 630.

"ancestor", of a person, means—
     (a) a parent or grandparent of the person or person’s spouse; or
     (b) a spouse of a parent or grandparent mentioned in paragraph (a).

"application to register", for a vehicle, means an application under the
Vehicle Registration Act to register the vehicle.

"application to transfer", for a vehicle, means an application under the
Vehicle Registration Act to transfer the registration of the vehicle.

"applied Act" means this Act as a law applied under the Commonwealth Places
(Mirror Taxes) Act 1998 (Cwlth).

"approved form" means a form approved under section 507.

"approved trustee"...

"assessed interest" see the Administration Act, section 54 (3).

"assessment" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"assessment notice" see the Administration Act, section 26 (1).

"asset-backed security" see section 130C.

"associated person"...

"Australian citizen" see the Australian Citizenship Act 2007 (Cwlth), section
4.

"Australian register" see the Corporations Act, section 9.

"Australian Securities Exchange" means ASX Limited (ACN 008 624 691).

"Australian Stock Exchange"...

"authorised investment" for—
     (a) a pool of financial assets—see section 130G; or
     (b) a pool of mortgages—see section 289.

"authorised trustee corporation" means a corporation declared under the
Corporations Act to be an authorised trustee corporation for any provision of
that Act.

"avoidance scheme" means—
     (a) for chapter 2, part 9, division 3 —a scheme to circumvent
     limitations on, or requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement
     for a concession for transfer duty under the division; or
     (b) for chapter 5, part 6, division 2 —a scheme to circumvent
     limitations on, or requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement
     for a concession for mortgage duty under the division.

"avoider", for chapter 11, see section 433 (1) (a).

"billing period"...

"boat" means a floating vessel of any size or kind, and includes a hovercraft.

"build to rent development", for chapter 4, part 4AA, see section 245C.

"business" includes any profession, trade, employment, vocation or calling.

"business asset" see section 35.

"business of primary production" means a business of agriculture, pasturage or
dairy farming.

"business property" means—
     (a) land primarily used to carry on a business of primary production;
     or
     (b) other dutiable property used, on or in relation to land mentioned
     in paragraph (a), to carry on that business of primary production; or
     (c) land primarily used to carry on a prescribed business; or
     (d) personal property used, on or in relation to land mentioned in
     paragraph (c), to carry on that prescribed business.

"caveat" means—
     (a) for an interest in freehold land—a caveat under the Land Title
     Act 1994; or
     (b) for an interest in a water allocation—a caveat under the Land
     Title Act 1994, as applied by the Water Act 2000, section 150.

"change", for a trustee, means the trustee’s retirement or the appointment of
a new or additional trustee.

"charitable institution" means an institution registered under the
Administration Act, part 11A.

"chattel" includes a chattel authority.

"chattel authority" means a licence, permit or other authority that is granted
or issued under a law—
     (a) for using a chattel; and
     (b) transferable only with the chattel.

"circuit layout right" means an exclusive right under the Circuit Layouts Act
1989 (Cwlth) for an eligible layout under that Act.

"claim", for an AFAD windfall, for chapter 4A, see section 246N.

"class 1 general insurance" means general insurance other than class 2 general
insurance or CTP insurance.

"class 2 general insurance" means general insurance for, or relating to, any of
the following—
     (a) professional indemnity;
     (b) personal injury to a person relating to the person’s travel on
     an aircraft;
     (c) a motor vehicle, other than CTP insurance;
     (d) a home mortgage that is a first mortgage;
     (e) a life insurance rider.

"client number", of a self assessor, means the client number stated in the self
assessor’s notice of registration.

"collateral mortgage" means a mortgage that secures all or part of the same
amount as another mortgage, security instrument or mortgage package that has
been properly stamped under this Act or a corresponding Act.

"commencement day" —
     (a) for chapter 17, part 2, see section 510; or
     (b) for chapter 17, part 17, see section 630.

"commercial hirer"...

"commissioner" means the Commissioner of State Revenue appointed under the
Administration Act.

"commitment amount" see section 156N (1) (b).

"Commonwealth place" means a place in Queensland acquired by the Commonwealth
for a public purpose.

"company", for—
     (a) chapter 10 —see section 399; or
     (b) otherwise—means a company registered under the Corporations
     Act.

"completed lodgement", for chapter 2, part 15, see section 156D.

"completed stage", of a staged development, for chapter 4, part 4AA, see
section 245C.

"completed transfer", for chapter 2, part 15, see section 156D.

"complying approved deposit fund" means a complying approved deposit fund under
the Superannuation Industry Act, section 43.

"complying superannuation fund" means—
     (a) a complying superannuation fund under the Superannuation Industry
     Act, section 42 or 42A; or
     (b) an exempt public sector superannuation scheme under that Act.

"compulsory acquisition", of property by a statutory entity, includes the
acquisition of the property under an agreement if, had the agreement not been
made, the statutory entity would have compulsorily acquired the property.

"contracted property" means dutiable property the subject of a purchase or sale
agreement.

"conversion period" means the period from 1 July 1998 to the last day permitted
by the Corporations Act or the Australian Securities and Investments Commission
for the transition of a prescribed interest scheme to a registered managed
investment scheme.

"corporate debt security", of a corporation or society, means—
     (a) a debenture, debenture stock, bond or note or other similar
     security of the corporation or society; or
     (b) any right relating to a thing mentioned in paragraph (a), whether
     or not the right is a charge on the assets of the corporation or
     society.

"corporate group" see section 400 (4).

"corporate reconstruction" see section 398.

"corporate trustee" see section 209.

"corporate trustee duty" see section 205 (1).

"corporate trustee duty statement" see section 217.

"corporation" see the Corporations Act, section 57A.

"corresponding Act" means an Act of another State that corresponds to this Act
or the applied Act.

"cost"...

"credit amount"...

"credit arrangement"...

"credit business duty"...

"credit card" means a card, or other thing, for which the credit card provider
agrees, whether or not on conditions, to—
     (a) make payment to a merchant to whom the card is produced; or
     (b) provide a cash advance to the credit card holder.

"credit card account"...

"credit card duty"...

"credit card holder" means a person—
     (a) to whom a credit card has been issued; and
     (b) whose address last known to the credit card provider, or at the
     person’s direction, is in Queensland.

"credit card provider" means—
     (a) a person who has issued a credit card and, in the ordinary course
     of business, may make a payment or provide credit under an obligation
     accepted by the person on the issue of the credit card; or
     (b) a prescribed credit card provider.

"credit card transaction"...

"credit provider"...

"credit purchase agreement"...

"credit transaction"...

"CTP insurance" means insurance cover the subject of a policy of insurance
under the Motor Accident Insurance Act 1994.

"custodian" means—
     (a) for chapter 2, part 12 and part 13, division 3 —the corporation
     that has been or will be appointed under the Corporations Act,
     section 601FB, to hold the property of a registered managed
     investment scheme as agent for the responsible entity of the scheme;
     or
     (b) for an eligible superannuation entity—a custodian under the
     Superannuation Industry Act, section 10, that—
          (i) itself performs custodial functions for assets of the
          entity; and
          (ii) satisfies the eligibility requirements for a custodian
          under part 15 of that Act.

"decision day", for chapter 4A, see section 246J (4).

"declared public unit trust" see section 79.

"de facto partner" means 1 of 2 persons who is a de facto partner within the
meaning of the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 32DA, if the persons are
living, and for at least 2 years have lived, together as a couple on a genuine
domestic basis within the meaning of the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section
32DA, or have so lived together as a couple for at least 2 years.

"de facto relationship" means the relationship between de facto partners.

"de facto relationship instrument" see section 422.

"de facto relationship property" see section 423.

"de facto spouse"...

"default beneficiary", of a discretionary trust, for chapter 10, part 1A, see
section 413E.

"deferred farm-in agreement" see section 84C.

"defined relative", of a person, means each of the following—
     (a) the person’s spouse;
     (b) a parent of the person or the person’s spouse;
     (c) a grandparent of the person or the person’s spouse;
     (d) a brother, sister, nephew or niece of the person or the
     person’s spouse;
     (e) a child or grandchild of the person or the person’s spouse;
     (f) an aunt or uncle of the person or the person’s spouse;
     (g) a child of an aunt or uncle of the person or a child of the
     spouse of an aunt or uncle of the person;
     (h) the spouse of anyone mentioned in paragraphs (b) to (g).

"demonstrator" means a new vehicle used solely or primarily for the sale of
another new vehicle of the same type.

"descendant", of a person, means—
     (a) a child or grandchild of the person or the person’s spouse; or
     (b) a spouse of a child or grandchild mentioned in paragraph (a).

"digitally sign" see the Electronic Conveyancing National Law (Queensland),
section 3.

"discount transaction"...

"dispose", of a relevant acquirer’s interest in dutiable property that is
AFAD residential land, for chapter 4, part 5, division 4, see section 246AG.

"dissatisfied person" means—
     (a) for a decision of the commissioner to refuse to register a person
     as a self assessor—the applicant; or
     (b) for a decision of the commissioner to amend, suspend or cancel a
     self assessor’s registration—the self assessor; or
     (d) for a decision of the commissioner to require a person to pay a
     penalty amount—the person.

"dormant", for a company for a period, means the company has not, in the
period—
     (a) had any assets or liabilities other than share capital for
     subscriber shares or shares issued to replace subscriber shares of
     the same value on their redemption; or
     (b) been party to an agreement or a beneficiary or trustee of a
     trust; or
     (c) issued or sold any shares or rights relating to shares other than
     subscriber shares, rights relating to subscriber shares or shares
     issued to replace subscriber shares of the same value on their
     redemption.

"duration period" —
     (a) for chapter 2, parts 13 and 14 —see section 151A (2) (e); and
     (b) for chapter 10, part 2 —see section 416 (1) (b) and (2) (b).

"dutiable day", for the dutiable value of a vehicle, means—
     (a) for an application to register a vehicle—the day the
     application is made; or
     (b) for an application to transfer a vehicle—the day the
     transaction to which the transfer relates takes place.

"dutiable property" see section 10.

"dutiable proportion", for a mortgage, means the proportion of the amount
secured by the mortgage worked out under section 260.

"dutiable transaction" see section 9.

"dutiable value" for—
     (a) a dutiable transaction—see section 11; or
     (b) residential land or vacant land—see section 90; or
     (c) a relevant acquisition under chapter 3, part 1 or 2 —means the
     dutiable value of the acquisition worked out under chapter 3, part 1,
     division 4 or part 2, division 5; or
     (d) a vehicle as defined for chapter 9 —see section 378.

"duty" means a duty imposed under this Act.

"duty benefit", for chapter 11, see section 434 (1).

"ECD variation" see section 84E (2).

"eligible BTR development", for chapter 4, part 4AA, see section 245C.

"eligible land", for chapter 2, part 15, see section 156D.

"eligible money market dealer" see the Corporations Act, section 9.

"eligible rollover fund" see the Superannuation Industry Act, section 242.

"eligible superannuation entity" see section 130A.

"eligible use", for land—
     (a) means the use of the land solely, or almost solely, for
     residential or traditional purposes; but
     (b) does not include a use for a commercial purpose, including, for
     example, selling or leasing the land.

"ELN" means an Electronic Lodgment Network under the Electronic Conveyancing
National Law (Queensland).

"ELN lodgement" see section 156D.

"ELN transaction document" see section 156D.

"ELN transfer" see section 156D.

"ELN transfer document"...

"ELN workspace", for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement, see section 156D.

"entity" for—
     (a) chapter 2, part 8, division 7, means a corporation, partnership,
     person or trust; or
     (b) chapter 3, part 1, means a corporation or listed unit trust; or
     (c) chapter 11, includes—
          (i) a trust; and
          (ii) a superannuation fund under the Superannuation
          Industry Act.

"equipment financing arrangement"...

"executive officer", of a body corporate, means a person who is concerned in,
or takes part in, the management of the body, regardless of the person’s
designation and whether or not the person is a director of the body.

"exempt acquisition" means—
     (a) a relevant acquisition for which landholder duty is not imposed
     under chapter 3, part 1, division 5 or chapter 10, parts 2 to 4; or
     (b) a relevant acquisition for which corporate trustee duty is not
     imposed under chapter 3, part 2, division 6 or chapter 10, parts 2 to
     4.

"exempt bill of exchange" means a bill of exchange that—
     (a) is for $50,000 or more and a term of not more than 180 days; and
     (b) is drawn, accepted or endorsed by a financial institution, an
     eligible money market dealer or dealer in the unofficial short-term
     money market.

"exempt foreign company" see the Corporations Act, section 9.

"exempt institution"...

"exempt managed investment scheme" means a unit trust that is a managed
investment scheme under the Corporations Act if, under section 601ED (2) of
that Act, the unit trust does not have to be registered because of the issue of
units in the trust only to wholesale clients within the meaning of section 761G
(4) of that Act, including to persons who are not retail clients under section
761GA of that Act.

"exempt payment"...

"exempt promissory note" means a promissory note that is for $50,000 or more
and a term of not more than 180 days if—
     (a) the only security provided to the person who discounts the note
     is the note; or
     (b) the security is comprised of—
          (i) the note and a guarantee by or for the government of
          the Commonwealth or a State; or
          (ii) the note and a guarantee of a related body corporate
          of the corporation making the note; or
          (iii) the note and a letter of credit from a financial
          institution.

"exempt proprietary company" means a proprietary company, other than an exempt
foreign company, no share or interest in which is held by a body corporate
other than another proprietary company that is not an exempt foreign company,
whether directly or through interposed companies or trusts.

"exempt short-term debenture" see section 267 (1).

"existing company"...

"existing right" means any of the following—
     (a) an existing statutory licence, other than a statutory business
     licence, granted by the State;
     (b) an existing statutory licence, other than a statutory business
     licence, granted by the Commonwealth if the rights under the licence
     are exercisable in Queensland;
     (c) an existing right to use a statutory licence, other than a
     statutory business licence, granted by the State;
     (d) an existing right to use a statutory licence, other than a
     statutory business licence, granted by Commonwealth if the rights
     under the licence are exercisable in Queensland;
     (e) an existing concession or licence to conduct a business in
     Queensland, other than a franchise arrangement;
     (f) an existing lease or licence of a business conducted in
     Queensland, other than a franchise arrangement;
     (g) existing rights under a joint venture agreement if the joint
     venture has dutiable property not solely comprising chattels;
     (h) an existing right of the holder of a mortgage, including the debt
     secured by the mortgage, other than the holder of a mortgage-backed
     security;
     (i) an existing option to acquire dutiable property if the
     acquisition of the property would be a dutiable transaction;
     (j) an existing right of pre-emption for dutiable property;
     (k) an existing right to acquire dutiable property;
     (l) an existing right to exploit dutiable property, other than a
     business asset that is intellectual property;
     (m) an existing right to the income from dutiable property.

"expenditure completion date" see section 84E (1).

"exploration amount" —
     (a) for an upfront farm-in agreement—see section 84B (1) (b); or
     (b) for a deferred farm-in agreement—see section 84C (1) (b).

"exploration authority" means a following authority—
     (a) an authority to prospect under the Petroleum Act 1923 or
     Petroleum and Gas (Production and Safety) Act 2004;
     (b) an exploration permit or prospecting permit under the Mineral
     Resources Act 1989;
     (c) a geothermal exploration permit under the Geothermal Energy Act
     2010;
     (d) a GHG exploration permit under the Greenhouse Gas Storage Act
     2009.

"false or misleading" includes false or misleading because of the omission of a
statement.

"family company"...

"family partnership", for a person, means a partnership of which—
     (a) if the partnership carries on a business of primary
     production—the total partnership interests of the partners who are
     defined relatives of the person is at least 50%; or
     (b) otherwise—the total partnership interests of the partners who
     are members of the person’s family is at least 50%.

"family trust", for a person, means a trust—
     (a) the trustee of which started to hold the property on trust at the
     direction of—
          (i) if the trust property is used to carry on a business of
          primary production—a defined relative of the person; or
          (ii) otherwise—an ancestor of the person; and
     (b) the beneficiaries of which—
          (i) for a trust mentioned in paragraph (a) (i) —are
          defined relatives of the person; or
          (ii) otherwise—are members of the person’s family.

"family unit trust", for a person, means a unit trust—
     (a) that is a private unit trust; and
     (b) for which at least 50% of the trust interests in the trust are
     held by the person, or—
          (i) if the trust property is used to carry on a business of
          primary production—defined relatives of the person; or
          (ii) otherwise—members of the person’s family.

"farmee" —
     (a) for an upfront farm-in agreement—see section 84B (1); or
     (b) for a deferred farm-in agreement—see section 84C (1).

"farm-in agreement" means a deferred farm-in agreement or an upfront farm-in
agreement.

"farmor" see section 84A.

"financial asset" see section 130E.

"financier" see section 130D.

"first entity", in a series of partnerships or trusts, means the partnership or
trust in which the relevant partnership, relevant trust or corporate trustee
has a partnership interest or trust interest.

"first home" —
     (a) for a residence to be constructed on vacant land—see section
     86B; or
     (b) for chapter 5, part 6, division 2 —see section 272; or
     (c) otherwise—see section 86 (2).

"first home borrower" see section 273 (2).

"first signed" see section 490.

"foreign acquirer", for chapter 4, see section 242.

"foreign acquirer’s interest", for chapter 4, see section 242.

"foreign company" see the Corporations Act, section 9.

"foreign corporation", for chapter 4, see section 236.

"foreign individual", for chapter 4, see section 235.

"foreign person", for chapter 4, see section 234.

"foreign trust", for chapter 4, see section 237.

"franchise arrangement" means an agreement or other arrangement between 2 or
more persons by which 1 of them (the
"franchisor") who carries on a business authorises or permits another (the
"franchisee")—
     (a) to engage in the business of offering, selling or distributing
     goods and services within or partly within Queensland at a place
     other than the place of business of the franchisor, and the
     franchisee is required to do so under—
          (i) a stated marketing, business or technical plan or
          system; and
          (ii) a common format or procedure or common format and
          procedure; and
     (b) to use a mark or common trade name in a way that the business
     carried on by the franchisee is or is capable of being identified by
     the public as being substantially associated with the mark or name
     identifying, commonly connected with or controlled by the franchisor
     or a related person of the franchisor.

"franchisee" see definition
"franchise arrangement".

"franchisor" see definition
"franchise arrangement".

"fund property" means dutiable property of an eligible superannuation entity
held by a person as—
     (a) the trustee of the entity; or
     (b) a custodian for the trustee of the entity.

"funds manager" see section 73.

"general insurance" see section 350.

"general insurer" see section 354.

"goods"...

"government entity" see the Public Sector Act 2022, section 276.

"grantee"...

"grantor"...

"group companies" see section 400 (1) and (2).

"group company" see section 400 (3).

"hire duty"...

"hire of goods"...

"hire-purchase agreement"...

"hiring charges"...

"home" see—
     (a) for chapter 5, part 6, division 2 — section 272; or
     (b) for chapter 5, part 6, division 3 — section 277; or
     (c) otherwise— section 86 (1).

"home borrower" see section 273 (1).

"home mortgage" see section 271 (1).

"home refinance borrower" see section 278.

"home refinance mortgage" see section 276 (1).

"incomplete ELN lodgement", for chapter 2, part 15, see section 156D.

"incomplete ELN transfer", for chapter 2, part 15, see section 156D.

"indirect interest", in dutiable property, held by—
     (a) a partnership—see section 43; or
     (b) a trust—see section 58; or
     (c) for a corporate trustee—see section 210.

"indirect trust acquisition" means an acquisition of an indirect trust interest
in a land holding trust.

"indirect trust interest", for a land holding trust, means a person’s
interest in the land holding trust through 1 or more corporations, partnerships
or trusts, or a combination of any of them.

"ineligible to obtain a BTR land tax concession", in relation to land for a
financial year, for chapter 4, part 4AA, see section 245D (3).

"information notice", for a decision of the commissioner, is a notice stating
the following—
     (a) the decision;
     (b) the reasons for the decision;
     (c) the person to whom the notice is given may apply for a review of
     the decision within 28 days;
     (d) how to apply for the review.

"instrument" means a written document in hard copy form.

"insurance duty" see section 349 (1).

"insurance intermediary" see the Insurance Contracts Act 1984 (Cwlth), section
11 (1).

"insured person" includes the holder of a policy of insurance.

"insurer" means a person who is—
     (a) either a general insurer or a life insurer; or
     (b) both a general insurer and a life insurer.

"intellectual property" means—
     (a) a patent, trademark, industrial design, copyright, registered
     design, plant breeder right or circuit layout right; or
     (b) a right, whether or not under a franchise arrangement, to use or
     exploit—
          (i) a patent, trademark, industrial design; or
          (ii) a thing, system or process that is the subject of a
          patent, copyright, registered design, plant variety breeder
          or circuit layout right; or
          (iii) an adaptation or modification of a thing, system or
          process mentioned in subparagraph (ii).

"interest", of a person in a corporation for chapter 3, part 1, see section 159
(1).

"interposed trust" see the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cwlth), section
124.1045 (1).

"intervening event" means—
     (a) a natural disaster, including, for example, fire and flood; or
     (b) the death or incapacity of a person to whom section 153, 154,
     246AJ or 291 applies; or
     (c) another event prescribed under a regulation.

"invalid AFAD", for chapter 4A, see section 246J (3).

"issued shares", for a corporation, are all the shares issued by the
corporation that carry the right to unlimited participation in the distribution
of income and capital of the corporation.

"land" —
     (a) includes—
          (i) airspace above land and the coastal waters of the
          State; and
          (ii) a resource authority; but
     (b) does not include an exploration permit under the Petroleum
     (Submerged Lands) Act 1982.

"landholder" see section 165.

"landholder duty" see section 157 (1).

"landholder duty statement" see section 177.

"land-holdings" see section 167.

"land holding trust" means a wholesale unit trust or pooled public investment
unit trust that holds, or has an indirect interest in, land in Queensland.

"land rich corporation"...

"land rich duty"...

"land rich duty statement"...

"land used for an eligible BTR development", for a financial year, for chapter
4, part 4AA, see section 245C.

"large qualified holder" see section 76 (2).

"lease" means—
     (a) a lease, or agreement for lease, of land in Queensland; or
     (b) an offer for the grant of exclusive possession of land in
     Queensland.

"leased premises" includes land the subject of an occupancy right.

"lease duty"...

"lessee" includes an assignee or sublessee of a lessee.

"lessor" includes an assignee or sublessor of a lessor.

"liability date", for a mortgage, means the date the mortgage is liable under
section 252 for mortgage duty.

"liable party", for chapter 12A, see section 471A.

"life company" see the Life Insurance Act 1995 (Cwlth), schedule.

"life insurance" see section 351.

"life insurance rider" means insurance that—
     (a) is attached to a policy of life insurance for which the premium
     or the part of the premium attributable to the attached insurance is
     stated separately on the policy; and
     (b) provides for an additional capital payment in the event of the
     disablement, or the death by accident, of the insured.

"life insurer" see section 355.

"limitation period", for a reassessment, see the Administration Act, schedule
2.

"listed corporation" means a corporation whose shares are quoted on the market
operated by a recognised stock exchange.

"listed unit trust" see section 69.

"list price", of a vehicle, means the recommended retail price or, if there is
more than 1 recommended retail price, the highest recommended retail price, of
the manufacturer, importer or principal distributor at Brisbane of—
     (a) for a truck—the relevant make and model of the cab-chassis; or
     (b) for another vehicle—the vehicle.

"loan" see section 250.

"locked", in relation to an ELN workspace for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement,
see section 156F (1).

"lodge" means lodge with the commissioner.

"lodgement information", for chapter 2, part 15, see section 156D.

"lot", for chapter 2, part 15, see section 156D.

"majority interest"...

"majority shareholder", of a corporation, means a person who—
     (a) is the holder of at least 50% of the voting shares in the
     corporation; or
     (b) has the power, whether direct or indirect, to exercise, or
     control the exercise of, a right to vote attached to at least 50% of
     the voting shares.

"majority trust acquisition" see section 80.

"managed investment scheme" see the Corporations Act, section 9.

"management member", of an unincorporated body, means—
     (a) if the body has a management committee—each member of the
     management committee; or
     (b) otherwise—a person who is concerned with, or takes part in, the
     body’s management, whatever name is given to the member’s
     position in the body.

"marketable security" means—
     (a) any share or right relating to a share; or
     (b) any right or interest, whether described as a unit or otherwise,
     of a beneficiary under a public unit trust.

"market value", of a vehicle, see section 379.

"marriage" includes a void marriage.

"matrimonial instrument" see section 420.

"matrimonial property" see section 421.

"member", of a person’s family, means the person and each of the following—
     (a) the person’s spouse;
     (b) the parents of the person or the person’s spouse;
     (c) the grandparents of the person or the person’s spouse;
     (d) a brother, sister, nephew or niece of the person or the
     person’s spouse;
     (e) a child, stepchild or grandchild of the person;
     (f) the spouse of anyone mentioned in paragraph (d) or (e).

"member", of a qualified holder, includes a unit holder, beneficiary and a
policy owner.

"merchant" means a person who—
     (a) supplies goods, services, money or money’s worth; and
     (b) relies, partly or wholly, on a credit card for payment or
     recoupment for the supply.

"modified for a person with a disability" see section 379B.

"mortgage" see—
     (a) for chapter 5, other than part 7, division 2 — section 248; or
     (b) for chapter 2, part 13, division 3C and chapter 5, part 7,
     division 2 — section 287; or
     (c) otherwise— section 248 (1).

"mortgage-backed security" see section 286.

"mortgage duty" see section 247 (1).

"mortgagee" includes a person who accepts or takes a security of a type
mentioned in section 248.

"mortgage package" see section 261.

"mortgagor" includes a person who gives a security of a type mentioned in
section 248.

"motor vehicle", for chapter 8, means a motor vehicle as defined in the Vehicle
Registration Act, but does not include a caravan.

"net premiums charged" see section 356.

"new duration period" —
     (a) for chapter 2, parts 13 and 14 —see section 151A (3) (b) (ii);
     and
     (b) for chapter 10, part 2 —see section 417 (1) (b).

"new home" see section 86 (4).

"new parent company" see section 409 (1).

"new right" means any of the following—
     (a) land in Queensland, other than the following interests in land—
          (i) a security interest;
          (ii) a partner’s interest in a partnership;
          (iii) a trust interest;
          (iv) the interest of a discretionary object of a trust that
          holds dutiable property;
     (b) a lease or licence of a business, other than a franchise
     arrangement, conducted in Queensland;
     (c) an option to acquire dutiable property if the acquisition of the
     property would be a dutiable transaction;
     (d) a right to use an existing statutory licence granted by the
     State;
     (e) a right to use an existing statutory licence granted by the
     Commonwealth if the rights under the licence are exercisable in
     Queensland;
     (g) a cane railway easement granted under the Sugar Industry Act
     1999;
     (h) a water entitlement;
     (i) a licence or right to do a thing that is—
          (i) prescribed under a regulation; and
          (ii) sold or granted by the State, a government entity, a
          government owned corporation or a rail government entity
          under the Transport Infrastructure Act 1994.

"new start date" —
     (a) for chapter 2, parts 13 and 14 —see section 151A (3) (b) (i);
     and
     (b) for chapter 10, part 2 —see section 417 (1) (b).

"new vehicle" means a vehicle as defined for chapter 9 that has not been
previously registered in Queensland or another State.

"notice" means written notice.

"notice of registration", for a self assessor, means a notice of the self
assessor’s registration under chapter 12, part 1 to 3, and includes the
notice of amendment of the self assessor’s registration given under section
464 (1).

"notification event", for chapter 4, part 5, division 4, see section 246AG.

"objection", for an assessment, see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"obtains a BTR land tax concession", in relation to land for a financial year,
for chapter 4, part 4AA, see section 245D (1).

"occupancy requirement", for a person’s residence, means the person’s
occupation date for the residence is within 1 year or 2 years after the
transfer date for the land, whichever is relevant under section 86 (1) or 86B
(1) (a).

"occupancy right" means an agreement granting, or an offer for the grant of, a
right to occupy premises in Queensland if—
     (a) the occupier intends to use the premises for conducting a
     business; and
     (b) the occupier does not obtain a right to exclusive possession but
     the occupier’s use and enjoyment of the premises as a place of
     business is not adversely affected by the absence of the right to
     exclusive possession; and
     (c) one of the following applies—
          (i) the right is for a term of less than 1 month and there
          is an arrangement for extension or renewal of the right
          beyond 1 month and the cost of the right is more than
          $10,000 on an annual basis;
          (ii) the right is for a term of at least 1 month but less
          than 1 year and the cost of the right is more than $10,000
          on an annual basis;
          (iii) the right is for a term of at least 1 year and the
          consideration for the term of the right is more than
          $10,000 annually.

"occupation date", for a residence, see section 88.

"occupy", in relation to a relevant acquirer’s residence, for chapter 4, part
5, division 4, see section 246AG.

"omitted definition", for chapter 17, part 6, see section 568.

"optional equipment", for a vehicle as defined for chapter 9, means equipment
and features that—
     (a) are not included in the vehicle’s list price; and
     (b) are fitted to the vehicle or otherwise provided with the vehicle
     when the purchaser takes possession of it.

"original assessment" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"original decision" means a decision of the commissioner to—
     (a) refuse an application to register a person as a self assessor; or
     (b) amend, suspend or cancel a self assessor’s registration other
     than a decision to cancel the registration under section 470A; or
     (d) require a person to pay a penalty amount.

"original transferor", for chapter 4, part 5, division 2, see section 246AA.

"outstanding amount", for landholder duty, includes unpaid tax interest and
penalty tax for the duty.
     Note—
          See the Administration Act, sections 54 (Unpaid tax
          interest) and 58 (Liability for penalty tax).

"outstanding liability" —
     (a) for chapter 2, part 15, division 4, see section 156P (1) (b); or
     (b) for chapter 4, part 6, see section 246B (1) (b).

"owner", of a residence or vacant land, includes the lessee of a lease
mentioned in section 85 (b) of the land on which the residence is constructed
or is to be constructed.

"ownership interest" see the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cwlth), section
125.60 (1).

"parent company" see section 401.

"partition" see section 31 (1).

"partnership acquisition" see section 41.

"partnership interest" see section 42.

"party", to a marriage, includes a person who was a party to a marriage that
has been dissolved or annulled, whether in Australia or elsewhere.

"payment commitment", for an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property
that is a relevant transfer agreement, see section 156N.

"payment day", for chapter 4A, see section 246N (2) (c) (ii).

"penalty amount" see section 488 (2).

"penalty tax" see the Administration Act, section 58 (1).

"permanent resident" means—
     (a) the holder of a permanent visa as defined by the Migration Act
     1958 (Cwlth), section 30 (1); or
     (b) a New Zealand citizen who is the holder of a special category
     visa as defined by the Migration Act 1958 (Cwlth), section 32.

"personal property" means a personal chattel.
     Examples of personal property—
               1 an aircraft, boat or motor vehicle
               2 livestock
               3 material held for use in manufactured or
               partially manufactured goods
               4 plant or equipment
               5 trading stock

"place" includes land and premises.

"plant breeder right" means—
     (a) a plant breeder’s right under the Plant Breeder’s Rights Act
     1994 (Cwlth); or
     (b) a plant breeder’s right corresponding to a right mentioned in
     paragraph (a).

"pooled public investment unit trust" see section 75.

"pooled superannuation trust" see the Superannuation Industry Act, section 10.

"pool of financial assets" see section 130F.

"pool of mortgages" see section 288.

"premises" means—
     (a) a building or structure of any kind or part of a building or
     structure of any kind; or
     (b) a building or structure of any kind or part of a building or
     structure of any kind together with the land, or part of the land, on
     which the building or structure is situated.

"premium", for general insurance or life insurance, see section 353.

"premium funding agreement" means an agreement under which—
     (a) a person agrees to make a loan, to the insured person under a
     policy of insurance of any kind, of an amount payable for premiums
     under the policy; and
     (b) the person obtains from the insured person an assignment of
     either or both of the following as security for payment of the
     loan—
          (i) the insured person’s interest in the policy;
          (ii) all amounts payable under the policy.

"pre-repeal credit transaction", for chapter 17, part 5, division 1, see
section 554 (1).

"pre-repeal hire", for chapter 17, part 6, division 4, see section 578.

"pre-repeal hiring charge", for chapter 17, part 6, division 4, see section
578.

"pre-repeal lease duty liability", for chapter 17, part 5, division 2, see
section 558 (1).

"pre-repeal marketable security transaction", for chapter 17, part 6, division
3, see section 572.

"prescribed business" means a business involving solely an activity prescribed
under a regulation.

"prescribed credit card provider" means a corporation that—
     (a) is principally engaged in supplying goods or services or is a
     related body corporate of a corporation (the
     "related corporation") that is principally engaged in supplying goods
     or services; and
     (b) issues a credit card principally for use in connection with
     transactions between the credit card holder and the corporation or
     the related corporation for the supply of goods or services by the
     corporation or the related corporation; and
     (c) is prescribed under a regulation to be a corporation to which
     this paragraph applies.

"prescribed interest scheme" means an investment scheme that offers prescribed
interests as that term was defined in the former Corporations Law as in force
on 30 June 1998.

"previous" —
     (a) for chapter 17, part 6, division 4, see section 578; and
     (b) for chapter 17, part 9, division 1, see section 590; and
     (c) for chapter 17, part 15, see section 622.

"primary beneficiary", of a trust, means a person who under the instrument
creating the trust is the first taker in default of an appointment for capital
by the trustee of the trust.

"primary custodian" —
     1 The
     "primary custodian" for the responsible entity of a registered
     managed investment scheme means the corporation that has been
     appointed under the Corporations Act, section 601FB (2), to hold
     property of the scheme as agent for the responsible entity.
     2 However, the term does not include a person who, under the
     Corporations Act, section 601FB (3), is taken to be an agent
     appointed by the responsible entity to do something for subsection
     (2) of the section.

"primary producer" means—
     (a) for chapter 9 —a person who, under the Vehicle Registration
     Act, is entitled to concessional registration for a primary
     production vehicle under that Act; or
     (b) otherwise—a person engaged in the business of primary
     production.

"principal", for a loan, means the amount actually lent.

"principal", for chapter 4, part 5, division 2, see section 246AA.

"private landholder" see section 165A (1).

"properly stamped" see section 491.

"property" —
     (a) generally—includes dutiable property and a new right; or
     (b) of a corporation for chapter 3, part 1 —see section 168.

"proposed action" see section 466 (2) (a).

"proprietary company" see the Corporations Act, section 45A (1).

"public company" means a company other than a proprietary company.

"public landholder" see section 165A (2).

"public offer superannuation fund" see the Superannuation Industry Act, section
18.

"public superannuation entity" means—
     (a) a complying approved deposit fund, other than an excluded
     approved deposit fund under the Superannuation Industry Act, section
     10; or
     (b) an eligible rollover fund; or
     (c) a pooled superannuation trust; or
     (d) a public offer superannuation fund; or
     (e) a fund or trust the trustee of which declares will be a fund or
     trust mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (d) within 1 year after the
     creation of the fund or trust.

"public unit trust" see section 68.

"purchase agreement" means an uncompleted agreement, whether or not
conditional, for the acquisition of dutiable property.

"qualified holder" see section 76 (1).

"qualifying exempt purpose" see section 415 (1).

"Queensland business" see section 36.

"Queensland business asset" see section 34.

"Queensland company" means a company within the meaning of the Corporations Act
that is taken to be registered in Queensland under that Act.

"Queensland marketable security" —
     1 A
     "Queensland marketable security" means—
          (a) any share or right relating to a share in a Queensland
          company or society; or
          (b) any share or right relating to a share in a foreign
          company that is kept on the Australian register kept in
          Queensland; or
          (c) any right or interest, whether described as a unit or
          otherwise, of a beneficiary under a public unit trust
          registered on a register kept in Queensland.
     2 However, the term does not include any share, right or interest
     that—
          (a) is quoted on the market operated by a recognised stock
          exchange; or
          (b) relates to a share mentioned in paragraph (a).
          Note—
               Section 498A includes provision about when the
               quotation of securities is suspended.

"reassessment" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"reassessment event" see section 84M (1).

"recognised stock exchange" means—
     (a) the Australian Securities Exchange; or
     (b) another stock exchange prescribed under a regulation.

"referable point", for the dutiable proportion of a mortgage, means the
document used to work out the dutiable proportion under section 260.

"registered", for a vehicle, means registered under the Vehicle Registration
Act or the Act of another State that corresponds to the Vehicle Registration
Act.

"registered commercial hirer"...

"registered credit card provider"...

"registered credit provider", for chapter 17, part 5, division 1, see section
554 (1).

"registered general insurer"...

"registered insurer" means an insurer registered under chapter 12, part 1.

"registered life insurer"...

"registered managed investment scheme" means a managed investment scheme within
the meaning of the Corporations Act, section 9, if the scheme is registered
under section 601EB of that Act.

"registered operator", of a vehicle, means the person in whose name the vehicle
is registered.

"registered valuer" means a valuer registered under the Valuers Registration
Act 1992.

"registrar" means the registrar of titles or another person responsible for
keeping a register for dealings in land.

"related", for chapter 2, part 15, see section 156G.

"related body corporate" see the Corporations Act, section 50.

"related person" —
     (a) for chapter 2, part 8 —see section 61; or
     (b) for chapter 3 or section 498 —see section 164; or
     (c) for chapter 4 —see section 238; or
     (d) otherwise—see section 61 (1).

"relative", for chapter 9, see section 379A.

"release of mortgage" includes—
     (a) a retransfer of the property secured by a mortgage or the benefit
     of that property; and
     (b) a release or discharge of a mortgage or the obligations under a
     mortgage.

"relevant acquirer", of dutiable property, for chapter 4, part 5, division 4,
see section 246 (2).

"relevant acquisition" —
     (a) for chapter 3, part 1, chapter 10, part 1 or section 431B or 498
     —see section 158; or
     (b) for chapter 3, part 2 —see section 207.

"relevant corporation", for a corporate trustee, see section 211.

"relevant exploration or development" see section 84F.

"relevant lodgement requirement", for chapter 12A, see section 471B.

"relevant period", in relation to a residence, for chapter 4, part 5, division
4, see section 246AG.

"relevant residential land"...

"relevant transactions", for chapter 4 and 4A, see section 230.

"relevant transfer agreement" see section 156D.

"repealed" —
     (a) for chapter 17, part 5, division 1, see section 554 (1); and
     (b) for chapter 17, part 5, division 2, see section 558 (1).

"repealed Act" means the repealed Stamp Act 1894 as in force immediately before
its repeal.

"representative", of a self assessor, means—
     (a) for a body corporate—an executive officer of the body; or
     (b) for a partnership—a partner of the partnership; or
     (c) for an unincorporated body—a management member of the body.

"residence" see section 87.

"resident", of a retirement village, see the Retirement Villages Act 1999,
section 9.

"residential land" —
     (a) see section 86A; and
     (b) for chapter 5, part 6 and section 291 —includes land, or the
     part of land, on which a residence is to be constructed.

"residential vacant land" see section 86C (2).

"resource authority" means any of the following—
     (a) a geothermal tenure under the Geothermal Energy Act 2010;
     (b) a GHG authority under the Greenhouse Gas Storage Act 2009;
     (c) a mining tenement under the Mineral Resources Act 1989;
     (d) the following petroleum authorities under the Petroleum and Gas
     (Production and Safety) Act 2004 —
          (i) an authority to prospect;
          (ii) a petroleum lease;
          (iii) a data acquisition authority;
          (iv) a water monitoring authority;
          (v) a pipeline licence;
          (vi) a petroleum facility licence;
     (e) an authority to prospect or lease under the Petroleum Act 1923;
     (f) a sublease under the following—
          (i) a geothermal coordination arrangement under the
          Geothermal Energy Act 2010;
          (ii) a GHG coordination arrangement under the Greenhouse
          Gas Storage Act 2009;
          (iii) a coordination arrangement under the Petroleum and
          Gas (Production and Safety) Act 2004.

"responsible entity", for a unit trust that is a registered management
investment scheme, means the responsible entity under the Corporations Act for
the unit trust.

"retirement village" see the Retirement Villages Act 1999, section 5.

"retirement village leasing arrangement" means an arrangement—
     (a) entered into between an owner of an accommodation unit in a
     retirement village and the scheme operator; and
     (b) under which the owner leases the unit to the scheme operator but
     occupies the unit, as the owner’s principal place of residence,
     under a sublease from the scheme operator; and
     (c) that is the only arrangement available to the owner for occupying
     the unit.

"retrospectivity period", for chapter 17, part 17, see section 630.

"return" means a form of return approved under this Act for lodgement by a self
assessor.

"return date", for lodgement of returns by a self assessor, means the date
stated in the notice of registration given to the self assessor for lodging
returns and paying duty.

"return period", for lodgement of returns by a self assessor, means the period
stated in the notice of registration given to the self assessor to be covered
by the returns.

"return self assessment" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"review decision" see section 473 (1).

"sale agreement" means an uncompleted agreement, whether or not conditional,
for the disposal of dutiable property.

"scheme" means—
     (a) any agreement, arrangement, understanding, promise or
     undertaking—
          (i) whether it is express or implied; and
          (ii) whether or not it is, or is intended to be
          enforceable, by legal proceedings; or
     (b) any scheme, plan, proposal, action, course of action or course of
     conduct whether unilateral or otherwise.

"scheme operator" means a retirement village scheme operator within the meaning
of the Retirement Villages Act 1999, section 8.

"scheme property" means dutiable property of a registered managed investment
scheme held by a person as—
     (a) the responsible entity of the scheme; or
     (b) a primary custodian for the responsible entity of the scheme.

"section 152 exempt transaction" see section 152 (3).

"security interest" means the estate or interest of a mortgagee, chargee or
other secured creditor.

"self assessor" means a person registered under chapter 12, part 1, 2 or 3, as
a self assessor.

"share" —
     (a) for chapter 10, part 1 —means a share or stock of a corporation
     or society; or
     (b) otherwise—means a share or stock of a corporation or society,
     or an interest in a share or stock of a corporation or society.

"share buy-back"...

"share interest" —
     (a) of a person in a transferee corporation, for chapter 10, part 1A
     —see section 413D; or
     (b) otherwise—see section 208.

"short-term"...

"show cause notice" see section 466 (1).

"show cause period" see section 466 (2) (e).

"signed" —
     (a) in relation to an ELN transaction document for an ELN
     transfer—see section 156E (1); or
     (b) in relation to an ELN transaction document for an ELN
     lodgement—see section 156E (2).

"significant interest", of a person in a landholder, see section 159.

"site agreement" see the Manufactured Homes (Residential Parks) Act 2003,
section 14.

"small business entity", for chapter 10, part 1A, see section 413A.

"small business property", for chapter 10, part 1A, see section 413B.

"society" means—
     (a) a society registered under the Financial Intermediaries Act 1996
     as a cooperative housing society; or
     (b) a co-operative under the Co-operatives National Law (Queensland).

"special vehicle" means any of the following—
     (a) a vehicle that is, or will be on its registration, registered
     under the Transport Operations (Road Use Management—Vehicle
     Registration) Regulation 2010, section 12 (2);
     (b) mobile machinery within the meaning of the Transport Operations
     (Road Use Management—Vehicle Registration) Regulation 2010,
     schedule 8, other than mobile machinery built on a truck chassis.

"spouse" includes de facto partner and civil partner.

"staged development", for chapter 4, part 4AA, see section 245C.

"standard self assessment" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"stapled entity" see the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cwlth), section
124.1045 (2).

"start date" —
     (a) for chapter 2, parts 13 and 14 —see section 151A (2) (d); and
     (b) for chapter 10, part 2 —see section 416 (1) (a) and (2) (a).

"start time", for chapter 17, part 17, see section 630.

"statutory business licence" means a statutory licence that is required to be
held by a person to carry out an activity for gain or reward.

"statutory dutiable transaction" means a dutiable transaction mentioned in
section 9 (1) (a) to (d) under which a statutory entity makes a compulsory
acquisition of dutiable property.

"statutory entity" means—
     (a) a constructing authority under the Acquisition of Land Act 1967;
     or
     (b) an entity that is established under an Act and authorised under
     the Act to acquire property.

"statutory licence" means a licence, permit or other authority issued or given
under a Queensland or Commonwealth Act, other than the following—
     (a) a chattel authority;
     (b) an exploration permit under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act
     1982.

"subordinate interest", for chapter 2, part 8, division 7, means—
     (a) for a corporation—a shareholder’s interest in the corporation
     being the proportion that the number of the shareholder’s shares
     bears to the total issued shares of the corporation expressed as a
     percentage; or
     (b) for a partnership—a partnership interest; or
     (c) for a trust—a trust interest.

"subscriber", for chapter 2, part 15, see section 156D.

"subsidiary" for—
     (a) chapter 3 —see section 166; or
     (b) chapter 10 —see section 402.

"Superannuation Industry Act" means the Superannuation Industry (Supervision)
Act 1993 (Cwlth).

"supply right", of a business, means a right under an uncompleted contract for
the supply of goods or services of the business.

"surrender" includes the following—
     (a) abandonment;
     (b) abrogation;
     (c) cancellation;
     (d) extinguishment;
     (e) forfeiture;
     (f) redemption;
     (g) relinquishment.

"the State" includes a body or instrumentality that represents the State.

"traditional purposes" means the traditional purposes of Aboriginal people or
Torres Strait Islanders under Aboriginal tradition or Island custom, including,
for example—
     (a) camping, fishing, gathering or hunting; and
     (b) performing rites or other ceremonies; and
     (c) visiting sites of significance.

"trading stock", for chapter 9, means a used vehicle offered or exposed for
sale by a vehicle dealer in the course of the dealer’s business, other than a
vehicle used—
     (a) solely or principally by the dealer or a member of the dealer’s
     staff or family; or
     (b) for the general purposes of the dealer’s business.

"transaction number", for an instrument or ELN transaction document endorsed by
a self assessor, means the transaction number—
     (a) assigned to the instrument or ELN transaction document by the
     self assessor under a system stated in the self assessor’s notice
     of registration; or
     (b) assigned to the instrument or ELN transaction document, and
     notified to the self assessor, under a system administered by the
     commissioner.

"transaction statement" means a form of transaction statement approved under
this Act for lodgement by a self assessor.

"transfer" includes assignment and exchange.

"transferable site area" means a floor space area that—
     (a) is recorded in a register kept by a local government; and
     (b) derives from the unused development potential of land in
     Queensland that contains improvements of heritage value; and
     (c) may, subject to obtaining all necessary consent and approvals, be
     used in the development of other land in Queensland.

"transfer date", for residential land or vacant land, see section 89.

"transfer day", in relation to a relevant transaction, for chapter 4, part 5,
division 4, see section 246AG.

"transfer duty" see section 8 (1).

"transfer duty statement" see section 18.

"transfer information", for chapter 2, part 15, see section 156D.

"transferee corporation", for chapter 10, part 1A, see section 413C.

"truck" see the Vehicle Registration Act, schedule 4.

"trust acquisition" see section 55.

"trustee" —
     (a) generally—includes a former trustee; and
     (b) of an eligible superannuation entity for sections 130A and 130B,
     means—
          (i) if the entity’s trustee is an RSE licensee under the
          Superannuation Industry Act, section 10 —the RSE
          licensee; or
          (ii) otherwise—the trustee of the entity under the
          Superannuation Industry Act, section 10.

"trust interest" see section 57 (1).

"trust surrender" see section 56.

"ultimate entity" means a partnership or trust in a series of partnerships or
trusts if it holds dutiable property and does not hold an indirect interest in
dutiable property.

"unencumbered value", of property, see section 14.

"unit", in a unit trust, means a right or interest (however described) of a
beneficiary under the trust, and includes an interest in a unit in the trust.

"unlisted corporation" means a corporation other than a listed corporation.
     Note—
          Section 498A includes provision about when the quotation of
          securities is suspended.

"unlocked", in relation to an ELN workspace for an ELN transfer or ELN
lodgement, see section 156F (2).

"unpaid tax interest" see the Administration Act, section 54 (1).

"upfront farm-in agreement" see section 84B.

"vacant land" see section 86C (1).

"vacant land concession beneficiary" see section 86D.

"vehicle" means a vehicle that is required to be registered under the Vehicle
Registration Act, but does not include the following—
     (a) a caravan;
     (b) a trailer.

"vehicle dealer" means—
     (a) the holder of a motor dealer licence under the Motor Dealers and
     Chattel Auctioneers Act 2014 or the holder of an equivalent licence
     or other authority under an Act of another State that corresponds to
     that Act; or
     (b) a person who carries on the business of selling new vehicles.

"Vehicle Registration Act" means the Transport Operations (Road Use Management)
Act 1995.

"vehicle registration duty" see section 377 (1).

"vested person", for property, means a person in whom the property is vested.

"voting control", for a company, means being in a position to cast, or control
the casting of, 90% or more of the maximum votes that can be cast at a general
meeting of the company other than under a debenture or trust deed securing the
issue of a debenture.

"water allocation" see the Water Act 2000, schedule 4.

"water entitlement" see the Water Act 2000, schedule 4.

"wholesale client" see the Corporations Act, section 761G (4).

"wholesale investor" see section 74.

"wholesale unit trust" see section 72 (1) and (2).

"widely held unit trust" see section 70 (1).

"windfall duty", for chapter 4A, see section 246L.

"WorkCover Queensland" means WorkCover Queensland established under the
Workers’ Compensation and Rehabilitation Act 2003.
