Excise Tariff Act 1921
Jurisdiction: commonwealth
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/cth/consol_act/eta1921134/
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/cth/consol_act/eta1921134.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-29T23:57:52.377987Z

EXCISE TARIFF ACT 1921
- TABLE OF PROVISIONS
Section 1. Short title
Section 1A. General administration of Act
Section 2. Certain Acts to be read as one with this Act
Section 3. Definitions
Section 3A. Ministerial guidelines relating to fields
Section 4. Time of imposition of Duties of Excise
Section 5. Duties of Excise
Section 5B. Petroleum
Section 6A. Indexation of CPI indexed rates
Section 6AAA. Rounding of fuel duty rates
Section 6AA. Indexing of tobacco duty rate under subitem 5.1 of the Schedule
Section 6AAB. Tobacco duty rate under subitem 5.5 of the Schedule
Section 6AAC. Duty payable on blended tobacco goods
Section 6AB. Applicable petroleum prices
Section 6AC. Application of section 6B, 6C, 6CA or 6D to different oil producing regions
Section 6B. Duties of excise on old oil
Section 6C. Duties of excise on new oil
Section 6CA. Duties of excise on condensate
Section 6D. Duties of excise on intermediate oil
Section 6E. Delayed - entry oil rate
Section 6FAA. Change in duty rate of certain liquefied petroleum gases, liquefied natural gases and compressed natural gases
Section 6G. Duty payable on certain fuel blended goods
Section 6H. Rate of duty payable on denatured ethanol
Section 6J. Rate of duty payable on biodiesel
Section 6K. Temporary reduction--CPI indexed fuel rates
Section 7. Regulations
SCHEDULE
An Act relating to Duties of Excise
- LONG TITLE
An Act relating to Duties of Excise
Section 1 Short title
  This Act may be cited as the Excise Tariff Act 1921.
Section 1A General administration of Act
  The CEO has the general administration of this Act.
Section 2 Certain Acts to be read as one with this Act
  The Excise Act 1901 , the Petroleum Revenue Act 1985 and the Petroleum Excise (Prices) Act 1987 shall be read as one with this Act.
Section 3 Definitions
 (1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
"area" includes:
 (a) a part of the surface of the earth and the subsoil beneath that part; and
 (b) a part of the surface of the earth and a part of the subsoil beneath that part.
"biodiesel" means mono-alkyl esters of fatty acids of a kind used as a fuel, derived from animal or vegetable fats or oils whether or not used.
"blended tobacco goods" has the meaning given by subsection 6AAC(1).
"CEO" means the Commissioner of Taxation.
"delayed-entry oil" means stabilised crude petroleum oil or condensate (other than oil or condensate in respect of which subitem  20.1 or 21.1 of the Schedule applies) produced from a prescribed source, but not entered for home consumption, before the operative day for that source.
"delayed-entry oil rate", in relation to delayed -entry oil, has the meaning given by section 6E.
"diesel" does not include biodiesel.
"exempt offshore area" means a production area, within the meaning of section 5B:
 (a) that is outside the outer limits of the territorial sea of Australia; and
 (b) that is not, and has not been, a prescribed source.
"exempt offshore condensate" means condensate that is included in exempt offshore oil and condensate.
"exempt offshore field" means a field:
 (a) that is prescribed by By -law; and
 (b) that consists of, or encompasses, an exempt offshore area or 2 or more exempt offshore areas.
"exempt offshore oil" means stabilised crude petroleum oil that is included in exempt offshore oil and condensate.
"exempt offshore oil and condensate" means the first 4767.3 megalitres of:
 (a) if a particular exempt offshore field produces stabilised crude petroleum oil and condensate--the stabilised crude petroleum oil and condensate that is produced from the field; or
 (b) if a particular exempt offshore field produces either stabilised crude petroleum oil or condensate (but not both)--the stabilised crude petroleum oil or condensate (as the case requires) that is produced from the field;
being a field from which neither petroleum oil nor condensate was produced before 1 July 1987.
"exempt oils and hydraulic fluids" means goods described in subsection (6).
"exempt onshore condensate" means condensate that is included in exempt onshore oil and condensate.
"exempt onshore oil" means stabilised crude petroleum oil that is included in exempt onshore oil and condensate.
 exempt onshore oil and condensate means:
 (a) if a particular onshore field produces stabilised crude petroleum oil and condensate--stabilised crude petroleum oil and condensate produced from the field after 30  June 1987 that is included in the first 4767.3 megalitres of stabilised crude petroleum oil and condensate produced from the field before, on or after 30  June 1987; or
 (b) if a particular onshore field produces stabilised crude petroleum oil but not condensate--stabilised crude petroleum oil produced from the field after 30  June 1987 that is included in the first 4767.3 megalitres of stabilised crude petroleum oil produced from the field before, on or after 30  June 1987; or
 (c) if a particular onshore field produces condensate but not stabilised crude petroleum oil--condensate produced from the field after 30  June 1987 that is included in the first 4767.3 megalitres of condensate produced from the field before, on or after 30  June 1987.
"fuel oil" means a petroleum product, whether obtained through a process of blending or otherwise, that has the physical characteristics described in subsection  (4).
"installation" means a subsea installation, for the production of petroleum oil or condensate, that is connected to a fixed platform, a floating production system or any other petroleum collection system.
"intermediate area" means an area declared by the Resources Minister, by notice in writing published in the Gazette, to be an intermediate area for the purposes of this Act, being an area that contains at least one old accumulation but that does not contain a relevant accumulation which was developed before 23  October 1984.
"intermediate oil" means stabilized crude petroleum oil (other than new oil, delayed-entry oil or oil in respect of which subitem  20.1 of the Schedule applies) produced from an intermediate area.
"liquefied petroleum gas" means:
 (a) liquid propane; or
 (b) a liquid mixture of propane and butane; or
 (c) a liquid mixture of propane and other hydrocarbons that consists mainly of propane; or
 (d) a liquid mixture of propane, butane and other hydrocarbons that consists mainly of propane and butane.
"new oil" means stabilized crude petroleum oil (other than delayed-entry oil or oil in respect of which subitem  20.1 of the Schedule applies) produced from:
 (a) a relevant accumulation that was discovered on or after 18  September 1975 and before 1 July 1983 by drilling a well that was classified by the Minister, for the purposes of Excise By-law No.  78, as:
 (i) a new field discovery; or
 (ii) a new pool (pay) discovery; or
 (iii) a deeper-pool discovery; or
 (iv) a shallower -pool discovery;
  subsequent to a determination of the well type by the relevant Energy Minister after drilling and before 1  July 1983; or
 (b) a relevant accumulation that was discovered on or after 18  September 1975 and before 1 July 1983 by drilling a well that was not determined by the relevant Energy Minister before 1 July 1983 to be a well of any particular type; or
 (c) a relevant accumulation that was discovered on or after 1  July 1983.
"oil producing region":
 (a) has the same meaning as in the Petroleum Excise (Prices) Act 1987; and
 (b) includes:
 (i) a production area within the meaning of section  5B, being an area from which condensate is obtained and that is prescribed by the regulations as an oil producing region; or
 (ii) 2 or more production areas within the meaning of that section from which condensate is obtained, being areas that are together so prescribed.
Note: Part IA of the Petroleum Excise (Prices) Act 1987 gives that Act operation in relation to condensate in addition to its operation in relation to stabilised crude petroleum oil. Paragraph (b) of this definition ensures that the definition covers production areas from which condensate is obtained.
"old accumulation" means a relevant accumulation that was discovered before 18 September 1975.
"onshore field" means a field:
 (a) that is prescribed by By -law; and
 (b) that consists of, or encompasses, a production area (within the meaning of section  5B), or 2 or more production areas, that:
 (i) is in a State or Territory or inside the outer limits of the territorial sea of Australia; and
 (ii) is not, and has not been, a prescribed source.
"operative day", in relation to a prescribed source, means the 1 July that is the day prescribed petroleum produced from that source on or after which is exempt from Excise duty because of the Petroleum Revenue Act 1985.
"platform" means a platform for the production of petroleum oil or condensate.
"pre-operative year", in relation to a prescribed source, means the financial year immediately preceding the operative day for that source.
"prescribed source" means:
 (a) a prescribed production area within the meaning of section  6B; or
 (b) a prescribed new production area within the meaning of section  6C; or
 (ba) a prescribed condensate production area within the meaning of section  6CA; or
 (c) a prescribed intermediate production area within the meaning of section  6D;
prescribed petroleum produced from which after 1 July in a particular year is exempt from Excise duty because of the Petroleum Revenue Act 1985 .
"relevant accumulation" means a naturally occurring discrete accumulation of oil, of gas, or of both.
"relevant Energy Minister" means:
 (a) on and after 18  September 1975 and before 5 October 1976--the Minister for Minerals and Energy; and
 (b) on and after 5  October 1976 and before 20 December 1977--the Minister for National Resources; and
 (c) on and after 20  December 1977 and before 8 December 1979--the Minister for National Development; and
 (d) on and after 8  December 1979 and before 11 March 1983--the Minister for National Development and Energy; and
 (e) on and after 11 March 1983 and before 1  July 1983--the Minister for Resources and Energy.
"Resource Rent Tax area" means an area that, for the purposes of the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 1987, is:
 (a) the exploration permit area of an exploration permit other than one of the North West Shelf exploration permits; or
 (b) the retention lease area of a retention lease that is related to an exploration permit other than one of the North West Shelf exploration permits; or
 (c) the production licence area of a production licence that is related to an exploration permit other than one of the North West Shelf exploration permits.
"Statistician" means the Australian Statistician.
 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a relevant accumulation shall be taken to be developed when petroleum, within the meaning of section  5B, is recovered from the accumulation for the purpose of:
 (a) the sale of the petroleum; or
 (b) the production from the petroleum of a product for sale.
 (3) Without affecting the meaning of any reference to a month in any other provision of this Act or in any other Act, a reference in section  6AB, 6B, 6C, 6CA, 6D or 6E to a month is a reference to one of the 12 months of a calendar year.
 (4) The physical characteristics of fuel oil are:
 (a) a density equal to or greater than 920.0 kg/cubic metre at 15 degrees Celsius as determined by either ASTM D1298 or ASTM D4052; and
 (b) a carbon residue, on the whole sample, of at least 2.0 percent mass as determined by ASTM D189 (Conradson Carbon Residue) or by ASTM D4530 (Carbon Residue -Micro Method); and
 (c) a minimum kinematic viscosity of 10 centistokes (millimetres squared per second) at 50 degrees Celsius as determined by ASTM D445.
 (5) In subsection (4), a reference to ASTM followed by a number is a reference to a test so numbered as prescribed by the American Society for Testing and Materials and set out in Section  5 of the Annual Book of ASTM Standards (1986 revision) published in 1986 by the American Society for Testing and Materials at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in the United States of America.
 (6) Exempt oils and hydraulic fluids are:
 (a) food grade white mineral oil that complies with:
 (i) Sec. 21 CFR 172.878 of Title 21, Volume 1 of the United States Code of Federal Regulations (regulations made by the Food and Drug Administration of the United States); and
 (ii) Sec. 21 CFR 178.3620 (a) of Title 21, Volume 1 of the United States Code of Federal Regulations (regulations made by the Food and Drug Administration of the United States); and
 (b) polyglycol brake fluids that meet the requirements of Australian Standard AS 1960.1--2005 Motor vehicle brake fluids--Non-petroleum type; and
 (c) aromatic process oils that meet all of the criteria in the following table:
Column 1PropertyColumn 2Test MethodColumn 3ValueDensity at 15&Acirc;&deg;CASTM D1298 or D45020.9gm/cm3 minimumAniline pointASTM D61170&Acirc;&deg;C maximumRefractive index at 20&Acirc;&deg;CASTM D1298 or D17471.490 minimumPour pointASTM D97-9&Acirc;&deg;C minimumViscosity indexASTM D227080 maximum
Section 3A Ministerial guidelines relating to fields
 (1) The Resources Minister may, by legislative instrument signed by the Minister, make guidelines to be taken into account by the CEO in making By -laws prescribing a field for the purposes of the definition of onshore field or exempt offshore field.
 (2) In making By-laws for a purpose described in subsection  (1), the CEO must have regard to the guidelines in force at the time.
Section 4 Time of imposition of Duties of Excise
  The time of imposition of the Duties of Excise imposed by this Act is the twenty -fifth day of March, One thousand nine hundred and twenty at nine o&#39;clock in the forenoon reckoned according to the standard time in the State of Victoria, and this Act shall be deemed to have come into operation at that time.
Section 5 Duties of Excise
 (1) The Duties of Excise specified in the Schedule are hereby imposed in accordance with the Schedule, as from the time of the imposition of such duties or such later dates as are mentioned in the Schedule in regard to any particular items, and such duties shall be deemed to have been imposed at such time or dates, and shall be charged, collected, and paid to the use of the King for the purposes of the Commonwealth, on the following goods, namely:
 (a) all goods dutiable under the Schedule and manufactured or produced in Australia after the time or dates when such duties are deemed to have been imposed; and
 (b) all goods dutiable under the Schedule and manufactured or produced in Australia before the time or dates when such duties are deemed to have been imposed, and which were at that time or those dates subject to the CEO&#39;s control, or in the stock, custody, or possession of, or belonging to, any distiller or manufacturer thereof, and on which no duty of Excise had been paid before the time or dates when such duties are deemed to have been imposed.
Note: Sections 6A and 6AA effectively change certain rates of duty that appear on the face of the Schedule.
 (2) Where a section of another Act, whether passed before or after the commencement of this subsection, amends the Schedule to this Act, then, unless the contrary intention appears:
 (a) that section imposes duties of Excise in accordance with the Schedule as so amended;
 (b) where that section comes, came, or is deemed to have come, into operation on a particular day, the duties of Excise so imposed shall be charged, collected and paid:
 (i) on all goods dutiable under the Schedule, as amended and in force on that day, and manufactured or produced in Australia on or after that day; and
 (ii) on all goods dutiable under the Schedule, as amended and so in force, and manufactured or produced in Australia before that day, being goods:
 (A) that, on that day, were subject to the CEO&#39;s control, or, on that day, were in the stock, custody or possession of, or belonged to, a manufacturer or producer of the goods; and
 (B) on which no duty of Excise had been paid before that day; and
 (c) where that section comes, came, or is deemed to have come, into operation at a particular time, the duties of Excise so imposed shall be charged, collected and paid:
 (i) on all goods dutiable under the Schedule, as amended and in force at that time, and manufactured or produced in Australia at or after that time; and
 (ii) on all goods dutiable under the Schedule, as amended and in force at that time, and manufactured or produced in Australia before that time, being goods:
 (A) that, at that time, were subject to the CEO&#39;s control, or, at that time were in the stock, custody or possession of, or belonged to, the manufacturer or producer of the goods; and
 (B) on which no duty of Excise had been paid before that time.
Section 5B Petroleum
 (1) In this section:
"petroleum" means petroleum oil or petroleum gas and includes condensate or liquid petroleum gas.
"prescribed petroleum" means petroleum other than stabilized oil.
"production area" means:
 (a) a prescribed production area within the meaning of section  6B; or
 (b) a prescribed new production area within the meaning of section  6C; or
 (ba) a prescribed condensate production area within the meaning of section  6CA; or
 (c) a prescribed intermediate production area within the meaning of section  6D.
"stabilized oil" means stabilized crude petroleum oil.
 (2) Subject to subsections  (3) and (3A), for the purposes of this Act, where a mixing of 2 or more kinds of petroleum has occurred and the resulting mixture takes on the essential character of petroleum of one of those kinds (in this subsection referred to as petroleum of the principal kind), the petroleum in the mixture shall be deemed to be petroleum of the principal kind.
 (3) For the purposes of this Act, where a person enters for home consumption a mixture of, or obtained from, stabilized oil and prescribed petroleum (other than condensate), the petroleum in the mixture shall be deemed to be stabilized oil.
Note: A mixture of, or obtained from, stabilized oil and condensate is covered by subsection  (2).
 (3A) For the purposes of this Act, if a person enters for home consumption a mixture of, or obtained from, condensate and prescribed petroleum, the petroleum in the mixture is taken to be condensate.
Note: A mixture of, or obtained from, stabilized oil and condensate is covered by subsection  (2).
 (4) For the purposes of this Act, where stabilized oil or condensate is obtained from prescribed petroleum produced from a particular production area, that oil or condensate (as the case requires) shall be taken to have been produced from that production area.
 (4A) For the purposes of this Act, where stabilized oil or condensate is obtained from prescribed petroleum produced from a Resource Rent Tax area, that oil or condensate (as the case requires) shall be taken to have been produced from that area.
 (5) For the purposes of this Act, where a quantity of stabilized oil consists of oil obtained from prescribed petroleum produced from different production areas:
 (a) the prescribed petroleum produced from each of those production areas shall be deemed to have resulted in the production of a discrete part of that quantity of stabilized oil; and
 (b) the part of that quantity of stabilized oil that is to be taken to have been obtained from prescribed petroleum produced from such a production area is so much of that quantity of stabilized oil as bears to that quantity the same proportion as the quantity of prescribed petroleum produced from that production area bears to the total quantity of prescribed petroleum produced from all the production areas from which that quantity of stabilized oil was so obtained.
Section 6A Indexation of CPI indexed rates
 (1) If the indexation factor for an indexation day is greater than 1, each CPI indexed rate is, on that day, replaced by the rate of duty worked out using the formula:
Note: For indexation factor see subsection  (3). For CPI indexed rate and indexation day see subsection  (10).
 (2) The amount worked out under subsection  (1) is to be rounded to the same number of decimal places as the CPI indexed rate was on the day before the indexation day (rounding up if the next decimal place is 5 or more).
Indexation factor
 (3) The indexation factor for an indexation day is the number worked out using the formula:
Note: For index number, reference quarter and base quarter see subsection (10).
 (4) The indexation factor is to be worked out to 3 decimal places (rounding up if the fourth decimal place is 5 or more).
Effect of delay in publication of index number
 (5) If the index number for the most recent reference quarter before the indexation day is published by the Statistician on a day (the publication day) that is not at least 5 days before the indexation day, then, despite subsection  (1), any replacement of a CPI indexed rate under subsection (1) happens on the fifth day after the publication day.
Effect of Excise Tariff alteration
 (6) If an Excise Tariff alteration proposed in the Parliament proposes to substitute, on and after a particular day, a rate for a CPI indexed rate, treat that substitution as having had effect on and after that day for the purposes of this section.
Changes to CPI index reference period and publication of substituted index numbers
 (7) Amounts are to be worked out under this section:
 (a) using only the index numbers published in terms of the most recently published index reference period for the Consumer Price Index; and
 (b) disregarding index numbers published in substitution for previously published index numbers (except where the substituted numbers are published to take account of changes in the index reference period).
Application of replacement rate
 (8) If a CPI indexed rate is replaced under this section on a particular day, the replacement rate applies in relation to goods entered for home consumption on or after that day.
Publication of replacement rate
 (9) The CEO must, on or as soon as practicable after the day a CPI indexed rate is replaced under this section, publish a notice in the Gazette advertising the replacement rate and the goods it applies to.
Definitions
 (10) In this section:
"base quarter" means the June quarter or December quarter that has the highest index number of all the June quarters and December quarters that occur:
 (a) before the most recent reference quarter before the indexation day; and
 (b) after the June quarter of 1983.
"CPI indexed rate" means:
 (a) a rate of duty set out in item  1, 2 or 3 of the Schedule; or
 (b) a rate of duty set out in item  10 of the Schedule, other than in:
 (i) subitem 10.6 or 10.17; or
 (ii) subitem 10.7, 10.12, 10.20, 10.21 or 10.30; or
 (c) the rate set out in step 3 of the method statement in subsection  6G(1) (about duty payable on blended goods).
"December quarter" means a period of 3 months starting on 1 October.
"indexation day" means each 1 February and 1 August.
"index number", for a quarter, means the All Groups Consumer Price Index number that is the weighted average of the 8 capital cities and is published by the Statistician in relation to that quarter.
"June quarter" means a period of 3 months starting on 1 April.
"reference quarter" means the June quarter or December quarter.
Section 6AAA Rounding of fuel duty rates
 (1) Despite subsection  6A(2), the amount to be worked out under subsection 6A(1) in respect of an indexation day for a CPI indexed rate covered by subsection (3) of this section is to be rounded to 3 decimal places (rounding up if the next decimal place is 5 or more).
 (2) For the purposes of section  6A, determine the CPI indexed rate on the day before the indexation day as mentioned in subsection 6A(1) on the assumptions that:
 (a) the operation of subsection  (1) of this section was disregarded in respect of all previous indexation days (if any); and
 (b) subsection 6A(2) permitted amounts worked out under subsection  6A(1) in respect of those indexation days to be rounded to 5 decimal places (rounding up if the next decimal place was 5 or more).
 (3) This subsection covers the following CPI indexed rates:
 (a) a rate of duty set out in item  10 of the Schedule, other than in:
 (i) subitem 10.6 or 10.17; or
 (ii) subitem 10.7, 10.12, 10.20, 10.21 or 10.30;
 (b) the rate set out in step 3 of the method statement in subsection  6G(1) (about duty payable on blended goods).
 (4) In this section:
"CPI indexed rate" has the same meaning as in section 6A.
"indexation day" has the same meaning as in section 6A.
Section 6AA Indexing of tobacco duty rate under subitem 5.1 of the Schedule
 (1) If the indexation factor for an indexation day is at least 1, the rate of duty set out in subitem  5.1 of the Schedule (the tobacco duty rate) is, on that day, replaced by the rate of duty worked out using the formula:
Note: For indexation factor see subsections  (3) and (5), for indexation day see subsection (12) and for additional factor see subsection (6).
 (2) The amount worked out under subsection  (1) is to be rounded to 5 decimal places (rounding up if the sixth decimal place is 5 or more).
Indexation factor
 (3) The indexation factor for an indexation day is the number worked out using the formula:
Note: For AWOTE amount, reference quarter and base quarter see subsection (12).
 (4) The indexation factor is to be worked out to 3 decimal places (rounding up if the fourth decimal place is 5 or more).
  (5) Despite subsection  (3), treat the indexation factor for 1 September 2023, 1 September 2024 and 1  September 2025 as 1 if, on that day, it would otherwise be less than 1.
Additional factor
 (6) The additional factor for an indexation day is:
 (a) 1.05, if the indexation day is 1  September 2023, 1 September 2024 or 1 September 2025; or
 (b) 1, for each other indexation day.
Effect of delay in publication of AWOTE amount
 (7) If the AWOTE amount for the most recent reference quarter before the indexation day is published by the Statistician on a day (the publication day) that is not at least 5 days before the indexation day, then, despite subsection  (1), any replacement of a tobacco duty rate under subsection (1) happens on the fifth day after the publication day.
Effect of Excise Tariff alteration
 (8) If an Excise Tariff alteration proposed in the Parliament proposes to substitute, on and after a particular day, a rate for a tobacco duty rate, treat that substitution as having had effect on and after that day for the purposes of this section.
Publication of substituted AWOTE amounts
 (9) If the Statistician publishes an estimate of full -time adult average weekly ordinary time earnings for persons in Australia for a period for which such an estimate was previously published by the Statistician, the publication of the later estimate is to be disregarded for the purposes of this section.
Application of replacement rate
 (10) If a tobacco duty rate is replaced under this section on a particular day, the replacement rate applies in relation to goods entered for home consumption on or after that day.
Publication of replacement rate
 (11) The CEO must, on or as soon as practicable after the day a tobacco duty rate is replaced under this section, publish a notice in the Gazette advertising the replacement rate and the goods it applies to.
Definitions
 (12) In this section:
"AWOTE amount", for a quarter, means the estimate of the full-time adult average weekly ordinary time earnings for persons in Australia for the middle month of the quarter published by the Statistician in relation to that month.
"base quarter" means the June quarter or December quarter that has the highest AWOTE amount of all the June quarters and December quarters that occur:
 (a) before the most recent reference quarter before the indexation day; and
 (b) after the December quarter of 2012.
"December quarter" means a period of 3 months starting on 1 October.
"indexation day" means each 1 March and 1 September.
"June quarter" means a period of 3 months starting on 1 April.
"reference quarter" means the June quarter or December quarter.
Section 6AAB Tobacco duty rate under subitem 5.5 of the Schedule
 (1) For the purposes of subitem  5.5 of the Schedule, the applicable rate on a day is the amount worked out using the formula:
  (2) The weight conversion factor is:
 (a) for a day on or after the first replacement day and before the second replacement day--0.000675; or
 (b) for a day on or after the second replacement day and before the third replacement day--0.00065; or
 (c) for a day on or after the third replacement day and before the fourth replacement day--0.000625; or
 (d) for a day on or after the fourth replacement day--0.0006.
Rounding
 (3) The amount worked out under subsection  (1) is to be rounded to 2 decimal places (rounding up if the third decimal place is 5 or more).
 Replacement days
 (4) For the purposes of this section, the first replacement day is 1 September 2023.
 (5) For the purposes of this section, the second replacement day is:
 (a) 1 September 2024; or
 (b) if, in relation to the indexation day that is 1  September 2024, subsection 6AA(7) has the effect of replacing a rate of duty on a later day--that later day.
 (6) For the purposes of this section, the third replacement day is:
 (a) 1 September 2025; or
 (b) if, in relation to the indexation day that is 1  September 2025, subsection 6AA(7) has the effect of replacing a rate of duty on a later day--that later day.
 (7) For the purposes of this section, the fourth replacement day is:
 (a) 1 September 2026; or
 (b) if, in relation to the indexation day that is 1  September 2026, subsection 6AA(7) has the effect of replacing a rate of duty on a later day--that later day.
Application of applicable rate
 (8) If the applicable rate changes on a particular day, the changed rate applies in relation to goods entered for home consumption on or after that day.
Publication
 (9) The CEO must, on or as soon as practicable after the day the rate of duty set out in subitem  5.1 of the Schedule is replaced under section 6AA, publish a notice in the Gazette advertising:
 (a) the rate of duty under subitem  5.5 of the Schedule on that day; and
 (b) the goods to which subitem  5.5 of the Schedule applies.
Section 6AAC Duty payable on blended tobacco goods
 (1) Work out the duty payable under this Act on goods (the blended tobacco goods) that would, apart from this section, be classified to subitem 5.1 or 5.5 of the Schedule and that consist of constituents that are classified to either of those subitems, or to subitem  5.8 of the Schedule because of a previous operation of this section, as follows:
Method statementStep 1. Work out the amount of duty that would, apart from this section, be payable on the blended tobacco goods.Step 2. Add up the amount of duty previously payable on each constituent that is classified to subitem  5.1, 5.5 or 5.8 of the Schedule.Step 3. Subtract the result of step 2 from the result of step 1.Step 4. The duty payable on the blended tobacco goods is:
 (a) the result of step 3; or (b) if the result of step 3 is less than zero--zero.
 (2) If a constituent of the blended tobacco goods was imported, assume for the purposes of subsection  (1) that:
 (a) the constituent was manufactured in Australia when it was imported; and
 (b) if customs duty was paid on the constituent--there was a payment of Excise duty equal to the lesser of the following amounts (or either of them if they are equal):
 (i) the amount of Excise duty that would have been payable on the constituent had it been manufactured in Australia when it was imported;
 (ii) the amount of the customs duty paid.
Section 6AB Applicable petroleum prices
  For the purposes of section 6B, 6C, 6CA or 6D, at any particular time the applicable petroleum price for a month occurring after 30  June 1997 in respect of stabilized crude petroleum oil or condensate, obtained from a production area, that is a prescribed production area, a prescribed new production area, a prescribed condensate production area or a prescribed intermediate production area, as the case requires, for the purposes of that section, is:
 (a) if at that time the final VOLWARE price for stabilized crude petroleum oil or condensate (as the case requires) for the month and an oil producing region that constitutes or includes that production area has been determined under section  7 of the Petroleum Excise (Prices) Act 1987--that final VOLWARE price; or
 (b) if at that time the final VOLWARE price for stabilized crude petroleum oil or condensate (as the case requires) has not been so determined--the interim VOLWARE price for stabilized crude petroleum oil or condensate (as the case requires) determined under that section for the month and an oil producing region that constitutes or includes that production area.
Section 6AC Application of section 6B, 6C, 6CA or 6D to different oil producing regions
  If:
 (a) a final VOLWARE price or an interim VOLWARE price for stabilized crude petroleum oil or condensate (as the case requires) has been, or is taken to have been, determined under the Petroleum Excise (Prices) Act 1987 for a month and an oil producing region; and
 (b) that oil producing region is constituted by or includes:
 (i) a particular prescribed production area within the meaning of section  6B; or
 (ii) a particular prescribed new production area within the meaning of section  6C; or
 (iii) a particular prescribed condensate production area within the meaning of section  6CA; or
 (iv) a particular prescribed intermediate production area within the meaning of section  6D;
that determination is taken to have effect, and, at all material times to have had effect, in the application of that section in respect of stabilized crude petroleum or condensate (as the case requires) obtained from that production area, as if it were also a determination of that price made in respect of that particular production area.
Section 6B Duties of excise on old oil
Definitions
 (1) In this section:
"adjusted previous year&#39;s duty", in relation to a prescribed production area in relation to a month of a financial year, means the amount of duty that, at the end of the financial year immediately preceding the financial year in which that month occurs, would have been payable in respect of old oil produced from that area and entered for home consumption during that preceding year if, for the prices that were, at the end of that preceding year, the applicable petroleum prices for all of the months of that preceding year, there had been substituted the prices that are, at the end of that first -mentioned month, the respective applicable petroleum prices for all of those months.
"non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty", in relation to a prescribed production area in relation to a month of a financial year, means the amount of duty that, at the end of the financial year immediately preceding the financial year in which that month occurs, would have been payable in respect of old oil produced from that area and entered for home consumption during that preceding year if, for the prices that were, at the end of that preceding year, the applicable petroleum prices for all of the months of that preceding year, there had been substituted the prices that were, immediately before the commencement of that first -mentioned month, the respective applicable petroleum prices for all of those months.
"old oil" means stabilised crude petroleum oil in respect of which subitem 20.7 of the Schedule applies.
"prescribed production area" means a petroleum production area prescribed by by-laws (which, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, may be a relevant accumulation, a well, an oilfield or a gas field).
Introduction
 (2) The amount of duty in respect of old oil ascertained in accordance with this section shall be ascertained by reference to the prescribed production area from which the oil is produced and to the month of a financial year during which the oil is entered for home consumption.
The amount of duty
 (3) Subject to subsection  (3A), the amount of duty in respect of old oil produced from a prescribed production area and entered for home consumption during a month of a financial year commencing on or after 1  July 2001 is the amount worked out using the formula:
where:
"credited adjustment amount" is the credited adjustment amount (if any) for that area and that month, worked out in accordance with subsection  (5C).
"debited adjustment amount" is the debited adjustment amount (if any) for that area and that month, worked out in accordance with subsection  (5B).
"duty paid" is the amount of duty (if any) paid in respect of old oil produced from that area and entered for home consumption during the period starting at the start of that financial year and ending at the end of that month.
"notional duty" is the amount of notional duty in respect of old oil produced from that area and entered for home consumption during the period starting at the start of that financial year and ending at the end of that month, worked out in accordance with subsection  (4).
Disregarding certain amounts when working out amount of duty
 (3A) In working out, for the purposes of subsection  (3), the amount of duty paid in respect of old oil produced from a prescribed production area and entered for home consumption during a period starting at the start of a financial year and ending at the end of a month of that year, the following amounts are to be disregarded:
 (a) any increases in the amount of duty paid as a result of the addition of debited adjustment amounts for that area for any of the preceding months of that year;
 (b) any decreases in that amount as a result of the subtraction of credited adjustment amounts for that area for any of those months.
The total amount of notional duty
 (4) The amount of notional duty in respect of old oil produced from a particular prescribed production area and entered for home consumption during a particular period is the sum of the amounts of notional duty in respect of:
 (a) the quantity (if any) of the oil that exceeds  but does not exceed ; and
 (b) the quantity (if any) of the oil that exceeds  but does not exceed ; and
 (c) the quantity (if any) of the oil that exceeds  but does not exceed ; and
 (d) the quantity (if any) of the oil that exceeds  but does not exceed ; and
 (e) the quantity (if any) of the oil that exceeds  ;
where:
"A" is the number of days in the period.
"B" is:
 (a) where the period is in a year in which there are 365 days--136.98630 kilolitres; or
 (b) where the period is in a year in which there are 366 days--136.61202 kilolitres.
The amount of notional duty for a quantity of oil--one petroleum price
 (5) Subject to subsections  (6) and (9), the amount of notional duty in respect of a quantity of oil referred to in subsection (4) is an amount equal to the relevant percentage (set out in subsection  (7)) of the product of:
 (a) the amount specified in the price that is, at the end of the period referred to in subsection  (4) in relation to the quantity of oil, the applicable petroleum price for the month in which the period comes to an end; and
 (b) the number of kilolitres in that quantity;
calculated to the nearest cent.
The debited adjustment amount
 (5B) Where:
 (a) during a month of a financial year, a VOLWARE price for stabilised crude petroleum oil for a month of the immediately preceding financial year and a particular prescribed production area is determined under section  7 of the Petroleum Excise (Prices) Act 1987 ; and
 (b) the adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that prescribed production area for that first -mentioned month is greater than the non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that area for that first-mentioned month;
there is a debited adjustment amount for that area for that first-mentioned month, being an amount equal to the difference between that adjusted previous year&#39;s duty and that non -adjusted previous year&#39;s duty.
The credited adjustment amount
 (5C) Where:
 (a) during a month of a financial year, a VOLWARE price for stabilised crude petroleum oil for a month of the immediately preceding financial year and a particular prescribed production area is determined under section  7 of the Petroleum Excise (Prices) Act 1987 ; and
 (b) the adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that prescribed production area for that first -mentioned month is less than the non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that area for that first-mentioned month;
there is a credited adjustment amount for that area for that first-mentioned month, being an amount equal to the difference between that non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty and that adjusted previous year&#39;s duty.
The amount of notional duty for a quantity of oil--more than one petroleum price
 (6) Where, at the end of a period in a financial year, the applicable petroleum prices for the months in which the period occurs and a particular prescribed production area are not all the same, the amount of the notional duty in respect of a quantity of oil referred to in subsection  (4) produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during the period is an amount equal to the relevant percentage (set out in subsection (7)) of the sum of the amounts calculated in respect of each such applicable petroleum price in operation during the period in accordance with the formula:
where:
"P" is the amount specified in the applicable petroleum price.
"Q" is the number of kilolitres in the quantity of oil referred to in subsection (4).
"K" is the number of kilolitres of old oil produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during that part of the period during which the applicable petroleum price was in operation.
"KT" is the number of kilolitres of old oil produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during the period.
Relevant percentage for a quantity of oil
 (7) For the purposes of subsections  (5) and (6), the relevant percentage in relation to a quantity of oil referred to in subsection (4) is:
 (a) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  4(a) applies--20%; and
 (b) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  4(b) applies--30%; and
 (c) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  4(c) applies--40%; and
 (d) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  4(d) applies--50%; and
 (e) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  4(e) applies--55%.
Rounding the number of kilolitres in a quantity of oil
 (8) For the purposes of subsections  (5) and (6), the number of kilolitres in a quantity of oil shall be taken to be a number equal to:
 (a) unless paragraph (b) applies--the number of kilolitres in that quantity calculated to 1 decimal place; or
 (b) where the number of kilolitres in that quantity calculated to 2 decimal places ends in a number greater than 4--the number of kilolitres in that quantity calculated to 1 decimal place increased by 0.1.
The amount of notional duty--dealing with the first year of production
 (9) Where no old oil produced from a particular prescribed production area was ever entered for home consumption before the expiration of the first month of a particular financial year, then, in ascertaining, in accordance with subsections  (4), (5) and (7) or (4), (6) and (7), the notional duty in respect of old oil produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during a later month (in this subsection referred to as the relevant month) of that financial year, those subsections have effect in relation to the old oil as if each reference in a paragraph of subsection (4) to B were a reference to the product of B and the factor ascertained in accordance with the formula:
where:
"G" is the number of days in the period commencing on the day on which old oil produced from the prescribed production area was first entered for home consumption and ending on the expiration of the relevant month; and
"H" is the number of days in the period commencing on the first day of the financial year and ending on the expiration of the relevant month.
Interpretation of the Schedule
 (10) The words set out after &quot;, if higher,&quot; in the column headed &quot;Rate of Duty&quot; in subitem  20.7 of the Schedule shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Act or any other law of the Commonwealth, to be a rate of duty.
Section 6C Duties of excise on new oil
Definitions
 (1) In this section:
"adjusted previous year&#39;s duty", in relation to a prescribed new production area in relation to a month of a financial year, means the amount of duty that, at the end of the financial year immediately preceding the financial year in which that month occurs, would have been payable in respect of new oil produced from that area and entered for home consumption during that preceding year if, for the prices that were, at the end of that preceding year, the applicable petroleum prices for all of the months of that preceding year, there had been substituted the prices that are, at the end of that first -mentioned month, the respective applicable petroleum prices for all of those months.
"non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty", in relation to a prescribed new production area in relation to a month of a financial year, means the amount of duty that, at the end of the financial year immediately preceding the financial year in which that month occurs, would have been payable in respect of new oil produced from that area and entered for home consumption during that preceding year if, for the prices that were, at the end of that preceding year, the applicable petroleum prices for all of the months of that preceding year, there had been substituted the prices that were, immediately before the commencement of that first -mentioned month, the respective applicable petroleum prices for all of those months.
"prescribed new production area" means a new petroleum production area prescribed by by-laws (which, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, may be a relevant accumulation, a well, an oilfield or a gas field).
Introduction
 (2) The amount of duty in respect of new oil ascertained in accordance with this section shall be ascertained by reference to the prescribed new production area from which the oil is produced and to the month of a financial year during which the oil is entered for home consumption.
The amount of duty
 (3) Subject to subsection  (3A), the amount of duty in respect of new oil produced from a prescribed new production area and entered for home consumption during a month of a financial year commencing on or after 1  July 2001 is the amount worked out using the formula:
where:
"notional duty" is the amount of notional duty in respect of new oil produced from that area and entered for home consumption during the period starting at the start of that financial year and ending at the end of that month, worked out in accordance with subsection  (4).
"debited adjustment amount" is the debited adjustment amount (if any) for that area and that month, worked out in accordance with subsection  (5A).
"duty paid" is the amount of duty (if any) paid in respect of new oil produced from that area and entered for home consumption during the period starting at the start of that financial year and ending at the end of that month.
"credited adjustment amount" is the credited adjustment amount (if any) for that area and that month, worked out in accordance with subsection  (5B).
Disregarding certain amounts when working out amount of duty
 (3A) In working out, for the purposes of subsection  (3), the amount of duty paid in respect of new oil produced from a prescribed new production area and entered for home consumption during a period starting at the start of a financial year and ending at the end of a month of that year, the following amounts are to be disregarded:
 (a) any increases in the amount of duty paid as a result of the addition of debited adjustment amounts for that area for any of the preceding months of that year;
 (b) any decreases in that amount as a result of the subtraction of credited adjustment amounts for that area for any of those months.
The total amount of notional duty
 (4) The amount of notional duty in respect of new oil produced from a particular prescribed new production area and entered for home consumption during a particular period is the sum of the amounts of notional duty in respect of:
 (a) the quantity (if any) of the oil that exceeds  but does not exceed ;
 (b) the quantity (if any) of the oil that exceeds  but does not exceed ;
 (c) the quantity (if any) of the oil that exceeds  but does not exceed ; and
 (d) the quantity (if any) of the oil that exceeds  ;
where:
"A" is the number of days in the period.
"B" is:
 (a) where the period in a year in which there are 365 days--136.98630 kilolitres; or
 (b) where the period is in a year in which there are 366 days--136.61202 kilolitres.
The amount of notional duty for a quantity of oil--one petroleum price
 (5) Subject to subsections  (6) and (9), the amount of notional duty in respect of a quantity of oil referred to in subsection (4) is an amount equal to the relevant percentage (set out in subsection  (7)) of the product of:
 (a) the amount specified in the price that is, at the end of the period referred to in subsection  (4) in relation to the quantity of oil, the applicable petroleum price for the month in which the period comes to an end; and
 (b) the number of kilolitres in that quantity;
calculated to the nearest cent.
The debited adjustment amount
 (5A) Where:
 (a) during a month of a financial year, a VOLWARE price for stabilised crude petroleum oil for a month of the immediately preceding financial year and a particular prescribed new production area is determined under section  7 of the Petroleum Excise (Prices) Act 1987; and
 (b) the adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that prescribed new production area for that first -mentioned month is greater than the non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that area for that first-mentioned month;
there is a debited adjustment amount for that area for that first-mentioned month, being an amount equal to the difference between that adjusted previous year&#39;s duty and that non -adjusted previous year&#39;s duty.
The credited adjustment amount
 (5B) Where:
 (a) during a month of a financial year, a VOLWARE price for stabilised crude petroleum oil for a month of the immediately preceding financial year and a particular prescribed new production area is determined under section  7 of the Petroleum Excise (Prices) Act 1987; and
 (b) the adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that prescribed new production area for that first -mentioned month is less than the non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that area for that first-mentioned month;
there is a credited adjustment amount for that area for that first-mentioned month, being an amount equal to the difference between that non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty and that adjusted previous year&#39;s duty.
The amount of notional duty for a quantity of oil--more than one petroleum price
 (6) Where, at the end of a period in a financial year, the applicable petroleum prices for the months in which the period occurs and a particular prescribed new production area are not all the same, the amount of the notional duty in respect of a quantity of oil referred to in subsection  (4) produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during the period is an amount equal to the relevant percentage (set out in subsection (7)) of the sum of the amounts calculated in respect of each such applicable petroleum price in operation during the period in accordance with the formula:
where:
"P" is the amount specified in the applicable petroleum price.
"Q" is the number of kilolitres in the quantity of oil referred to in subsection (4).
"K" is the number of kilolitres of new oil produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during that part of the period during which the applicable petroleum price was in operation.
"KT" is the number of kilolitres of new oil produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during the period.
Relevant percentage for a quantity of oil
 (7) For the purposes of subsections  (5) and (6), the relevant percentage in relation to a quantity of oil referred to in subsection (4) is:
 (a) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  4(a) applies--10%; and
 (b) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  4(b) applies--15%; and
 (c) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  4(c) applies--20%; and
 (d) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  4(d) applies--30%.
Rounding the number of kilolitres in a quantity of oil
 (8) For the purposes of subsections  (5) and (6), the number of kilolitres in a quantity of oil shall be taken to be a number equal to:
 (a) unless paragraph (b) applies--the number of kilolitres in that quantity calculated to 1 decimal place; or
 (b) where the number of kilolitres in that quantity calculated to 2 decimal places ends in a number greater than 4--the number of kilolitres in that quantity calculated to 1 decimal place increased by 0.1.
The amount of notional duty--dealing with the first year of production
 (9) When no new oil produced from a particular prescribed new production area was ever entered for home consumption before the expiration of the first month of a particular financial year, then, in ascertaining, in accordance with subsections  (4), (5) and (7) or (4), (6) and (7), the notional duty in respect of new oil produced from the production area and entered for home consumption during a later month (in this subsection referred to as the relevant month ) of that financial year, those subsections have effect in relation to the new oil as if each reference in a paragraph of subsection (4) to B were a reference to the product of B and the factor ascertained in accordance with the formula:
where:
"M" is the number of days in the period commencing on the day on which new oil produced from the prescribed new production area was first entered for home consumption and ending on the expiration of the relevant month; and
"N" is the number of days in the period commencing on the first day of the financial year and ending on the expiration of the relevant month.
Interpretation of the Schedule
 (10) The words set out after &quot;, if higher,&quot; in the column headed &quot;Rate of Duty&quot; in subitem  20.5 of the Schedule shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Act or any other law of the Commonwealth, to be a rate of duty.
Section 6CA Duties of excise on condensate
Definitions
 (1) In this section:
"adjusted previous year&#39;s duty", in relation to a prescribed condensate production area in relation to a month of a financial year, means the amount of duty that, at the end of the financial year immediately preceding the financial year in which that month occurs, would have been payable in respect of condensate produced from that area and entered for home consumption during that preceding year if, for the prices that were, at the end of that preceding year, the applicable petroleum prices for all of the months of that preceding year, there had been substituted the prices that are, at the end of that first -mentioned month, the respective applicable petroleum prices for all of those months.
"non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty", in relation to a prescribed condensate production area in relation to a month of a financial year, means the amount of duty that, at the end of the financial year immediately preceding the financial year in which that month occurs, would have been payable in respect of condensate produced from that area and entered for home consumption during that preceding year if, for the prices that were, at the end of that preceding year, the applicable petroleum prices for all of the months of that preceding year, there had been substituted the prices that were, immediately before the commencement of that first -mentioned month, the respective applicable petroleum prices for all of those months.
"prescribed condensate production area" has the meaning given by subsection (1A).
 (1A) Prescribed condensate production area means any of the following:
 (a) a condensate production area prescribed by by -laws (which, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, may be a relevant accumulation, a well, an oilfield or a gas field);
 (b) the Rankin Trend (see subsection  (1B)).
Note: A by-law may be expressed to commence before the day it is registered under the Legislation Act 2003 (see subsection 12(1A) of that Act).
 (1B) The Rankin Trend means the area that includes the following:
 (a) the reservoirs, or groups of reservoirs, known as:
 (i) North Rankin; and
 (ii) Perseus; and
 (iii) Searipple; and
 (iv) Goodwyn; and
 (v) Keast/Dockrell; and
 (vi) Echo/Yodel;
 (b) other reservoirs, or groups of reservoirs, (if any) that are specified in the regulations made for the purposes of this paragraph.
 (1C) Before the Governor -General makes a regulation specifying a reservoir, or a group of reservoirs, for the purposes of paragraph (1B)(b):
 (a) the Resources Minister must be satisfied that the reservoir, or the group of reservoirs, is part of the same field as a reservoir or group of reservoirs mentioned in paragraph  (1B)(a); and
 (b) if the Resources Minister is so satisfied--the Resources Minister must consider the effect of specifying the reservoir, or the group of reservoirs, on the efficient exploitation of the resource related to the reservoir, or to the group of reservoirs.
 (1D) Subsection 12(2) (retrospective application of legislative instruments) of the Legislation Act 2003 does not apply to regulations specifying a reservoir, or a group of reservoirs, for the purposes of paragraph  (1B)(b) of this section.
 (1E) Subsection (1D) does not apply to regulations that create, modify or otherwise affect a provision that makes a person liable to an offence or civil penalty.
Introduction
 (2) The amount of duty in respect of condensate ascertained in accordance with this section is to be ascertained by reference to the prescribed condensate production area from which the condensate is produced and to the month of a financial year during which the condensate is entered for home consumption.
The amount of duty
 (3) Subject to subsection  (4), the amount of duty in respect of condensate produced from a prescribed condensate production area and entered for home consumption during a month of a financial year is the amount worked out using the formula:
where:
"credited adjustment amount" is the credited adjustment amount (if any) for that area and that month, worked out in accordance with subsection  (8).
"debited adjustment amount" is the debited adjustment amount (if any) for that area and that month, worked out in accordance with subsection  (7).
"duty paid" is the amount of duty (if any) paid in respect of condensate produced from that area and entered for home consumption during the period starting at the start of that financial year and ending at the end of that month.
"notional duty" is the amount of notional duty in respect of condensate produced from that area and entered for home consumption during the period starting at the start of that financial year and ending at the end of that month, worked out in accordance with subsection  (5).
Disregarding certain amounts when working out amount of duty
 (4) In working out, for the purposes of subsection  (3), the amount of duty paid in respect of condensate produced from a prescribed condensate production area and entered for home consumption during a period starting at the start of a financial year and ending at the end of a month of that year, the following amounts are to be disregarded:
 (a) any increases in the amount of duty paid as a result of the addition of debited adjustment amounts for that area for any of the preceding months of that year;
 (b) any decreases in that amount as a result of the subtraction of credited adjustment amounts for that area for any of those months.
The total amount of notional duty
 (5) The amount of notional duty in respect of condensate produced from a particular prescribed condensate production area and entered for home consumption during a particular period is the sum of the amounts of notional duty in respect of:
 (a) the quantity (if any) of the condensate that exceeds  but does not exceed ;
 (b) the quantity (if any) of the condensate that exceeds  but does not exceed ;
 (c) the quantity (if any) of the condensate that exceeds  but does not exceed ; and
 (d) the quantity (if any) of the condensate that exceeds  ;
where:
"A" is the number of days in the period.
"B" is:
 (a) where the period in a year in which there are 365 days--136.98630 kilolitres; or
 (b) where the period is in a year in which there are 366 days--136.61202 kilolitres.
The amount of notional duty for a quantity of condensate--one petroleum price
 (6) Subject to subsections  (9) and (12), the amount of notional duty in respect of a quantity of condensate referred to in subsection (5) is an amount equal to the relevant percentage (set out in subsection  (10)) of the product of:
 (a) the amount specified in the price that is, at the end of the period referred to in subsection  (5) in relation to the quantity of condensate, the applicable petroleum price for the month in which the period comes to an end; and
 (b) the number of kilolitres in that quantity;
calculated to the nearest cent.
The debited adjustment amount
 (7) If:
 (a) during a month of a financial year, a VOLWARE price for condensate for a month of the immediately preceding financial year and a particular prescribed condensate production area is determined under section  7 of the Petroleum Excise (Prices) Act 1987 ; and
 (b) the adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that prescribed condensate production area for that first -mentioned month is greater than the non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that area for that first-mentioned month;
there is a debited adjustment amount for that area for that first-mentioned month, being an amount equal to the difference between that adjusted previous year&#39;s duty and that non -adjusted previous year&#39;s duty.
The credited adjustment amount
 (8) If:
 (a) during a month of a financial year, a VOLWARE price for condensate for a month of the immediately preceding financial year and a particular prescribed condensate production area is determined under section  7 of the Petroleum Excise (Prices) Act 1987 ; and
 (b) the adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that prescribed condensate production area for that first -mentioned month is less than the non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that area for that first -mentioned month;
there is a credited adjustment amount for that area for that first-mentioned month, being an amount equal to the difference between that non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty and that adjusted previous year&#39;s duty.
The amount of notional duty for a quantity of condensate--more than one petroleum price
 (9) If, at the end of a period in a financial year, the applicable petroleum prices for the months in which the period occurs and a particular prescribed condensate production area are not all the same, the amount of the notional duty in respect of a quantity of condensate referred to in subsection  (5) produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during the period is an amount equal to the relevant percentage (set out in subsection (10)) of the sum of the amounts calculated in respect of each such applicable petroleum price in operation during the period in accordance with the formula:
where:
"K" is the number of kilolitres of condensate produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during that part of the period during which the applicable petroleum price was in operation.
"KT" is the number of kilolitres of condensate produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during the period.
"P" is the amount specified in the applicable petroleum price.
"Q" is the number of kilolitres in the quantity of condensate referred to in subsection (5).
Relevant percentage for a quantity of condensate
 (10) For the purposes of subsections  (6) and (9), the relevant percentage in relation to a quantity of condensate referred to in subsection (5) is:
 (a) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  (5)(a) applies--10%; and
 (b) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  (5)(b) applies--15%; and
 (c) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  (5)(c) applies--20%; and
 (d) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  (5)(d) applies--30%.
Rounding the number of kilolitres in a quantity of condensate
 (11) For the purposes of subsections  (6) and (9), the number of kilolitres in a quantity of condensate is taken to be a number equal to:
 (a) unless paragraph (b) applies--the number of kilolitres in that quantity calculated to one decimal place; or
 (b) if the number of kilolitres in that quantity calculated to 2 decimal places ends in a number greater than 4--the number of kilolitres in that quantity calculated to one decimal place increased by 0.1.
The amount of notional duty--dealing with the first year of production
 (12) When no condensate produced from a particular prescribed condensate production area was ever entered for home consumption before the end of the first month of a particular financial year, then, in ascertaining, in accordance with subsections  (5), (6) and (10) or (5), (9) and (10), the notional duty in respect of condensate produced from the production area and entered for home consumption during a later month (the relevant month) of that financial year, those subsections have effect in relation to the condensate as if each reference in a paragraph of subsection (5) to B were a reference to the product of B and the factor ascertained in accordance with the formula:
where:
"M" is the number of days in the period commencing on the day on which condensate produced from the prescribed condensate production area was first entered for home consumption and ending on the end of the relevant month.
"N" is the number of days in the period commencing on the first day of the financial year and ending on the end of the relevant month.
 (13) Subsection 12(2) (retrospective application of legislative instruments) of the Legislation Act 2003 does not apply to a by-law prescribing a condensate production area.
 (13A) Despite section  169 of the Excise Act 1901, a by-law prescribing a condensate production area may have the effect of imposing duty, in relation to condensate entered for home consumption before the date on which the by -law is published in the Gazette, at a rate higher than the rate of duty payable in respect of the condensate on the day on which the condensate was entered for home consumption.
Interpretation of the Schedule
 (14) The words set out after &quot;, if higher,&quot; in the column headed &quot;Rate of Duty&quot; in subitem  21.3 of the Schedule are taken, for the purposes of this Act or any other law of the Commonwealth, to be a rate of duty.
Section 6D Duties of excise on intermediate oil
Definitions
 (1) In this section:
"adjusted previous year&#39;s duty", in relation to a prescribed intermediate production area in relation to a month of a financial year, means the amount of duty that, at the end of the financial year immediately preceding the financial year in which that month occurs, would have been payable in respect of intermediate oil produced from that area and entered for home consumption during that preceding year if, for the prices that were, at the end of that preceding year, the applicable petroleum prices for all of the months of that preceding year, there had been substituted the prices that are, at the end of that first -mentioned month, the respective applicable petroleum prices for all of those months.
"non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty", in relation to a prescribed intermediate production area in relation to a month of a financial year, means the amount of duty that, at the end of the financial year immediately preceding the financial year in which that month occurs, would have been payable in respect of intermediate oil produced from that area and entered for home consumption during that preceding year if, for the prices that were, at the end of that preceding year, the applicable petroleum prices for all of the months of that preceding year, there had been substituted the prices that were, immediately before the commencement of that first -mentioned month, the respective applicable petroleum prices for all of those months.
"prescribed intermediate production area" means an intermediate petroleum production area prescribed by by-laws (which, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, may be a relevant accumulation, a well, an oilfield or a gas field).
Introduction
 (2) The amount of duty in respect of intermediate oil ascertained in accordance with this section shall be ascertained by reference to the prescribed intermediate production area from which the oil is produced and to the month of a financial year during which the oil is entered for home consumption.
The amount of duty
 (3) Subject to subsection  (3A), the amount of duty in respect of intermediate oil produced from a prescribed intermediate production area and entered for home consumption during a month of a financial year commencing on or after 1  July 1997 is the amount worked out using the formula:
where:
"notional duty" is the amount of notional duty in respect of intermediate oil produced from that area and entered for home consumption during the period starting at the start of that financial year and ending at the end of that month, worked out in accordance with subsection  (4).
"debited adjustment amount" is the debited adjustment amount (if any) for that area and that month, worked out in accordance with subsection  (5A).
"duty paid" is the amount of duty (if any) paid in respect of intermediate oil produced from that area and entered for home consumption during the period starting at the start of that financial year and ending at the end of that month.
"credited adjustment amount" is the credited adjustment amount (if any) for that area and that month, worked out in accordance with subsection  (5B).
Disregarding certain amounts when working out amount of duty
 (3A) In working out, for the purposes of subsection  (3), the amount of duty paid in respect of intermediate oil produced from a prescribed intermediate production area and entered for home consumption during a period starting at the start of a financial year and ending at the end of a month of that year, the following amounts are to be disregarded:
 (a) any increases in the amount of duty paid as a result of the addition of debited adjustment amounts for that area for any of the preceding months of that year;
 (b) any decreases in that amount as a result of the subtraction of credited adjustment amounts for that area for any of those months.
The total amount of notional duty
 (4) The amount of notional duty in respect of intermediate oil produced from a particular prescribed intermediate production area and entered for home consumption during a particular period is the sum of the amounts of notional duty in respect of:
 (a) the quantity (if any) of the oil that exceeds  but does not exceed ;
 (b) the quantity (if any) of the oil that exceeds  but does not exceed ;
 (c) the quantity (if any) of the oil that exceeds  but does not exceed ; and
 (d) the quantity (if any) of the oil that exceeds  ;
where:
"A" is the number of days in the period.
"B" is:
 (a) where the period is in a year in which there are 365 days--136.98630 kilolitres; or
 (b) where the period is in a year in which there are 366 days--136.61202 kilolitres.
The amount of notional duty for a quantity of oil--one petroleum price
 (5) Subject to subsections  (6) and (9), the amount of notional duty in respect of a quantity of oil referred to in subsection (4) is an amount equal to the relevant percentage (set out in subsection  (7)) of the product of:
 (a) the amount specified in the price that is, at the end of the period referred to in subsection  (4) in relation to the quantity of oil, the applicable petroleum price for the month in which the period comes to an end; and
 (b) the number of kilolitres in that quantity;
calculated to the nearest cent.
The debited adjustment amount
 (5A) Where:
 (a) during a month of a financial year, a VOLWARE price for stabilized crude petroleum oil for a month of the immediately preceding financial year and a particular prescribed intermediate production area is determined under section  7 of the Petroleum Excise (Prices) Act 1987; and
 (b) the adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that prescribed intermediate production area for that first -mentioned month is greater than the non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that area for that first -mentioned month;
there is a debited adjustment amount for that area for that first-mentioned month, being an amount equal to the difference between that adjusted previous year&#39;s duty and that non -adjusted previous year&#39;s duty.
The credited adjustment amount
 (5B) Where:
 (a) during a month of a financial year, a VOLWARE price for stabilized crude petroleum oil for a month of the immediately preceding financial year and a particular prescribed intermediate production area is determined under section  7 of the Petroleum Excise (Prices) Act 1987; and
 (b) the adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that prescribed intermediate production area for that first -mentioned month is less than the non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty for that area for that first -mentioned month;
there is a credited adjustment amount for that area for that first-mentioned month, being an amount equal to the difference between that non-adjusted previous year&#39;s duty and that adjusted previous year&#39;s duty.
The amount of notional duty for a quantity of oil--more than one petroleum price
 (6) Where, at the end of a period in a financial year, the applicable petroleum prices for the months in which the period occurs and a prescribed intermediate production area are not all the same, the amount of the notional duty in respect of a quantity of oil referred to in subsection  (4) produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during the period is an amount equal to the relevant percentage (set out in subsection (7)) of the sum of the amounts calculated in respect of each such applicable petroleum price in operation during the period in accordance with the formula:
where:
"P" is the amount specified in the applicable petroleum price.
"Q" is the number of kilolitres in the quantity of oil referred to in subsection (4).
"K" is the number of kilolitres of intermediate oil produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during that part of the period during which the applicable petroleum price was in operation.
"KT" is the number of kilolitres of intermediate oil produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during the period.
Relevant percentage for a quantity of oil
 (7) For the purposes of subsections  (5) and (6), the relevant percentage in relation to a quantity of oil referred to in subsection (4) is:
 (a) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  (4)(a) applies--15%;
 (b) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  (4)(b) applies--30%;
 (c) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  (4)(c) applies--50%; and
 (d) in the case of a quantity to which paragraph  (4)(d) applies--55%.
Rounding the number of kilolitres in a quantity of oil
 (8) For the purposes of subsections  (5) and (6), the number of kilolitres in a quantity of oil shall be taken to be a number equal to:
 (a) unless paragraph (b) applies--the number of kilolitres in that quantity calculated to 1 decimal place; or
 (b) where the number of kilolitres in that quantity calculated to 2 decimal places ends in a number greater than 4--the number of kilolitres in that quantity calculated to 1 decimal place increased by 0.1.
The amount of notional duty--dealing with the first year of production
 (9) Where no intermediate oil produced from a particular prescribed intermediate production area was ever entered for home consumption before the expiration of the first month of a particular financial year, then, in ascertaining, in accordance with subsections  (4), (5) and (7) or (4), (6) and (7), the notional duty in respect of intermediate oil produced from that production area and entered for home consumption during a later month (in this subsection referred to as the relevant month) of that financial year, those subsections have effect in relation to the intermediate oil as if each reference in a paragraph of subsection (4) to B were a reference to the product of B and the factor ascertained in accordance with the formula:
where:
"R" is the number of days in the period commencing on the day on which intermediate oil produced from the prescribed intermediate production area was first entered for home consumption and ending on the expiration of the relevant month; and
"S" is the number of days in the period commencing on the first day of the financial year and ending on the expiration of the relevant month.
Interpretation of the Schedule
 (10) The words set out after &quot;, if higher,&quot; in the column headed &quot;Rate of Duty&quot; in subitem  20.6 of the Schedule shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Act or any other law of the Commonwealth, to be a rate of duty.
Section 6E Delayed - entry oil rate
 (1) In this section:
"applicable petroleum price" has the same meaning as it has for the purposes of section 6AB.
 (2) For the purposes of this Act, the delayed -entry oil rate that applies to delayed-entry oil from a particular prescribed source is the amount per kilolitre ascertained in accordance with the formula:
where:
"T" is the applicable petroleum price in relation to the month in which the operative day for that delayed-entry oil occurs and to the production area constituting that prescribed source if the oil had continued to be covered by section  6B, 6C, 6CA or 6D, whichever is applicable, on and after the operative day.
"U" is the number of dollars, calculated to 2 decimal places, in the amount of the duties of Excise paid in respect of the crude petroleum oil produced from that source that was entered for home consumption during the pre -operative year for that source.
"W" is:
 (a) if the applicable petroleum price was the same in relation to all months of the pre -operative year and to the production area that is the prescribed source from which the oil was produced--the product of the number of kilolitres of the stabilised crude petroleum oil produced from that source that was entered for home consumption during that pre -operative year and the number of dollars, calculated to 2 decimal places, in the amount specified in the applicable petroleum price; or
 (b) if the applicable petroleum price was not the same in relation to all months of the pre -operative year and to that production area--the number ascertained by:
 (i) working out, in respect of each applicable petroleum price in operation in relation to a month or months of that pre -operative year and to that production area, the product of the number of dollars, calculated to 2 decimal places, in the amount specified in the applicable petroleum price and the number of kilolitres of the crude petroleum oil produced from that prescribed source that was entered for home consumption during that month or those months; and
 (ii) adding the products calculated under subparagraph  (i).
Section 6FAA Change in duty rate of certain liquefied petroleum gases, liquefied natural gases and compressed natural gases
 (1) This Act has effect as if, on 1  July 2015:
 (a) the rate of duty in subitem  10.19A of the Schedule is replaced by:
 (i) $0.126 per litre; or
 (ii) if the indexed rate worked out under subsection  (2) is greater than $0.126 per litre--that indexed rate; and
 (b) the rate of duty in subitem  10.19B of the Schedule is replaced by:
 (i) $0.2644 per kilogram; or
 (ii) if the indexed rate worked out under subsection  (2) is greater than $0.2644 per kilogram--that indexed rate; and
 (c) the rate of duty in subitem  10.19C of the Schedule is replaced by:
 (i) $0.2644 per kilogram; or
 (ii) if the indexed rate worked out under subsection  (2) is greater than $0.2644 per kilogram--that indexed rate.
 (2) To work out the indexed rate, index the rate mentioned in paragraph  (1)(a), (b) or (c) (as applicable) on 1 February 2015 under section 6A, on the assumptions that:
 (a) the rate is a CPI indexed rate for the purposes of that section; and
 (b) the amount of that rate on the day before 1  February 2015 is the amount set out in subparagraph (1)(a)(i), (b)(i) or (c)(i) (as applicable).
Section 6G Duty payable on certain fuel blended goods
 (1) Work out the duty payable under this Act on goods (the blended goods) that are classified to subitem 10.7, 10.12 or 10.30 of the Schedule as follows:
Method statementStep 1. Add up the amount of duty that would, at the time the duty on the blended goods is payable, be payable on each constituent of the blended goods, that is classified to item  10 of the Schedule, if the constituent had not been included in the blended goods.Step 2. Work out the volume, in litres, of the blended goods that is not attributable to those constituents or to water added to manufacture the blended goods.Step 3. Multiply the result of step 2 by $0.386.Note: The rate set out in this step is indexed under section  6A.Step 4. Total the results of steps 1 and 3.Step 5. Subtract from the total any duty paid on a constituent of the blended goods that is classified to item  10 or 15 of the Schedule.
 (2) If a constituent of the blended goods was imported, assume for the purposes of subsection  (1) that:
 (a) the constituent was manufactured in Australia when it was imported; and
 (b) if customs duty was paid on the constituent, there was a payment of excise duty equal to the lesser of the following amounts (or either of them if they are equal):
 (i) the amount of excise duty that would have been payable on the constituent had it been manufactured in Australia when it was imported;
 (ii) the amount of the customs duty paid.
Section 6H Rate of duty payable on denatured ethanol
 (1) For the purposes of subitem  10.20 of the Schedule, the rate of duty is the following rate rounded to 3 decimal places (rounding up if the next decimal place is 5 or more):
Rate for denatured ethanol for use as fuel in an internal combustion engineItemFor the financial year starting on:the rate is the rate per litre equal to this percentage of the rate in subitem 10.5 of the Schedule:11 July 20150%21 July 20166.554%31 July 201713.108%41 July 201819.662%51 July 201926.216%61 July 2020 or a later 1 July32.770%
Note: The rate in subitem 10.5 of the Schedule is the rate for gasoline (other than for use as fuel in aircraft). That rate is indexed under section  6A.
 (2) A rate of duty worked out using a table item in subsection  (1) applies to goods manufactured or produced in Australia during a financial year referred to in that item, and goods for which all the following conditions are met:
 (a) the goods were manufactured or produced in Australia before a financial year referred to in that item;
 (b) at the start of that financial year, the goods were either:
 (i) subject to the CEO&#39;s control; or
 (ii) in the stock, custody or possession of, or belonged to, a manufacturer or producer of the goods;
 (c) no duty of excise had been paid on the goods before that financial year.
This subsection has effect despite subsection 5(2).
Section 6J Rate of duty payable on biodiesel
Rate of duty
 (1) For the purposes of subitem  10.21 of the Schedule, the rate of duty is the following rate rounded to 3 decimal places (rounding up if the next decimal place is 5 or more):
Rate for biodieselItemFor the financial year starting on:the rate is the rate per litre equal to this percentage of the rate in subitem 10.10 of the Schedule:11 July 20150%21 July 20163.333%31 July 20176.667%41 July 201810%51 July 201913.333%61 July 202016.667%71 July 202120%81 July 202223.333%91 July 202326.667%101 July 202430%111 July 202533.333%Rate for biodieselItemFor the financial year starting on:the rate is the rate per litre equal to this percentage of the rate in subitem 10.10 of the Schedule:11 July 20150%21 July 20163.333%31 July 20176.667%41 July 201810%51 July 201913.333%61 July 202016.667%71 July 202120%81 July 202223.333%91 July 202326.667%101 July 202430%111 July 202533.333%121 July 202636.667%131 July 202740%141 July 202843.333%151 July 202946.667%161 July 2030 or a later 1 July50%
Note: The rate in subitem 10.10 of the Schedule is the rate for diesel. That rate is indexed under section  6A.
 (2) A rate of duty worked out using a table item in subsection  (1) applies to goods manufactured or produced in Australia during a financial year referred to in that item, and goods for which all the following conditions are met:
 (a) the goods were manufactured or produced in Australia before a financial year referred to in that item;
 (b) at the start of that financial year, the goods were either:
 (i) subject to the CEO&#39;s control; or
 (ii) in the stock, custody or possession of, or belonged to, a manufacturer or producer of the goods;
 (c) no duty of excise had been paid on the goods before that financial year.
This subsection has effect despite subsection 5(2).
Section 6K Temporary reduction--CPI indexed fuel rates
Temporary rate reduction
 (1) Despite any other provision of this Act, each CPI indexed fuel rate is, during a rate reduction period, a rate equal to 50% of the rate that it would have been during that period apart from this section (including because of the operation of section  6A).
Note: For CPI indexed fuel rate and rate reduction period, see subsection (8).
 (2) An amount worked out under subsection  (1) is to be rounded to 3 decimal places (rounding up if the next decimal place is 5 or more).
 (3) A CPI indexed fuel rate that applies under subsection  (1) during a rate reduction period applies to:
 (a) goods manufactured or produced in Australia during that period; and
 (b) goods manufactured or produced in Australia before the start of that period if:
 (i) at the start of the period, the goods were either subject to the CEO&#39;s control, or were in the stock, custody or possession of, or belonged to, a manufacturer or producer of the goods; and
 (ii) no duty of excise had been paid on the goods before the start of the period.
 (4) Subsection (3) has effect despite subsection  5(2).
Restoration of rates
 (5) This Act has effect as if, on 29  September 2022, each CPI indexed fuel rate is a rate equal to the rate that it would have been on the August adjustment day apart from subsection (1) (including because of the operation of section  6A).
Note 1: For August adjustment day, see subsection  (8).
Note 2: A rate that applies under this subsection is subject to later indexation under section  6A.
 (6) A CPI indexed fuel rate that applies under subsection  (5) applies to:
 (a) goods manufactured or produced in Australia on or after 29  September 2022; and
 (b) goods manufactured or produced in Australia before 29  September 2022 if:
 (i) on 29 September 2022, the goods were either subject to the CEO&#39;s control, or were in the stock, custody or possession of, or belonged to, a manufacturer or producer of the goods; and
 (ii) no duty of excise had been paid on the goods before 29  September 2022.
 (7) Subsection (6) has effect despite subsection  5(2).
Definitions
 (8) In this section:
"August adjustment day" means the following:
 (a) 1 August 2022, unless paragraph  (b) applies;
 (b) if, in relation to the indexation day that is 1  August 2022, the replacement under section 6A of a rate of duty happens on another day in accordance with subsection 6A(5)--that other day.
"CPI indexed fuel rate" means a rate covered by paragraph (b) or (c) of the definition of CPI indexed rate in subsection 6A(10).
"rate reduction period": each of the following is a rate reduction period:
 (a) the period beginning on 30  March 2022 and ending at the end of the day before the August adjustment day;
 (b) the period beginning on the August adjustment day and ending at the end of 28  September 2022.
Section 7 Regulations
  The Governor-General may make regulations prescribing matters required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed.
EXCISE TARIFF ACT 1921
- SCHEDULE
Note 1: See section 5.
 Note 2: Sections 6A and 6AA effectively change certain rates of duty that appear on the face of this Schedule, especially in items  1, 2, 3, 5 and 10.
"beer" means a brewed beverage that:
 (a) is the product of the yeast fermentation of an aqueous extract, being predominantly an aqueous extract of cereals:
 (i) whether the cereals are malted or unmalted; and
 (ii) whether or not the aqueous extract contains other sources of carbohydrates; and
 (b) contains:
 (i) hops, or extracts of hops, such that the beverage has international bitterness units of not less than 4.0; or
 (ii) other bitters such that the beverage has a bitterness comparable to that of a beverage mentioned in subparagraph  (i); and
 (c) contains not more than 4.0% by weight of sugars; and
 (d) has not had added to it, at any time, artificial sweetener; and
 (e) may have had added to it, at any time, other substances, including flavours, but only if, in the case of substances that contain alcohol (other than spirit distilled from beer), the alcohol did not add more than 0.5% to the total volume of the final beverage; and
 (f) may have had added to it, at any time, spirit distilled from beer, but only if that spirit did not add more than 0.5% to the total volume of the final beverage; and
 (g) contains more than 1.15% by volume of alcohol.
"brandy" means a spirit distilled from grape wine in such a manner that the spirit possesses the taste, aroma and other characteristics generally attributed to brandy.
"grape wine" has the same meaning as in Subdivision 31-A of the A New Tax System (Wine Equalisation Tax) Act 1999 .
"lubricant/fluid/oil products" means the following:
 (a) lubricant base oils;
 (b) prepared lubricant additives containing carrier oils;
 (c) lubricants for engines, gear sets, pumps and bearings;
 (d) hydraulic fluids;
 (e) brake fluids;
 (f) transmission oils;
 (g) transformer and heat transfer oils.
"other excisable beverage" means any beverage containing more than 1.15% alcohol by volume, but does not include:
 (a) beer; or
 (b) brandy; or
 (c) wine.
"sugar" means:
 (a) monosaccharide; or
 (b) disaccharide.
"tobacco" means tobacco leaf subjected to any process other than curing the leaf as stripped from the plant.
"wine" has the same meaning as in Subdivision 31-A of the A New Tax System (Wine Equalisation Tax) Act 1999 .
Items 1 to 3 of this Schedule do not include any liquor that has been produced for non-commercial purposes, using non-commercial facilities and equipment, other than a liquor that is, or that contains, any spirit obtained by distillation.
A reference to alcohol is taken to be a reference to ethyl alcohol.
  The volume of alcohol contained in goods:
 (a) is to be taken to be the volume that would be the volume of that alcohol if the alcohol were measured at a temperature of 20 degrees Celsius; and
 (b) if a calculation for the purpose of ascertaining that volume is made by reference to the specific gravity of alcohol--is to be so made on the basis that, at a temperature of 20 degrees Celsius and in vacuum, the specific gravity of alcohol in relation to water is 0.79067; and
 (c) subject to the requirements of paragraphs  (a) and (b)--may be ascertained in accordance with the rules (if any) made for that purpose under section 65 of the Excise Act 1901 ; and
 (d) if the circumstances set out in section  77FA of the Excise Act 1901 apply and for the purposes of working out the duty payable on the goods--is to be ascertained in accordance with that last -mentioned section.
Excise duties (subject to section 6A and 6AA)ItemSubitemDescription of goodsRate of Duty1 Beer  1.1Beer not exceeding 3% by volume of alcohol packaged in:(a) an individual container of less than 8 litres; or(b) an individual container:(i) of at least 8 litres but not exceeding 48 litres; and(ii) not designed to connect to a pressurised gas delivery system, pump delivery system or other system prescribed by the regulations$31.73 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15 1.2Beer not exceeding 3% by volume of alcohol packaged in:(a) an individual container exceeding 48 litres; or(b) an individual container:(i) of at least 8 litres but not exceeding 48 litres; and(ii) designed to connect to a pressurised gas delivery system, pump delivery system or other system prescribed by the regulations$6.33 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15 1.5Beer exceeding 3% but not exceeding 3.5% by volume of alcohol packaged in:(a) an individual container of less than 8 litres; or(b) an individual container:(i) of at least 8 litres but not exceeding 48 litres; and(ii) not designed to connect to a pressurised gas delivery system, pump delivery system or other system prescribed by the regulations$36.98 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15 1.6Beer exceeding 3% but not exceeding 3.5% by volume of alcohol packaged in:(a) an individual container exceeding 48 litres; or(b) an individual container:(i) of at least 8 litres but not exceeding 48 litres; and(ii) designed to connect to a pressurised gas delivery system, pump delivery system or other system prescribed by the regulations$19.89 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15  Excise duties (subject to section 6A and 6AA)ItemSubitemDescription of goodsRate of Duty1 Beer  1.1Beer not exceeding 3% by volume of alcohol packaged in:(a) an individual container of less than 8 litres; or(b) an individual container:(i) of at least 8 litres but not exceeding 48 litres; and(ii) not designed to connect to a pressurised gas delivery system, pump delivery system or other system prescribed by the regulations$31.73 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15 1.2Beer not exceeding 3% by volume of alcohol packaged in:(a) an individual container exceeding 48 litres; or(b) an individual container:(i) of at least 8 litres but not exceeding 48 litres; and(ii) designed to connect to a pressurised gas delivery system, pump delivery system or other system prescribed by the regulations$6.33 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15 1.5Beer exceeding 3% but not exceeding 3.5% by volume of alcohol packaged in:(a) an individual container of less than 8 litres; or(b) an individual container:(i) of at least 8 litres but not exceeding 48 litres; and(ii) not designed to connect to a pressurised gas delivery system, pump delivery system or other system prescribed by the regulations$36.98 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15 1.6Beer exceeding 3% but not exceeding 3.5% by volume of alcohol packaged in:(a) an individual container exceeding 48 litres; or(b) an individual container:(i) of at least 8 litres but not exceeding 48 litres; and(ii) designed to connect to a pressurised gas delivery system, pump delivery system or other system prescribed by the regulations$19.89 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15  1.10Beer exceeding 3.5% by volume of alcohol packaged in:(a) an individual container of less than 8 litres; or(b) an individual container:(i) of at least 8 litres but not exceeding 48 litres; and(ii) not designed to connect to a pressurised gas delivery system, pump delivery system or other system prescribed by the regulations$36.98 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15 1.11Beer exceeding 3.5% by volume of alcohol packaged in:(a) an individual container exceeding 48 litres; or(b) an individual container:(i) of at least 8 litres but not exceeding 48 litres; and(ii) designed to connect to a pressurised gas delivery system, pump delivery system or other system prescribed by the regulations$26.03 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15 1.15Beer not exceeding 3% by volume of alcohol produced for non-commercial purposes using commercial facilities or equipment$2.22 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15 1.16Beer exceeding 3% by volume of alcohol produced for non-commercial purposes using commercial facilities or equipment$2.58 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.152 Other excisable beverages not exceeding 10% by volume of alcohol$66.67 per litre of alcohol3 Spirits; Other excisable beverages exceeding 10% by volume of alcohol  3.1Brandy$58.48 per litre of alcohol 3.2Other excisable beverages exceeding 10% by volume of alcohol$62.64 per litre of alcohol1.10Beer exceeding 3.5% by volume of alcohol packaged in:(a) an individual container of less than 8 litres; or(b) an individual container:(i) of at least 8 litres but not exceeding 48 litres; and(ii) not designed to connect to a pressurised gas delivery system, pump delivery system or other system prescribed by the regulations$36.98 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15 1.11Beer exceeding 3.5% by volume of alcohol packaged in:(a) an individual container exceeding 48 litres; or(b) an individual container:(i) of at least 8 litres but not exceeding 48 litres; and(ii) designed to connect to a pressurised gas delivery system, pump delivery system or other system prescribed by the regulations$26.03 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15 1.15Beer not exceeding 3% by volume of alcohol produced for non-commercial purposes using commercial facilities or equipment$2.22 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.15 1.16Beer exceeding 3% by volume of alcohol produced for non-commercial purposes using commercial facilities or equipment$2.58 per litre of alcohol calculated on that alcohol content by which the percentage by volume of alcohol of the goods exceeds 1.152 Other excisable beverages not exceeding 10% by volume of alcohol$66.67 per litre of alcohol3 Spirits; Other excisable beverages exceeding 10% by volume of alcohol  3.1Brandy$58.48 per litre of alcohol 3.2Other excisable beverages exceeding 10% by volume of alcohol$62.64 per litre of alcohol  3.5Spirit that:(a) a person has an approval, under section 77FD of the Excise Act 1901, to use for fortifying Australian wine or Australian grape must; and(b) is otherwise covered by the approvalFree 3.6Spirit that:(a) is for use by a person who is included in a class of persons determined under section 77FE of the Excise Act 1901; and(b) if a quantity is specified in a determination under that section in relation to the person--does not exceed that quantity; and(c) is for an industrial, manufacturing, scientific, medical, veterinary or educational purposeFree 3.7Spirit that:(a) a person has an approval, under section 77FF of the Excise Act 1901, to use for an industrial, manufacturing, scientific, medical, veterinary or educational purpose; and(b) is otherwise covered by the approvalFree 3.8Spirit denatured according to a formula determined under section 77FG of the Excise Act 1901, other than spirit for use as fuel in an internal combustion engineFree 3.10Spirits not elsewhere included$62.64 per litre of alcohol5 Tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and snuff  5.1In stick form not exceeding in weight 0.8 grams per stick actual tobacco content$0.40197 per stick  5.5Either:(a) not in stick form; or        (b) in stick form exceeding in weight 0.8 grams per stick actual tobacco contentApplicable rate (see section 6AAB) per kilogram of tobacco content 5.8Blended tobacco goodsThe amount of duty worked out under section 6AAC 10 Goods as follows:(a) petroleum condensate and stabilised crude petroleum oil for use otherwise than:(i) in the recovery, production, pipeline transportation or refining of petroleum condensate or stabilised crude petroleum oil; or(ii) as feedstock at a factory covered by a licence granted under Part IV of the Excise Act 1901;(b) topped crude petroleum oil;(c) refined or semi-refined liquid products derived from petroleum, other than such products for use (other than in an internal combustion engine) in refining petroleum condensate or stabilised crude petroleum oil;(d) liquid hydrocarbon products derived through a recycling, manufacturing or other process;(da) liquefied petroleum gas;(db) liquefied natural gas;(dc) compressed natural gas;(e) denatured ethanol for use as fuel in an internal combustion engine;(f) biodiesel;(g) blends of 1 or more of the above goods (with or without other substances), other than blends covered by subsection 77H(1), (2A), (2B) or (3) of the Excise Act 1901;but not including the following:   (h) goods classified to item 15;(i) waxes and bitumen   (j) goods covered by section 77HA or 77HB of the Excise Act 1901  10.1Petroleum condensate$0.386 per litre 10.2Stabilised crude petroleum oil$0.386 per litre 10.3Applicable rate (see section 6AAB) per kilogram of tobacco content 5.8Blended tobacco goodsThe amount of duty worked out under section 6AAC 10 Goods as follows:(a) petroleum condensate and stabilised crude petroleum oil for use otherwise than:(i) in the recovery, production, pipeline transportation or refining of petroleum condensate or stabilised crude petroleum oil; or(ii) as feedstock at a factory covered by a licence granted under Part IV of the Excise Act 1901;(b) topped crude petroleum oil;(c) refined or semi-refined liquid products derived from petroleum, other than such products for use (other than in an internal combustion engine) in refining petroleum condensate or stabilised crude petroleum oil;(d) liquid hydrocarbon products derived through a recycling, manufacturing or other process;(da) liquefied petroleum gas;(db) liquefied natural gas;(dc) compressed natural gas;(e) denatured ethanol for use as fuel in an internal combustion engine;(f) biodiesel;(g) blends of 1 or more of the above goods (with or without other substances), other than blends covered by subsection 77H(1), (2A), (2B) or (3) of the Excise Act 1901;but not including the following:   (h) goods classified to item 15;(i) waxes and bitumen   (j) goods covered by section 77HA or 77HB of the Excise Act 1901  10.1Petroleum condensate$0.386 per litre 10.2Stabilised crude petroleum oil$0.386 per litre 10.3Topped crude petroleum oil$0.386 per litre 10.5Gasoline (other than for use as fuel in aircraft)$0.386 per litre 10.6Gasoline for use as fuel in aircraft$0.03556 per litre 10.7Blends of gasoline and ethanolThe amount of duty worked out under section 6G 10.10Diesel$0.386 per litre 10.12Blends of diesel and either biodiesel or ethanol, or bothThe amount of duty worked out under section 6G 10.15Heating oil$0.386 per litre 10.16Kerosene (other than for use as fuel in aircraft)$0.386 per litre 10.17Kerosene for use as fuel in aircraft$0.03556 per litre 10.18Fuel oil$0.386 per litreTopped crude petroleum oil$0.386 per litre 10.5Gasoline (other than for use as fuel in aircraft)$0.386 per litre 10.6Gasoline for use as fuel in aircraft$0.03556 per litre 10.7Blends of gasoline and ethanolThe amount of duty worked out under section 6G 10.10Diesel$0.386 per litre 10.12Blends of diesel and either biodiesel or ethanol, or bothThe amount of duty worked out under section 6G 10.15Heating oil$0.386 per litre 10.16Kerosene (other than for use as fuel in aircraft)$0.386 per litre 10.17Kerosene for use as fuel in aircraft$0.03556 per litre 10.18Fuel oil$0.386 per litre 10.19ALiquefied petroleum gas, other than liquefied petroleum gas exempted from excise duty by section 77HB of the Excise Act 1901$0.125 per litre 10.19BLiquefied natural gas, other than liquefied natural gas exempted from excise duty by section 77HB of the Excise Act 1901$0.2613 per kilogram 10.19CCompressed natural gas, other than compressed natural gas exempted from excise duty by section 77HA of the Excise Act 1901$0.2613 per kilogram 10.20Denatured ethanol for use as fuel in an internal combustion engineThe rate of duty worked out under section 6H 10.21BiodieselThe rate of duty worked out under section 6J 10.25Liquid aromatic hydrocarbons consisting principally of benzene, toluene or xylene or mixtures of them (other than goods covered by section 77J of the Excise Act 1901 )$0.386 per litre 10.26Mineral turpentine (other than goods covered by section 77J of the Excise Act 1901)$0.386 per litre 10.27White spirit (other than goods covered by section 77J of the Excise Act 1901)$0.386 per litre 10.28Petroleum products (other than blends) not elsewhere included (other than goods covered by section 77J of the  10.19ALiquefied petroleum gas, other than liquefied petroleum gas exempted from excise duty by section 77HB of the Excise Act 1901$0.125 per litre 10.19BLiquefied natural gas, other than liquefied natural gas exempted from excise duty by section 77HB of the Excise Act 1901$0.2613 per kilogram 10.19CCompressed natural gas, other than compressed natural gas exempted from excise duty by section 77HA of the Excise Act 1901$0.2613 per kilogram 10.20Denatured ethanol for use as fuel in an internal combustion engineThe rate of duty worked out under section 6H 10.21BiodieselThe rate of duty worked out under section 6J 10.25Liquid aromatic hydrocarbons consisting principally of benzene, toluene or xylene or mixtures of them (other than goods covered by section 77J of the Excise Act 1901 )$0.386 per litre 10.26Mineral turpentine (other than goods covered by section 77J of the Excise Act 1901)$0.386 per litre 10.27White spirit (other than goods covered by section 77J of the Excise Act 1901)$0.386 per litre 10.28Petroleum products (other than blends) not elsewhere included (other than goods covered by section 77J of the Excise Act 1901)$0.386 per litre 10.30Blends of 1 or more of the above goods (with or without other substances) not elsewhere included that can be used as fuel in an internal combustion engine (other than goods covered by section 77J of the Excise Act 1901)The amount of duty worked out under section 6G15 Goods as follows, other than:(a) diesel; and(b) blends of diesel and any other goods; and(c) goods for use as a fuel; and(d) goods ordinarily used as a fuel; and(e) exempt oils and hydraulic fluids; and(f) any other goods prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph  15.1Either:(a) petroleum-based oils that are lubricant/fluid/oil products; or(b) the synthetic equivalents of such oils;but not greases$0.142 per litre 15.2Either:(a) petroleum-based oils that are lubricant/fluid/oil products or greases; or(b) synthetic equivalents of such oils;recycled for use as oils that are lubricant/fluid/oil products but not recycled for use as greases$0.142 per litre 15.3Petroleum-based greases and their synthetic equivalents$0.142 per kilogram 15.4Either:(a) petroleum-based oils that are lubricant/fluid/oil products or greases; or(b) synthetic equivalents of such oils;recycled for use as greases$0.142 per kilogram 20 Stabilised crude petroleum oil, other than:(a) stabilised crude petroleum oil produced from a Resource Rent Tax area; and(b) exempt offshore oil; and(c) exempt onshore oil)$0.386 per litre 10.30Blends of 1 or more of the above goods (with or without other substances) not elsewhere included that can be used as fuel in an internal combustion engine (other than goods covered by section 77J of the Excise Act 1901)The amount of duty worked out under section 6G15 Goods as follows, other than:(a) diesel; and(b) blends of diesel and any other goods; and(c) goods for use as a fuel; and(d) goods ordinarily used as a fuel; and(e) exempt oils and hydraulic fluids; and(f) any other goods prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph  15.1Either:(a) petroleum-based oils that are lubricant/fluid/oil products; or(b) the synthetic equivalents of such oils;but not greases$0.142 per litre 15.2Either:(a) petroleum-based oils that are lubricant/fluid/oil products or greases; or(b) synthetic equivalents of such oils;recycled for use as oils that are lubricant/fluid/oil products but not recycled for use as greases$0.142 per litre 15.3Petroleum-based greases and their synthetic equivalents$0.142 per kilogram 15.4Either:(a) petroleum-based oils that are lubricant/fluid/oil products or greases; or(b) synthetic equivalents of such oils;recycled for use as greases$0.142 per kilogram 20 Stabilised crude petroleum oil, other than:(a) stabilised crude petroleum oil produced from a Resource Rent Tax area; and(b) exempt offshore oil; and(c) exempt onshore oil  20.1As prescribed by by-lawFree 20.2Delayed-entry oilThe delayed-entry oil rate that applies to the oil 20.5New oilFree, or, if higher, the amount of duty worked out under section 6C 20.6Intermediate oilFree, or, if higher, the amount of duty worked out under section 6D 20.7OtherFree, or, if higher, the amount of duty worked out under section 6B21 Condensate, other than:(a) condensate produced from a Resource Rent Tax area; and(b) condensate produced from a prescribed source; and(c) exempt offshore condensate; and(d) exempt onshore condensate  21.1As prescribed by by-lawFree  21.3OtherFree, or, if higher, the amount of duty worked out under section 6CA
EXCISE TARIFF ACT 1921
- NOTES
No. 26, 1921
Compilation No. 56
Compilation date: 1 July 2024
Includes amendments: Act No. 51, 2024
Registered: 4 July 2024
This compilation was rectified to take into account retrospective amendments made by Act No. 72, 2024. The original compilation is available in the replacement history on the Federal Register of Legislation.
About this compilation
This compilation
This is a compilation of the Excise Tariff Act 1921 that shows the text of the law as amended and in force on 1 July 2024 (the compilation date).
The notes at the end of this compilation (the endnotes) include information about amending laws and the amendment history of provisions of the compiled law.
Uncommenced amendments
The effect of uncommenced amendments is not shown in the text of the compiled law. Any uncommenced amendments affecting the law are accessible on the Register (www.legislation.gov.au). The details of amendments made up to, but not commenced at, the compilation date are underlined in the endnotes. For more information on any uncommenced amendments, see the Register for the compiled law.
Application, saving and transitional provisions for provisions and amendments
If the operation of a provision or amendment of the compiled law is affected by an application, saving or transitional provision that is not included in this compilation, details are included in the endnotes.
Editorial changes
For more information about any editorial changes made in this compilation, see the endnotes.
Modifications
If the compiled law is modified by another law, the compiled law operates as modified but the modification does not amend the text of the law. Accordingly, this compilation does not show the text of the compiled law as modified. For more information on any modifications, see the Register for the compiled law.
Self-repealing provisions
If a provision of the compiled law has been repealed in accordance with a provision of the law, details are included in the endnotes.
EXCISE TARIFF ACT 1921
- NOTES
 Endnotes
EXCISE TARIFF ACT 1921
- NOTES
 Endnote 1--About the endnotes
The endnotes provide information about this compilation and the compiled law.
The following endnotes are included in every compilation:
Endnote 1--About the endnotes
Endnote 2--Abbreviation key
Endnote 3--Legislation history
Endnote 4--Amendment history
Abbreviation key--Endnote 2
The abbreviation key sets out abbreviations that may be used in the endnotes.
Legislation history and amendment history--Endnotes 3 and 4
Amending laws are annotated in the legislation history and amendment history.
The legislation history in endnote 3 provides information about each law that has amended (or will amend) the compiled law. The information includes commencement details for amending laws and details of any application, saving or transitional provisions that are not included in this compilation.
The amendment history in endnote 4 provides information about amendments at the provision (generally section or equivalent) level. It also includes information about any provision of the compiled law that has been repealed in accordance with a provision of the law.
Editorial changes
The Legislation Act 2003 authorises First Parliamentary Counsel to make editorial and presentational changes to a compiled law in preparing a compilation of the law for registration. The changes must not change the effect of the law. Editorial changes take effect from the compilation registration date.
If the compilation includes editorial changes, the endnotes include a brief outline of the changes in general terms. Full details of any changes can be obtained from the Office of Parliamentary Counsel.
Misdescribed amendments
A misdescribed amendment is an amendment that does not accurately describe how an amendment is to be made. If, despite the misdescription, the amendment can be given effect as intended, then the misdescribed amendment can be incorporated through an editorial change made under section  15V of the Legislation Act 2003.
If a misdescribed amendment cannot be given effect as intended, the amendment is not incorporated and &quot;(md not incorp)&quot; is added to the amendment history.
EXCISE TARIFF ACT 1921
- NOTES
 Endnote 2--Abbreviation key
ad = added or insertedo = order(s)am = amendedOrd = Ordinanceamdt = amendmentorig = originalc = clause(s)par = paragraph(s)/subparagraph(s)C[x] = Compilation No. x/sub-subparagraph(s)Ch = Chapter(s)pres = presentdef = definition(s)prev = previousDict = Dictionary(prev ... ) = previouslydisallowed = disallowed by ParliamentPt = Part(s)Div = Division(s)r = regulation(s)/rule(s)ed = editorial changereloc = relocatedexp = expires/expired or ceases/ceased to haverenum = renumberedeffectrep = repealedF = Federal Register of Legislationrs = repealed and substitutedgaz = gazettes = section(s)/subsection(s)LA = Legislation Act 2003Sch = Schedule(s)LIA = Legislative Instruments Act 2003Sdiv = Subdivision(s)(md) = misdescribed amendment can be givenSLI = Select Legislative InstrumenteffectSR = Statutory Rules(md not incorp) = misdescribed amendmentad = added or insertedo = order(s)am = amendedOrd = Ordinanceamdt = amendmentorig = originalc = clause(s)par = paragraph(s)/subparagraph(s)C[x] = Compilation No. x/sub-subparagraph(s)Ch = Chapter(s)pres = presentdef = definition(s)prev = previousDict = Dictionary(prev ... ) = previouslydisallowed = disallowed by ParliamentPt = Part(s)Div = Division(s)r = regulation(s)/rule(s)ed = editorial changereloc = relocatedexp = expires/expired or ceases/ceased to haverenum = renumberedeffectrep = repealedF = Federal Register of Legislationrs = repealed and substitutedgaz = gazettes = section(s)/subsection(s)LA = Legislation Act 2003Sch = Schedule(s)LIA = Legislative Instruments Act 2003Sdiv = Subdivision(s)(md) = misdescribed amendment can be givenSLI = Select Legislative InstrumenteffectSR = Statutory Rules(md not incorp) = misdescribed amendmentSub-Ch = Sub-Chapter(s)cannot be given effectSubPt = Subpart(s)mod = modified/modificationunderlining = whole or part notNo. = Number(s)commenced or to be commenced
EXCISE TARIFF ACT 1921
- NOTES
 Endnote 3--Legislation history
ActNumber and yearAssentCommencementApplication, saving and transitional provisionsExcise Tariff 192126, 192116 Dec 192125 Mar 1920 Excise Tariff 192428, 192426 Sept 19241 Jan 1925s 4Excise Tariff 192628, 192621 July 192621 July 1926s 3 and 4Excise Tariff 19284, 192831 Mar 19289 am (Territory for the Seat of Government) 25 Nov 1927 (s 3)s 4 and 5as amended by    Statute Law Revision Act 195080, 195016 Dec 1950s 16 and First Sch: 31 Dec 1950 (s 2)s 16Excise Tariff 193320, 193321 Nov 19339 am (Territory for the Seat of Government) 26 Feb 1932 (s 3)s 4 and 5ActNumber and yearAssentCommencementApplication, saving and transitional provisionsExcise Tariff 192126, 192116 Dec 192125 Mar 1920 Excise Tariff 192428, 192426 Sept 19241 Jan 1925s 4Excise Tariff 192628, 192621 July 192621 July 1926s 3 and 4Excise Tariff 19284, 192831 Mar 19289 am (Territory for the Seat of Government) 25 Nov 1927 (s 3)s 4 and 5as amended by    Statute Law Revision Act 195080, 195016 Dec 1950s 16 and First Sch: 31 Dec 1950 (s 2)s 16Excise Tariff 193320, 193321 Nov 19339 am (Territory for the Seat of Government) 26 Feb 1932 (s 3)s 4 and 5as amended by    Statute Law Revision Act 195080, 195016 Dec 1950s 16 and First Sch: 31 Dec 1950 (s 2)s 16Excise Tariff (No. 2) 193321, 193321 Nov 19339 am (Territory for the Seat of Government) 5 Oct 1933 (s 3)s 4 and 5as amended by    Statute Law Revision Act 195080, 195016 Dec 1950s 16 and First Sch: 31 Dec 1950 (s 2)s 16Excise Tariff 193617, 193627 May 19369 am (Territory for the Seat of Government) 29 Nov 1935 (s 3)s 4-6as amended by    Statute Law Revision Act 195080, 195016 Dec 1950s 16 and First Sch: 31 Dec 1950 (s 2)s 16Excise Tariff 193824, 19385 July 19389 am (Territory for the Seat of Government) 1 Jan 1938 (s 3)s 4    Statute Law Revision Act 195080, 195016 Dec 1950s 16 and First Sch: 31 Dec 1950 (s 2)s 16Excise Tariff (No. 2) 193321, 193321 Nov 19339 am (Territory for the Seat of Government) 5 Oct 1933 (s 3)s 4 and 5as amended by    Statute Law Revision Act 195080, 195016 Dec 1950s 16 and First Sch: 31 Dec 1950 (s 2)s 16Excise Tariff 193617, 193627 May 19369 am (Territory for the Seat of Government) 29 Nov 1935 (s 3)s 4-6as amended by    Statute Law Revision Act 195080, 195016 Dec 1950s 16 and First Sch: 31 Dec 1950 (s 2)s 16Excise Tariff 193824, 19385 July 19389 am (Territory for the Seat of Government) 1 Jan 1938 (s 3)s 4 Excise Tariff (No. 2) 193870, 193810 Dec 19389 am (A.C.T.) 22 Sept 1938 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 193929, 193926 Sept 19399 am (A.C.T.) 5 May 1938 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 193954, 193915 Dec 19399 am (A.C.T.) 9 Sept 1939 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 3) 193965, 193915 Dec 19399 am (A.C.T.) 1 Dec 1939 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 19483, 194827 Apr 19489 am (A.C.T.) 15 Nov 1946 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 19484, 194827 Apr 19489 am (A.C.T.) 5 June 1947 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 3) 194814, 194827 Apr 19489 am (A.C.T.) 19 Feb 1948 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 4) 194893, 1948 Excise Tariff (No. 2) 193870, 193810 Dec 19389 am (A.C.T.) 22 Sept 1938 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 193929, 193926 Sept 19399 am (A.C.T.) 5 May 1938 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 193954, 193915 Dec 19399 am (A.C.T.) 9 Sept 1939 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 3) 193965, 193915 Dec 19399 am (A.C.T.) 1 Dec 1939 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 19483, 194827 Apr 19489 am (A.C.T.) 15 Nov 1946 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 19484, 194827 Apr 19489 am (A.C.T.) 5 June 1947 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 3) 194814, 194827 Apr 19489 am (A.C.T.) 19 Feb 1948 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 4) 194893, 194821 Dec 19489 am (A.C.T.) 9 Sept 1948 (s 3)s 4 and 5Excise Tariff 194977, 194928 Oct 19499 am (A.C.T.) 8 Sept 1949 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 194982, 194928 Oct 19491 Nov 1949 (s 4)s 5Excise Tariff 195061, 195014 Dec 19509 am (A.C.T.) 1 July 1950 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 195062, 195014 Dec 19509 am (A.C.T.) 6 Dec 1950 (s 3)s 4 and 5Statute Law Revision Act 195080, 195016 Dec 1950s 16, First and Second Sch: 31 Dec 1950 (s 2)s 16Excise Tariff 195283, 19526 Nov 19525 am (A.C.T.) 26 Sept 1952 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 195378, 195310 Dec 19535 am (A.C.T.) 25 Nov 1953 (s 3)21 Dec 19489 am (A.C.T.) 9 Sept 1948 (s 3)s 4 and 5Excise Tariff 194977, 194928 Oct 19499 am (A.C.T.) 8 Sept 1949 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 194982, 194928 Oct 19491 Nov 1949 (s 4)s 5Excise Tariff 195061, 195014 Dec 19509 am (A.C.T.) 1 July 1950 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 195062, 195014 Dec 19509 am (A.C.T.) 6 Dec 1950 (s 3)s 4 and 5Statute Law Revision Act 195080, 195016 Dec 1950s 16, First and Second Sch: 31 Dec 1950 (s 2)s 16Excise Tariff 195283, 19526 Nov 19525 am (A.C.T.) 26 Sept 1952 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 195378, 195310 Dec 19535 am (A.C.T.) 25 Nov 1953 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 195616, 195612 May 19565 am (A.C.T.) 15 Mar 1956 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 195659, 195613 Sept 19565 am (A.C.T.) 17 May 1956 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 3) 195687, 19568 Nov 19565 am (A.C.T.) 31 Aug 1956 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 195782, 195712 Dec 19575 am (A.C.T.) 4 Sept 1957 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 195819, 195821 May 19585 am (A.C.T.) 21 Mar 1958 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 195926, 195929 Apr 19595 am (A.C.T.) 20 Mar 1959 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 195965, 195912 Nov 19595 am (A.C.T.) 1 Sept 1959 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 3) 195966, 195912 Nov 19595 am (A.C.T.) 9 Oct 1959 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 196026, 196026 May 19605 am (A.C.T.) 29 Apr 1960 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 196057, 196019 Nov 19605 am (A.C.T.) 17 Aug 1960 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 196121, 196119 May 19611 June 1961s. 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 196155, 196124 Oct 196116 Aug 1961s. 4Excise Tariff 196273, 19623 Dec 19628 Nov 1962s. 4 Excise Tariff 196341, 196320 Sept 196317 May 1963s. 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 196391, 196331 Oct 196330 Oct 196366, 195912 Nov 19595 am (A.C.T.) 9 Oct 1959 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 196026, 196026 May 19605 am (A.C.T.) 29 Apr 1960 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 196057, 196019 Nov 19605 am (A.C.T.) 17 Aug 1960 (s 3)s 4Excise Tariff 196121, 196119 May 19611 June 1961s. 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 196155, 196124 Oct 196116 Aug 1961s. 4Excise Tariff 196273, 19623 Dec 19628 Nov 1962s. 4 Excise Tariff 196341, 196320 Sept 196317 May 1963s. 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 196391, 196331 Oct 196330 Oct 1963s. 5Excise Tariff 1964125, 196424 Nov 196412 Aug 1964s. 4Excise Tariff 196583, 196530 Nov 196518 Aug 1965s. 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 1965140, 196518 Dec 196514 Feb 1966s. 4Excise Tariff 196718, 196712 May 196712 May 1967s. 5Excise Tariff (No. 2) 196782, 19678 Nov 1967ss. 1 and 2: Royal AssentRemainder: 17 Mar 1967s. 4Excise Tariff 196874, 196831 Oct 1968s. 3: 1 Jan 1968s. 4: 17 May 1968Remainder: Royal Assents 3(2) and 4(2)Excise Tariff (No. 2) 196875, 196831 Oct 19681 Nov 1968s. 4s. 5Excise Tariff 1964125, 196424 Nov 196412 Aug 1964s. 4Excise Tariff 196583, 196530 Nov 196518 Aug 1965s. 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 1965140, 196518 Dec 196514 Feb 1966s. 4Excise Tariff 196718, 196712 May 196712 May 1967s. 5Excise Tariff (No. 2) 196782, 19678 Nov 1967ss. 1 and 2: Royal AssentRemainder: 17 Mar 1967s. 4Excise Tariff 196874, 196831 Oct 1968s. 3: 1 Jan 1968s. 4: 17 May 1968Remainder: Royal Assents 3(2) and 4(2)Excise Tariff (No. 2) 196875, 196831 Oct 19681 Nov 1968s. 4Excise Tariff 19695, 19698 Apr 19698 Apr 1969s 3(2) and 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 196933, 19699 June 1969ss. 1 and 2: Royal AssentRemainder: 28 Mar 1969s. 4Excise Tariff 197081, 197026 Oct 197019 Aug 1970s. 4Excise Tariff 1971108, 19716 Dec 197118 Aug 1971s. 4Excise Tariff 197222, 197217 May 19721 July 1972s. 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 197264, 197231 Aug 197231 Aug 1972s. 5Excise Tariff (No. 3) 1972119, 19722 Nov 1972s. 3: 31 Aug 1972Remainder: 16 Aug 1972s. 5Excise Tariff 197320, 1973Excise Tariff 19695, 19698 Apr 19698 Apr 1969s 3(2) and 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 196933, 19699 June 1969ss. 1 and 2: Royal AssentRemainder: 28 Mar 1969s. 4Excise Tariff 197081, 197026 Oct 197019 Aug 1970s. 4Excise Tariff 1971108, 19716 Dec 197118 Aug 1971s. 4Excise Tariff 197222, 197217 May 19721 July 1972s. 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 197264, 197231 Aug 197231 Aug 1972s. 5Excise Tariff (No. 3) 1972119, 19722 Nov 1972s. 3: 31 Aug 1972Remainder: 16 Aug 1972s. 5Excise Tariff 197320, 197318 Apr 197318 Apr 1973s. 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 197323, 197318 Apr 197318 Apr 1973s. 4Excise Tariff (No. 3) 1973146, 197322 Nov 19738 pm (A.C.T.) 21 Aug 1973 (s 2)s 4Statute Law Revision Act 1973216, 197319 Dec 197331 Dec 1973s 9(1) and 10Excise Tariff 1974121, 19743 Dec 1974s 4: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 17 Sept 1974 (s 4(3))Remainder: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 23 July 1974 (s 2)s 3(2) and 4(2) Excise Tariff 1975104, 19757 Oct 19758 pm (A.C.T.) 19 Aug 1975 (s 2)s 4Excise Tariff Amendment Act 1977104, 197713 Oct 1977s 4: 2 am (A.C.T.) 1 July 1977 (s 4(3))Remainder: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 16 Aug 1977 (s 2)s 4(2) and 5(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1977136, 197710 Nov 197718 Apr 197318 Apr 1973s. 4Excise Tariff (No. 2) 197323, 197318 Apr 197318 Apr 1973s. 4Excise Tariff (No. 3) 1973146, 197322 Nov 19738 pm (A.C.T.) 21 Aug 1973 (s 2)s 4Statute Law Revision Act 1973216, 197319 Dec 197331 Dec 1973s 9(1) and 10Excise Tariff 1974121, 19743 Dec 1974s 4: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 17 Sept 1974 (s 4(3))Remainder: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 23 July 1974 (s 2)s 3(2) and 4(2) Excise Tariff 1975104, 19757 Oct 19758 pm (A.C.T.) 19 Aug 1975 (s 2)s 4Excise Tariff Amendment Act 1977104, 197713 Oct 1977s 4: 2 am (A.C.T.) 1 July 1977 (s 4(3))Remainder: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 16 Aug 1977 (s 2)s 4(2) and 5(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1977136, 197710 Nov 19772 am (A.C.T.) 17 Aug 1977 (s 2)s 3(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act 197848, 197812 June 19781 am (A.C.T.) 18 Nov 1977 (s 2)s 3(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1978184, 19784 Dec 1978s 4: 16 Aug 1978 (s 4(3))Remainder: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 15 Aug 1978 (s 2)s 3(2) and 4(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act 197981, 197925 June 1979s. 4: 1 Jan 1979s. 5: 5 Apr 1979Remainder: 1 Dec 1978s. 6Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 197983, 197925 June 19793 May 1979s. 3(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 3) 1979164, 197929 Nov 19791 Jan 1980--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198043, 198023 May 1980s. 4: 22 Aug 1979s. 5: 9 Nov 1979Remainder: 1 July 1979s. 6Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 198044, 198023 May 19802 am (A.C.T.) 17 Aug 1977 (s 2)s 3(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act 197848, 197812 June 19781 am (A.C.T.) 18 Nov 1977 (s 2)s 3(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1978184, 19784 Dec 1978s 4: 16 Aug 1978 (s 4(3))Remainder: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 15 Aug 1978 (s 2)s 3(2) and 4(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act 197981, 197925 June 1979s. 4: 1 Jan 1979s. 5: 5 Apr 1979Remainder: 1 Dec 1978s. 6Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 197983, 197925 June 19793 May 1979s. 3(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 3) 1979164, 197929 Nov 19791 Jan 1980--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198043, 198023 May 1980s. 4: 22 Aug 1979s. 5: 9 Nov 1979Remainder: 1 July 1979s. 6Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 198044, 198023 May 198023 May 1980s. 3(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 3) 198045, 198023 May 19801 Jan 1980s. 3(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 4) 1980122, 198017 Sept 198018 Apr 1980s. 3(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198150, 198125 May 1981s. 4: 1 Jan 1981s. 5: 1 Apr 1981Remainder: 1 July 1980s. 6 Excise Tariff (Coal) Amendment Act 198224, 19826 May 19821 Apr 1982s. 3(2)Excise Tariff (Petroleum) Amendment Act 198245, 19829 June 1982s. 3: 1 July 1981s. 4: 1 Jan 1982Remainder: Royal Assentss. 3(2) and 4(2)Excise Tariff Amendment (Off-shore Installations) Act 198254, 198216 June 198214 July 1982 (s. 2)--Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act (No. 2) 198280, 198222 Sept 198223 May 1980s. 3(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 3) 198045, 198023 May 19801 Jan 1980s. 3(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 4) 1980122, 198017 Sept 198018 Apr 1980s. 3(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198150, 198125 May 1981s. 4: 1 Jan 1981s. 5: 1 Apr 1981Remainder: 1 July 1980s. 6 Excise Tariff (Coal) Amendment Act 198224, 19826 May 19821 Apr 1982s. 3(2)Excise Tariff (Petroleum) Amendment Act 198245, 19829 June 1982s. 3: 1 July 1981s. 4: 1 Jan 1982Remainder: Royal Assentss. 3(2) and 4(2)Excise Tariff Amendment (Off-shore Installations) Act 198254, 198216 June 198214 July 1982 (s. 2)--Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act (No. 2) 198280, 198222 Sept 1982s 102: 20 Oct 1982 (s 2(16))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198327, 198319 June 1983s 3: 1 July 1982 (s 2(2))s 4: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 17 Aug 1982 (s 2(3))s 5: 1 Jan 1983 (s 2(4))s 6: 1 Apr 1983 (s 2(5))s 3(2), 4(2), 5(2) and 6(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 198399, 198323 Nov 1983s 4, 5 and 8: 1 July 1983 (s 2(2))s 6: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 23 Aug 1983 (s 2(3))s 7: 9 Sept 1983 (s 2(4))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198453, 198425 June 1984s. 5: 1 Jan 1984Remainder: Royal Assent--Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No. 1) 198472, 198425 June 1984s 5(4), (5) and Sch: 23 July 1984 (s 2(1))s 5(4) and (5)as amended by    Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No. 1) 198565, 19855 June 1985Sch 1: 25 June 1985 (s 2(43))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1984131, 198425 Oct 1984s 3, 4(2), 6(2), 7 and 9: 1 July 1984 (s 2(2))s 4(1) and 6(1): 1 July 1983 (s 2(3))s 5(1): 25 June 1984 (s 2(4))s 8: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 22 June 1984 (s 2(5))s 102: 20 Oct 1982 (s 2(16))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198327, 198319 June 1983s 3: 1 July 1982 (s 2(2))s 4: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 17 Aug 1982 (s 2(3))s 5: 1 Jan 1983 (s 2(4))s 6: 1 Apr 1983 (s 2(5))s 3(2), 4(2), 5(2) and 6(2)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 198399, 198323 Nov 1983s 4, 5 and 8: 1 July 1983 (s 2(2))s 6: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 23 Aug 1983 (s 2(3))s 7: 9 Sept 1983 (s 2(4))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198453, 198425 June 1984s. 5: 1 Jan 1984Remainder: Royal Assent--Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No. 1) 198472, 198425 June 1984s 5(4), (5) and Sch: 23 July 1984 (s 2(1))s 5(4) and (5)as amended by    Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No. 1) 198565, 19855 June 1985Sch 1: 25 June 1985 (s 2(43))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1984131, 198425 Oct 1984s 3, 4(2), 6(2), 7 and 9: 1 July 1984 (s 2(2))s 4(1) and 6(1): 1 July 1983 (s 2(3))s 5(1): 25 June 1984 (s 2(4))s 8: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 22 June 1984 (s 2(5))s 10: 18 July 1984 (s 2(6))s 11: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 21 Aug 1984 (s 2(7))Remainder: 25 Oct 1984 (s 2(1))--as amended by    Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198541, 198530 May 1985s 14: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 22 June 1984 (s 2(6))--Customs Administration (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 198539, 198529 May 198510 June 1985 (s 2 and gaz 1985, No S194)s 4 Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198541, 198530 May 1985s 3, 4(1), 5, 8 and 11: 23 Oct 1984 (s 2(2))s 4(2), 6 and 7: 30 May 1985 (s 2(1))s 9: 1 July 1984 (s 2(3))s 10: 1 Oct 1984 (s 2(4))s 12: 1 Apr 1985 (s 2(5))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1985189, 198516 Dec 1985ss. 3, 4 and 7-9: 3 Mar 1986 (s. 2(2) and Gazette 1986, No. S79)s. 5: 1 July 1984s. 6: 23 Oct 1984Remainder: Royal Assents. 9Customs Administration (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 198610, 198613 May 198613 May 1986ss. 2(2) and 4Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198620, 198613 May 1986 July 1984 (s 2(6))s 11: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 21 Aug 1984 (s 2(7))Remainder: 25 Oct 1984 (s 2(1))--as amended by    Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198541, 198530 May 1985s 14: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 22 June 1984 (s 2(6))--Customs Administration (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 198539, 198529 May 198510 June 1985 (s 2 and gaz 1985, No S194)s 4 Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198541, 198530 May 1985s 3, 4(1), 5, 8 and 11: 23 Oct 1984 (s 2(2))s 4(2), 6 and 7: 30 May 1985 (s 2(1))s 9: 1 July 1984 (s 2(3))s 10: 1 Oct 1984 (s 2(4))s 12: 1 Apr 1985 (s 2(5))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1985189, 198516 Dec 1985ss. 3, 4 and 7-9: 3 Mar 1986 (s. 2(2) and Gazette 1986, No. S79)s. 5: 1 July 1984s. 6: 23 Oct 1984Remainder: Royal Assents. 9Customs Administration (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 198610, 198613 May 198613 May 1986ss. 2(2) and 4Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198620, 198613 May 1986s 3: 23 May 1985 (s 2(2))s 4: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 20 Aug 1985 (s 2(3))s 5: 1 Oct 1985 (s 2(4))s 6: 1 May 1986 (s 2(5))s 7: 1 July 1986 (s 2(6))--as amended by    Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1986160, 198618 Dec 1986s 18: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 20 Aug 1985 (s 2(12))-- Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1986160, 198618 Dec 1986s 4, 5 and 16: 18 Dec 1986 (s 2(1))s 6: 23 May 1985 (s 2(2))s 7: 15 Mar 1986 (s 2(3))s 8: 1 Apr 1986 (s 2(4))s 9: 17 Apr 1986 (s 2(5))s 10: 17 May 1986 (s 2(6))s 11: 14 June 1986 (s 2(7))s 12: 18 July 1986 (s 2(8))s 13: 16 Aug 1986 (s 2(9))s 14: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 19 Aug 1986 (s 2(10))s 15: 13 Sept 1986 (s 2(11)--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198753, 19875 June 1987s. 3: 1 Aug 1986s. 4: 27 Feb 1987s. 5: 1 Oct 1986s. 6: 16 Oct 1986s. 7: 1 Nov 1986s. 8: 17 Jan 1987s. 9: 14 Feb 1987s. 10: 14 Mar 1987s. 11: 1 Apr 1987Remainder: Royal Assent--Customs Tariff (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 198776, 19875 June 19871 Jan 1988 (s. 2 and Gazette 1987, No. S351)--Sea Installations (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1987104, 19876 Nov 1987Parts I-V (ss. 1-30) and Part VIII (s. 57): 15 Oct 1987Remainder: 6 Nov 1987 (s. 2(2))s 3: 23 May 1985 (s 2(2))s 4: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 20 Aug 1985 (s 2(3))s 5: 1 Oct 1985 (s 2(4))s 6: 1 May 1986 (s 2(5))s 7: 1 July 1986 (s 2(6))--as amended by    Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1986160, 198618 Dec 1986s 18: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 20 Aug 1985 (s 2(12))-- Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1986160, 198618 Dec 1986s 4, 5 and 16: 18 Dec 1986 (s 2(1))s 6: 23 May 1985 (s 2(2))s 7: 15 Mar 1986 (s 2(3))s 8: 1 Apr 1986 (s 2(4))s 9: 17 Apr 1986 (s 2(5))s 10: 17 May 1986 (s 2(6))s 11: 14 June 1986 (s 2(7))s 12: 18 July 1986 (s 2(8))s 13: 16 Aug 1986 (s 2(9))s 14: 8 pm (A.C.T.) 19 Aug 1986 (s 2(10))s 15: 13 Sept 1986 (s 2(11)--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198753, 19875 June 1987s. 3: 1 Aug 1986s. 4: 27 Feb 1987s. 5: 1 Oct 1986s. 6: 16 Oct 1986s. 7: 1 Nov 1986s. 8: 17 Jan 1987s. 9: 14 Feb 1987s. 10: 14 Mar 1987s. 11: 1 Apr 1987Remainder: Royal Assent--Customs Tariff (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 198776, 19875 June 19871 Jan 1988 (s. 2 and Gazette 1987, No. S351)--Sea Installations (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1987104, 19876 Nov 1987Parts I-V (ss. 1-30) and Part VIII (s. 57): 15 Oct 1987Remainder: 6 Nov 1987 (s. 2(2))--Petroleum Resource Rent Tax (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1987145, 198718 Dec 198715 Jan 1988 (s. 2)-- Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1987150, 198726 Dec 1987ss. 3, 4(d), 7, 8(2) and 9-12: 1 Jan 1988ss. 4(a), (c), 5(a), 6, 8(1) and 14: 1 July 1987s. 4(b): 24 July 1987s. 5(b): 23 Jan 1988s. 13: 16 May 1987s. 15: 18 July 1987s. 16: 15 Aug 1987s. 17: 22 Aug 1987Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198829, 198811 May 1988s. 3: 1 Oct 1987s. 4: 17 Oct 1987s. 5: 14 Dec 1987s. 6: 1 Jan 1988s. 7: 3 Feb 1988Remainder: Royal Assent--Statutory Instruments (Tabling and Disallowance) Legislation Amendment Act 198899, 19882 Dec 19882 Dec 1988--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1988149, 198826 Dec 1988s. 3: 1 Apr 1988s. 4: 1 July 1988s. 5: 1 July 1989Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198977, 198921 June 1989s. 3: 1 July 1989s. 4: 24 Aug 1988s. 5: 1 Oct 1988s. 6: 15 Feb 1989Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1989--Petroleum Resource Rent Tax (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1987145, 198718 Dec 198715 Jan 1988 (s. 2)-- Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1987150, 198726 Dec 1987ss. 3, 4(d), 7, 8(2) and 9-12: 1 Jan 1988ss. 4(a), (c), 5(a), 6, 8(1) and 14: 1 July 1987s. 4(b): 24 July 1987s. 5(b): 23 Jan 1988s. 13: 16 May 1987s. 15: 18 July 1987s. 16: 15 Aug 1987s. 17: 22 Aug 1987Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198829, 198811 May 1988s. 3: 1 Oct 1987s. 4: 17 Oct 1987s. 5: 14 Dec 1987s. 6: 1 Jan 1988s. 7: 3 Feb 1988Remainder: Royal Assent--Statutory Instruments (Tabling and Disallowance) Legislation Amendment Act 198899, 19882 Dec 19882 Dec 1988--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1988149, 198826 Dec 1988s. 3: 1 Apr 1988s. 4: 1 July 1988s. 5: 1 July 1989Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 198977, 198921 June 1989s. 3: 1 July 1989s. 4: 24 Aug 1988s. 5: 1 Oct 1988s. 6: 15 Feb 1989Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1989177, 198924 Dec 1989s. 3: 1 July 1989s. 4: 1 Apr 1989Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 1990112, 199021 Dec 1990s. 3(a) and (d): 1 July 1984s. 3(b): 30 May 1985ss. 3(c), 4-8 and 10: 1 Jan 1988s. 9: 1 Apr 1990Remainder: Royal Assents. 10Petroleum Resource Rent Legislation Amendment Act 199180, 199126 June 19911 July 1991ss. 32 and 37 Excise Tariff Amendment Act 1991186, 19916 Dec 1991s. 3: 1 July 1991s. 4: 1 Apr 1991Remainder: Royal Assent--Coal Tariff Legislation Amendment Act 199265, 199226 June 1992s 5: 26 June 1993 (s 2(3), (4))--as amended by    Industry, Science and Tourism Legislation Amendment Act 199791, 199730 June 1997Sch 1 (items 19, 20): 26 June 1992 (s 2(2))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 19939, 199327 May 1993177, 198924 Dec 1989s. 3: 1 July 1989s. 4: 1 Apr 1989Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 1990112, 199021 Dec 1990s. 3(a) and (d): 1 July 1984s. 3(b): 30 May 1985ss. 3(c), 4-8 and 10: 1 Jan 1988s. 9: 1 Apr 1990Remainder: Royal Assents. 10Petroleum Resource Rent Legislation Amendment Act 199180, 199126 June 19911 July 1991ss. 32 and 37 Excise Tariff Amendment Act 1991186, 19916 Dec 1991s. 3: 1 July 1991s. 4: 1 Apr 1991Remainder: Royal Assent--Coal Tariff Legislation Amendment Act 199265, 199226 June 1992s 5: 26 June 1993 (s 2(3), (4))--as amended by    Industry, Science and Tourism Legislation Amendment Act 199791, 199730 June 1997Sch 1 (items 19, 20): 26 June 1992 (s 2(2))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 19939, 199327 May 1993s. 5: 7 May 1992s. 6: 19 Aug 1992s. 7: 2 Feb 1993Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff (Deficit Reduction) Act 199356, 199327 Oct 1993s. 3: 18 Aug 1993Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1993115, 199324 Dec 1993ss. 3-5, 6(a), (b), (f)-(h) and (j): 1 Apr 1994s. 6(d) and (e): 21 Jan 1994Remainder: Royal Assents. 2 (am. by 134, 1994, s. 8)as amended by    Excise Tariff Legislation Amendment Act 1994134, 19941 Nov 1994(see 134, 1994 below)--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 199462, 199419 May 1994s. 3: 1 July 1993s. 4: 1 Sept 1993Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Legislation Amendment Act 1994134, 19941 Nov 1994ss. 4-6: 1 Jan 1994s. 8: 24 Dec 1993Remainder: Royal Assent-- Excise Tariff Amendment Act 19959, 199515 Mar 1995ss. 3 and 5: 11 May 1994s. 4: 1 Apr 1994s. 6: 1 July 1994Remainder: Royal Assent--s. 5: 7 May 1992s. 6: 19 Aug 1992s. 7: 2 Feb 1993Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff (Deficit Reduction) Act 199356, 199327 Oct 1993s. 3: 18 Aug 1993Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1993115, 199324 Dec 1993ss. 3-5, 6(a), (b), (f)-(h) and (j): 1 Apr 1994s. 6(d) and (e): 21 Jan 1994Remainder: Royal Assents. 2 (am. by 134, 1994, s. 8)as amended by    Excise Tariff Legislation Amendment Act 1994134, 19941 Nov 1994(see 134, 1994 below)--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 199462, 199419 May 1994s. 3: 1 July 1993s. 4: 1 Sept 1993Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Legislation Amendment Act 1994134, 19941 Nov 1994ss. 4-6: 1 Jan 1994s. 8: 24 Dec 1993Remainder: Royal Assent-- Excise Tariff Amendment Act 19959, 199515 Mar 1995ss. 3 and 5: 11 May 1994s. 4: 1 Apr 1994s. 6: 1 July 1994Remainder: Royal Assent--Customs, Excise and Bounty Legislation Amendment Act 199585, 19951 July 1995s 18 and Sch 9 (items 74-76): 1 July 1995 (s 2(1))s 18Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1995162, 199516 Dec 1995s. 3: 1 Apr 1994s. 4: 10 May 1995s. 5: 1 July 1995s. 6: 11 Oct 1995s. 7: 28 Nov 1995Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 19965, 19966 June 1996Schedule 1 (item 2): 1 July 1983Remainder: Royal Assent--Customs Tariff (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 199615, 199624 June 1996Sch 1 (items 1, 16): 1 July 1996 (s 2)--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 199778, 199718 June 1997Schedule 1 (items 64, 65): 1 Sept 1996Schedule 1 (items 5-18 and 20-62): 1 July 1997Remainder: Royal AssentSch 1 (item 67)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 3) 1997135, 199719 Sept 1997Schedule 1: 7 Aug 1997Remainder: Royal AssentSch 1 (item 9)Excise Tariff (Fuel Rates Amendments) Act 1997161, 1997Customs, Excise and Bounty Legislation Amendment Act 199585, 19951 July 1995s 18 and Sch 9 (items 74-76): 1 July 1995 (s 2(1))s 18Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 1995162, 199516 Dec 1995s. 3: 1 Apr 1994s. 4: 10 May 1995s. 5: 1 July 1995s. 6: 11 Oct 1995s. 7: 28 Nov 1995Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act 19965, 19966 June 1996Schedule 1 (item 2): 1 July 1983Remainder: Royal Assent--Customs Tariff (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 199615, 199624 June 1996Sch 1 (items 1, 16): 1 July 1996 (s 2)--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 199778, 199718 June 1997Schedule 1 (items 64, 65): 1 Sept 1996Schedule 1 (items 5-18 and 20-62): 1 July 1997Remainder: Royal AssentSch 1 (item 67)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 3) 1997135, 199719 Sept 1997Schedule 1: 7 Aug 1997Remainder: Royal AssentSch 1 (item 9)Excise Tariff (Fuel Rates Amendments) Act 1997161, 199711 Nov 199731 Jan 1998 (Gazette 1998, No. GN1)Sch 1 (item 19)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 4) 1997169, 199711 Nov 199731 Jan 1998 (s 2)Sch 1 (item 3)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 1) 1997178, 199721 Nov 1997Schedule 1 (items 1, 2): 3 Feb 1996Schedule 1 (item 3): 1 Aug 1996Schedule 1 (item 4): 3 Feb 1997Remainder: Royal AssentSch 1 (item 5) Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 5) 1997182, 199727 Nov 1997Schedule 1: 17 Sept 1997Remainder: Royal AssentSch 1 (item 4)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 1) 199864, 199830 June 1998Sch 1 (items 1, 2, 5-14): 31 Jan 1998 (s 2(2), (4), (5))Sch 1 (item 4): 3 July 1997 (s 2(3))Remainder: 30 June 1998 (s 2(1))--Excise Tariff Amendment (Aviation Fuel Revenues) Act 199999, 199916 July 1999Schedule 1: 12 May 1999Remainder: Royal Assent--Public Employment (Consequential and Transitional) Amendment Act 1999146, 199911 Nov 199911 Nov 199731 Jan 1998 (Gazette 1998, No. GN1)Sch 1 (item 19)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 4) 1997169, 199711 Nov 199731 Jan 1998 (s 2)Sch 1 (item 3)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 1) 1997178, 199721 Nov 1997Schedule 1 (items 1, 2): 3 Feb 1996Schedule 1 (item 3): 1 Aug 1996Schedule 1 (item 4): 3 Feb 1997Remainder: Royal AssentSch 1 (item 5) Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 5) 1997182, 199727 Nov 1997Schedule 1: 17 Sept 1997Remainder: Royal AssentSch 1 (item 4)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 1) 199864, 199830 June 1998Sch 1 (items 1, 2, 5-14): 31 Jan 1998 (s 2(2), (4), (5))Sch 1 (item 4): 3 July 1997 (s 2(3))Remainder: 30 June 1998 (s 2(1))--Excise Tariff Amendment (Aviation Fuel Revenues) Act 199999, 199916 July 1999Schedule 1: 12 May 1999Remainder: Royal Assent--Public Employment (Consequential and Transitional) Amendment Act 1999146, 199911 Nov 1999Sch 1 (item 438): 5 Dec 1999 (s 2(1), (2))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 1) 200068, 200022 June 2000Schedule 1: 1 Nov 1999Schedule 2: 15 Nov 1999Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment (Product Stewardship for Waste Oil) Act 2000104, 20006 July 2000Schedule 1: 1 Jan 2001 (s. 2(2))Remainder: Royal Assent--Petroleum Excise Amendment (Measures to Address Evasion) Act 2000125, 200026 Oct 2000Sch 3: 26 Oct 2000 (s 2(1))-- Taxation Laws Amendment (Excise Arrangements) Act 200125, 20016 Apr 2001Sch 7 (items 9-19): 4 May 2001 (s 2(1)(b))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 1) 200139, 200114 May 2001Schedule 1 (item 1): 13 May 2000Schedule 1 (items 2-7): 1 July 2000Schedule 1 (items 8-11): 1 Jan 2001Schedule 1 (item 12): 31 Jan 2001Schedule 1 (items 13-17): 2 Mar 2001Schedule 1 (item 18): 4 Apr 2001Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 200167, 200130 June 2001Sch 1 (item 438): 5 Dec 1999 (s 2(1), (2))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 1) 200068, 200022 June 2000Schedule 1: 1 Nov 1999Schedule 2: 15 Nov 1999Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment (Product Stewardship for Waste Oil) Act 2000104, 20006 July 2000Schedule 1: 1 Jan 2001 (s. 2(2))Remainder: Royal Assent--Petroleum Excise Amendment (Measures to Address Evasion) Act 2000125, 200026 Oct 2000Sch 3: 26 Oct 2000 (s 2(1))-- Taxation Laws Amendment (Excise Arrangements) Act 200125, 20016 Apr 2001Sch 7 (items 9-19): 4 May 2001 (s 2(1)(b))--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 1) 200139, 200114 May 2001Schedule 1 (item 1): 13 May 2000Schedule 1 (items 2-7): 1 July 2000Schedule 1 (items 8-11): 1 Jan 2001Schedule 1 (item 12): 31 Jan 2001Schedule 1 (items 13-17): 2 Mar 2001Schedule 1 (item 18): 4 Apr 2001Remainder: Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 200167, 200130 June 200130 June 2001--Excise Tariff Amendment (Crude Oil) Act 2001164, 20011 Oct 2001Schedule 1 (items 2-22, 24): 1 July 2001Remainder: Royal AssentSch 1 (item 24)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 2002108, 20022 Dec 2002Sch 1: 14 May 2002 (s 2(1) item 2)--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 1) 2002113, 20022 Dec 2002Schedule 1 (items 1-3): 25 Oct 2001Schedule 1 (items 4-6): 15 Apr 2002Schedule 1 (item 7): 1 July 2002Remainder: Royal Assent-- Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 1) 200444, 200421 Apr 200418 Sept 2002--Excise Tariff Amendment (Fuels) Act 200466, 200422 June 2004Sch 1 (items 1-14, 23-25) and Sch 2 (items 1-5): 1 July 2003 (s 2(1) items  2, 4, 7)Sch 1 (items 15-22): 1 Jan 2004 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 1 (items 26-30) and Sch 2 (items 6-9): 18 Sept 2003 (s 2(1) items 5, 8)Sch 1 (items 31, 32): never commenced (s 2(1) item 6)--Offshore Petroleum (Repeals and Consequential Amendments) Act 200617, 200629 Mar 200630 June 2001--Excise Tariff Amendment (Crude Oil) Act 2001164, 20011 Oct 2001Schedule 1 (items 2-22, 24): 1 July 2001Remainder: Royal AssentSch 1 (item 24)Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 2) 2002108, 20022 Dec 2002Sch 1: 14 May 2002 (s 2(1) item 2)--Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 1) 2002113, 20022 Dec 2002Schedule 1 (items 1-3): 25 Oct 2001Schedule 1 (items 4-6): 15 Apr 2002Schedule 1 (item 7): 1 July 2002Remainder: Royal Assent-- Excise Tariff Amendment Act (No. 1) 200444, 200421 Apr 200418 Sept 2002--Excise Tariff Amendment (Fuels) Act 200466, 200422 June 2004Sch 1 (items 1-14, 23-25) and Sch 2 (items 1-5): 1 July 2003 (s 2(1) items  2, 4, 7)Sch 1 (items 15-22): 1 Jan 2004 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 1 (items 26-30) and Sch 2 (items 6-9): 18 Sept 2003 (s 2(1) items 5, 8)Sch 1 (items 31, 32): never commenced (s 2(1) item 6)--Offshore Petroleum (Repeals and Consequential Amendments) Act 200617, 200629 Mar 2006Schedule 2 (items 22-24): 1 July 2008 (s. 2(1) and F2008L02273)--Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 2) Act 200658, 200622 June 2006Schedule 7 (items 237, 238): Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment (Fuel Tax Reform and Other Measures) Act 200675, 200626 June 2006Schedule 1 (items 1-41, 45-47): 1 July 2006Schedule 1: (items 42-44): 1 Nov 2005Remainder: Royal AssentSch 1 (items 46, 47)Excise Tariff Amendment (Condensate) Act 2008109, 200818 Oct 200818 Oct 2008Sch 1 (items 31, 32)Excise Tariff Amendment (2009 Measures No. 1) Act 200973, 200927 Aug 2009Schedule 1: 27 Apr 2008Schedule 2: 28 Aug 2009 (s. 2(1))Remainder: Royal AssentSch. 2 (item 3)Tax Laws Amendment (2009 Measures No. 4) Act 200988, 200918 Sept 2009Schedule 5 (items 12, 13): Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment (Tobacco) Act 201076, 201028 June 201030 Apr 2010--Schedule 2 (items 22-24): 1 July 2008 (s. 2(1) and F2008L02273)--Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 2) Act 200658, 200622 June 2006Schedule 7 (items 237, 238): Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment (Fuel Tax Reform and Other Measures) Act 200675, 200626 June 2006Schedule 1 (items 1-41, 45-47): 1 July 2006Schedule 1: (items 42-44): 1 Nov 2005Remainder: Royal AssentSch 1 (items 46, 47)Excise Tariff Amendment (Condensate) Act 2008109, 200818 Oct 200818 Oct 2008Sch 1 (items 31, 32)Excise Tariff Amendment (2009 Measures No. 1) Act 200973, 200927 Aug 2009Schedule 1: 27 Apr 2008Schedule 2: 28 Aug 2009 (s. 2(1))Remainder: Royal AssentSch. 2 (item 3)Tax Laws Amendment (2009 Measures No. 4) Act 200988, 200918 Sept 2009Schedule 5 (items 12, 13): Royal Assent--Excise Tariff Amendment (Tobacco) Act 201076, 201028 June 201030 Apr 2010-- Excise Tariff Amendment (Aviation Fuel) Act 201084, 201029 June 20101 July 2010--Acts Interpretation Amendment Act 201146, 201127 June 2011Sch 2 (items 567, 568) and Sch 3 (items 10, 11): 27 Dec 2011 (s 2(1) items  3, 12)Sch 3 (items 10, 11)Excise Tariff Amendment (Taxation of Alternative Fuels) Act 201167, 201129 June 2011Sch 1 (items 1-7): 1 Dec 2011 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 8): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 1 (item 9): 1 July 2013 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 1 (item 10): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 1 (item 11): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) item 6)Remainder: 29 June 2011 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 12)as amended by    Clean Energy (Excise Tariff Legislation Amendment) Act 2011156, 20114 Dec 2011Sch 2 (items 9-11): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 3)--Excise Tariff Amendment (Condensate) Act 2011134, 201124 Nov 201124 Nov 2011Sch. 1 (item 5)as amended by     Excise Tariff Amendment (Aviation Fuel) Act 201084, 201029 June 20101 July 2010--Acts Interpretation Amendment Act 201146, 201127 June 2011Sch 2 (items 567, 568) and Sch 3 (items 10, 11): 27 Dec 2011 (s 2(1) items  3, 12)Sch 3 (items 10, 11)Excise Tariff Amendment (Taxation of Alternative Fuels) Act 201167, 201129 June 2011Sch 1 (items 1-7): 1 Dec 2011 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 8): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 1 (item 9): 1 July 2013 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 1 (item 10): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 1 (item 11): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) item 6)Remainder: 29 June 2011 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 12)as amended by    Clean Energy (Excise Tariff Legislation Amendment) Act 2011156, 20114 Dec 2011Sch 2 (items 9-11): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 3)--Excise Tariff Amendment (Condensate) Act 2011134, 201124 Nov 201124 Nov 2011Sch. 1 (item 5)as amended by    Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2013 Measures No. 1) Act 201388, 201328 June 2013Sch 7 (item 196): 24 Nov 2011 (s 2(1) item 20)--Clean Energy (Excise Tariff Legislation Amendment) Act 2011156, 20114 Dec 2011Sch 1: 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 2 (items 2-8): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 3)-- Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Amendment Act 201218, 201229 Mar 2012Sch 6 (item 7): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 14)--Tax Laws Amendment (2012 Measures No. 3) Act 201258, 201221 June 2012Sch 2 (items 4, 5): 21 June 2012 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 2 (item 5)Clean Energy (Excise Tariff Legislation Amendment) Act 201281, 201228 June 2012Sch 1 (items 2-9, 13): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) items 3, 4, 8)Sch 1 (item 10): 1 July 2013 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 1 (item 11): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 1 (item 12): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) item 7)--Excise Tariff Amendment (Per-tonne Carbon Price Equivalent) Act 2012200, 201212 Dec 2012Sch 1: 14 Dec 2012 (s 2(1) item 2)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2013 Measures No. 1) Act 201388, 201328 June 2013Sch 7 (item 196): 24 Nov 2011 (s 2(1) item 20)--Clean Energy (Excise Tariff Legislation Amendment) Act 2011156, 20114 Dec 2011Sch 1: 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 2 (items 2-8): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 3)-- Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Amendment Act 201218, 201229 Mar 2012Sch 6 (item 7): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 14)--Tax Laws Amendment (2012 Measures No. 3) Act 201258, 201221 June 2012Sch 2 (items 4, 5): 21 June 2012 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 2 (item 5)Clean Energy (Excise Tariff Legislation Amendment) Act 201281, 201228 June 2012Sch 1 (items 2-9, 13): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) items 3, 4, 8)Sch 1 (item 10): 1 July 2013 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 1 (item 11): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 1 (item 12): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) item 7)--Excise Tariff Amendment (Per-tonne Carbon Price Equivalent) Act 2012200, 201212 Dec 2012Sch 1: 14 Dec 2012 (s 2(1) item 2)Remainder: 12 Dec 2012 (s 2(1) item 1)--Excise Tariff Amendment (Tobacco) Act 20149, 201418 Mar 2014Sch 1 (items 1-9): 1 Dec 2013 (s 2(1) items 2, 3)Sch 1 (items 10-12): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 4)Remainder: 18 Mar 2014 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 3, 5)Excise Tariff Amendment (Product Stewardship for Oil) Act 201471, 201430 June 2014Sch 1: 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 2)Remainder: 30 June 2014 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 2)Excise Tariff Amendment (Carbon Tax Repeal) Act 201487, 201417 July 2014Sch 1 (items 1-8): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 2)Remainder: 17 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 8)Excise Tariff Amendment (Ethanol and Biodiesel) Act 201582, 201526 June 2015Sch 1: 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) item 2)Remainder: 26 June 2015 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 10)Excise Tariff Amendment (Fuel Indexation) Act 2015101, 201530 June 2015Sch 1 (items 1-19): 10 Nov 2014 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (items 20-30): 1 Jan 2015 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 1 (items 31, 32) and Sch 2: 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) items 4, 5)Remainder: 3 June 2015 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 19, 30) and Sch 1 (item 32)Acts and Instruments (Framework Reform) (Consequential Provisions) Act 2015126, 201510 Sept 2015Sch 1 (items 203-205): 5 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)--Excise Tariff Amendment (Tobacco) Act 201660, 201623 Sept 2016Sch 1: 23 Sept 2016 (s 2(1) item 1)--Excise Tariff Amendment (Tobacco Duty Harmonisation) Act 201780, 201715 Aug 201731 Aug 2017 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 6)Legislation Amendment (Sunsetting Review and Other Measures) Act 201878, 201824 Aug 2018Sch 2 (item 15): 25 Aug 2018 (s 2(1) item 5)--Excise Tariff Amendment (Collecting Tobacco Duties at Manufacture) Act 2018137, 201829 Nov 2018Sch 1: 1 Jan 2019 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 6)Treasury Laws Amendment (2019 Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Reforms No. 1) Act 201943, 20195 Apr 2019Sch 2 (items 78, 85-92): 1 July 2019 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 2 (items 85-92)Excise Tariff Amendment (Supporting Craft Brewers) Act 201948, 20195 Apr 20196 Apr 2019 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 7)Excise Tariff Amendment Act 202085, 20207 Sept 20208 Sept 2020 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 2)Excise Tariff Amendment (Cost of Living Support) Act 202215, 202231 Mar 202231 Mar 2022 (s 2(1) item 1)--Excise Tariff Amendment (Product Stewardship for Oil) Act 202337, 202328 June 20231 July 2023 (s 2(1) item 1)--Excise and Customs Legislation Amendment (Streamlining Administration) Act 202451, 202428 June 2024Sch 1 (items 168, 192-198): 1 July 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)--Excise Tariff Amendment (Tobacco) Act 202472, 20249 July 20241 Sept 2023 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 5)
EXCISE TARIFF ACT 1921
- NOTES
 Endnote 4--Amendment history
Provision affectedHow affecteds 1.....................rs No 104, 1977s 1A....................ad No 39, 1985 am No 85, 1995; No 25, 2001s 2.....................am No 82, 1949; No 91, 1963 rs No 164, 1979 am No 189, 1985; No 150, 1987; No 75, 2006s 3.....................rep No 80, 1950 ad No 131, 1984 am No 41, 1985; No 189, 1985; No 160, 1986; No 145, 1987; No 150, 1987; No 112, 1990; No 80, 1991; No  115, 1993; No 134, 1994; No 85, 1995; No 162, 1995; No 78, 1997; No 161, 1997; No 64, 1998; No 25, 2001; No 164, 2001; No 113, 2002; No  66, 2004; No 17, 2006; No 75, 2006; No 109, 2008; No 88, 2009; No 46, 2011; No 67, 2011; No 156, 2011; No  18, 2012; No 81, 2012; No 200, 2012; No 9, 2014; No 87, 2014; No 82, 2015; No 137, 2018; No 43, 2019 ed C52 am No 51, 2024s 3A....................ad No 134, 1994 am No 85, 1995; No 64, 1998; No 164, 2001; No 58, 2006; No 88, 2009s 5.....................am No 53, 1984; No 25, 2001; No 156, 2011; No 81, 2012; No 9, 2014; No 87, 2014s 5A....................ad No 54, 1982 am No 80, 1982 rep No 104, 1987s 5B....................ad No 131, 1984 am No 131, 1984; No 41, 1985; No 160, 1986; No 145, 1987; No 80, 1991; No  162, 1995; No 109, 2008s 5C....................ad No 161, 1997 rep No 75, 2006s 5D....................ad No 161, 1997 rep No 75, 2006s 6.....................rep No 80, 1950 ad No 18, 1967 am No 64, 1972; No 216, 1973; No 10, 1986 rep No 9, 1993s 6A....................ad No 99, 1983 am No 53, 1984; No 131, 1984; No 10, 1986; No 150, 1987; No 56, 1993; No 85, 1995; No 162, 1995; No  5, 1996; No 67, 2001; No 113, 2002; No 75, 2006; No 101, 2015 rs No 9, 2014s 6AAA..................ad No 56, 1993 am No 115, 1993; No 9, 1995; No 162, 1995 rep No 75, 2006 ad No 101, 2015 am No 101, 2015s 6AA...................ad No 150, 1987 am No 85, 1995 104, 1987s 5B....................ad No 131, 1984 am No 131, 1984; No 41, 1985; No 160, 1986; No 145, 1987; No 80, 1991; No  162, 1995; No 109, 2008s 5C....................ad No 161, 1997 rep No 75, 2006s 5D....................ad No 161, 1997 rep No 75, 2006s 6.....................rep No 80, 1950 ad No 18, 1967 am No 64, 1972; No 216, 1973; No 10, 1986 rep No 9, 1993s 6A....................ad No 99, 1983 am No 53, 1984; No 131, 1984; No 10, 1986; No 150, 1987; No 56, 1993; No 85, 1995; No 162, 1995; No  5, 1996; No 67, 2001; No 113, 2002; No 75, 2006; No 101, 2015 rs No 9, 2014s 6AAA..................ad No 56, 1993 am No 115, 1993; No 9, 1995; No 162, 1995 rep No 75, 2006 ad No 101, 2015 am No 101, 2015s 6AA...................ad No 150, 1987 am No 85, 1995 rep No 164, 2001 ad No 9, 2014 am No 60, 2016; No 80, 2017; No 72, 2024s 6AAB..................ad No 80, 2017 am No 72, 2024s 6AAC..................ad No 137, 2018s 6AB...................ad No 150, 1987 am No 112, 1990; No 78, 1997; No 25, 2001 rs No 109, 2008 am No 134, 2011s 6AC...................ad No 112, 1990 am No 78, 1997 rs No 109, 2008s 6B....................ad No 99, 1983 am No 72, 1984; No 131, 1984; No 41, 1985; No 53, 1987; No 150, 1987; No 99, 1988; No 112, 1990; No  5, 1996; No 78, 1997; No 25, 2001; No 164, 2001; No 75, 2006; No 109, 2008s 6C....................ad No 131, 1984 am No 41, 1985; No 189, 1985; No 150, 1987; No 112, 1990; No 78, 1997; No 25, 2001; No 164, 2001; No  75, 2006; No 109, 2008s 6CA...................ad No 109, 2008 am No 134, 2011; No 126, 2015; No 78, 2018s 6D....................ad No 41, 1985  rep No 164, 2001 ad No 9, 2014 am No 60, 2016; No 80, 2017; No 72, 2024s 6AAB..................ad No 80, 2017 am No 72, 2024s 6AAC..................ad No 137, 2018s 6AB...................ad No 150, 1987 am No 112, 1990; No 78, 1997; No 25, 2001 rs No 109, 2008 am No 134, 2011s 6AC...................ad No 112, 1990 am No 78, 1997 rs No 109, 2008s 6B....................ad No 99, 1983 am No 72, 1984; No 131, 1984; No 41, 1985; No 53, 1987; No 150, 1987; No 99, 1988; No 112, 1990; No  5, 1996; No 78, 1997; No 25, 2001; No 164, 2001; No 75, 2006; No 109, 2008s 6C....................ad No 131, 1984 am No 41, 1985; No 189, 1985; No 150, 1987; No 112, 1990; No 78, 1997; No 25, 2001; No 164, 2001; No  75, 2006; No 109, 2008s 6CA...................ad No 109, 2008 am No 134, 2011; No 126, 2015; No 78, 2018s 6D....................ad No 41, 1985 am No 189, 1985; No 150, 1987; No 112, 1990; No 78, 1997; No 25, 2001; No  75, 2006; No 109, 2008s 6E....................ad No 189, 1985 am No 150, 1987 rs No 164, 2001 am No 109, 2008s 6FAA..................ad No 101, 2015s 6FA...................ad No 156, 2011 am No 200, 2012 rep No 87, 2014s 6FB...................ad No 156, 2011 am No 200, 2012 rep No 87, 2014s 6FC...................ad No 156, 2011 rep No 87, 2014s 6F....................ad No 189, 1985 am No 150, 1987 rep No 78, 1997s 6G....................ad No 53, 1987 rep No 77, 1989 ad No 115, 1993 am No 161, 1997; No 125, 2000; No 39, 2001; No 113, 2002; No 44, 2004; No 66, 2004 rs No 75, 2006; No 67, 2011am No 189, 1985; No 150, 1987; No 112, 1990; No 78, 1997; No 25, 2001; No  75, 2006; No 109, 2008s 6E....................ad No 189, 1985 am No 150, 1987 rs No 164, 2001 am No 109, 2008s 6FAA..................ad No 101, 2015s 6FA...................ad No 156, 2011 am No 200, 2012 rep No 87, 2014s 6FB...................ad No 156, 2011 am No 200, 2012 rep No 87, 2014s 6FC...................ad No 156, 2011 rep No 87, 2014s 6F....................ad No 189, 1985 am No 150, 1987 rep No 78, 1997s 6G....................ad No 53, 1987 rep No 77, 1989 ad No 115, 1993 am No 161, 1997; No 125, 2000; No 39, 2001; No 113, 2002; No 44, 2004; No 66, 2004 rs No 75, 2006; No 67, 2011 am No 82, 2015; No 101, 2015; No 137, 2018s 6H....................ad No 156, 2011 rep No 81, 2012 ad No 82, 2015 am No 101, 2015s 6J....................ad No 82, 2015 am No 101, 2015s 6K....................ad No 15, 2022s 6L....................ad No 15, 2022 rep No 37, 2023s 7.....................rep No 75, 2006 ad No 134, 2011s 8.....................rep No 80, 1950s 9.....................rep No 80, 1950The Schedule The Schedule..............am No 28, 1924; No 28, 1926; No 4, 1928; No 20, 1933; No 21, 1933; No 17, 1936; No 24, 1938; No 70, 1938; No 29, 1939; No 54, 1939; No 65, 1939; No 3, 1948; No 4, 1948; No 14, 1948; No 93, 1948; No 77, 1949; No 82, 1949; No 61, 1950; No 62, 1950; No  83, 1952; No 78, 1953; No 16, 1956; No 59, 1956; No 87, 1956; No  82, 1957; No 19, 1958; No 26, 1959; No 65, 1959; No 66, 1959; No 26, 1960; No 57, 1960; No 21, 1961; No 55, 1961; No 73, 1962; No 41, 1963; No 91, 1963; No  125, 1964; No 83, 1965; No 140, 1965; No 18, 1967; No 82, 1967; No 74, 1968; No 75, 1968; No 5, 1969; No 33, 1969; No 81, 1970; No 108, 1971; No 22, 1972; No 64, 1972; No 119, 1972; No 20, 1973; No 23, 1973; No 146, 1973; No 216, 1973; No  121, 1974; No 104, 1975; No 104, 1977; No 136, 1977; No 48, 1978; No 184, 1978; No 81, 1979; No 83, 1979; No 164, 1979; No 43, 1980; No 44, 1980; No 45, 1980; No 122, 1980; No  50, 1981; No 24, 1982; No 45, 1982; No 54, 1982; No 27, 1983; No 99, 1983; No 53, 1984; No 72, 1984; No  131, 1984 (as am by No 41, 1985); No 39, 1985; No 41, 1985; No 189, 1985; No 20, 1986 (as am by No 160, 1986); No  160, 1986; No 53, 1987; No 76, 1987; No 145, 1987; No 150, 1987; No 29, 1988; No 149, 1988; No 77, 1989; No 177, 1989; No 112, 1990; No 80, 1991; No 186, 1991; No  65, 1992 (as am by No 91, 1997); No 9, 1993; No 56, 1993; No 115, 1993; No 62, 1994; No 134, 1994; No 9, 1995; No 85, 1995; No 162, 1995; No 15, 1996; No 78, 1997; No 135, 1997; No 161, 1997; No 169, 1997; No 178, 1997; No 182, 1997; No  64, 1998; No 99, 1999; No 146, 1999; No 68, 2000; No 104, 2000; No 25, 2001; No 39, 2001; No 108, 2002; No 113, 2002; No 44, 2004; No 66, 2004; No  75, 2006; No 109, 2008; No 73, 2009; No 76, 2010; No 84, 2010; No 46, 2011; No 67, 2011 (as am by No 156, 2011); No 156, 2011; No  58, 2012; No 81, 2012; No 9, 2014; No 71, 2014; No 87, 2014; No 82, 2015; No 101, 2015; No 80, 2017; No 137, 2018; No 48, 2019; No 85, 2020; No 37, 2023; No 51, 2024; No 72, 2024
