First Home Owner Grant Act 2000
Jurisdiction: northern_territory
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/nt/consol_act/fhoga2000250/
Register: https://legislation.nt.gov.au/Legislation/FIRST-HOME-OWNER-GRANT-ACT-2000
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/nt/consol_act/fhoga2000250.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-30T00:08:22.318192Z

NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA
                       First Home Owner Grant ACT 2000
                        AS IN FORCE AT 1 OCTOBER 2025
                             Table of provisions
Part 1      Preliminary
Section 1 Short title      1
Section 2 Commencement     1
Section 3 Definitions      1
Section 4 Homes 3
Section 4A New homes  3
Section 5 Ownership of land and homes 4
Section 6 Spouses    6
Part 2      First home owner grant
Division 1  Entitlement to grant
Section 7 Entitlement to grant   6
Division 2  Eligibility criteria (applicants)
Section 8 Criterion 1 – Applicant to be a natural person and at least 18 years
         of age   7
Section 9 Criterion 2 – Applicant to be Australian citizen or permanent
         resident 7
Section 10 Criterion 3 – Applicant (or applicant's spouse or de facto partner)
         must not have received an earlier grant or discount   7
Section 11 Criterion 4 – Applicant (or applicant's spouse or de facto partner)
         must not have had relevant interest in residential property      8
Section 12 Criterion 5 – Residence requirements   9
Section 12A Ineligibility – threshold amount exceeded    10
Division 3  Eligible transactions
Section 13 Eligible transaction   11
Section 13AA Transactions that are not eligible transactions    14
Division 4  Application for grant
Section 14 Application for grant  16
Section 15 All interested persons to join in application      16
Section 16 Application on behalf of person under legal disability  17
Division 5  Decision on application
Section 17 Commissioner to decide applications    17
Section 18 Amount of grant  17
Section 19 Payment of grant 19
Section 20 Conditions generally   19
Section 21 Death of applicant     20
Section 22 Power to correct decision   20
Section 23 Notification of decision    20
Part 3      Administration
Division 1  Administration generally
Section 29 Administration   21
Section 30 Delegation 21
Section 30A Granting of approvals and exemptions   22
Division 3  Incorrect applications and amounts incorrectly paid
Section 41 Power to recover amount paid in error etc.   22
Part 4      Miscellaneous
Section 42 Misleading statements and documents    25
Section 43A Time for bringing prosecutions    25
Section 44 Legal immunity   26
Section 45 Continuing offences    26
Section 45A Valuation of property  26
Section 46 Service of documents   27
Section 47 Appearances by Commissioner 27
Section 48 Evidence   28
Section 49 Standing appropriation 28
Section 50 Regulations      28
Part 5      Transitional matters
Division 1  First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2007
Section 51 Objections and appeals 29
Division 2  Revenue Law Reform (Budget Initiatives) Act 2008
Section 52 Transitional provision (rates of interest on pre-existing
         liabilities)  29
Division 3  Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2009
Section 53 Application of limit on eligibility of transactions before
         commencement of Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2009     29
Division 4  Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2012
Section 54 Application of section 18 after 4 December 2012    30
Division 5  Treasury Legislation Amendment Act 2014
Section 55 Application of sections 13AA and 18 on and after 13 May 2014  31
Division 6  First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2024
Section 56 Application of amendments to section 13 – replacement contracts made
         on or after 1 October 2024     32
ENDNOTES
                       northern territory of australia
                            ____________________
                        As in force at 1 October 2025
                            ____________________
                       First Home Owner Grant act 2000
 AN ACT TO ENCOURAGE AND ASSIST HOME OWNERSHIP, AND TO OFFSET THE EFFECT OF
  THE GST ON THE ACQUISITION OF A FIRST HOME, BY ESTABLISHING A SCHEME FOR
                 THE PAYMENT OF GRANTS TO FIRST HOME OWNERS
Part 1      Preliminary
Section 1 Short title
         This Act may be cited as the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000.
Section 2 Commencement
         This Act comes into operation on 1 July 2000.
Section 3 Definitions
         In this Act:
         Agency employee means an employee within the meaning of the  Public
         Sector  Employment  and   Management   Act 1993   of   the   Agency
         administering this Act and includes  the  Chief  Executive  Officer
         within the meaning of that Act of that Agency.
         Australian citizen, see section 4  of  the  Australian  Citizenship
         Act 2007 (Cth).
         building includes part of a building.
         commencement date, in relation to an eligible transaction, has  the
         meaning in section 13(5).
         Commissioner means the  Commissioner  of  Territory  Revenue  or  a
         person acting in that position.
         completion, in relation to an eligible transaction, has the meaning
         in section 13(6).
         comprehensive home building contract means a contract under which a
         builder undertakes to build a home on land from  the  inception  of
         the building work  to  the  point  where  the  home  is  ready  for
         occupation and if, for any reason, the work to be carried out under
         such a contract is not completed,  includes  any  further  contract
         under which the work is to be completed.
         consideration, in relation to  an  eligible  transaction,  has  the
         meaning in section 13(8) to (9).
         corresponding law means an Act of a State or another  Territory  of
         the Commonwealth corresponding to this Act.
         eligibility criteria means the criteria prescribed in Division 2 of
         Part 2 for determining whether an applicant for a first home  owner
         grant is eligible for the grant.
         eligible transaction has the meaning in section 13(1).
         first home owner grant means a grant authorised under section 17.
         first home owner grant scheme means the scheme for payment of first
         home owner grants established under this Act.
         GST, see section 195-1 of A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax)
         Act 1999 (Cth).
         guardian, in  relation  to  a  person  under  a  legal  disability,
         includes a trustee who holds property on trust for the person under
         an instrument of trust or by order of a court or tribunal.
         home has the meaning in section 4.
         new home has the meaning in section 4A.
         option to purchase includes a right of pre-emption or  a  right  of
         first refusal.
         owner means:
         (a)      in relation to land, a person who has a relevant  interest
             in the land; and
         (b)      in relation to  a  home,  a  person  who  has  a  relevant
             interest in the land on which the home is built.
         owner builder means an owner of land who builds a home,  or  has  a
         home built, on the land without entering into a comprehensive  home
         building contract.
         permanent resident means:
         (a)      the holder of a  permanent  visa  within  the  meaning  of
             section 30 of the Migration Act 1958 of the Commonwealth; or
         (b)      a New Zealand citizen who holds a  special  category  visa
             within the meaning of section 32 of the Migration Act 1958  of
             the Commonwealth.
         relevant interest has the meaning in section 5(2), (3) and (4).
         residence requirements means the requirements under section 12.
         residential property means land in Australia on which  there  is  a
         building lawfully occupied as a place of residence or suitable  for
         occupation as a place of residence.
         statutory  interest  rate,  see  section   35   of   the   Taxation
         Administration Act 2007.
         threshold amount, for an eligible transaction, means:
         (a)      if the commencement date for  the  transaction  is  before
             4 December 2012 – $750 000; or
         (b)      if the commencement date for  the  transaction  is  on  or
             after 4 December 2012 – $600 000.
Section 4 Homes
         A home is a building (affixed to land) that:
         (a)      may lawfully be used as a place of residence; and
         (b)      is, in the Commissioner's opinion, a suitable building for
             use as a place of residence.
Section 4A New homes
      (1)   A home is a new home if:
         (a)      the home has not been previously occupied  or  sold  as  a
             place of residence; or
         (b)      all of the following apply:
             (i) the home is the subject of a contract for the purchase  of
                  the home;
             (ii)      the sale of the home is, under the A New Tax  System
                  (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth), a taxable  supply
                  as a sale  of  new  residential  premises  as  defined  in
                  section 40-75(1)(b) of that Act;
             (iii)     the  home  has  not,  since  being  renovated,  been
                  occupied or sold as a place of residence; or
         (c)      the Commissioner declares the home to be a new home  under
             subsection (2).
         Note for subsection (1)(b)(ii)
         Section 40-75(1)(b) of the A New  Tax  System  (Goods and  Services
         Tax) Act 1999 (Cth), relates to residential premises that have been
         created through substantial renovations of a building.
      (2)   The Commissioner may declare a home that is  the  subject  of  a
         transaction and would not otherwise be a new home, to be a new home
         in relation to that transaction if satisfied that:
         (a)      it would be a new home  but  for  the  fact  that  it  has
             previously been sold as a place of residence; and
         (b)      doing so  would  not  have  the  effect  of  circumventing
             limitations on, or requirements affecting, eligibility for  or
             entitlement to a first home owner grant imposed  by  or  under
             this Act.
      (3)   In this section:
         place of residence includes  a  building  occupied  as  residential
         accommodation (regardless of the duration of the occupation).
         Examples for subsection (3)
         A building occupied as residential accommodation  might  include  a
         hotel, serviced apartments or workers accommodation.
Section 5 Ownership of land and homes
      (1)   A person is an owner of a home or a home  owner  if  the  person
         has a relevant interest in land on which a home is built.
      (2)   Each of the following is, subject to subsection (3), a  relevant
         interest in land:
         (a)      an estate in fee simple in the land;
         (b)      a life estate in the land approved by the Commissioner;
         (c)      a perpetual lease of the land granted by the  Commonwealth
             or the Territory;
         (d)       a  leasehold  interest  in  the  land  granted   by   the
             Commonwealth or the Territory that may be converted under  the
             terms of the lease or by statute into an estate in fee simple;
         (e)      an interest as purchaser under a contract for the purchase
             of an estate in fee simple in the land by instalments;
         (f)       a  licence  or  right  of  occupancy   granted   by   the
             Commonwealth   or   the   Territory   that   gives,   in   the
             Commissioner's opinion, the licensee  or  the  holder  of  the
             right reasonable security of tenure;
         (g)      an interest as lessee or sublessee of  the  land  under  a
             long-term registered lease granted by the Commonwealth or  the
             Territory where the term of the lease is 15 years or more;
         (h)      an interest as lessee or sublessee of  the  land  under  a
             registered lease or sublease granted under section 19  or  19A
             of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern  Territory)  Act  1976
             (Cth) if the term of the lease is 15 years or more.
      (3)   Subject to subsection (4):
         (a)      an interest is not a relevant  interest  at  a  particular
             time unless the holder of  the  interest  has,  or  will  have
             within 12 months after that time (or a longer  period  allowed
             by the Commissioner), a right to immediate occupation  of  the
             land; and
         (b)      an interest is not a relevant interest in the hands  of  a
             person who holds it subject to a trust; and
         (c)      an equitable interest is not a relevant interest unless it
             is the interest of a person under a legal disability for  whom
             a guardian holds the interest in trust; and
         (d)      an interest is not a relevant interest if  the  holder  of
             the interest is the lessor  or  sublessor  under  a  lease  or
             sublease mentioned in section 5(2).
      (4)   The Regulations may provide for recognition of  an  interest  (a
         non-conforming interest) as a relevant interest:
         (a)      even though the interest may not conform  with  the  above
             provisions; and
         (b)      even though the interest may not be recognised at  law  or
             in equity as an interest in land.
      (5)   If a first home owner grant is to be paid in consequence of  the
         recognition of a non-conforming interest as  a  relevant  interest,
         the Commissioner may impose appropriate conditions on  the  payment
         of the grant to ensure its recovery if criteria prescribed  in  the
         Regulations about future conduct or events are not satisfied.
Section 6 Spouses
      (1)   If the Commissioner is satisfied that, at the time  of  deciding
         an application for a first home owner grant, an applicant:
         (a)      is married but not cohabiting with the person to whom  the
             applicant is married; and
         (b)      has no intention of resuming cohabitation,
         the person to whom the applicant is married is not to  be  regarded
         as the applicant's spouse.
      (2)   In this Act, a reference to an applicant's spouse  or  de  facto
         partner, in relation to an  application,  is  a  reference  to  the
         applicant's spouse or de facto partner at the commencement date  of
         the eligible transaction to which the application relates.
Part 2      First home owner grant
Division 1  Entitlement to grant
Section 7 Entitlement to grant
      (1)   A first home owner grant is  payable  on  an  application  under
         this Act if:
         (a)      the applicant or, if there are 2 or more of them, each  of
             the applicants complies with the eligibility criteria; and
         (b)      the transaction for which the grant is sought:
             (i) is an eligible transaction; and
             (ii)      has been completed.
      (2)   Despite subsection (1)(a), an applicant  need  not  comply  with
         the eligibility criteria to the extent the  applicant  is  exempted
         from compliance by or under this Act.
      (3)   Only one  first  home  owner  grant  is  payable  for  the  same
         eligible transaction.
Division 2  Eligibility criteria (applicants)
Section 8 Criterion 1 – Applicant to be a natural person and at least 18 years
         of age
      (1)   An applicant for a first home owner grant must be:
         (a)      a natural person; and
         (b)      at least 18 years of age at the commencement date  of  the
             eligible transaction.
      (2)   The Commissioner may exempt an applicant  from  the  requirement
         in subsection (1)(b) if the Commissioner is satisfied:
         (a)      the applicant will comply with the residence requirements;
             and
         (b)      the application does not have the effect of  circumventing
             limitations on, or requirements affecting, eligibility for  or
             entitlement to a first home owner grant imposed  by  or  under
             this Act.
      (3)   If an application is made by joint applicants  and  one  of  the
         applicants complies with subsection (1)(b), it is not necessary for
         the other or others to comply with that paragraph.
Section 9 Criterion 2 – Applicant to be Australian citizen or permanent
         resident
      (1)   Subject to subsection (2), an applicant for a first  home  owner
         grant must be an Australian citizen or a permanent resident at  the
         time of making the application.
      (2)   If an application is made by joint applicants  and  one  of  the
         applicants is an Australian citizen or a permanent resident at  the
         time of making the application, it is not necessary for  the  other
         or others to be Australian citizens or permanent residents.
Section 10 Criterion 3 – Applicant (or applicant's spouse or de facto partner)
         must not have received an earlier grant or discount
      (1)   Subject to subsection (2), an  applicant  is  ineligible  for  a
         first home owner grant if:
         (a)      the applicant  or  the  applicant's  spouse  or  de  facto
             partner has been a party to an earlier application under  this
             Act or a corresponding law; and
         (b)      a grant was paid on the application.
      (2)   However, an applicant is not  ineligible  under  subsection  (1)
         if:
         (a)      the grant was later paid back; and
         (b)      any amount payable as a penalty or as  interest  was  also
             paid in relation to the earlier application.
      (3)   An applicant is ineligible for a first home owner grant  if  the
         applicant or the applicant's spouse or de facto partner:
         (a)      could have successfully applied for  a  first  home  owner
             grant under this Act or a corresponding law in respect  of  an
             earlier transaction to which he or she was a party but did not
             do so; or
         (b)      could, assuming that he or she had then been an Australian
             citizen or a permanent resident, have successfully applied for
             a first home owner grant under this Act or a corresponding law
             in respect of an earlier transaction to which he or she was  a
             party.
      (4)   An applicant is ineligible for a first home owner grant if:
         (a)      the applicant, or  the  applicant's  spouse  or  de  facto
             partner, received the first home owner discount under  section
             89AA of the Stamp Duty Act 1978  in  relation  to  an  earlier
             conveyance; and
         (b)      the duty that would have been payable under that  Act  but
             for that discount has not been paid.
Section 11 Criterion 4 – Applicant (or applicant's spouse or de facto partner)
         must not have had relevant interest in residential property
      (1)   An applicant is ineligible for a first home owner grant  if  the
         applicant or the applicant's spouse or de facto partner held before
         1 July 2000:
         (a)       a  relevant  interest  in  residential  property  in  the
             Territory; or
         (b)      an interest in residential property in a State or  another
             Territory of the Commonwealth  that  is  a  relevant  interest
             under the corresponding law of that State or Territory.
      (2)   In working out for the purposes of  subsection  (1)  whether  an
         applicant held a relevant interest (within the meaning of this  Act
         or a corresponding law) in residential  property  at  a  particular
         time, any deferment of the applicant's right of occupation  because
         the property was subject to a lease is to be disregarded.
      (3)   An applicant is ineligible for a first home owner grant  if  the
         applicant or the applicant's spouse or de facto partner has, on  or
         after 1 July 2000 and before the commencement date of the  eligible
         transaction to which the application relates, held an  interest  in
         property used at any time on or after 1 July 2000 as the  residence
         of the applicant or the applicant's spouse  or  de  facto  partner,
         being:
         (a)       a  relevant  interest  in  residential  property  in  the
             Territory; or
         (b)      an interest in residential property in a State or  another
             Territory of the Commonwealth  that  is  a  relevant  interest
             under the corresponding law of that State or Territory.
      (4)   However, for subsection (3), the applicant  or  the  applicant's
         spouse or de facto partner is taken not to have used  the  property
         as the residence of the applicant or the applicant's spouse  or  de
         facto partner if:
         (a)      the property was the subject  of  an  earlier  application
             under this Act or a corresponding law by the applicant or  the
             applicant's spouse or de facto partner; and
         (b)      a first home  owner  grant  was  paid  under  the  earlier
             application; and
         (c)      the applicant  or  the  applicant's  spouse  or  de  facto
             partner repaid the grant.
      (5)   Also, for subsection  (3),  the  applicant  or  the  applicant's
         spouse or de facto partner is taken not to have used  the  property
         as the residence of the applicant or the applicant's spouse  or  de
         facto partner if:
         (a)      the property was the subject  of  an  earlier  application
             under this Act or a corresponding law by the applicant or  the
             applicant's spouse or de facto partner; and
         (b)      a first home owner grant was not paid  under  the  earlier
             application  because  the  Commissioner  did  not  exempt  the
             applicant or the applicant's spouse or de facto  partner  from
             the requirement in section 8(1)(b).
Section 12 Criterion 5 – Residence requirements
      (1)   An applicant for a first home owner grant must occupy  the  home
         to which the application relates as the applicant's principal place
         of residence unless the applicant is exempt under subsection (3)(b)
         or (4).
      (2)   That occupation of the home must:
         (a)      start within 12 months after completion  of  the  eligible
             transaction,   or   a    longer    period    approved    under
             subsection (3)(a)(i); and
         (b)      continue for a continuous period of:
             (i) if the commencement date of the eligible transaction is on
                  or after 1 October 2024 but before 1  October  2026  –  at
                  least 12  months,  or  a  shorter  period  approved  under
                  subsection (3)(a)(ii); or
             (ii)      if the commencement date of the eligible transaction
                  is before 1 October 2024 or on or after 1 October  2026  –
                  at least 6 months, or  a  shorter  period  approved  under
                  subsection (3)(a)(ii).
       (3)    If  satisfied  there  are  special  reasons  to  do  so,   the
         Commissioner may:
         (a)      approve either or both of the following for an applicant:
             (i) a longer period for subsection (2)(a);
             (ii)      a shorter period for subsection (2)(b); or
         (b)       exempt  an   applicant   from   the   requirement   under
             subsection (1).
      (4)   An applicant is exempt from  the  requirement  under  subsection
         (1) if:
         (a)      the commencement date for the  transaction  to  which  the
             application relates is on or after 28 April 2015; and
         (b)      at least one other applicant to the  application  complies
             with the requirement under subsection (1).
Section 12A Ineligibility – threshold amount exceeded
      (1)   Despite sections 10(2) and 11(4),  an  applicant  is  ineligible
         for a first home owner grant if:
         (a)      the applicant or applicant's spouse or  de  facto  partner
             was paid a grant on an earlier application under this Act or a
             corresponding law for a home used  as  the  residence  of  the
             applicant, applicant's spouse or de facto partner; and
         (b)      that transaction is not an eligible transaction under:
             (i) section 13AA(1)(b), (c), (d) or (e) because the  threshold
                  amount is exceeded; or
             (ii)      an  equivalent  provision  of  a  corresponding  law
                  because the threshold  amount  (however  described)  under
                  that law is exceeded (regardless  of  whether  the  amount
                  under that law is the same as under this Act).
         Note for subsection (1)
         Under section 41, an applicant is required to repay a grant if  the
         unencumbered value or consideration for the transaction results  in
         it not being an eligible transaction.
      (2)   Subsection  (1)  applies  even  if  the  applicant,  applicant's
         spouse or de facto partner:
         (a)      repaid the amount of the grant; and
         (b)      paid any penalty or interest in relation  to  the  earlier
             application.
Division 3  Eligible transactions
Section 13 Eligible transaction
      (1)   An eligible transaction is:
         (a)      a contract made on or after 1 July 2000 for  the  purchase
             of a home in the Territory:
             (i) if the contract was made before 1 January 2015  –  whether
                  or not the home is a new home; or
             (ii)      if the contract was made on or after 1 January  2015
                  but before 1 October 2024 – only if  the  home  is  a  new
                  home; or
             (iii)     if the contract is made on or after 1  October  2024
                  but before 1 October 2025 – whether or not the home  is  a
                  new home; or
             (iv)      if the contract is made on or after 1 October 2025 –
                  only if the home is a new home; or
         (b)      a comprehensive home building contract made  on  or  after
             1 July 2000 by the owner of land in the Territory, or a person
             who will on completion of the contract be the owner of land in
             the Territory, to have a home built on the land; or
         (c)      the building of a  home  in  the  Territory  by  an  owner
             builder if the building work commences on or after 1 July 2000
             and:
             (i) the  commencement  date  for  the  transaction  is  before
                  1 January 2015; or
             (ii)      the commencement date for the transaction is  on  or
                  after 1 January 2015 and one of the following applies:
                  (A)   the  transaction  is  not  a  transaction  to  which
                      subsection (7) applies; or
                  (B)   if  the  transaction  is  a  transaction  to   which
                      subsection (7) applies – the home is a new home.
      (2)   A contract is a contract for the  purchase  of  a  home  if  the
         contract is a contract for the acquisition of a  relevant  interest
         in land on which a home is built.
      (5)   The commencement date of an eligible transaction is:
         (a)      in the case of a contract for the purchase or construction
             of a home – the date when the contract is made; or
         (b)      in the case of the building of a home by an owner  builder
             other than a transaction to which subsection (7) applies:
             (i)  the  date  when  laying  the  foundations  for  the  home
                  commences; or
             (ii)      another date the Commissioner considers  appropriate
                  in the circumstances of the case; or
         (c)      in the case of  a  transaction  to  which  subsection  (7)
             applies – the date referred to in subsection (7)(b).
      (6)   Subject to  any  qualifications  prescribed  by  regulation,  an
         eligible transaction is completed:
         (a)      in the case of a contract for  the  purchase  of  a  home,
             when:
             (i) the purchaser becomes entitled to possession of  the  home
                  under the contract; and
             (ii)      if the purchaser is to obtain a registered title  to
                  the land on which the home is  situated  –  the  necessary
                  steps to obtain registration of the purchaser's title have
                  been taken; or
         (b)      in the case of a contract to have a home built – when  the
             building is ready for occupation as a place of residence; or
         (c)      in the case of the building of a home by an owner  builder
             other than a transaction to which  subsection  (7)  applies  –
             when the building is  ready  for  occupation  as  a  place  of
             residence; or
         (d)      in the case of  a  transaction  to  which  subsection  (7)
             applies – when the event  referred  to  in  subsection  (7)(c)
             occurs.
      (7)   If a person purchases a building and intends  to  use  it  as  a
         place of residence on land in  which  the  person  has  a  relevant
         interest but on which it is not situated at the time of purchase:
         (a)      this Act applies as if the person were  an  owner  builder
             building a home on the land; and
         (b)      the commencement date of the transaction is to be taken to
             be the date of the contract to purchase the building; and
         (c)      the transaction is to be taken to be  completed  when  the
             building is ready for occupation as a place  of  residence  on
             land in which the purchaser has a relevant interest.
      (8)   The consideration for an eligible transaction is:
         (a)      in the case of a contract for the purchase of a home – the
             consideration for the purchase; or
         (b)      in the case of a comprehensive home  building  contract  –
             the total consideration payable for the building work; or
         (c)      in the case of the building of a home by an owner  builder
             – the actual costs to the  owner  of  carrying  out  the  work
             (excluding any allowance for the owner builder's own labour).
      (8A)  The consideration for an eligible transaction does  not  include
         rent given for a lease or sublease mentioned in section 5(2).
      (9)   The consideration for an eligible transaction includes  any  GST
         payable in relation to the transaction.
Section 13AA Transactions that are not eligible transactions
       (1)    Each  of  the  following  transactions  is  not  an   eligible
         transaction:
         (a)      a contract made on or after 1 July 2000 for  the  purchase
             or construction of a home if:
             (i) for a contract to purchase a home – the purchaser  had  an
                  option to purchase the home granted before  that  date  or
                  the vendor had an  option  to  require  the  purchaser  to
                  purchase the home granted before that date; or
             (ii)      for a comprehensive home building contract –  either
                  party had a right or option granted before  that  date  to
                  require the other party to enter into the contract;
         (b)      a contract for the purchase of a home, comprehensive  home
             building contract or building of a home by an  owner  builder,
             if:
             (i) the transaction is a threshold-relevant transaction; and
             (ii)      the consideration for the transaction (including any
                  GST payable in relation to it) is more than the  threshold
                  amount;
         (c)      a contract for the purchase of a home if:
             (i) the contract is a threshold-relevant transaction; and
             (ii)      the total of the following amounts is more than  the
                  threshold amount:
                  (A)  the unencumbered value of the home;
                  (B)  the unencumbered value, at the date the  contract  is
                      made, of the relevant interest in the land  on  which
                      the home is built or to be built;
         (d)      a comprehensive home building contract if:
             (i) the contract is a threshold-relevant transaction; and
             (ii)      the total of the following amounts is more than  the
                  threshold amount:
                  (A)  the consideration for the transaction (including  any
                      GST payable in relation to it);
                  (B)  the unencumbered value, at the date the  contract  is
                      made, of the relevant interest in the land  on  which
                      the home is to be built;
         (e)      the building of a home by an owner builder if:
             (i) the transaction is a threshold-relevant transaction; and
             (ii)      the total of the following amounts, at the date  the
                  home is ready for occupation as a place of  residence,  is
                  more than the threshold amount:
                  (A)  the unencumbered value of the home;
                  (B)  the unencumbered value of the  relevant  interest  in
                      the land on which the home is built.
      (2)   However, subsection (1)(a) does not apply  if  the  Commissioner
         declares the contract to be an eligible transaction.
       (3)    The  Commissioner  may  make  the  declaration  only  if   the
         Commissioner is satisfied the contract does not have the effect  of
         circumventing   limitations   on,   or   requirements    affecting,
         eligibility or entitlement to a first home owner grant  imposed  by
         or under this Act.
      (4)   In this section:
         encumbrances includes a debt or liability that might give rise to a
         right of recourse against the property.
         threshold-relevant transaction means:
         (a)      a transaction the commencement date  of  which  is  before
             13 May 2014; or
         (b)      a contract for the purchase of a home if:
             (i) the commencement date of  the  contract  is  on  or  after
                  13 May 2014 but before 1 January 2015; and
             (ii)      the home is not a new home; or
         (c)      a transaction that is  the  building  of  a  home  in  the
             Territory by an owner builder if:
             (i) the transaction is a transaction to  which  section  13(7)
                  applies; and
             (ii)      the commencement date of the transaction  is  on  or
                  after 13 May 2014 but before 1 January 2015; and
             (iii)     the home is not a new home.
         unencumbered value, of a home or relevant interest in land, is  the
         full  value  of  the  home   or   interest   (without   regard   to
         encumbrances), and includes  the  amount  of  any  GST  payable  in
         relation to the supply of the home or relevant interest.
Division 4  Application for grant
Section 14 Application for grant
      (1)   An application for a first home owner grant is  to  be  made  to
         the Commissioner.
      (2)   An application:
         (a)      must be in a form approved by the Commissioner; and
         (b)      must contain the information required by the  Commissioner
             about the applicant and the applicant's  spouse  or  de  facto
             partner; and
         (c)      must be signed by the applicant and, if  required  by  the
             Commissioner, the applicant's spouse or de facto partner.
      (3)   An applicant and the applicant's  spouse  or  de  facto  partner
         must provide the Commissioner  with  any  further  information  the
         Commissioner requires to decide the application.
      (4)   Information provided by an applicant or  an  applicant's  spouse
         or de facto partner in or in relation to an  application  must,  if
         the Commissioner so requires, be verified by statutory  declaration
         or supported by other evidence required by the Commissioner.
       (5)    An  application  may  only  be  made  within  a  period   (the
         application period):
         (a)      commencing  on  the  commencement  date  of  the  eligible
             transaction to which the application relates; and
         (b)      ending 12 months after  the  completion  of  the  eligible
             transaction to which the application relates.
       (6)    However,  the  Commissioner  has  a  discretion  to  allow  an
         application to be made before or after the application period.
      (7)   An applicant may, with  the  Commissioner's  consent,  amend  an
         application.
Section 15 All interested persons to join in application
      (1)   All interested persons must be applicants.
      (2)   An interested person  is  a  person  who  is,  or  will  be,  on
         completion of the eligible transaction  to  which  the  application
         relates, an owner of the relevant home other than a person  who  is
         excluded  from  the  application  of   this   section   under   the
         Regulations.
Section 16 Application on behalf of person under legal disability
      (1)   An application for a first home  owner  grant  may  be  made  on
         behalf of a person under a legal disability by a guardian.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining  eligibility,  the  person  under
         the legal disability is to be regarded as the applicant.
Division 5  Decision on application
Section 17 Commissioner to decide applications
      (1)   If the Commissioner is satisfied that a first home  owner  grant
         is payable on an application, the Commissioner must  authorise  the
         payment of the grant.
      (2)   The Commissioner may authorise  the  payment  of  a  first  home
         owner grant  before  completion  of  the  eligible  transaction  if
         satisfied that:
         (a)      there are special reasons for doing so; and
         (b)      the interests of the Territory can be adequately protected
             by  conditions  requiring  repayment  of  the  grant  if   the
             transaction is not completed within a reasonable time.
      (2A)  In addition, the Commissioner may authorise  the  payment  of  a
         first  home  owner  grant  before  completion   of   the   eligible
         transaction if satisfied the interests  of  the  Territory  can  be
         adequately protected by conditions requiring repayment of the grant
         should it not be an eligible transaction under  section 13AA(1)(b),
         (c), (d) or (e).
      (3)   The Commissioner may authorise payment of  a  first  home  owner
         grant in anticipation of compliance with the residence requirements
         if the Commissioner is satisfied that  each  applicant  intends  to
         comply with the residence requirements.
Section 18 Amount of grant
      (1)   The amount of a first home owner grant  is  the  lesser  of  the
         following:
         (a)      the amount of consideration actually paid for the eligible
             transaction;
         (b)      the amount applying under subsections (2) to (3F).
       (2)    If  the  commencement  date  for  the  transaction  is  before
         4 December 2012, the amount for subsection (1)(b) is $7 000.
      (3)   If the commencement date for the  transaction  is  on  or  after
         4 December 2012  but  before  13   May   2014,   the   amount   for
         subsection (1)(b) is:
         (a)      if the home is an established home in  the  urban  area  –
             $12 000; or
         (b)      otherwise – $25 000.
      (3A)  If the commencement date for the  transaction  is  on  or  after
         13 May 2014  but  before   1   January   2015,   the   amount   for
         subsection (1)(b) is:
         (a)      if the home is an established home in  the  urban  area  –
             $12 000; or
         (b)      if the home is a new home – $26 000; or
         (c)      otherwise – $25 000.
      (3B)  If the commencement date for the  transaction  is  on  or  after
         1 January  2015  but  before   7   May   2019,   the   amount   for
         subsection (1)(b) is $26 000.
      (3C)  If the commencement date for the  transaction  is  on  or  after
         7 May 2019  but   before   1   October   2024,   the   amount   for
         subsection (1)(b) is $10 000.
      (3D)  If the commencement date for the  transaction  is  on  or  after
         1 October 2024 but before 1 October 2025, the amount for subsection
         (1)(b) is:
         (a)      if the home is a new home – $50 000; or
         (b)      otherwise – $10 000.
      (3E)  If the commencement date for the  transaction  is  on  or  after
         1 October 2025 but before 1 October 2026, the amount for subsection
         (1)(b) is $50 000.
      (3F)  If the commencement date for the  transaction  is  on  or  after
         1 October 2026, the amount for subsection (1)(b) is $10 000.
      (4)   A home is an established home in the urban area if:
         (a)      the land on which the home is or will be built is,  as  at
             the commencement date for  the  eligible  transaction,  wholly
             within the urban area; and
         (b)      the home is not a new home.
      (6)   In this section:
         urban area means:
         (a)      the Municipalities of Darwin,  Palmerston  and  Litchfield
             and the Shire of Wagait; and
         (b)      Prescribed  Area  A  described  in  the  Schedule  to  the
             Northern Territory Rates Regulations 1971; and
         (c)      the Darwin Waterfront Precinct specified under  section  4
             of the Darwin Waterfront Corporation Act 2006; and
         (d)      any other area prescribed by regulation.
Section 19 Payment of grant
      (1)   A first home owner grant is  to  be  paid  by  electronic  funds
         transfer, by cheque or in any other  way  the  Commissioner  thinks
         appropriate.
      (2)   A first home owner grant is to be paid:
         (a)      to the applicant; or
         (b)      to some other person to  whom  the  applicant  directs  in
             writing that the grant be paid.
Section 20 Conditions generally
      (1)   The Commissioner may authorise  the  payment  of  a  first  home
         owner grant on conditions the Commissioner considers appropriate.
      (2)   The Commissioner may at any time amend  or  cancel  a  condition
         imposed  on  a  first  home  owner  grant  under  section  5(5)  or
         subsection (1) of this section.
      (3)   If the Commissioner amends or cancels a  condition  of  a  first
         home owner grant, the Commissioner must give the  person  on  whose
         application the grant was paid written notice of the  decision  and
         the date the decision takes effect.
Section 21 Death of applicant
      (1)   An application for a first  home  owner  grant  does  not  lapse
         because an applicant dies before the application is decided.
      (2)   If an applicant dies before  the  application  is  decided,  the
         following provisions apply:
         (a)      if the deceased was one of 2 or more applicants and one or
             more applicants survive – the application is to be dealt  with
             as if the surviving applicants were the sole applicants;
         (b)      in any other case – a first home owner grant,  if  payable
             on the application, is  to  be  paid  to  the  estate  of  the
             deceased.
      (3)   If a deceased applicant for a first home owner  grant  had  not,
         by the date of death, occupied the home to  which  the  application
         relates as the applicant's principal place  of  residence  but  the
         Commissioner is satisfied that he or she intended  to  comply  with
         the  residence  requirements,  the   residence   requirements   are
         satisfied.
Section 22 Power to correct decision
         If the Commissioner decides an application and is  later  satisfied
         (independently of an  objection  under  Part  11  of  the  Taxation
         Administration Act  2007)  that  the  decision  is  incorrect,  the
         Commissioner may vary or reverse the decision.
Section 23 Notification of decision
      (1)   When the Commissioner decides an application or decides to  vary
         or reverse an earlier decision on an application, the  Commissioner
         must give the applicant notice of the decision.
      (2)   If the decision is to grant the application without  conditions,
         the payment of the first home owner grant is sufficient  notice  of
         the decision.
      (3)   If the decision is to refuse  the  application  or  to  vary  or
         reverse an earlier decision on  an  application,  the  Commissioner
         must state in the notice the reasons for the decision.
Part 3      Administration
Division 1  Administration generally
Section 29 Administration
         The Commissioner has the general administration of this Act.
Section 30 Delegation
      (1)   The Commissioner may delegate any of the  Commissioner's  powers
         or functions under this Act.
      (2)   Without limiting subsection  (1),  the  Commissioner  may  enter
         into  an  arrangement  (an  administration  arrangement)   with   a
         financial institution or other person under which:
         (a)      the Commissioner delegates powers or functions related  to
             the administration of the first home owner grant scheme; and
         (b)      the financial institution or other person is  required  to
             carry out the delegated powers or functions in accordance with
             specified conditions.
      (3)   The conditions of  an  administration  arrangement  may  include
         conditions prescribed by regulation.
       (4)    If   an   administration   arrangement   includes   prescribed
         conditions,  a  financial  institution   or   other   person   that
         contravenes a prescribed condition commits an offence.
         Maximum penalty:    100 penalty units.
         Note for Division 1
         It should be noted that:
         (a)      Part 9 of the Taxation  Administration  Act 2007  provides
             for the conduct  of  authorised  investigations  into  matters
             relevant to the administration and enforcement  of  this  Act;
             and
         (b)      Part 10 of the Taxation Administration Act 2007 deals with
             confidential  information  obtained  in  the  course  of   the
             administration of this Act; and
         (c)      Part 11 of the Taxation Administration  Act 2007  provides
             for objections, reviews and appeals in relation  to  decisions
             made in the course of the administration of this Act.
Section 30A Granting of approvals and exemptions
      (1)   If a provision of this Act allows the  Commissioner  to  approve
         an extension of the time within which something is required  to  be
         done or to occur, the Commissioner may grant the approval  even  if
         the time within which the thing is required to be done or to  occur
         has expired.
      (2)   If a provision of this Act allows the Commissioner to approve  a
         shorter period as the period for which  a  person  is  required  to
         occupy a home as a principal place of residence,  the  Commissioner
         may grant the approval even if the person's occupation of the  home
         as a principal place of residence has already ceased.
      (3)   If a provision of this Act allows the Commissioner to  exempt  a
         person from a requirement, the Commissioner may grant the exemption
         even  if  the  person  has  already  failed  to  comply  with   the
         requirement.
Division 3  Incorrect applications and amounts incorrectly paid
Section 41 Power to recover amount paid in error etc.
      (1)   This section applies to a person on whose  application  a  first
         home owner grant was paid if:
         (a)      the person was not entitled to the grant under section  7;
             or
         (b)      the grant is paid before completion of a  transaction  and
             on completion the consideration for it results in it not being
             an eligible transaction under section 13AA(1)(b) or (d); or
         (c)      the grant was paid in anticipation of compliance with  the
             residence requirements and the person fails to comply with the
             requirements; or
         (d)      the Commissioner imposed a condition on  the  grant  under
             section 5(5) or 20 and the person breaches the condition; or
         (e)      an overpayment of the  amount  to  which  the  person  was
             entitled occurs.
       (2)    The  person  must,  within  the  required  time  mentioned  in
         subsection (2A):
         (a)      give written  notice  to  the  Commissioner  of  the  non-
             entitlement,   ineligibility,   failure,   breach    or    the
             overpayment; and
         (b)      pay to  the  Commissioner  the  amount  of  the  grant  or
             overpayment.
      (2A)  The required time is:
         (a)      for  non-entitlement  mentioned  in  subsection  (1)(a)  –
             30 days after the grant was paid; or
         (b)      for ineligibility mentioned in subsection (1)(b) – 30 days
             after the earlier of the following:
             (i) completion of the transaction;
             (ii)      the date on which it first became apparent that  the
                  transaction would not be an eligible transaction; or
         (c)      for failure to  comply  with  the  residence  requirements
             mentioned in subsection (1)(c) – 30 days after the earlier  of
             the following:
             (i) the date by which the person  was  to  have  occupied  the
                  home;
             (ii)      the date on which it first became apparent that  the
                  residence requirements would not be complied  with  during
                  the period allowed for compliance; or
         (d)      for breach of a condition or an overpayment  mentioned  in
             subsection (1)(d)  or  (e)  –  30 days  after  the  breach  or
             overpayment occurred.
      (3)   If a person to whom this section applies fails to pay an  amount
         as required by subsection (2):
         (a)      the person in default must pay interest on the  amount  in
             default from the date liability to make the payment  fell  due
             until the date payment is actually made; and
         (b)      the Commissioner may, by notice in writing to the person:
             (i) state why the amount in default must be paid; and
             (ii)      require payment of the amount in default  within  30
                  days after the date of the notice; and
             (iii)      impose  a  penalty  equivalent  to  the  amount  in
                  default; and
         (c)      if the amount  in  default  (together  with  interest  and
             penalty) is not paid within 30  days  from  the  date  of  the
             notice, then, as from the end of that period, interest accrues
             on the penalty (in addition to the interest  already  accruing
             on the amount originally in default).
      (4)   An amount required to be paid to  the  Commissioner  under  this
         section is a debt due to the Territory and  may  be  sued  for  and
         recovered in a court of competent jurisdiction by the  Commissioner
         suing in his or her official name.
      (5)   If a person who is liable to pay an amount  under  this  section
         has an interest in the home for which the first  home  owner  grant
         was paid, the liability is an overriding statutory  charge,  within
         the meaning of the Land Title Act 2000, on the person's interest in
         that home.
      (6)   The Commissioner  may  enter  into  an  arrangement  (which  may
         include provision for the payment of interest)  for  payment  of  a
         liability outstanding under this section by instalments.
      (7)   The Commissioner may remit the whole or any part  of  a  penalty
         or interest payable under this section.
      (8)   A person who fails to comply with subsection  (2)  or  a  notice
         under subsection (3) commits a regulatory offence.
         Maximum penalty:    50 penalty units.
      (9)   A person who breached a condition on payment  of  a  first  home
         owner  grant  may  be  found   guilty   of   an   offence   against
         subsection (8) even  if  the  condition  breached  is  subsequently
         amended or cancelled.
      (10)  Subsection (9) applies despite section 14 of the Criminal Code.
      (11)  If a first home owner grant was paid on the application of 2  or
         more persons, the liability of those persons under this section  is
         joint and several.
      (12)  Interest accrues under this section at  the  statutory  interest
         rate as in force from time to time.
Part 4      Miscellaneous
Section 42 Misleading statements and documents
      (1)   A person must not make a statement to a person who  is  carrying
         out functions for, or related to, the administration  of  this  Act
         (an official) that is misleading in a material particular.
         Fault element:      Awareness that  the  statement  is  or  may  be
                            misleading or reckless indifference to  whether
                            the statement is or may be misleading.
         Maximum penalty:    Imprisonment for 2 years.
      (2)    A  person  must  not  give  an  official  a  document  that  is
         misleading in a material particular.
         Fault element:      Awareness  that  the  document  is  or  may  be
                            misleading or reckless indifference to  whether
                            the document is or may be misleading.
         Maximum penalty:    Imprisonment for 2 years.
      (3)   This  section  extends  to  a  statement  or  document  that  is
         misleading because of the omission of relevant information as  well
         as to one that is misleading because it consists of,  or  includes,
         misinformation.
      (4)   However, no offence is committed against subsection (2)  if  the
         person, when giving the document to the official:
         (a)      draws  the  misleading  aspect  of  the  document  to  the
             official's attention; and
         (b)      to the extent the person can reasonably do so,  gives  the
             official the information necessary to correct the document.
Section 43A Time for bringing prosecutions
         A proceeding for an offence against this Act must be commenced:
         (a)      if alleged to have been committed before  1  July  2008  –
             within 3 years after the  offence  is  alleged  to  have  been
             committed; or
         (b)      if alleged to have been committed on or after 1 July  2008
             – within 5 years after the offence is  alleged  to  have  been
             committed.
Section 44 Legal immunity
      (1)   This section applies to the following persons:
         (a)      a person who is or has been the Commissioner;
         (b)      a person who is or has been an Agency employee;
         (c)      a person to whom a power or function of  the  Commissioner
             is or has been delegated under section 30;
         (d)      a person who is or has been an employee or agent of such a
             delegate.
      (2)   No civil or criminal proceedings lie against a  person  to  whom
         this section applies in relation to an act done or  omitted  to  be
         done in good faith in the performance or purported performance of a
         function, or the exercise or purported exercise of a  power,  under
         this Act.
      (3)   Subsection (2) does not affect any liability that the  Territory
         would, but for that subsection,  have  in  respect  of  an  act  or
         omission.
Section 45 Continuing offences
      (1)   If, in committing an offence against a provision of this Act  or
         the Regulations, a person fails to do an act within  the  time  for
         doing the act specified  in  the  provision,  in  addition  to  the
         offence for failure to do the  act  within  the  time,  the  person
         commits an additional offence on each day after the expiry  of  the
         time during which the act continues not to be done.
      (2)   On being found guilty of an offence referred  to  in  subsection
         (1), a person is, in addition to the penalty for failure to do  the
         act within the time, liable to a penalty not  exceeding  1  penalty
         unit for each day after the expiry of the  time  during  which  the
         offence continues.
Section 45A Valuation of property
       (1)    For  determining  whether  a  transaction   is   an   eligible
         transaction, the Commissioner may:
         (a)      by written notice given to a relevant person, require  the
             person to lodge a written valuation  of  property  within  the
             time stated in the notice; or
         (b)      obtain a valuation  from  the  Valuer-General  or  another
             valuer.
       (3)    The  Commissioner  may  recover  the  cost  of  obtaining  the
         valuation as a debt due to the Territory by the relevant person.
      (4)   In this section:
         property means:
         (a)      a home; or
         (b)      land; or
         (c)      a relevant interest in land.
         relevant person, for a transaction, means an  applicant  or  former
         applicant  for  a  first  home  owner  grant  in  relation  to  the
         transaction.
         valuer means a certified practising valuer who is a member  of  the
         Australian Property Institute, and includes a person  who,  in  the
         Commissioner's opinion, has equivalent qualifications.
Section 46 Service of documents
         A document that is required by or under this Act  to  be  given  or
         served on a person is to be given or served:
         (a)      by delivering the document to the person personally; or
         (b)      by sending the document by prepaid post to the  person  at
             his or her last-known place of residence or business or, if he
             or she is carrying on business at 2 or more places, at one  of
             those places; or
         (c)      by sending the document by prepaid post to the  person  at
             his or her last-known postal address; or
         (d)      by  leaving  the  document  at  the  last-known  place  of
             residence of the person with some  person  who  is  apparently
             living at that place and who is apparently not  less  than  16
             years of age; or
         (e)      by  leaving  the  document  at  the  last-known  place  of
             business of the person  or,  if  he  or  she  is  carrying  on
             business at 2 or more places, at one of those places with some
             person who is apparently employed by the  person  and  who  is
             apparently not less than 16 years of age.
Section 47 Appearances by Commissioner
      (1)   In an action, prosecution or other proceeding under this Act  in
         a court,  the  Commissioner  may  appear  personally,  by  a  legal
         practitioner or by an officer appointed by the Commissioner.
      (2)   The appearance of an officer appointed under subsection (1)  and
         a statement by the officer that he or she appears by  authority  of
         the  Commissioner  are  together  sufficient   evidence   of   that
         authority.
Section 48 Evidence
      (1)   The production of:
         (a)      a notice of the Commissioner's decision in relation to  an
             application for a first home owner grant; or
         (b)      a document under the hand of the  Commissioner  purporting
             to be a copy of such a notice,
         is conclusive evidence of the due making of a decision in  relation
         to the application and (except in proceedings on a  review  of,  or
         appeal against, a decision under this Act) that all the particulars
         of the decision are correct.
      (2)   The production of a document under the hand of the  Commissioner
         purporting to be a copy of  a  document  issued  or  given  by  the
         Commissioner is conclusive evidence that the document was so issued
         or given.
      (3)   The production of a document under the hand of the  Commissioner
         purporting to be a copy of or extract from:
         (a)      an application for a first home owner grant; or
         (b)      a notice of the Commissioner's  decision  in  relation  to
             such an application; or
         (c)      a notice under  section  41(3)  requiring  payment  of  an
             amount,
         is evidence of the matter set forth in the document so produced  to
         the same extent as the original application or notice would  be  if
         it were produced.
Section 49 Standing appropriation
         The money required to pay first home owner grants  is  to  be  paid
         from the public moneys of the Territory and the  appropriation  for
         that purpose is established or increased to the extent necessary.
Section 50 Regulations
         The Administrator may make regulations, not inconsistent with  this
         Act, prescribing matters:
         (a)      required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed; or
         (b)      necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying  out
             or giving effect to this Act.
Part 5      Transitional matters
Division 1  First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2007
Section 51 Objections and appeals
      (1)   Objections against the Commissioner's decisions under  this  Act
         are, as from 1 January 2008, to be made and dealt with subject  to,
         and in accordance with, Part  11  of  the  Taxation  Administration
         Act 2007 (whether the decision was made before or after that  date)
         and any consequent appeal is also to be dealt with under that Part.
       (2)    If  an  objection  had  been  lodged  under  this  Act  before
         1 January 2008,  any  uncompleted  proceedings  arising  from   the
         objection (including a consequent appeal) are to be dealt  with  in
         accordance with the relevant laws of  the  Territory  as  in  force
         immediately before that date.
Division 2  Revenue Law Reform (Budget Initiatives) Act 2008
Section 52 Transitional provision (rates of interest on pre-existing
         liabilities)
      (1)   Interest accrues under section  41(3)  on  a  liability  arising
         before the commencement of the relevant amendment:
         (a)      up to the commencement of the relevant amendment – at  the
             rate  applicable  before  the  commencement  of  the  relevant
             amendment; and
         (b)      after the commencement of the relevant amendment – at  the
             rate prescribed by the relevant amendment.
      (2)   In this section:
         relevant amendment means the amendment made by Revenue  Law  Reform
         (Budget Initiatives) Act 2008 to section 41(12).
Division 3  Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2009
Section 53 Application of limit on eligibility of transactions before
         commencement of Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2009
       (1)    This  Act  continues  to  apply  in  relation  to  a  relevant
         application as if it had not been amended by Part 2, Division 3  of
         the amending Act.
      (2)   In this section:
         amending Act means the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2009.
         pre-amending Act transaction  means  an  eligible  transaction  for
         which the commencement date is earlier  than  the  commencement  of
         Part 2, Division 3 of the amending Act.
         relevant application means an application for a  first  home  owner
         grant that relates to a pre-amending Act transaction.
Division 4  Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2012
Section 54 Application of section 18 after 4 December 2012
      (1)   This section applies  to  an  eligible  transaction  that  is  a
         contract for the purchase of a home if:
         (a)      the contract replaces a contract to purchase the same or a
             substantially   similar   home   that    was    made    before
             4 December 2012; or
         (b)      the purchaser had an option to  purchase  the  same  or  a
             substantially   similar   home   that   was   granted   before
             4 December 2012; or
         (c)      the vendor had an  option  to  require  the  purchaser  to
             purchase the same or a substantially  similar  home  that  was
             granted before 4 December 2012.
      (2)   This section applies in  relation  to  an  eligible  transaction
         that is a comprehensive home building contract if:
         (a)      the contract replaces a contract to construct the same  or
             a  substantially   similar   home   that   was   made   before
             4 December 2012; or
         (b)      a party to the contract had a right or option  to  require
             the other party to enter into the contract  that  was  granted
             before 4 December 2012.
      (3)   If this section applies to an eligible transaction:
         (a)      the threshold amount for the transaction is $750 000; and
         (b)       the  amount  of  the  first  home  owner  grant  for  the
             transaction is the lesser of the following:
             (i) the amount of consideration actually paid for the eligible
                  transaction;
             (ii)      $7,000.
Division 5  Treasury Legislation Amendment Act 2014
Section 55 Application of sections 13AA and 18 on and after 13 May 2014
      (1)   This section applies to a transaction that  is  a  contract  for
         the purchase of a home if:
         (a)      the contract replaces a contract to purchase the same or a
             substantially similar home that was made during  the  relevant
             period; or
         (b)      the purchaser had an option to  purchase  the  same  or  a
             substantially  similar  home  that  was  granted  during   the
             relevant period; or
         (c)      the vendor had an  option  to  require  the  purchaser  to
             purchase the same or a substantially  similar  home  that  was
             granted during the relevant period.
      (2)   This section applies to a transaction that  is  a  comprehensive
         home building contract if:
         (a)      the contract replaces a contract to construct the same  or
             a substantially similar home that was made during the relevant
             period; or
         (b)      a party to the contract had a right or option  to  require
             the other party to enter into the contract  that  was  granted
             during the relevant period.
      (3)   If this section applies to a transaction:
         (a)      despite the definition of  threshold-relevant  transaction
             in section 13AA(4), the transaction  is  a  threshold-relevant
             transaction for the purposes of section 13AA; and
         (b)      the threshold amount for the transaction is $600 000.
      (4)   If, after taking into account subsection  (3),  the  transaction
         is an eligible transaction, the amount  of  the  first  home  owner
         grant for the eligible transaction is the lesser of:
         (a)      the amount of consideration actually paid for the eligible
             transaction; and
         (b)      the following:
             (i) if the home is an established home in the urban  area  (as
                  defined in section 18(4)) – $12 000;
             (ii)      otherwise – $25 000.
      (5)   In this section:
         relevant period means the period from 4  December  2012  to  12 May
         2014.
Division 6  First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2024
Section 56 Application of amendments to section 13 – replacement contracts made
         on or after 1 October 2024
      (1)   A contract for the purchase of a home is a replacement  contract
         if the contract:
         (a)       replaces  a  contract  to  purchase   the   same   or   a
             substantially   similar   home   that    was    made    before
             1 October 2024; or
         (b)      is made in exercise of an  option  the  purchaser  had  to
             purchase the same or a substantially  similar  home  that  was
             granted before 1 October 2024; or
         (c)      is made in exercise of an option the vendor had to require
             the purchaser to purchase the same or a substantially  similar
             home that was granted before 1 October 2024.
       (2)    A  comprehensive  home  building  contract  is  a  replacement
         contract if:
         (a)      the contract replaces a contract to construct the same  or
             a  substantially   similar   home   that   was   made   before
             1 October 2024; or
         (b)      a party to the contract had a right or option  to  require
             the other party to enter into the contract  that  was  granted
             before 1 October 2024.
      (3)   Section 13, as amended by the First Home Owner  Grant  Amendment
         Act 2024, applies to a replacement contract as if  the  replacement
         contract was made on the date on which  the  original  contract  or
         option mentioned in subsection  (1)  or  (2)  for  the  replacement
         contract was made or granted.
                                  ENDNOTES
Section 1 KEY
                            Key to abbreviations
amd = amended                     od = order
app = appendix                    om = omitted
bl = by-law                       pt = Part
ch = Chapter                            r = regulation/rule
cl = clause                       rem = remainder
div = Division                          renum = renumbered
exp = expires/expired                   rep = repealed
f = forms                         s = section
Gaz = Gazette                           sch = Schedule
hdg = heading                           sdiv = Subdivision
ins = inserted                          SL = Subordinate Legislation
lt = long title                         sub = substituted
nc = not commenced
Section 2 LIST OF LEGISLATION
|First Home Owner Grant Act 2000 (Act No. 33, 2000)                |
|Assent date          |27 June 2000                                |
|Commenced            |1 July 2000 (s 2)                           |
|First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2001 (Act No. 45, 2001)      |
|Assent date          |19 July 2001                                |
|Commenced            |9 March 2001 (s 2)                          |
|First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2002 (Act No. 22, 2002)      |
|Assent date          |7 June 2002                                 |
|Commenced            |ss 4(1) and 5: 9 October 2001;              |
|                     |ss 4(2), 6 and 7: 1 January 2002 (s 2)      |
|First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2003 (Act No. 38, 2003)      |
|Assent date          |30 June 2003                                |
|Commenced            |27 May 2003 (s 2)                           |
|Law Reform (Gender, Sexuality and De Facto Relationships) Act 2003|
|(Act No. 1, 2004)                                                 |
|Assent date          |7 January 2004                              |
|Commenced            |17 March 2004 (Gaz G11, 17 March 2004, p 8) |
|First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2004 (Act No. 28, 2004)      |
|Assent date          |28 April 2004                               |
|Commenced            |s 5: 10 November 2003; s 11(e): 1 December  |
|                     |2000; rem: 1 July 2004 (s 2, s 2 Land Title |
|                     |Act 2000 (Act No. 2, 2000) and Gaz G38,     |
|                     |27 September 2000, p 2)                     |
|Treasury Legislation and Consequential Amendment Act 2006 (Act No.|
|19, 2006)                                                         |
|Assent date          |28 June 2006                                |
|Commenced            |pt 1: 28 June 2006; pt 2: 2 May 2006; rem:  |
|                     |1 July 2006 (s 2)                           |
|Statute Law Revision Act 2007 (Act No. 4, 2007)                   |
|Assent date          |8 March 2007                                |
|Commenced            |8 March 2007                                |
|Legal Profession (Consequential Amendments) Act 2007 (Act No. 7,  |
|2007)                                                             |
|Assent date          |17 May 2007                                 |
|Commenced            |s 10: 1 July 2007; rem: 17 May 2007 (s 2 and|
|                     |Gaz G26, 27 June 2007, p 3)                 |
|Revenue (Budget Initiatives) Amendment Act 2007 (Act No. 12, 2007)|
|Assent date          |30 June 2007                                |
|Commenced            |pt 2, div 2 and pt 3, div 2: 1 May 2007;    |
|                     |rem: 1 July 2007 (s 2)                      |
|First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2007 (Act No. 25, 2007)      |
|Assent date          |29 October 2007                             |
|Commenced            |1 January 2008 (s 2)                        |
|Revenue Law Reform (Budget Initiatives) Act 2008 (Act No. 23,     |
|2008)                                                             |
|Assent date          |30 June 2008                                |
|Commenced            |pt 1, ss 3, 12(1), 18 and 19: 1 January     |
|                     |2008; ss 7, 10 and 11(1): 6 May 2008; rem: 1|
|                     |July 2008 (s 2)                             |
|First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2009 (Act No. 8, 2009)       |
|Assent date          |26 May 2009                                 |
|Commenced            |ss 3 to 6: 14 October 2008; rem: 26 May 2009|
|                     |(s 2)                                       |
|Financial Management Amendment Act 2009 (Act No. 15, 2009)        |
|Assent date          |18 June 2009                                |
|Commenced            |18 June 2009                                |
|Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2009 (Act No. 17, 2009)         |
|Assent date          |25 June 2009                                |
|Commenced            |pt 1 and pt 3, divs 1 and 2: 1 October 2008;|
|                     |pt 3, div 3: 6 May 2009; pt 2, divs 1 and 2,|
|                     |pt 3, div 4 and pts 4 and 5: June 2009; pt  |
|                     |3, div 5: 1 July 2009; pt 2, div 3 and pt 3,|
|                     |div 6: 1 January 2010 (s 2 and Gaz G49,     |
|                     |9 December 2009, p 3)                       |
|Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2010 (Act No. 21,     |
|2010)                                                             |
|Assent date          |30 June 2010                                |
|Commenced            |pt 2 and pt 4, divs 1 and 2: 4 May 2010;    |
|                     |rem: 1 July 2010 (s 2)                      |
|Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2011 (Act No. 21, 2011)         |
|Assent date          |24 June 2011                                |
|Commenced            |pt 2: 3 May 2011; rem: 1 July 2011 (s 2)    |
|Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2012 (Act No. 30,     |
|2012)                                                             |
|Assent date          |18 December 2012                            |
|Commenced            |pts 2 and 3: 4 December 2012; pt 4: 1       |
|                     |January 2013; rem: 18 December 2012 (s 2)   |
|Treasury Legislation Amendment Act 2014 (Act No. 24, 2014)        |
|Assent date          |26 June 2014                                |
|Commenced            |13 May 2014 (s 2)                           |
|Darwin Rates Amendment Act 2014 (Act No. 47, 2014)                |
|Assent date          |8 December 2014                             |
|Commenced            |11 February 2015 (Gaz G6, 11 February 2015, |
|                     |p 7)                                        |
|Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2015 (Act No. 18,     |
|2015)                                                             |
|Assent date          |23 June 2015                                |
|Commenced            |pt 2 and pt 5, divs 1 to 4: 28 April 2015;  |
|                     |pts 3 and 4, pt 5, divs 5 to 8 and pt 6: 1  |
|                     |July 2015; rem: 23 June 2015 (s 2)          |
|Stamp Duty Amendment (First Home Owner Discount) Act 2016 (Act No.|
|31, 2016)                                                         |
|Assent date          |13 July 2016                                |
|Commenced            |13 July 2016                                |
|Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2019 (Act No. 22, 2019)         |
|Assent date          |21 June 2019                                |
|Commenced            |pt 3: 21 June 2019; rem: 8 February 2019 (s |
|                     |2)                                          |
|Statute Law Amendment (NTCAT Conferral of Jurisdiction) Act 2023  |
|(Act No. 24, 2023)                                                |
|Assent date          |21 September 2023                           |
|Commenced            |27 November 2023 (Gaz G24, 23 November 2023,|
|                     |p 2)                                        |
|First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2024 (Act No. 21, 2024)      |
|Assent date          |9 December 2024                             |
|Commenced            |1 October 2024 (s 2)                        |
|First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2025 (Act No. 29, 2025)      |
|Assent date          |30 October 2025                             |
|Commenced            |1 October 2025 (s 2)                        |
Section 3 SAVINGS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
           s 4 First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2003 (Act No. 38, 2003)
           s 70 Law Reform (Gender, Sexuality and  De Facto  Relationships)
                 Act 2003 (Act No. 1, 2004)
           s 13 First Home Owner Grant Amendment  Act  2004  (Act  No.  28,
                 2004)
Section 4 GENERAL AMENDMENTS
           General amendments of a formal nature (which are not referred to
           in the table of amendments to this  reprint)  are  made  by  the
           Interpretation Legislation Amendment Act 2018 (Act No. 22, 2018)
           to: ss 1, 3, 10, 18, 30, 41 and 51.
Section 5 LIST OF AMENDMENTS
s 3   amd No. 1, 2004, s 62; No. 28, 2004, s 4; No. 25, 2007, s 4;  No.  23,
           2008, s 14; No. 8, 2009, s 7; No. 17, 2009, No. 30, 2012, s ss 4
           and 5; No. 21, 2010, s 4; No. 21, 2011, s 4; No. 30, 2012, s 11;
           No. 24, 2014, s 4
s 3A  ins No. 8, 2009, s 4
      rep No. 30, 2012, s 12
s 4   amd No. 8, 2009, s 7
s 4A  ins No. 24, 2014, s 5
s 5   amd No. 8, 2009, s 7; No. 21, 2010, s 5
s 6   amd No. 1, 2004, s 62; No. 19, 2006, s 9
s 8   sub No. 28, 2004, s 5
s 9   amd No. 19, 2006, s 10
s 10  amd No. 1, 2004, s 62; No. 28, 2004, s 6; No. 31, 2016, s 7
s 11  amd No. 1, 2004, s 62; No. 28, 2004, s 7; No. 19, 2006, ss 4  and  11;
           No. 21, 2010, s 37
s 12  amd No. 28, 2004, s 8; No. 19, 2006, s 12; No. 21, 2010, s 37
      sub No. 21, 2011, s 5
      amd No. 18, 2015, s 4; No. 21, 2024, s 4; No. 29, 2025, s 4
s 12A ins No. 17, 2009, s 6
s 13  amd No. 17, 2009, s 7; No. 21, 2010, ss 6 and 37; No. 24, 2014,  s  6;
           No. 21, 2024, s 5
s 13AA      ins No. 17, 2009, s 8
      amd No. 24, 2014, s 7
pt 2
div 3A hdg  ins No. 45, 2001, s 4
      exp s 13E 1 July 2002
      ins No. 8, 2009, s 5
      rep No. 30, 2012, s 13
s 13A ins No. 45, 2001, s 4
      exp s 13E 1 July 2002
      ins No. 8, 2009, s 5
      rep No. 30, 2012, s 13
s 13B ins No. 45, 2001, s 4
      amd No. 22, 2002, s 4
      exp s 13E 1 July 2002
      ins No. 8, 2009, s 5
      rep No. 30, 2012, s 13
s 13C ins No. 45, 2001, s 4
      amd No. 22, 2002, s 5
      exp s 13E 1 July 2002
      ins No. 8, 2009, s 5
      rep No. 30, 2012, s 13
s 13D ins No. 45, 2001, s 4
      amd No. 22, 2002, s 6
      exp s 13E 1 July 2002
      ins No. 8, 2009, s 5
      rep No. 30, 2012, s 13
s 13E ins No. 45, 2001, s 4
      amd No. 22, 2002, s 7
      exp s 13E 1 July 2002
      ins No. 8, 2009, s 5
      rep No. 30, 2012, s 13
s 14  amd No. 1, 2004, s 62; No. 21, 2010, s 37
s 17  amd No. 28, 2004, s 9; No. 17, 2009, s 9; No. 21, 2011, s 6
s 18  amd No. 12, 2007, s 23
      sub No. 30, 2012, s 14
      amd No. 24, 2014, s 8; No. 47, 2014, s 29; No. 22, 2019, s 4; No.  21,
           2024, s 6; No. 29, 2025, s 5
s 18A ins No. 8, 2009, s 6
      rep No. 30, 2012, s 14
s 21  amd No. 28, 2004, s 10
s 22  amd No. 24, 2023, s 147
pt 2
div 6 hdg   rep No. 25, 2007, s 5
s 24  amd No. 19, 2006, s 91
      rep No. 25, 2007, s 5
s 25  rep No. 25, 2007, s 5
s 26  sub No. 19, 2006, s 92
      rep No. 25, 2007, s 5
s 27  rep No. 19, 2006, s 92
s 28  rep No. 25, 2007, s 5
s 30  amd No. 25, 2007, s 6; No. 21, 2010, s 37
s 30A ins No. 21, 2011, s 7
pt 3
div 1 note  ins No. 25, 2007, s 7
      amd No. 24, 2023, s 147
pt 3
div 2 hdg   rep No. 25, 2007, s 8
ss 31 – 40  rep No. 25, 2007, s 8
s 40A ins No. 19, 2006, s 13
      rep No. 25, 2007, s 8
s 41  amd No. 28, 2004, s 11; No. 19, 2006, s 14; No. 12, 2007,  s  24;  No.
           23, 2008, s 15; No. 17, 2009, s 10; No. 21, 2010, s 37
s 42  amd No. 28, 2004, s 12
      sub No. 23, 2008, s 16
s 43  amd No. 19, 2006, s 15; No. 4, 2007, s 7
      rep No. 25, 2007, s 9
s 43A ins No. 38, 2003, s 3
      sub No. 23, 2008, s 16
s 45A ins No. 17, 2009, s 11
      amd No. 18, 2015, s 5
s 46  amd No. 21, 2010, s 37
s 47  amd No. 7, 2007, s 16
s 48  amd No. 21, 2010, s 37
s 49  amd No. 15, 2009, s 16
pt 5 hdg    ins No. 19, 2006, s 93
      sub No. 25, 2007, s 10
pt 5
div 1 hdg   ins No. 21, 2024, s 7
s 51  ins No. 19, 2006, s 93
      sub No. 25, 2007, s 10
pt 5
div 2 hdg   ins No. 21, 2024, s 8
s 52  ins No. 23, 2008, s 17
pt 5
div 3 hdg   ins No. 21, 2024, s 9
s 53  ins No. 17, 2009, s 12
pt 5
div 4 hdg   ins No. 21, 2024, s 10
s 54  ins No. 30, 2012, s 15
pt 5
div 5 hdg   ins No. 21, 2024, s 11
s 55  ins No. 24, 2014, s 9
pt 5
div 6 hdg   ins No. 21, 2024, s 12
s 56  ins No. 21, 2024, s 12
