First Home Owner Grant Act 2000
Jurisdiction: australian_capital_territory
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/act/consol_act/fhoga2000250/
Register: https://www.legislation.act.gov.au/a/2000-23/
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/act/consol_act/fhoga2000250.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-30T00:06:52.308144Z

FIRST HOME OWNER GRANT ACT 2000
- TABLE OF PROVISIONS
PART 1--PRELIMINARY
Section 1. Name of Act
Section 2. Dictionary
Section 3. Notes
Section 3A. Offences against Act--application of Criminal Code etc
Section 4. Homes
Section 5. Ownership of land and homes
Section 6. Partner of applicant
PART 2--FIRST HOME OWNER GRANT
Division 2.1--Entitlement to grant
Section 7. Entitlement to grant
Division 2.2--Eligibility criteria for applicants
Section 8. Criterion 1--Applicant to be an individual
Section 8A. Criterion 1A--Applicant to be at least 18 years old
Section 9. Criterion 2--Applicant to be Australian citizen or permanent
Section 10. Criterion 3--Applicant (or applicant's partner) must not have received an
Section 11. Criterion 4--Applicant (or applicant's partner) must not have had relevant
Section 12. Criterion 5--Residence requirements
Section 12A. Criterion 6--Applicant must not have been convicted of offence against
Division 2.3--Eligible transactions
Section 12B. Meaning of new home--div 2.3
Section 13. Meaning of eligible transaction etc
Section 13A. First home owner grant cap
Section 13B. Meaning of total value of eligible transaction etc
Division 2.4--Application for grant
Section 14. Application for grant
Section 15. All interested persons to join in application
Section 16. Application on behalf of person under legal disability
Division 2.5--Decision on application
Section 17. Commissioner to decide applications
Section 18. Amount of grant
Section 19. Payment of grant
Section 20. Payment in anticipation of compliance with residence requirements or first home owner
Section 21. Conditions generally
Section 22. Death of applicant
Section 23. Power to correct decision
Section 24. Notification of decision
Division 2.6--Objections and appeals
Section 24I. Meaning of
Section 25. Objections
Section 26. Grounds for objection
Section 27. Time for making objection
Section 28. Objections made out of time
Section 29. Decision on objection
Section 30. Reviewable decision notices
Section 31. Applications for review
Section 32. Giving effect to decision on review
PART 3--ADMINISTRATION
Division 3.1--Administration generally
Section 33. Administration
Section 34. Authorised officers
Section 35. Identity cards
Section 36. Administration agreements
Division 3.2--Investigations
Section 37. Authorised investigations
Section 38. Cross-border investigation
Section 38A. Power to require valuation
Section 39. Power to require information, records or other documents or attendance for
Section 40. Powers of entry and inspection
Section 41. Search warrant
Section 42. Use and inspection of documents and records produced or seized
Section 43. Privileges against self-incrimination and exposure to civil penalty
Section 45. Failing to comply with requirement of authorised officer
PART 4--REPAYMENT AND RECOVERY OF GRANT
Section 46. Definitions--pt 4
Section 46A. Meaning of third-party debtor
Section 47. Power to require repayment and impose penalty
Section 48. Interest in relation to repayments
Section 49. Power to recover amount paid in error etc
Section 49A. Power to recover amounts from third-party debtors
Section 49B. Payment of recoverable amounts by third-party debtors
Section 49C. Payment of recoverable amounts by others
Section 49D. Offence--third-party debtors to comply with notices
Section 49E. Third-party debtors indemnified
PART 5--MISCELLANEOUS
Section 50. Secrecy
Section 51. Evidence
Section 52. Protection of officers etc
Section 53. Application of certain provisions of Taxation Administration Act
Section 54. Determination of fees
Section 56. Regulation-making power
DICTIONARY
ENDNOTES
FIRST HOME OWNER GRANT ACT 2000
- LONG TITLE
An Act to encourage and assist home ownership, and to offset the effect of
the GST on the acquisition of a first home, by establishing a scheme for the
payment of grants to first home owners
Section 1 Name of Act This Act is the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000.
Section 2 Dictionary The dictionary at the end of this Act is part of this Act. Note 1 The dictionary at the end of this Act defines certain words
and expressions used in this Act, and includes references (signpost
definitions) to other words and expressions defined elsewhere in this
Act.
     For example, the signpost definition 'identity
card--see the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, section 83 (4).' means that the term 'identity card' is
defined in that dictionary and the definition applies to this Act.
Note 2     A definition in the dictionary (including a signpost
definition) applies to the entire Act unless the definition, or another
provision of the Act, provides otherwise or the contrary intention otherwise
appears (see Legislation Act
, s 155 and s 156 (1)).
Section 3 A note included in this Act is explanatory and is not part of this Act. Note See Legislation Act
, s 127 (1), (4) and (5) for the legal status of notes.
Section 3A Offences against Act--application of Criminal Code etc Other legislation applies in relation to offences against this Act.
Note 1     Criminal Code
The Criminal Code
, ch 2 applies to all offences against this Act (see Code, pt 2.1).
The chapter sets out the general principles of criminal responsibility
(including burdens of proof and general defences), and defines terms used for
offences to which the Code applies (eg "conduct",
"intention", recklessness and strict
liability).
Note 2     Penalty units
The Legislation Act
, s 133 deals with the meaning of offence penalties that are expressed in
penalty units.
Section 4 Homes A "home" is a building (affixed to land) that--
         (a)     may lawfully be used as a place of residence; and
         (b)     is, in the commissioner's opinion, a suitable building for use
as a place of residence.
Section 5 Ownership of land and homes
     (1)     A person is an owner of a home or a home
owner if the person has a relevant interest in land on which a home is
built.
     (2)     Each of the following is a relevant interest in
land:
         (a)     a leasehold interest in the land granted by the
Commonwealth;
         (b)     a leasehold interest under a land sublease;
         (c)     a life estate in the land approved by the commissioner;
         (d)     a licence or right of occupancy granted by the Commonwealth that
gives, in the commissioner's opinion, the licensee or the holder of the
right reasonable security of tenure;
         (e)     an interest in a company's shares if the commissioner is
satisfied that--
               (i)     the interest entitles the holder of the interest to exclusive
occupation of a particular home owned by the company; and
               (ii)     the value of the shares is not less than the value of the
company's interest in the home.
     (3)     However--
         (a)     an interest is not a relevant interest in land at a
particular time unless the holder of the interest has, or will have within
Section 12 months after that time (or a longer time allowed by the commissioner), a
right to immediate occupation of the land; and
         (b)     an interest is not a relevant interest in land in the
hands of a person who holds it subject to a trust; and
         (c)     an equitable interest is not a relevant interest in land
unless it is the interest of a person under a legal disability for whom a
guardian holds the interest on trust.
     (4)     Despite subsections (2) and (3), the regulations may provide for
recognition of an interest (a noncomplying interest) as a
"relevant interest" in land--
         (a)     even though the interest may not comply with the subsections;
and
         (b)     even though the interest may not be recognised at law or in equity as
an interest in land.
     (5)     If a first home owner grant is to be paid because of the recognition
of a noncomplying interest as a relevant interest in land, the commissioner may
impose appropriate conditions on the payment of the grant to ensure its recovery
if criteria prescribed under the regulations about future conduct or events are
not satisfied.
     (6)     In this section:
"land sublease"--see the Planning Act 2023
, dictionary.
Section 6 Partner of applicant
     (1)     A person is the partner of the applicant if the person
is the applicant's domestic partner.
Note     For the meaning of domestic partner, see Legislation Act
, s 169.
     (2)     However, if the applicant is married, in a civil union or civil
partnership, the applicant's spouse, civil union partner or civil partner
is not to be regarded as the applicant's partner if the commissioner is
satisfied that, at the time of deciding the application for a first home owner
grant, the applicant--
         (a)     is not living with the person; and
         (b)     has no intention of resuming living with the person.
Section 7 Entitlement to grant
     (1)     A first home owner grant is payable on an application under this Act
if--
         (a)     the applicant or, if there are 2 or more of them, each of the
applicants complies with the eligibility criteria; and
         (b)     the transaction for which the grant is sought--
               (i)     is an eligible transaction; and
               (ii)     has been completed; and
         (c)     if the first home owner grant cap applies to the eligible transaction
for which the grant is sought--the total value of the transaction is not
more than the amount of the first home owner grant cap.
Note 1     The first home owner grant cap applies to an eligible
transaction with a commencement date on or after 1 January 2011 (see
s 13A).
Note 2     See s 13B for how to work out the total value of an
eligible transaction.
     (2)     Despite subsection (1) (a), an applicant need not comply with the
eligibility criteria to the extent the applicant is exempted from compliance
under this Act.
     (3)     Only 1 first home owner grant is payable for the same eligible
transaction.
Section 8 Criterion 1--Applicant to be an individual An applicant for a first home owner grant must be an individual.
Section 8A Criterion 1A--Applicant to be at least 18 years old
     (1)     An applicant for a first home owner grant must be at least 18 years
old.
     (2)     However, if the commissioner is satisfied there are good reasons to do
so, the commissioner may exempt the applicant from the requirement to be at
least 18 years old.
Section 9 Criterion 2--Applicant to be Australian citizen or permanent resident
     (1)     An applicant for a first home owner grant must be an Australian
citizen or permanent resident.
     (2)     However, if an application is made by joint applicants and 1 of the
applicants is an Australian citizen or permanent resident, it is not necessary
for the other or others to be Australian citizens or permanent
residents.
Section 10 Criterion 3--Applicant (or applicant's partner) must not have received an earlier grant
     (1)     An applicant is ineligible if--
         (a)     the applicant or the applicant's partner has been a party to an
earlier application under this Act or a corresponding law; and
         (b)     a grant was paid on the application.
     (2)     However, the applicant is not ineligible if--
         (a)     for an application that relates to an eligible transaction with a
commencement date before 1 January 2011--the grant was later paid back
under the conditions on which the grant was made; or
         (b)     for an application that relates to an eligible transaction with a
commencement date on or after 1 January 2011--
               (i)     the grant was later paid back; and
               (ii)     any amount payable as a penalty or as interest was also paid in
relation to the earlier application.
     (3)     An applicant is also ineligible if the applicant or the
applicant's partner--
         (a)     could have successfully applied for a first home owner grant under
this Act or a corresponding law in relation to an earlier transaction to which
he or she was a party but did not do so; or
         (b)     could, assuming that he or she had then been an Australian citizen or
permanent resident, have successfully applied for a first home owner grant under
this Act or a corresponding law in relation to an earlier transaction to which
he or she was a party.
Section 11 Criterion 4--Applicant (or applicant's partner) must not have had relevant interest in residential property
     (1)     An applicant is ineligible if the applicant or the applicant's
partner has, before 1 July 2000, held--
         (a)     a relevant interest in residential property in the ACT; or
         (b)     an interest in residential property in a State that is a relevant
interest under the corresponding law of the State.
     (2)     In working out for section (1) whether an applicant held a relevant
interest (within the meaning of this Act or a corresponding law) in residential
property at a particular time, any deferment of the applicant's right of
occupation (because the property was subject to a lease) is to be
disregarded.
     (3)     An applicant is also ineligible if, before the commencement date of
the eligible transaction to which the application relates, the applicant or the
applicant's partner--
         (a)     held a relevant interest in residential property in the ACT or an
interest in residential property in a State that is a relevant interest under
the corresponding law of the State; and
         (b)     occupied the property as a place of residence.
     (4)     However, for subsection (3), the applicant or the applicant's
partner is taken not to have used the property as the residence of the applicant
or the applicant's partner if--
         (a)     the property was the subject of an earlier application under this Act
by the applicant; and
         (b)     a first home owner grant was paid under the earlier application;
and
         (c)     the applicant repaid the grant because of a failure to comply with
section 12 in relation to the earlier application.
     (5)     In this section:
"residential property"--land in Australia is
residential property at a particular time if there is, at that
time, a building on the land lawfully occupied as a place of residence or
suitable for occupation as a place of residence.
Section 12 Criterion 5--Residence requirements
     (1)     An applicant for a first home owner grant must occupy the home to
which the application relates as the applicant's principal place of
residence for a continuous period of at least 1 year.
     (2)     However, if the commissioner is satisfied there are good reasons to do
so, the commissioner may--
         (a)     approve a shorter period; or
         (b)     exempt the applicant from the requirement to comply with subsection
(1).
     (3)     The period of occupation required under subsection (1), or the shorter
period approved under subsection (2) (a), must start within 1 year after
completion of the eligible transaction to which the application relates or a
longer period approved by the commissioner.
     (4)     The commissioner may give an approval or exemption under this section
within 18 months after completion of the eligible transaction to which the
application relates.
     (5)     If an application is made by joint applicants and at least 1 (but not
all) of the applicants complies with the residence requirements, the
non-complying applicant or applicants are exempted from compliance with the
residence requirements.
Section 12A Criterion 6--Applicant must not have been convicted of offence against Act An applicant is ineligible if the applicant has been convicted of an
offence against this Act or a corresponding law.
Section 12B Meaning of new home--div 2.3
     (1)     For this division, a "new home "is a home that has not
been previously occupied or sold as a place of residence, and includes a
substantially renovated home.
     (2)     For this section:
"occupied", in relation to a home, includes occupation of the
home on a short-term basis, regardless of the length of occupation or the
intended length of occupation.
"substantially renovated home" means a home
that--
         (a)     has substantial renovations; and
         (b)     as renovated, has not previously been occupied or sold as a place of
residence.
"substantial renovations", of a home, means renovations in
which all, or a substantial part, of the home is removed or replaced.
Examples--substantial
renovations
removal or replacement of foundations, external walls, interior supporting
walls, floors, roof or staircases
Section 13 Meaning of eligible transaction etc
     (1)     An "eligible transaction "is--
         (a)     a contract for the purchase of a new home in the ACT made on or after
Section 1 September 2013; or
         (b)     a comprehensive home building contract made on or after
Section 1 September 2013 by the owner of land in the ACT, or a person who will
on completion of the contract be the owner of land in the ACT, to have a new
home built on the land; or
         (c)     the building of a new home in the ACT by an owner-builder if the
building work begins on or after 1 September 2013.
     (2)     However, a contract is not an eligible transaction if
the commissioner is of the opinion that it forms part of a scheme to circumvent
limitations on, or requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement to a first
home owner grant and the commissioner will, unless satisfied to the contrary,
presume the existence of such a scheme, if--
         (a)     for a contract to purchase a home--the purchaser had an option to
purchase the home granted before 1 July 2000 or the vendor had an option to
require the purchaser to purchase the home granted before that date;
or
         (b)     for a comprehensive building contract--either party had a right
or option granted before 1 July 2000 to require the other to enter into the
contract; or
         (c)     for a contract made on or after 1 September 2013 that--
               (i)     the contract replaces a contract made before
Section 1 September 2013; and
               (ii)     the replaced contract was--
     (A)     a contract for the purchase of the same home; or
     (B)     a comprehensive home building contract to build the same or a
substantially similar home.
     (3)     The commencement date of an eligible transaction
is--
         (a)     for a contract--the date when the contract is made; or
         (b)     for the building of a home by an owner-builder--
               (i)     the date when laying the foundations for the home begins; or
               (ii)     another date the commissioner considers appropriate in the
circumstances of the case.
     (4)     Subject to any qualifications prescribed under the regulations, an
eligible transaction is "completed" when--
         (a)     for a contract for the purchase of a new home--
               (i)     the purchaser becomes entitled to possession of the home under the
contract; and
               (ii)     if the purchaser is to obtain a registered title to the land on which
the home is situated--the necessary steps to obtain registration of the
purchaser's title have been taken; or
         (b)     for a contract to have a home built--the building is ready for
occupation as a place of residence; or
         (c)     for the building of a home by an owner-builder--the building is
ready for occupation as a place of residence.
Note     For when certain transactions related to moveable buildings are
completed, see s (5).
     (5)     If a person purchases a moveable building and intends to use it as a
place of residence on land in which the person has a relevant interest but on
which it is not situated at the time of purchase--
         (a)     this Act applies as if the person were an owner-builder building a
home on the land; and
         (b)     the commencement date of the transaction is taken to be the date of
the contract to purchase the moveable building; and
         (c)     the transaction is taken to be completed when the moveable building is
ready for occupation as a place of residence on land in which the purchaser has
a relevant interest.
     (6)     The consideration for an eligible transaction
is--
         (a)     for a contract for the purchase of a new home--the consideration
for the purchase; or
         (b)     for a comprehensive home building contract--the total
consideration payable for the building work; or
         (c)     for the building of a home by an owner-builder--the actual costs
to the owner of carrying out the work (excluding any allowance for the
owner-builder's own labour).
     (7)     In this section:
"comprehensive home building contract" means a contract under
which a builder undertakes to build a home on land from the inception of the
building work to the point where the home is ready for occupation and if, for
any reason, the work to be carried out under such a contract is not completed,
includes any further contract under which the work is to be completed.
"contract for the purchase of a new home" means a contract for
the acquisition of a relevant interest in land on which a home is
built.
"option" to purchase includes a right of pre-emption or a right
of first refusal.
"owner-builder" means an owner of land who builds a home, or
has a home built, on the land without entering into a comprehensive home
building contract.
Note     For when a person is taken to be an owner-builder in relation
to a moveable building, see s (5).
Section 13A First home owner grant cap
     (1)     The first home owner grant cap applies to an eligible transaction with
a commencement date on or after 1 January 2011.
     (2)     The amount of the first home owner grant cap is--
         (a)     $750 000; or
         (b)     if another amount is prescribed by regulation--the prescribed
amount.
Section 13B Meaning of total value of eligible transaction etc
     (1)     The total value of an eligible transaction is as
follows:
         (a)     for a contract for the purchase of a home, the greater of the
following:
               (i)     the consideration for the contract;
               (ii)     the unencumbered value, at the commencement date, of the home;
         (b)     for a comprehensive home building contract, the amount worked out by
adding together--
               (i)     the consideration for the contract; and
               (ii)     the value, at the commencement date, of the relevant interest in the
land on which the home is to be built;
         (c)     for the building of a home by an owner builder, the amount worked out
by adding together--
               (i)     the unencumbered value, at the date the transaction is completed, of
the home; and
               (ii)     the value, at the date the transaction is completed, of the relevant
interest in the land on which the home is built.
     (2)     The value of the relevant interest in the land on which
a home is, or is to be, built is the greater of the following:
         (a)     the consideration paid or payable for the interest;
         (b)     the unencumbered value of the interest.
     (3)     The unencumbered value of a home or relevant interest in
land is the value of the home or interest worked out without regard
to--
         (a)     any encumbrance to which the home or interest is subject, whether
contingently or otherwise; or
         (b)     any arrangement that results in the reduction of the value of the home
or interest, if the parties to the arrangement are not dealing with each other
at arm's length; or
         (c)     any scheme or arrangement that, in the commissioner's opinion,
was entered into, made or carried out by a party to the scheme or arrangement
for the main purpose of reducing the value of the home or interest; or
         (d)     if the home or interest is held by a person on trust as guardian for
another person who is under a legal disability--any liabilities of the
trust, including the liability to indemnify the trustee.
     (4)     For the purposes of subsection (3) (c), the commissioner may
consider--
         (a)     the duration of the scheme or arrangement before the commencement date
of the transaction to which the home or interest relates; and
         (b)     whether there is any commercial efficacy to the making of the scheme
or arrangement other than to reduce the value of the home or interest;
and
         (c)     anything else the commissioner considers relevant.
Section 14 Application for grant
     (1)     An application for a first home owner grant is to be made to the
commissioner.
Note     For how documents may be given, see Legislation Act
, pt 19.5.
     (2)     An applicant must provide the commissioner with any information the
commissioner requires to decide the application.
     (3)     Information provided by an applicant in or in relation to an
application must, if the commissioner so requires, be verified by statutory
declaration or supported by other evidence required by the
commissioner.
Note 1     The Statutory Declarations Act 1959
 (Cwlth) applies to the making of statutory declarations under ACT
laws.
Note 2     It is an offence to make a false or misleading
statement, give false or misleading information or produce a false or misleading
document (see Criminal Code
, pt 3.4).
     (4)     An application may only be made within a period (the application
period)--
         (a)     beginning on the commencement date of the eligible transaction to
which the application relates; and
         (b)     ending 1 year after the completion of the eligible transaction to
which the application relates.
     (5)     However, the commissioner has a discretion to allow an application
before or after the application period.
     (6)     An applicant may, with the commissioner's consent, amend an
application.
Section 15 All interested persons to join in application
     (1)     All interested persons must be applicants.
     (2)     An interested person is a person who is, or will be on
completion of the eligible transaction to which the application relates, an
owner of the relevant home except such a person who is excluded from the
application of this section under the regulations.
Section 16 Application on behalf of person under legal disability
     (1)     An application may be made on behalf of a person under a legal
disability by a guardian.
     (2)     For the purpose of deciding eligibility, the person under the legal
disability is to be regarded as the applicant.
Section 17 Commissioner to decide applications
     (1)     If the commissioner is satisfied that a first home owner grant is
payable on an application, the commissioner must authorise the payment of the
grant.
     (2)     The commissioner may authorise the payment of a first home owner grant
before completion of the eligible transaction if satisfied that--
         (a)     there are good reasons for doing so; and
         (b)     the interests of the Territory can be adequately protected by
conditions requiring repayment of the grant if the transaction is not completed
within a reasonable time.
Section 18 Amount of grant
     (1)     The amount of a first home owner grant is the lesser of the
following:
         (a)     the consideration for the eligible transaction;
         (b)     an amount determined by the Minister.
     (2)     A determination is a disallowable instrument.
Section 19 Payment of grant
     (1)     A first home owner grant is to be paid by electronic funds transfer,
by cheque or in any other way the commissioner considers appropriate.
     (2)     A first home owner grant is to be paid--
         (a)     to the applicant; or
         (b)     to someone else to whom the applicant directs in writing that the
grant be paid.
Section 20 Payment in anticipation of compliance with residence requirements or first home owner grant cap
     (1)     The commissioner may authorise payment of a first home owner grant in
anticipation of compliance with the residence requirements if the commissioner
is satisfied that each applicant intends to comply with the residence
requirements.
     (2)     If a first home owner grant is paid in anticipation of compliance with
the residence requirements, the payment is made on condition that, if the
residence requirements are not complied with, the applicant must within 14 days
after the relevant date--
         (a)     give written notice of that fact to the commissioner; and
         (b)     repay the amount of the grant.
     (3)     The relevant date is the earlier of the
following:
         (a)     the end of the period allowed for compliance with the residence
requirements;
         (b)     the date it first becomes apparent that the residence requirements
will not be complied with during the period allowed for compliance.
     (4)     The commissioner may authorise payment of a first home owner grant in
anticipation of compliance with the first home owner grant cap
if--
         (a)     the grant is to be paid in relation to an eligible transaction that
involves the building of a home by an owner builder before the completion of the
eligible transaction; and
         (b)     the first home owner grant cap applies to the eligible transaction.
     (5)     If a first home owner grant is paid in anticipation of compliance with
the first home owner grant cap, the payment is made on condition that, if the
applicant becomes aware that the total value of the eligible transaction is, or
will be, more than the first home owner grant cap, the applicant must, within 14
days after the day the applicant becomes aware of that fact--
         (a)     give written notice of that fact to the commissioner; and
         (b)     repay the amount of the grant.
     (6)     If a first home owner grant is paid to a person on the condition
mentioned in subsection (2) or (5), the person must comply with the
condition.
Maximum penalty:  50 penalty units.
     (7)     An offence against this section is a strict liability
offence.
Section 21 Conditions generally
     (1)     The commissioner may authorise the payment of a first home owner grant
on conditions the commissioner considers appropriate.
     (2)     A condition imposed by the commissioner (under this section or any
other provision of this Act) may require a person on whose application the first
home owner grant is paid--
         (a)     to give notice of noncompliance with the condition within a period
stated in the condition; and
         (b)     to repay the grant or part of the grant within a period stated in the
condition.
     (3)     For a joint application, each applicant is individually liable to
comply with a requirement under subsection (2) but compliance by any of them is
to be regarded as compliance by all.
     (4)     If a first home owner grant is paid to a person on a condition imposed
by the commissioner under this section or another provision of this Act, the
person must comply with the condition.
Maximum penalty:  50 penalty units.
     (5)     An offence against this section is a strict liability
offence.
Section 22 Death of applicant
     (1)     An application for a first home owner grant does not lapse because an
applicant dies before the application is decided.
     (2)     If an applicant dies before the application is decided, the following
provisions apply:
         (a)     if the deceased applicant was one of 2 or more applicants and
Section 1 or more applicants survive--the application is to be dealt with as
if the surviving applicants were the sole applicants;
         (b)     in any other case--a first home owner grant, if payable on the
application, is to be paid to the estate of the deceased applicant.
     (3)     A deceased applicant for a first home owner grant is taken to have
complied with section 12 (Criterion 5--Residence requirements)
if--
         (a)     the applicant had not, when the applicant died, complied with that
section; and
         (b)     the commissioner is satisfied the applicant intended to comply with
that section.
Section 23 Power to correct decision
     (1)     If the commissioner decides an application, and is later satisfied
(independently of an objection under this Act) that the decision is incorrect,
the commissioner may vary or reverse the decision.
     (2)     A decision cannot be varied or reversed under this section more than 5
years after it was made.
Section 24 Notification of decision
     (1)     If the commissioner decides an application (or decides to vary or
reverse an earlier decision on an application), the commissioner must give the
applicant notice of the decision.
     (2)     If the decision is to authorise the payment of a first home owner
grant, the payment of the grant is sufficient notice of the decision.
     (3)     If the decision is to refuse an application, or to vary or reverse an
earlier decision on an application, the commissioner must state in the notice
the reasons for the decision.
Section 24I Meaning of "objector"--div 2.6 In this division:
"objector" means a person who gives a written objection to the
commissioner under section 25.
Section 25 Objections
     (1)     An applicant may give a written objection to the commissioner if the
applicant is dissatisfied with the commissioner's decision in any
way.
Note     For how documents may be given, see Legislation Act
, pt 19.5.
     (2)     A third-party debtor for a grant recipient may give a written
objection to the commissioner if the debtor is dissatisfied with a decision of
the commissioner to require the debtor to pay a recoverable amount instead of
the grant recipient.
     (3)     The commissioner must refund any fee paid in relation to the objection
if--
         (a)     the commissioner allows the objection in whole or in part;
or
         (b)     the objector applies to the ACAT for review of the
commissioner's decision on the objection and--
               (i)     the ACAT or a court hearing the review or appeal on the matter upholds
the objection in whole or in part; and
               (ii)     the period when any further appeal can be made has ended;
and
               (iii)     neither the objector nor the commissioner has appealed against the
decision in relation to a part of the objection that was upheld.
     (4)     In this section:
"recoverable amount"--see section 49 (1).
Section 26 Grounds for objection
     (1)     The grounds for the objection must be stated fully and in detail and
must be in writing.
     (2)     The burden of showing that the objection should be upheld lies with
the objector.
Section 27 Time for making objection The objection must be given to the commissioner not later than 60 days after notice of the decision objected to is given to the objector.
Section 28 Objections made out of time
     (1)     The commissioner may permit the objector to make an objection after
the 60-day period.
     (2)     If the objector wishes to make the objection after the 60-day period,
the objector must state fully and in detail, in writing, the circumstances
concerning and the reasons for the failure to make the objection within the
period.
     (3)     The commissioner may give permission unconditionally or subject to
conditions or may refuse permission.
     (4)     The commissioner must give notice to the objector of the
commissioner's decision.
     (5)     If the commissioner does not give permission unconditionally, the
commissioner must include in the notice an explanation for refusing to give
permission or for imposing conditions on the permission.
Section 29 Decision on objection The commissioner must consider the objection and either allow the objection in whole or in part or disallow the objection.
Section 30 Reviewable decision notices The commissioner must give a reviewable decision notice to the objector of the commissioner's decision on an objection.
Note     The commissioner must also take reasonable steps to give a
reviewable decision notice to any other person whose interests are affected by
the decision (see ACT Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2008
, s 67A).
Section 31 Applications for review The following may apply to the ACAT for review of a decision of the commissioner under section 29:
         (a)     the objector in relation to the decision;
         (b)     any other person whose interests are affected by the
decision.
Section 32 Giving effect to decision on review
     (1)     Within 60 days after a decision of the ACAT becomes final, the
commissioner must take any action that is necessary to give effect to the
decision.
     (2)     For this section, a decision of the ACAT becomes final when a period
of 30 days has passed after 1 of the following decisions and no appeal against
the decision is made within the 30-day period:
         (a)     a decision of the ACAT on application for review;
         (b)     a decision by a court hearing an appeal from--
               (i)     the decision of the ACAT; or
               (ii)          a decision of a lower court in relation to the decision of the
ACAT.
Section 33 Administration The commissioner is responsible to the Minister for the administration of the first home owner grant scheme.
Section 34 Authorised officers
     (1)     A person is an authorised officer for this Act if the person is an
authorised officer under the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, section 79.
     (2)     For this Act, a notice may be issued by the commissioner under the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, section 79 (3) to a person who is engaged in the administration of a
corresponding law.
     (3)     A person to whom the commissioner delegates functions under division
Section 3.2 is an authorised officer for this Act and the Taxation Administration Act 1999
.
Note     The commissioner's power of delegation is in the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, s 78.
Section 35 Identity cards
     (1)     An identity card issued to a person under the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, section 80 (1) may state that the person is an authorised officer for the
purposes of this Act.
Note     Section 80 (1) requires an identity card to be issued to each
authorised person.
     (2)     This section is additional to, and does not limit, the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, section 80.
Section 36 Administration agreements
     (1)     Without limiting the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, section 78, the commissioner may enter into an agreement (an
administration agreement) with a financial institution or anyone
else under which--
         (a)     the commissioner delegates under that section functions related to the
administration of the first home owner grant scheme; and
         (b)     the financial institution or other person is required to carry out the
delegated functions in accordance with stated conditions.
Note     Under the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, s 78 the commissioner may delegate to any person any function of the
commissioner under that or any other Act.
     (2)     The conditions of an administration agreement may include conditions
prescribed under the regulations.
     (3)     If an administration agreement with a financial institution or anyone
else includes a condition prescribed by regulation, the financial institution or
other person must comply with the condition.
Maximum penalty:  50 penalty units.
     (4)     An offence against this section is a strict liability
offence.
     (5)     The commissioner may, at any time, revoke an administration agreement,
including any delegation included in the agreement.
Section 37 Authorised investigations An authorised investigation is an investigation to decide--
         (a)     whether an application under this Act or a corresponding law for a
first home owner grant has been properly made; or
         (b)     whether an objection to a decision made under this Act or a
corresponding law should be upheld; or
         (c)     whether an applicant to whom, or for whose benefit, a first home owner
grant has been paid under this Act or a corresponding law was eligible for the
grant; or
         (d)     whether a condition on which a first home owner grant has been paid
under this Act or a corresponding law has been complied with; or
         (e)     anything else reasonably related to the administration or enforcement
of this Act or a corresponding law.
Section 38 Cross-border investigation
     (1)     The commissioner may, at the request of an authority responsible for
administering a corresponding law, carry out an authorised investigation for the
corresponding law.
     (2)     The commissioner may, under the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, section 78, delegate powers of investigation under this division to the
authority responsible for the administration of a corresponding law, or a person
nominated by that authority.
     (3)     Subsection (2) does not limit the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, section 78.
Section 38A Power to require valuation
     (1)     For the purposes of deciding the total value of an eligible
transaction, the commissioner may do 1 or more of the following:
         (a)     require, by written notice, an applicant or former applicant for a
first home owner grant to give the commissioner--
               (i)     a valuation by a valuer of any property or consideration; or
               (ii)     other evidence of the value of the property or consideration the
commissioner considers appropriate;
         (b)     have a valuation made of any property or consideration;
         (c)     adopt any available valuation of the property or consideration by a
valuer.
     (2)     In this section:
"valuer" means--
         (a)     a certified practising valuer who is a member of the Australian
Property Institute; or
         (b)     a person the commissioner considers suitably qualified.
Section 39 Power to require information, records or other documents or attendance for examination
     (1)     The commissioner may, for an authorised investigation, by written
notice given to a person, require the person--
         (a)     to provide to the commissioner (either orally or in writing)
information that is described in the notice; or
         (b)     to attend and give evidence before an authorised officer; or
         (c)     to produce to the commissioner a record or other document described in
the notice that is in the person's custody or control.
Note     For how documents may be given, see Legislation Act
, pt 19.5.
     (2)     The commissioner--
         (a)     may state whether information or evidence to be provided or given
under this section must be given orally or in writing; and
         (b)     may require any information or evidence given in writing to be in the
form of, or verified by, a statutory declaration; and
Note 1     The Statutory Declarations Act 1959
 (Cwlth) applies to the making of statutory declarations under ACT
laws.
Note 2     It is an offence to make a false or misleading
statement, give false or misleading information or produce a false or misleading
document (see Criminal Code
, pt 3.4).
         (c)     may require any information or evidence given orally to be given on
oath or affirmation.
     (3)     A person commits an offence if the person--
         (a)     fails to comply with the requirements of a notice under this section
within the period stated in the notice or any further period allowed by the
commissioner; or
         (b)     fails to comply with any other requirement of the commissioner about
the giving of evidence or how information or evidence is to be provided or given
under this section.
Maximum penalty:  50 penalty units.
     (4)     Subsection (3) does not apply if the person has a reasonable excuse
for failing to comply with the requirement.
     (5)     An offence against this section is a strict liability
offence.
Section 40 Powers of entry and inspection
     (1)     An authorised officer may, for an authorised investigation, enter and
inspect any premises at any reasonable time and do any of the
following:
         (a)     remain on the premises;
         (b)     examine all documents and seize and remove, or take copies of or
extracts from, any document on behalf of the commissioner;
         (c)     require anyone on the premises to answer questions or otherwise
provide information;
         (d)     require anyone on the premises to give access to any document in the
person's custody or control, and to--
               (i)     produce or display the document; or
               (ii)     provide a copy of the document or a version of it in some form other
than that in which it is normally kept;
in any printed, electronic or other form that it is reasonably practicable
to provide;
         (e)     require the owner or occupier of the premises to provide the
authorised officer with such assistance and facilities as are reasonably
necessary to enable the authorised officer to exercise powers under this
division.
     (2)     An authorised officer who enters premises under subsection (1) and is
requested by the occupier to identify himself or herself is only authorised to
remain on the premises if the authorised officer produces his or her identity
card to the occupier.
     (3)     The powers of entry and inspection under this section must not be
exercised in relation to premises, or a part of premises, used for residential
purposes except with the consent of the owner or occupier of the premises or
part.
     (4)     In this section:
"occupier", of premises, includes a person apparently in charge
of or responsible for the premises.
Section 41 Search warrant
     (1)     If a magistrate is satisfied, on the application of the commissioner
supported by an affidavit or other sworn evidence, that there is a reasonable
ground for suspecting that a document relevant to an authorised investigation
may be found in particular premises, the magistrate may issue a warrant
authorising an authorised officer together with any assistants named or
described in the warrant--
         (a)     to enter those premises, using such force as is necessary for the
purpose; and
         (b)     to search the premises and to break open and search anything in the
premises in which a document may be stored or concealed; and
         (c)     to seize or remove, on behalf of the commissioner, any document that
appears to be relevant to the authorised investigation.
     (2)     The powers given by this section are additional to, and do not limit,
any other powers given by law.
Section 42 Use and inspection of documents and records produced or seized
     (1)     This section applies to a document that has been produced to the
commissioner or seized and removed by an authorised officer.
     (2)     The document may be kept for as long as is necessary to enable it to
be inspected and copies of or extracts or notes from it to be made.
     (3)     If the document is required by the commissioner as evidence for a
legal proceeding, it may be kept until the proceedings are finally
decided.
     (4)     The commissioner must permit a person who would be entitled to inspect
the document if it were not in the commissioner's possession to inspect
the document at any reasonable time.
     (5)     This section does not affect any lien a person has on the
document.
Section 43 Privileges against self-incrimination and exposure to civil penalty
     (1)     This section applies if a person is required to answer a question,
give information or produce a document under section 39.
     (2)     The person cannot rely on the common law privileges against
self-incrimination and exposure to the imposition of a civil penalty to refuse
to answer the question, give the information or produce the document.
Note     The Legislation Act
, s 171 deals with client legal
privilege.
     (3)     However, any information, document or other thing obtained, directly
or indirectly, because of the answering of the question, giving of the
information or producing of the document, is not admissible in evidence against
the person in a criminal proceeding, other than a proceeding
for--
         (a)     an offence in relation to the failure to answer the question, give the
information or produce the document; or
         (b)     any offence in relation to the falsity or the misleading nature of the
answer, information or document.
Section 45 Failing to comply with requirement of authorised officer
     (1)     A person must comply with a requirement made of the person by an
authorised officer under this division.
Maximum penalty:  50 penalty units.
     (2)     An offence against this section is a strict liability
offence.
     (3)     A person does not commit an offence against this section arising from
the entry of an authorised officer into premises unless the prosecution
establishes that, at the material time, the authorised officer
had--
         (a)     identified himself or herself as an authorised officer; and
         (b)     warned the person that a failure to comply with the requirement was an
offence.
Section 46 Definitions--pt 4 In this part: "recoverable amount"--see section 49 (1).
"recovery notice"--see section 49A (2).
Section 46A Meaning of third-party debtor A "third-party debtor", for a grant recipient, means 1 or more of the following people:
         (a)     a person from whom any money is due or accruing, or may become due, to
the grant recipient;
         (b)     a person who holds, or may subsequently hold, money for or on account
of the grant recipient;
         (c)     a person who holds, or may subsequently hold, money for or on account
of someone else for payment to the grant recipient;
         (d)     a person who has authority from someone else to pay money to the grant
recipient.
Section 47 Power to require repayment and impose penalty
     (1)     The commissioner may, by written notice, require an applicant (or
former applicant) for a first home owner grant to repay an amount paid on the
application if--
         (a)     the amount was paid in error; or
         (b)     the commissioner reverses the decision under which the amount was paid
for any other reason.
     (2)     If, because of an applicant's dishonesty, an amount is paid by
way of a first home owner grant, the commissioner may, by the notice in which
repayment is required or a separate notice, impose a penalty of not more than
the amount the applicant is required to repay.
     (3)     If an applicant (or former applicant) for a first home owner grant
fails to make a repayment required under this section or the conditions of the
grant, the commissioner may, by written notice, impose a penalty of not more
than the amount the applicant is required to repay.
     (4)     If an amount is paid in error on an application for a first home owner
grant to a third party, the commissioner may, by written notice, require the
third party to repay the amount to the commissioner.
Section 48 Interest in relation to repayments
     (1)     A person is liable to pay interest under this section on the amount of
a first home owner grant paid to the person if the amount is repayable under
section 20 (2) (b) or section 21 (2).
     (2)     A person is liable to pay interest under this section on an amount
paid to the person on an application for a first home owner grant if the amount
is repayable under section 47.
     (3)     Interest under this section is to be calculated on a daily basis
from--
         (a)     if the amount is repayable under section 20 (2) (b)--the relevant
date as defined in section 20 (3); or
         (b)     if the amount is repayable under section 21 (2)--the day the
notice mentioned in section 21 (2) (a) is given to the commissioner;
or
         (c)     if the amount is repayable under section 47 (1)--the date the
amount was paid to the applicant.
     (4)     For this section, the interest rate is the interest rate mentioned in
the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, section 26.
Section 49 Power to recover amount paid in error etc
     (1)     This section applies to the following amounts (each of which is a
recoverable amount):
         (a)     an amount that an applicant (or former applicant) for a first home
owner grant is required to repay under the conditions of the grant or by
requirement of the commissioner under this Act;
         (b)     the amount of a penalty imposed on an applicant (or former applicant)
for a first home owner grant;
         (c)     an amount a third party is required to repay by requirement of the
commissioner under this Act;
         (d)     interest the applicant is required to pay under section 48.
     (2)     The liability arising from a requirement to pay (or repay) a
recoverable amount is joint and several if the requirement attaches to 2 or more
persons.
     (3)     If an applicant who is liable to pay a recoverable amount has an
interest in the home for which the first home owner grant was sought, the
liability is a first charge on the applicant's interest in the
home.
     (4)     The commissioner may recover a recoverable amount as a debt to the
Territory.
     (5)     The commissioner may enter into an arrangement (which may include
provision for the payment of interest) for payment of a liability outstanding
under this section by instalments.
     (6)     The commissioner may remit or refund all or part of an amount of
interest paid or payable by a person.
     (7)     The commissioner may write off the whole or part of a liability to pay
a recoverable amount if satisfied that action, or further action, to recover the
amount outstanding is impracticable or unwarranted.
Section 49A Power to recover amounts from third-party debtors
     (1)     The commissioner may require a third-party debtor for a grant
recipient to pay a recoverable amount instead of the grant recipient.
     (2)     The requirement must be made by written notice (a recovery
notice) given to the third-party debtor.
Note     For how documents may be given, see s 53 (1) (c).
     (3)     The recovery notice must--
         (a)     state the date of the notice; and
         (b)     state the recoverable amount; and
         (c)     include a statement about the effect of section 49B (1); and
         (d)     if section 49B (2) applies--include a statement about the effect
of the section, and the amount required to be paid out of each instalment;
and
         (e)     include a statement about the effect of section 49B (3).
     (4)     The recovery notice may also state a day by which the amount required
to be paid under the recovery notice is payable.
     (5)     The commissioner must give a copy of the recovery notice to the grant
recipient.
Section 49B Payment of recoverable amounts by third-party debtors
     (1)     The amount that a third-party debtor for a grant recipient is required
to pay under a recovery notice is--
         (a)     if the amount payable by the third-party debtor to the grant recipient
is equal to or less than the recoverable amount--all of the amount payable;
or
         (b)     if the amount payable by the third-party debtor to the grant recipient
is more than the recoverable amount--the recoverable amount.
     (2)     If the amount payable by the third-party debtor to the grant recipient
is payable in instalments, the commissioner may require the debtor to pay the
commissioner an amount out of each instalment.
     (3)     A third-party debtor must pay the commissioner the amount required to
be paid under a recovery notice by the later of the following:
         (a)     receipt of the recovery notice;
         (b)     when the amount held by the third-party debtor becomes due to the
grant recipient;
         (c)     the day (if any) stated by the commissioner in the recovery
notice.
Section 49C Payment of recoverable amounts by others
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     the commissioner gives a recovery notice to a third-party debtor for a
grant recipient; and
         (b)     someone else pays all or part of the recoverable amount to the
commissioner after the notice is given.
     (2)     If the other person pays all of the recoverable amount, the
commissioner must--
         (a)     tell the third-party debtor that the debtor is not liable to pay the
recoverable amount; and
         (b)     if the third-party debtor makes a payment towards the recoverable
amount after the other person pays all of the amount--repay the third-party
debtor the payment.
     (3)     If the other person pays part of the recoverable amount, the
commissioner must give the third-party debtor another notice
(a revised recovery notice) stating the new amount that the
debtor is required to pay.
Section 49D Offence--third-party debtors to comply with notices
     (1)     A third-party debtor for a grant recipient must comply
with--
         (a)     a recovery notice; or
         (b)     if a revised recovery notice is given to the debtor--the revised
recovery notice.
Maximum penalty:  50 penalty units.
     (2)     If a third-party debtor is convicted of an offence against
subsection (1), the court may, in addition to imposing a penalty on the
debtor, order the debtor to pay the commissioner an amount that is not more than
the recoverable amount under the recovery notice or revised recovery notice to
which the offence relates.
     (3)     In this section:
"revised recovery notice"--see section 49C (3).
Section 49E Third-party debtors indemnified A third-party debtor for a grant recipient who makes a payment under this part is--
         (a)     taken to be acting under the authority of the grant recipient and
anyone else concerned; and
         (b)     indemnified by this section in relation to the payment.
Section 50 Secrecy
     (1)     In this section:
"person to whom this section applies" means a person
who--
         (c)     is, or has been, engaged in work related to the administration of this
Act; or
         (d)     has obtained access to protected information (directly or indirectly)
from a person who is, or has been, engaged in work related to the administration
of this Act.
"protected information" means information about the following
people that is disclosed to, or obtained by, a person to whom this section
applies in the course of work related to the administration of this
Act:
         (a)     a grant recipient;
         (b)     a third-party debtor for a grant recipient.
     (2)     A person to whom this section applies commits an offence if the
person--
         (a)     does something that discloses protected information about someone
else; and
         (b)     is reckless about whether--
               (i)     the information is protected information about someone else;
and
               (ii)     doing the thing would result in the information being
disclosed.
Maximum penalty:  50 penalty units, imprisonment for 6 months or
both.
     (3)     This section does not apply if the information is
disclosed--
         (a)     under this Act or another territory law; or
         (b)     in relation to the exercise of a function, as a person to whom this
section applies, under this Act or another territory law; or
         (c)     in relation to the administration or enforcement of--
               (i)     a corresponding law; or
               (ii)     a law of the Commonwealth, a State or another Territory for the
assessment or imposition of a tax; or
         (d)     with the consent of the person to whom the information relates or a
person acting for that person; or
         (e)     for the purpose of a legal proceeding; or
         (f)     as authorised by regulation.
Section 51 Evidence
     (1)     A certificate signed by the commissioner stating that a first home
owner grant was paid to a person named in the certificate on a stated date is
admissible in legal proceedings as evidence of the payment.
     (2)     A copy of a notice issued by the commissioner imposing a penalty under
this Act is admissible in legal proceedings as evidence of the imposition of the
penalty.
     (3)     A copy of a notice issued by the commissioner requiring the payment or
repayment of a stated amount is admissible in legal proceedings as
evidence--
         (a)     that the requirement was made; and
         (b)     that the amount stated in the notice was outstanding at the date of
the notice.
Section 52 Protection of officers etc
     (1)     This section applies to--
         (a)     the commissioner; and
         (b)     an authorised officer; and
         (c)     a delegate of the commissioner who is a public servant.
     (2)     No personal liability attaches to a person to whom this section
applies for an honest act or omission in the exercise, or purported exercise, of
functions under this Act.
     (3)     A liability that would, apart from subsection (2), lie against a
person to whom this section applies lies against the Territory.
Section 53 Application of certain provisions of Taxation Administration Act
     (1)     The following sections of the Taxation Administration Act 1999
 apply to this Act as if it were a tax law within the meaning of that
Act:
         (a)     section 127 (Service of documents on commissioner);
         (b)     section 128 (Day of service of document or payment of
money);
         (c)     section 129 (Service of documents by commissioner).
     (2)     This section does not, by implication, limit the application to this
Act of any other provision of the Taxation Administration Act 1999
.
Section 54 Determination of fees
     (1)     The Minister may determine fees for this Act.
     (2)     A determination under this section is a disallowable
instrument.
Section 56 Regulation-making power
     (1)     The Executive may make regulations for this Act.
     (2)     A regulation may create offences and fix maximum penalties of not more
than 10 penalty units for the offences.
FIRST HOME OWNER GRANT ACT 2000
- NOTES Dictionary
Dictionary
(see s 2)
Note 1     The Legislation Act
 contains definitions and other provisions relevant to this Act.
Note 2     In particular, the Legislation Act
, dict, pt 1, defines the following terms:
               o      ACAT
               o      administrative unit
               o      Australian citizen
               o      civil partner
               o      civil partnership
               o      civil union
               o      civil union partner
               o      commissioner for revenue
               o      contravene
               o      corporation
               o      exercise
               o      fail
               o      function
               o      penalty unit
               o      public servant
               o      reviewable decision notice
               o      State
               o      writing.
"authorised investigation"--see section 37.
"authorised officer"--see section 34.
"building" includes part of a building.
"commencement date", of an eligible transaction--see
section 13 (3) and (5).
"commissioner" means the commissioner for revenue.
"completed", for an eligible transaction--see section 13
(4).
"consideration", for an eligible transaction--see section
Section 13 (6).
"corresponding law" means an Act of a State corresponding to
this Act.
"eligibility criteria" means the criteria for deciding whether
an applicant for a first home owner grant is eligible for the grant (see
division 2.2).
"eligible transaction"--see section 13 (1) and
(2).
"first home owner grant" means a grant authorised under section
17.
"first home owner grant cap" means the first home owner grant
cap mentioned in section 13A.
"first home owner grant scheme" means the scheme for payment of
first home owner grants established under this Act.
"grant recipient" means--
         (a)     an applicant (or former applicant) for a first home owner grant to
whom an amount is paid under this Act; or
         (b)     any other person to whom an amount is paid under this Act.
"guardian", of a person under a legal disability,
includes a trustee who holds property on trust for the person under an
instrument of trust or by order or direction of a court or tribunal.
"home"--see section 4.
home owner--see section 5 (1).
"identity card"--see the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, section 83 (4).
"new home", for division 2.3 (Eligible
transactions)--see section 12B (1).
"objector", for division 2.6 (Objections and appeals)--see
Section 24I. "owner" means--
         (a)     of land--a person who has a relevant interest in the land;
or
         (b)     of a home--see section 5 (1).
"partner", of an applicant--see section 6.
"permanent resident" means--
         (a)     a person who holds a permanent visa for the Migration Act 1958
 (Cwlth), section 30; or
         (b)     a New Zealand citizen who holds a special category visa under the Migration Act 1958
 (Cwlth), section 32.
"recoverable amount", for part 4 (Repayment and recovery of
grant)--see section 49 (1).
"recovery notice", for part 4 (Repayment and recovery of
grant)--see section 49A (2).
"relevant interest "in land--see section 5 (2), (3) and
(4).
"residence requirements" means--
         (a)     the requirement--
               (i)     under section 12 (1), that an applicant for a first home owner grant
must occupy the home to which the application relates as the applicant's
principal place of residence for a continuous period of at least 1 year;
or
               (ii)     under section 12 (1) and (2) (a), that an applicant for a first home
owner grant must occupy the home to which the application relates as the
applicant's principal place of residence for a shorter period approved by
the commissioner; and
         (b)     the requirement under section 12 (3) that the period of occupation
required under section 12 (1), or section 12 (1) and (2) (a), must start within
Section 1 year after completion of the eligible transaction or a longer period approved
by the commissioner.
"third-party debtor", for a grant recipient--see section
46A.
"total value" of an eligible transaction--see section 13B
(1).
FIRST HOME OWNER GRANT ACT 2000
- NOTES Endnotes
Endnotes
Section 1 About
the endnotes
Amending and modifying laws are annotated in the legislation history and
the amendment history.  Current modifications are not included in the
republished law but are set out in the endnotes.
Not all editorial amendments made under the Legislation Act 2001
, part 11.3 are annotated in the amendment history.  Full details of any
amendments can be obtained from the Parliamentary Counsel's
Office.
Uncommenced amending laws are not included in the republished law.  The
details of these laws are underlined in the legislation history.  Uncommenced
expiries are underlined in the legislation history and amendment
history.
If all the provisions of the law have been renumbered, a table of
renumbered provisions gives details of previous and current numbering.
The endnotes also include a table of earlier republications.
Section 2 Abbreviation
key
A = Act
NI = Notifiable instrument
AF = Approved form
o = order
am = amended
om = omitted/repealed
amdt = amendment
ord = ordinance
AR = Assembly resolution
orig = original
ch = chapter
par = paragraph/subparagraph
CN = Commencement notice
pres = present
def = definition
prev = previous
DI = Disallowable instrument
(prev...) = previously
dict = dictionary
pt = part
disallowed = disallowed by the Legislative
r = rule/subrule
Assembly
reloc = relocated
div = division
renum = renumbered
exp = expires/expired
R[X] = Republication No
Gaz = gazette
RI = reissue
hdg = heading
s = section/subsection
IA = Interpretation Act 1967
sch = schedule
ins = inserted/added
sdiv = subdivision
LA = Legislation Act 2001
SL = Subordinate law
LR = legislation register
sub = substituted
LRA = Legislation (Republication) Act
1996
underlining = whole or part not
commenced
mod = modified/modification
or to be expired
Section 3 Legislation
history
First Home Owner Grant Act 2000 A2000-23
notified 15 June 2000 (Gaz 2000 No 24)
s 1, s 2 commenced 15 June 2000 (IA s
10B)
remainder commenced 1 July 2000 (s 2)
as amended by
Treasury and Infrastructure Legislation Amendment Act 2000
 A2000-78 s 3
notified 21 December 2000 (Gaz 2000 No
S69)
s 1, s 2 commenced 21 December 2000 (IA s
10B)
s 3 commenced 1 July 2000 (s 2 (1))
Legislation (Consequential Amendments) Act 2001
 A2001-44 pt 154
notified 26 July 2001 (Gaz 2001 No 30)
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 July 2001 (IA s
10B)
pt 154 commenced 12 September 2001 (s 2 and see Gaz 2001
No S65)
First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2001
 A2001-46
notified 12 July 2001 (Gaz 2001 No 28)
commenced 12 July 2001 (s 2)
Legislation Amendment Act 2002
 A2002-11 pt 2.21
notified LR 27 May 2002
s 1, s 2 commenced 27 May 2002 (LA s
75)
pt 2.21 commenced 28 May 2002 (s 2 (1))
First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2002
 A2002-13
notified LR 23 May 2002
s 1, s 2 commenced 23 May 2002 (LA s
75)
remainder commenced 24 May 2002 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2002 (No 2)
 A2002-48 pt 2
notified LR 20 December 2002
s 1, s 2 commenced 20 December 2002 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 21 December 2002 (s 2
(2))
Legislation (Gay, Lesbian and Transgender) Amendment Act 2003
 A2003-14 sch 1 pt 1.16
notified LR 27 March 2003
s 1, s 2 commenced 27 March 2003 (LA s
75)
sch 1 pt 1.16 commenced 28 March 2003 (s
2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2003
 A2003-41 sch 3 pt 3.11
notified LR 11 September
Section 2003s 1, s 2 commenced 11 September 2003 (LA s 75
(1))sch 3 pt 3.11 commenced 9 October 2003 (s 2
(1))
Statute Law Amendment Act 2003 (No 2)
 A2003-56 sch 3 pt 3.10
notified LR 5 December 2003
s 1, s 2 commenced 5 December 2003 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.10 commenced 19 December 2003 (s
2)
First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2003
 A2003-60
notified LR 18 December 2003
s 1, s 2 commenced 18 December 2003 (LA s 75
(1))
s 3, s 4 commenced 19 December 2003 (s 2
(1))
remainder commenced 1 January 2004 (s 2
(2))
Criminal Code (Theft, Fraud, Bribery and Related Offences) Amendment Act 2004
 A2004-15 sch 2 pt 2.36
notified LR 26 March 2004
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 March 2004 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 2 pt 2.36 commenced 9 April 2004 (s 2
(1))
Criminal Code Harmonisation Act 2005
 A2005-54 sch 1 pt 1.20
notified LR 27 October 2005
s 1, s 2 commenced 27 October 2005 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.20 commenced 24 November 2005 (s
2)
Civil Unions Act 2006
 A2006-22 sch 1 pt 1.15
notified LR 19 May 2006
s 1, s 2 commenced 19 May 2006 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.15 never commenced
Note     Act repealed by disallowance 14
June 2006 (see Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2007 (No 3)
 A2007-39 sch 3 pt 3.18
notified LR 6 December 2007
s 1, s 2 commenced 6 December 2007 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.18 commenced 27 December 2007 (s
2)
Civil Partnerships Act 2008
 A2008-14 sch 1 pt 1.13
notified LR 15 May 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 15 May 2008 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.13 commenced 19 May 2008 (s 2 and CN2008-8
)
ACT Civil and Administrative Tribunal Legislation Amendment Act 2008 (No 2)
 A2008-37 sch 1 pt
1.42
notified LR 4 September 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 4 September 2008 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.42 commenced 2 February 2009 (s 2 (1) and see
ACT Civil
and Administrative Tribunal Act 2008
 A2008-35, s 2 (1) and CN2009-2
)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2009
 A2009-4 pt 3
notified LR 4 March 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 4 March 2009 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 3 commenced 5 March 2009 (s 2)
First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2009
 A2009-10
notified LR 7 April 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 7 April 2009 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 8 April 2009 (s 2)
as modified by
First Home Owner Grant Regulation 2008
 SL2008-4 (as am by SL2009-33
 s 4)
notified LR 11 March 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 11 March 2008 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 12 March 2008 (LA s 73 (3) but see
CN2008-2
)
First Home Owner Grant Amendment Regulation 2009 (No 2)
 SL2009-33 s 4
notified LR 29 June 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 29 June 2009 (LA s 75
(1))
s 4 commenced 1 July 2009 (s 2)
Note     This regulation only amends the First Home Owner Grant Regulation 2008
 SL2008-4.
as amended by
Statute Law Amendment Act 2009
 A2009-20 sch 3 pt 3.33
notified LR 1 September 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 1 September 2009 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.33 commenced 22 September 2009 (s
2)
First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2009 (No 2)
 A2009-29
notified LR 23 September 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 23 September 2009 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 24 September 2009 (s
2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2010
 A2010-1 pt 2
notified LR 16 February 2010
s 1, s 2 commenced 16 February 2010 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 17 February 2010 (s 2)
First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2010
 A2010-46
notified LR 24 November 2010
s 1, s 2 commenced 24 November 2010 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 25 November 2010 (s
2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2012
 A2012-21 sch 3 pt 3.21
notified LR 22 May 2012
s 1, s 2 commenced 22 May 2012 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.21 commenced 5 June 2012 (s 2
(1))
Civil Unions Act 2012
 A2012-40 sch 3 pt 3.15
notified LR 4 September 2012
s 1, s 2 commenced 4 September 2012 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.15 commenced 11 September 2012 (s
2)
First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2013
 A2013-34
notified LR 26 August 2013
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 August 2013 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 1 September 2013 (s
2)
Planning and Development (University of Canberra and Other Leases) Legislation Amendment Act 2015
 A2015-19 pt 9
notified LR 11 June 2015
s 1, s 2 commenced 11 June 2015 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 9 commenced 1 July 2015 (s 2 and CN2015-9
)
First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2015
 A2015-27
notified LR 20 August 2015
s 1, s 2 commenced 20 August 2015 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 1 January 2016 (s
2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2015
 A2015-49 pt 3
notified LR 24 November 2015
s 1, s 2 commenced 24 November 2015 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 3 commenced 25 November 2015 (s 2)
Public Sector Management Amendment Act 2016
 A2016-52 sch 1 pt 1.27
notified LR 25 August 2016
s 1, s 2 commenced 25 August 2016 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.27 commenced 1 September 2016 (s
2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2021
 A2021-12 sch 3 pt 3.17
notified LR 9 June 2021
s 1, s 2 commenced 9 June 2021 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.17 commenced 23 June 2021 (s 2
(1))
Planning (Consequential Amendments) Act 2023
 A2023-36 sch 1 pt 1.26
notified LR 29 September 2023
s 1, s 2 commenced 29 September 2023 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.26 commenced 27 November 2023 (s 2 (1) and
see Planning Act 2023
 A2023-18, s 2 (2) and CN2023-10
)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2025
 A2025-29 sch 3 pt 3.42, sch 4
pt 4.76
notified LR 6 November 2025
s 1, s 2 commenced 6 November 2025 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.42, sch 4 pt 4.76 commenced 16 November
Section 2025 (s 2 (1), (9))
Section 4 Amendment
history
Dictionarys
Section 2 orig s 2 om R1 LRA     ins A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.218 am A2003-56
 amdt 3.140; A2025-29
 amdt 3.141
Notess
Section 3 sub A2003-41
 amdt 3.218
Offences against Act--application of
Criminal Code etcs 3A     ins A2005-54
 amdt 1.133
Ownership of land and
homess 5     am A2003-41
 amdts 3.219-3.221; A2015-19
 s 50, s 51; pars renum R30 LA; A2023-36
 amdt 1.154
Partner of
applicants 6     am A2003-14
 amdt 1.58, amdt 1.59; A2006-22
 amdt 1.65 (A2006-22
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93)); A2008-14
 amdt 1.36; A2012-40
 amdt 3.55
Entitlement to
grants 7     am A2010-46
 s 4
Eligibility criteria for
applicantsdiv 2.2 hdg     sub A2003-41
 amdt 3.222
Criterion 3--Applicant (or
applicant's partner) must not have received an earlier
grants 10     am A2010-46
 s 5
Criterion 1A--Applicant to be at least
Section 18 years olds 8A     ins A2003-60
 s
Section 4 (3)-(5) exp 19 December 2004 (s 8A
(5))
Criterion 4--Applicant (or
applicant's partner) must not have had relevant interest in residential
propertys 11     am A2002-48
 s 4; A2003-41
 amdt 2.223; A2003-60
 ss 5-7
Criterion 5--Residence
requirementss 12     sub A2003-60
 s 8     am
A2010-1
 s 4; A2013-34
 s 4
Criterion 6--Applicant must not have
been convicted of offence against
Acts 12A     ins A2010-46
 s 6
Meaning of new home--div
Section 2.3s 12B     ins A2013-34
 s 5     am
A2015-49
 s 15
Meaning of eligible transaction
etcs 13 hdg     sub A2003-41
 amdt
Section 2.224s 13     am A2003-41
 amdts 2.225-2.229; A2013-34
 s 6, s 7; A2015-49
 ss 16-18
First home owner grant
caps 13A     ins A2001-46
 s 4     sub
A2002-13
 s 4     am
A2003-41
 amdt 2.230, amdt
Section 2.231 exp 1 July 2004 (s 13A
(12))     ins A2010-46
 s 7
Meaning of total value of eligible
transaction etcs 13B     ins A2010-46
 s 7
Application for
grants 14     am A2001-44
 amdts
Section 1.1727-1.1729 renum R2 LA (see A2001-44
 amdt
1.1730)     am A2003-41
 amdt 3.232; A2012-21
 amdt 3.80; A2021-12
 amdt
3.37
Amount of
grants 18     am A2001-46
 s 5, s 6; A2002-13
 s 5, s 6; A2009-10
 s
Section 4 (2)-(4) exp 1 July 2013 (s 18 (4) (LA s
Section 88 declaration applies))     am A2013-34
 s 8; A2015-27
 s 4, s 5; A2025-29
 amdt 4.76
Amount of grant for special eligible
transactionss 18A     ins A2002-13
 s 7     exp
Section 1 July 2004 (s 18A (6))
Payment in anticipation of compliance with
residence requirements or first home owner grant
caps 20 hdg     sub A2003-60
 s 9; A2010-46
 s 8s
Section 20 am A2003-60
 s 10; A2005-54
 amdt 1.134; A2010-46
 s 9, s 10; ss renum R25
LA
Conditions
generallys 21     am A2005-54
 amdt 1.135; A2009-10
 s 5
Death of
applicants 22     am A2003-60
 s 11
Notification of
decisions 24     am A2015-49
 s 19
Amount of grant--certain eligible
transactionsdiv 2.5A hdg     ins A2009-10
 s 6     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88 declaration applies))
Definitions--div
Section 2.5As 24A     orig s
Section 24A ins A2009-4
 s
Section 6 renum as
s24I     pres s
Section 24A ins A2009-10
 s 6     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88 declaration
applies))     def comprehensive home
building contract ins A2009-10
s 6     exp 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88
declaration applies))     def contract
for an 'off-the-plan' purchase ins A2009-10
 s 6     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88 declaration
applies))     def contract for the
purchase of a home ins A2009-10
 s 6     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88 declaration
applies))     def GST Act ins
A2009-10
 s 6     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88 declaration
applies))     def new home ins
A2009-10
 s 6     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88 declaration
applies))     def owner-builder
ins A2009-10
 s 6     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88 declaration applies))
Amount of grant--certain eligible
transactionss 24B     ins A2009-10
 s 6     am
A2009-29
 s 4     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88 declaration applies))
First home owner boost for new
homess 24C     ins A2009-10
 s 6     mod
SL2008-4
 s 3B (as am by SL2009-33
 s 4)
     mod lapsed 24 September 2009 when s 3B
om by A2009-29
s 9     am A2009-29
 ss
Section 5-7 exp 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88
declaration applies))
First home owner boost for established
homess 24D     ins A2009-10
 s 6     am
A2009-29
 s 8     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88 declaration applies))
Validating payment of grants for certain
eligible transactionss 24E     ins A2009-10
 s 6     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88 declaration applies))
Transitional
regulationss 24F     ins A2009-10
 s 6     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H)
Transitional effect--Legislation Act, s
Section 88s 24G     ins A2009-10
 s 6     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88 declaration applies))
Expiry--div 2.5A
etcs 24H     ins A2009-10
 s 6     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H (LA s 88 declaration applies))
Meaning of objector--div
Section 2.6s 24I     (prev s 24A) ins A2009-4
 s
Section 6 renum as s 24I R20 LA
Objectionss
Section 25 am A2001-44
 amdts 1.1731-1.1734; A2003-41
 amdt 3.233; A2008-37
 amdt 1.177; A2009-4
 ss 7-9; ss renum R19 LA; A2025-29
 amdt 4.76
Grounds for
objections 26     am A2009-4
 s 10
Time for making
objections 27     am A2009-4
 s 10
Objections made out of
times 28     am A2001-44
 amdt 1.1735, amdt 1.1736; A2009-4
 s 10; A2021-12
 amdt 3.37
Reviewable decision
noticess 30     am A2001-44
 amdt 1.1737, amdt
Section 1.1738 sub A2008-37
 amdt
Section 1.178 am A2025-29
 amdt 4.76
Applications for
reviews 31     sub A2008-37
 amdt
Section 1.178 am A2009-4
 s 10; A2010-1
 s 5; A2025-29
 amdt 4.76
Giving effect to decision on
reviews 32     sub A2008-37
 amdt 1.178
Administration
agreementss 36     am A2003-41
 amdt 3.234; A2005-54
 amdt 1.136, amdt 1.137
Power to require
valuations 38A     ins A2010-46
 s 11
Power to require information, records or
other documents or attendance for
examinations 39     am A2003-41
 amdt 3.235; A2005-54
 amdt 1.138; A2012-21
 amdt 3.81
warrants 41     am A2003-41
 amdt 3.236
Privileges against self-incrimination and
exposure to civil penaltys 43     am A2002-11
 amdt
Section 2.42 sub A2005-54
 amdt 1.139
Legal professional
privileges 44     om A2002-11
 amdt 2.43
Failing to comply with requirement of
authorised officers 45 hdg     sub A2004-15
 amdt
Section 2.81s 45     am A2004-15
 amdt 2.82; ss renum A2004-15
 amdt 2.83; A2005-54
 amdt 1.140, amdt 1.141
Repayment and recovery of
grantpt 4 hdg     sub A2009-4
 s 11
Definitions--pt
Section 4s 46     om A2004-15
 amdt
Section 2.84 ins A2009-4
 s
Section 11 def recoverable amount
ins A2009-4
 s
Section 11 def recovery notice ins
A2009-4
 s 11
Meaning of third-party
debtors 46A     ins A2009-4
 s 11
Interest in relation to
repaymentss 48     am A2009-4
 s 12, s 13; pars renum R19 LA
Power to recover amount paid in error
etcs 49     am A2009-4
 s 14, s 15
Power to recover amounts from third-party
debtorss 49A     ins A2009-4
 s 16
Payment of recoverable amounts by
third-party debtorss 49B     ins A2009-4
 s 16
Payment of recoverable amounts by
otherss 49C     ins A2009-4
 s 16
Offence--third-party debtors to comply
with noticess 49D     ins A2009-4
 s 16
Third-party debtors
indemnifieds 49E     ins A2009-4
 s 16
Miscellaneouspt
Section 5 hdg     ins A2003-60
 s
Section 12 exp 1 January 2005 (s 57
(3))     ins A2009-4
 s 16
Secrecys
Section 50 am A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.237 sub A2005-54
 amdt
Section 1.142 am A2007-39
 amdt 3.71; A2009-4
 s 17
Protection of officers
etcs 52     am A2003-41
 amdt 3.238; A2016-52
 amdt 1.85
Determination of
feess 54     am A2001-44
 amdt 1.1739, amdt 1.1740; A2007-39
 amdt 3.72; A2025-29
 amdt 4.76
Approved
formss 55     prev s 55 renum as s
Section 56 ins A2001-44
 amdt
Section 1.1744 am A2003-41
 amdt 3.239; A2007-39
amdt 3.72     om A2021-12
 amdt 3.38
Regulation-making
powers 56     orig s 56 ins A2001-46
 s 7     exp
Section 12 August 2001 (s 56 (2))     (prev s 55)      am
A2001-44
 amdt 1.1741, amdt
Section 1.1742 renum as s 56 A2001-44
 amdt
Section 1.1743 am A2007-39
 amdt 3.73; A2025-29
 amdt 4.76
Amendments by First Home Owner Grant
Amendment Act 2003--continuing operation of Act for certain eligible
transactionss 57     ins A2002-13
 s 8     exp
Section 24 June 2002 (s 57 (2))     ins A2003-60
 s
Section 12 exp 1 January 2005 (s 57
(3))
Transitional--First Home Owner Grant
Amendment Act 2013pt 10 hdg     ins A2013-34
 s
Section 10 exp 1 September 2015 (s
104)
Definitions--pt
Section 10s 100     ins A2013-34
 s
Section 10 exp 1 September 2015 (s
104)     def commencement day
ins A2013-34
 s
Section 10 exp 1 September 2015 (s
104)     def comprehensive home
building contract ins A2013-34
s 10     exp 1 September 2015 (s
104)     def contract for the purchase
of a home ins A2013-34
 s
Section 10 exp 1 September 2015 (s
104)     def owner-builder ins
A2013-34
 s
Section 10 exp 1 September 2015 (s
104)
Pre-1 September 2013
transactionss 101     ins A2013-34
 s
Section 10 exp 1 September 2015 (s
104)
Replacement of pre-1 September 2013
contractss 102     ins A2013-34
 s
Section 10 exp 1 September 2015 (s
104)
Transitional
regulationss 103     ins A2013-34
 s
Section 10 exp 1 September 2015 (s
104)
Expiry--pt
Section 10s 104     ins A2013-34
 s
Section 10 exp 1 September 2015 (s
104)
Dictionarydict     am
A2003-41
 amdt 3.240, amdt 3.241; A2006-22
 amdt 1.66 (A2006-22
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93)); A2008-14
 amdt 1.37; A2008-37
 amdt 1.179; A2012-21
 amdt 3.82; A2012-40
 amdt 3.56; A2016-52
 amdt
Section 1.86 def Australian citizen
sub A2003-41
 amdt 3.242; A2009-20
 amdt
Section 3.80 om A2012-21
 amdt
Section 3.83 def commencement date
am A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.243 def commissioner am
A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.244 def completed am A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.245 def comprehensive home
building contract om A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.246 ins A2009-10
 s 7     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H)     def
consideration am A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.247 def contract for an
'off-the-plan' purchase ins A2009-10
 s 7     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H)     def contract
for the purchase of a home om A2003-41
amdt 3.248     ins A2009-10
 s 7     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H)     def
corresponding law am A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.249 def determined fee om
A2001-44
 amdt
Section 1.1745 def first home owner grant
cap ins A2010-46
 s
Section 12 def function om A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.250 def grant recipient
ins A2009-4
 s
Section 18 def GST Act ins A2009-10
 s 7     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H)     def home built
to replace demolished premises ins A2009-10
 s 7     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H)     def home
owner sub A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.251 def identity card am
A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.252 sub A2003-56
amdt 3.141     am A2025-29
 amdt
Section 3.142 def new home ins A2009-10
 s 7     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H)     ins A2013-34
 s
Section 11 def objector ins A2009-4
 s
Section 18 def option om A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.253 def owner am A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.254 def owner-builder om
A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.255 ins A2009-10
 s 7     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H)     def
partner sub A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.256 def permanent
resident sub A2000-78
 s 3     def
recoverable amount ins A2009-4
 s
Section 18 def recovery notice ins
A2009-4
 s
Section 18 def residence
requirement om A2003-60
 s
Section 13 def residence
requirements ins A2003-60
 s 13     am
A2013-34
 s
Section 12 def residential property
om A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.257 def substantially renovated
home ins A2009-10
 s 7     exp
Section 1 July 2013 (s 24H)     def taxation
law om A2003-41
 amdt
Section 3.258 def third-party debtor
ins A2009-4
 s
Section 18 def total value ins A2010-46
 s
Section 12 def tribunal om A2003-41
 amdt 3.259
Section 5 Earlier
republications
Some earlier republications were not numbered. The number in column 1
refers to the publication order.
Since 12 September 2001 every authorised republication has been published
in electronic pdf format on the ACT legislation register.  A selection of
authorised republications have also been published in printed format. These
republications are marked with an asterisk (*) in column 1.  Electronic and
printed versions of an authorised republication are identical.
Republication No and date
Effective
Last amendment made by
Republication for
R11 Aug
2000
Section 1 July
Section 2000-20 Dec 2000
not amended
new Act
R1
(RI)18 July 2007
Section 1 July
Section 2000-20 Dec 2000
A2000-78
reissue of printed version and includes
retrospective amendments by A2000-78
R1A18
July 2007
Section 21 Dec
Section 2000-11 July 2001
A2000-78
amendments by A2000-78
R212
Sept 2001
Section 12 Sept
Section 2001-23 May 2002
A2001-46
amendments by A2001-44
 and A2001-46
R324 May
2002
Section 24 May
Section 2002-27 May 2002
A2002-13
amendments by A2002-13
R428 May
2002
Section 28 May
Section 2002-24 June 2002
A2002-13
amendments by A2002-11
R525
June 2002
Section 25 June
Section 2002-20 Dec 2002
A2002-13
commenced expiry
R621 Dec
2002
Section 21 Dec
Section 2002-27 Mar 2003
A2002-48
amendments by A2002-48
R728 Mar
2003
Section 28 Mar
Section 2003-8 Oct 2003
A2003-14
amendments by A2003-14
R8*9 Oct
2003
Section 9 Oct
Section 2003-18 Dec 2003
A2003-41
amendments by A2003-41
R919 Dec
2003
Section 19 Dec
Section 2003-31 Dec 2003
A2003-60
amendments by A2003-56
 and A2003-60
R1024
Dec 2003
Section 1 Jan
Section 2004-8 Apr 2004
A2003-60
amendments by A2003-60
R119 Apr
2004
Section 9 Apr
Section 2004-1 July 2004
A2004-15
amendments by A2004-15
R122
July 2004
Section 2 July
Section 2004-19 Dec 2004
A2004-15
commenced expiry
R1320
Dec 2004
Section 20 Dec
Section 2004-1 Jan 2005
A2004-15
commenced expiry
R142 Jan
2005
Section 2 Jan
Section 2005-23 Nov 2005
A2004-15
commenced expiry
R1524
Nov 2005
Section 24 Nov
Section 2005-26 Dec 2007
A2005-54
amendments by A2005-54
R1627
Dec 2007
Section 27 Dec
Section 2007-18 May 2008
A2007-39
amendments by A2007-39
R1719
May 2008
Section 19 May
Section 2008-1 Feb 2009
A2008-14
amendments by A2008-14
R182 Feb
2009
Section 2 Feb
Section 2009-4 Mar 2009
A2008-37
amendments by A2008-37
R195 Mar
2009
Section 5 Mar
Section 2009-7 Apr 2009
A2009-4
amendments by A2009-4
R208 Apr
2009
Section 8 Apr
Section 2009-30 June 2009
A2009-10
amendments by A2009-10
R211
July 2009
Section 1 July
Section 2009-21 Sept 2009
SL2009-33
modifications by SL2008-4
 as amended by SL2009-33
R2222
Sept 2009
Section 22 Sept
Section 2009-23 Sept 2009
A2009-20
amendments by A2009-20
R23*24
Sept 2009
Section 24 Sept
Section 2009-16 Feb 2010
A2009-29
amendments by A2009-29
R2417
Feb 2010
Section 17 Feb
Section 2010-24 Nov 2010
A2010-1
amendments by A2010-1
R2525
Nov 2010
Section 25 Nov
Section 2010-4 June 2012
A2010-46
amendments by A2010-46
R265
June 2012
Section 5 June
Section 2012-10 Sept 2012
A2012-21
amendments by A2012-21
R2711
Sept 2012
Section 11 Sept
Section 2012-1 July 2013
A2012-40
amendments by A2012-40
R282
July 2013
Section 2 July
Section 2013-31 Aug 2013
A2012-40
expiry of provisions (s 18 (2)-(4), div 2.5A
and certain definitions in dict)
R291
Sept 2013
Section 1 Sept
Section 2013-30 June 2015
A2013-34
amendments by A2013-34
R301
July 2015
Section 1 July
Section 2015-1 Sept 2015
A2015-19
amendments by A2015-19
R312
Sept 2015
Section 2 Sept
Section 2015-24 Nov 2015
A2015-19
expiry of transitional provisions (pt
10)
R3225
Nov 2015
Section 25 Nov
Section 2015-31 Dec 2015
A2015-49
amendments by A2015-49
R331 Jan
2016
Section 1 Jan
Section 2016-31 Aug 2016
A2015-49
amendments by A2015-27
R341
Sept 2016
Section 1 Sept
Section 2016-22 June 2021
A2016-52
amendments by A2016-52
R3523
June 2021
Section 23 June
Section 2021-26 Nov 2023
A2021-12
amendments by A2021-12
R3617
Nov 2023
Section 17 Nov
Section 2023-15 Nov 2025
A2023-36
amendments by A2023-36
Section 6 Expired
transitional or validating provisions
This Act may be affected by transitional or validating provisions that have
expired.  The expiry does not affect any continuing operation of the provisions
(see Legislation Act 2001
, s 88 (1)).
Expired provisions are removed from the republished law when the expiry
takes effect and are listed in the amendment history using the abbreviation
'exp' followed by the date of the expiry.
To find the expired provisions see the version of this Act before the
expiry took effect.  The ACT legislation register has point-in-time versions of
this Act.
(c)
Australian Capital Territory 2025
FIRST HOME OWNER GRANT ACT 2000
- NOTES
Australian Capital Territory
A2000-23
Republication No 37
Effective: 16 November 2025 Republication date: 16 November 2025 Last amendment made by A2025-29
About this republication The republished law
This is a republication of the First Home Owner Grant
Act 2000
 (including any amendment made under the Legislation Act 2001
, part 11.3 (Editorial changes)) as in force on 16 November 2025
.  It also includes any commencement, amendment, repeal or expiry
affecting this republished law to 16 November 2025
.
The legislation history and amendment history of the republished law are
set out in endnotes 3 and 4.
Kinds of republications
The Parliamentary Counsel's Office prepares 2 kinds of republications
of ACT laws (see the ACT legislation register at www.legislation.act.gov.au
):
               o     authorised republications to which the Legislation Act 2001
 applies
               o     unauthorised republications.
The status of this republication appears on the bottom of each
page.
Editorial changes
The Legislation Act 2001
, part 11.3 authorises the Parliamentary Counsel to make editorial
amendments and other changes of a formal nature when preparing a law for
republication.  Editorial changes do not change the effect of the law, but have
effect as if they had been made by an Act commencing on the republication date
(see Legislation Act 2001
, s 115 and s 117).  The changes are made if the Parliamentary Counsel
considers they are desirable to bring the law into line, or more closely into
line, with current legislative drafting practice.
This republication includes amendments made under part 11.3 (see endnote
1).
Uncommenced provisions and
amendments
If a provision of the republished law has not commenced, the symbol
 U  appears immediately before the
provision heading.  Any uncommenced amendments that affect this republished law
are accessible on the ACT legislation register (www.legislation.act.gov.au
). For more information, see the home page for this law on the
register.
Modifications
If a provision of the republished law is affected by a current
modification, the symbol  M  appears
immediately before the provision heading.  The text of the modifying provision
appears in the endnotes.  For the legal status of modifications, see the Legislation Act 2001
, section 95.
Penalties
At the republication date, the value of a penalty unit for an offence
against this law is $160 for an individual and $810 for a corporation (see Legislation Act 2001
, s 133).
Australian Capital
Territory
First Home
Owner Grant Act 2000
Endnotes46
Australian Capital
Territory
First Home Owner Grant Act 2000
