Gambling and Racing Control Act 1999
Jurisdiction: australian_capital_territory
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/act/consol_act/garca1999230/
Register: https://www.legislation.act.gov.au/a/1999-46/
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/act/consol_act/garca1999230.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-30T00:26:22.419456Z

GAMBLING AND RACING CONTROL ACT 1999
- TABLE OF PROVISIONS
PART 1--PRELIMINARY
Section 1. Name of Act
Section 2. Dictionary
Section 3. Notes
Section 4. Gaming laws
PART 2--THE COMMISSION
Division 2.1--Establishment and functions of commission
Section 5. Establishment of gambling and racing commission
Section 6. Functions of commission
Section 7. How commission must exercise its functions
Section 8. Community consultation
Section 10. Delegation
Division 2.2--Governing board
Section 11. Establishment of governing board
Section 12. Governing board members
Section 13. Chief executive officer of commission
Section 14. Commission's staff
Section 15. Consultants and contractors
PART 3--ROLE OF COMMISSION IN DEALING WITH SOCIAL EFFECTS OF GAMBLING
Division 3.1--Monitoring and research
Section 17. Monitoring and research
Division 3.2--Dealing with social effects of gambling
Section 18. Code of practice
Section 19. Education and counselling
PART 4--POWERS OF INVESTIGATION
Division 4.1--Authorised officers
Section 20. Authorised officers
Section 21. Identity cards for authorised officers
Division 4.2--Powers of investigation
Section 22. Power to require information, instruments or records or attendance for
Section 22A. Commission may require records to be kept
Section 23. Powers of entry and inspection
Section 24. Search warrant
Section 25. Use and inspection of documents and records produced or seized
Section 26. Use of goods produced or seized
Section 27. Self-incrimination
Section 28. Failing to comply with requirement of authorised officer
Section 30. Access to public records without fee
Section 31. Investigation of complaints
Division 4.3--Cooperation with other jurisdictions
Section 32. Cooperative agreements
Section 33. Investigation at request of reciprocating jurisdiction
Division 4.4--Secrecy
Section 34. Meaning of gaming officer in div 4.4
Section 35. Gaming officers must respect confidentiality
Section 36. Permitted disclosures of a general nature
Section 37. Permitted disclosures to particular people
Section 37A. Permitted disclosures--enforceable undertakings
Section 37B. Public register--disciplinary actions and enforceable
Section 38. Prohibition on secondary disclosures of information
Section 39. Further restrictions on disclosure
PART 5--INQUIRIES
Section 40. Starting an inquiry
Section 41. Interested people may make submissions
Section 42. Hearings to be in public
Section 43. Adjournments
Section 44. Record of proceedings
Section 45. Evidence
Section 46. Report and recommendations
Section 47. Rules of commission
PART 6--TAX ADMINISTRATION
Section 48. Provisions of Taxation Administration Act apply
Section 49. Commission may exercise functions under Commonwealth Act
PART 6A--AUTHORISATION NUMBERS FOR ELECTRONIC GAMING
Section 50. Cap on number of authorisations for electronic gaming in ACT
Section 50A. Review of cap on number of authorisations
PART 6B--LICENCES, AUTHORISATION CERTIFICATES AND AUTHORISATIONS--REGISTER AND REPLACEMENT COPIES
Section 51. Definitions--pt 6B
Section 52. Licences and authorisation certificates--register
Section 53. Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisation schedules--replacement
PART 7--MISCELLANEOUS
Section 53C. Acts and omissions of representatives
Section 53CA. Protection for authorised officers
Section 53D. Approved forms
Section 54. Regulation-making power
DICTIONARY
ENDNOTES
GAMBLING AND RACING CONTROL ACT 1999
- LONG TITLE
An Act to provide for the administration of certain Acts relating to
gambling and racing and to create the gambling and racing commission
Section 1 Name of Act This Act is the Gambling and Racing Control Act 1999.
Section 2 Dictionary The dictionary at the end of this Act is part of this Act. Note 1 The dictionary at the end of this Act defines certain terms
used in this Act.
Note 2     A definition in the dictionary (including a signpost
definition) applies to the entire Act unless the definition, or another
provision of the Act, provides otherwise or the contrary intention otherwise
appears (see Legislation Act
, s 155 and s 156 (1)).
Section 3 A note included in this Act is explanatory and is not part of this Act. Note See the Legislation Act
, s 127 (1), (4) and (5) for the legal status of notes.
Section 4 Gaming laws For this Act, the following are gaming laws:
         (a)     this Act;
         (b)     the Casino Control Act 2006
;
         (c)     the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
;
         (d)     the Gaming Machine Act 2004
;
         (e)     the Interactive Gambling Act 1998
;
         (f)     the Lotteries Act 1964
;
         (g)     the Pool Betting Act 1964
;
         (h)     the Race and Sports Bookmaking Act 2001
;
               (i)     the Racing Act 1999
;
         (j)     the Totalisator Act 2014
;
         (k)     the Unlawful Gambling Act 2009
.
Note     A reference to an Act includes a reference to the statutory
instruments made or in force under the Act, including regulations (see Legislation Act
, s 104).
Note for pt 2
The governance of territory authorities, including the commission, is
regulated by the Financial Management Act 1996
 (the FMA), pt 9 as well as the Act that
establishes them.
The FMA
, pt 9 deals, for example, with the corporate status of territory
authorities and their powers, the make-up of governing boards, the
responsibilities of the governing board and board members, how governing board
positions can be ended, meetings of governing boards and conflicts of
interest.
Section 5 Establishment of gambling and racing commission The ACT Gambling and Racing Commission (the commission) is established.
Section 6 Functions of commission
     (1)     The functions of the commission are--
         (a)     to administer the gaming laws; and
         (b)     to control, supervise and regulate gaming in the ACT; and
         (c)     to exercise any other function given to the commission under this Act
or any other territory law.
Note     A provision of a law that gives a function to an entity also
gives the entity the powers necessary and convenient to exercise the function
(see Legislation Act
, s 196).
     (2)     Without limiting subsection (1), the functions of the commission
include the following:
         (a)     regulating--
               (i)     the activities of casinos; and
               (ii)     machine gaming; and
               (iii)     lotteries; and
               (iv)     racing, as provided in the Racing Act 1999
; and
               (v)     betting; and
               (vi)     interactive gambling;
         (b)     approving gaming and racing activities;
         (c)     monitoring and researching the social effects of gambling and of
gambling harm;
         (d)     providing education and counselling services;
         (e)     engaging in community consultation, as appropriate, on matters related
to its functions;
         (f)     reviewing legislation and policies related to gaming and racing and
making recommendations to the Minister on those matters;
         (g)     monitoring, researching and funding activities relating to gaming and
racing;
         (h)     investigating and conducting inquiries into--
               (i)     issues related to gaming and racing; and
               (ii)     activities of people in relation to gaming and racing, for the
purpose of exercising functions under a gaming law;
               (i)     collecting taxes, fees and charges imposed or authorised by or under
gaming laws.
     (3)     The Minister may direct the commission by way of--
         (a)     guidelines directing the way the commission is to exercise any of its
functions; or
         (b)     directions in writing relating to particular matters.
     (4)     A guideline under subsection (3) (a) is a disallowable
instrument.
Section 7 How commission must exercise its functions The commission must exercise its functions in the way that best promotes the public interest, and in particular, as far as practicable--
         (a)     promotes consumer protection; and
         (b)     minimises the possibility of criminal or unethical activity;
and
         (c)     reduces the risks and costs, to the community and to the individuals
concerned, of gambling harm.
Section 8 Community consultation In exercising its functions of reviewing legislation and policies to make recommendations to the Minister, the commission must engage in community
consultation.
Section 10 Delegation The commission may delegate the commission's functions under this Act or another territory law to a public servant.
Note     For the making of delegations and the exercise of delegated
functions, see the Legislation Act
, pt 19.4.
Section 11 Establishment of governing board The commission has a governing board. Note An appointment of a governing board member is an appointment
under this section (see Financial Management Act 1996
, s 78 (7) (b)).
Section 12 Governing board members
     (1)     The governing board has 5 members, of whom 1 must have knowledge,
experience or qualifications related to providing counselling services to people
experiencing gambling harm.
Note 1     The chair and deputy chair of the governing board must be
appointed under the Financial Management Act 1996
, s 79.
Note 2     The chief executive officer of the authority is a member of
the board (see Financial Management Act 1996
, s 80 (4)).
     (2)     A person is not eligible to be a member if--
         (a)     the person or the person's domestic partner has an interest in a
business subject to a gaming law; or
Note     For the meaning of domestic partner, see the Legislation Act
, s 169.
         (b)     the person would be unlikely to be able to properly exercise the
functions of a member because of the person's business association,
financial association or close personal association with someone else;
or
         (c)     the person has been convicted or found guilty of an offence against a
gaming law or a corresponding law; or
         (d)     within 5 years before the proposed appointment, the person has been
convicted, or found guilty, of an offence in Australia punishable by
imprisonment for at least 1 year; or
         (e)     within 5 years before the proposed appointment, the person has been
convicted, or found guilty, of an offence outside Australia that, if it had been
committed in the ACT, would have been punishable by imprisonment for at least 1
year.
Note     Found guilty--see the Legislation Act
, dictionary, pt 1.
     (3)     In this section:
"corresponding law" means a law of another jurisdiction,
whether in or outside Australia, that regulates gaming or racing.
Section 13 Chief executive officer of commission The chief executive officer of the commission must be a public servant.
Note     A chief executive officer must be appointed under the Financial Management Act 1996
, s 80 (2) and (3).
Section 14 Commission's staff
     (1)     The chief executive officer may employ staff for the commission on
behalf of the Territory.
     (2)     The commission's staff must be employed under the Public Sector Management Act 1994
.
Note     The Public Sector Management Act 1994
, div 8.2 applies to the chief executive officer in relation to the
employment of staff (see Public Sector Management Act 1994
, s 152).
Section 15 Consultants and contractors
     (1)     The commission may engage consultants and contractors.
     (2)     However, the commission must not enter into a contract of employment
under this section.
Section 17 Monitoring and research
     (1)     The commission must monitor the social and economic effects of
gambling and gambling harm in the ACT, including the need for counselling and
other services.
     (2)     The commission may conduct or sponsor research into the social and
economic effects of gambling in the ACT.
     (3)     The Minister, or a resolution of the Assembly, may require the
commission to address particular matters when exercising its functions under
this section.
     (4)     The commission must, at intervals of not less than 12 months, provide
reports to the Minister on the results of its activities under this
section.
     (5)     The Minister must present a report under this section to the Assembly
within 14 sitting days after receiving it.
Section 18 Code of practice
     (1)     A regulation may prescribe 1 or more codes of practice to apply in
relation to the following:
         (a)     a person who is licensed or has a function under a gaming
law;
         (b)     a licensee's executives or members of a licensee's board
or management committee;
         (c)     a licensee's premises or a worker at a licensee's
premises;
         (d)     commitments under the National Consumer Protection
Framework.
     (2)     A code of practice may include, but is not limited to, guidelines
about the following:
         (a)     advertising, promotional practices and the offering of
inducements;
         (b)     providing objective and accurate information about losing and
winning;
         (c)     limiting facilities that make it easy for a gambler to spend more than
the gambler originally intended;
Examples--facilities
               o      automatic teller machines
               o      credit facilities
               o      allowing people to pay by cheque or credit card
         (d)     providing mechanisms to allow people experiencing gambling harm to
exclude themselves using a licensee's facilities for gambling;
         (e)     training staff or executives or members of a licensee's board or
management committee to recognise and deal appropriately with people who are
experiencing gambling harm or are at risk;
         (f)     developing methods of dealing with staff or clients who are
experiencing gambling harm or are at risk;
         (g)     protection of privacy;
         (h)     providing workplace rights training for workers at premises of club
licensees;
               (i)     providing training in corporate governance to a club licensee's
executives or members of a club licensee's board or management
committee.
     (3)     A code of practice may include powers of direction for the commission
to ensure compliance with the code.
     (4)     The commission must, for each licence under a gaming law that permits
the licensee to conduct gambling, develop and review a code of practice to apply
to the licensees and make recommendations to the Minister for appropriate
regulations.
     (5)     In this section:
"National Consumer Protection Framework" means the National
Consumer Protection Framework for Online Wagering in Australia, National Policy
Statement of Australian Governments, as in force from time to time.
Section 19 Education and counselling
     (1)     The commission may carry out or sponsor--
         (a)     counselling for people who are experiencing gambling harm;
or
         (b)     publicity and education programs--
               (i)     providing consumer information for different kinds of gambling;
or
               (ii)     about the risks of gambling; or
               (iii)     about gambling harm.
     (2)     The Minister, or a resolution of the Assembly, may require the
commission to address particular matters when exercising its functions under
this section.
Section 20 Authorised officers
     (1)     The members of the governing board are authorised officers.
     (2)     The chief executive officer may appoint a person to be an authorised
officer.
Note 1     For the making of appointments (including acting
appointments), see the Legislation Act
, pt 19.3.
Note 2     In particular, a person may be appointed for a particular
provision of a law (see Legislation Act
, s 7 (3)) and an appointment may be made by naming a person or nominating
the occupant of a position (see s 207).
     (3)     The director-general may, in writing, recognise a person engaged in
the administration or enforcement of a gaming law of a reciprocating
jurisdiction as an authorised officer for this subsection.
     (4)     If the director-general recognises a person for subsection (3), the
person is an authorised officer for the period and purpose stated in the
recognition of the person.
     (5)     A gaming officer to whom the chief executive officer delegates
functions under division 4.2 is an authorised officer.
Section 21 Identity cards for authorised officers
     (1)     An authorised officer must be issued with an identity card in a form
approved by the commission--
         (a)     containing the person's name and a photograph of the person;
and
         (b)     stating that the person is an authorised officer for the gaming
laws.
     (2)     When recognising an officer of a reciprocating jurisdiction for
section 20 (3), the commission may approve the use of the identity card
issued by that jurisdiction for subsection (1).
     (3)     A person who has been issued with an identity card under
subsection (1) and ceases to be an authorised officer must return the card
to the commission as soon as practicable.
Maximum penalty:  1 penalty unit.
Section 22 Power to require information, instruments or records or attendance for examination
     (1)     The commission may, for a purpose related to the administration or
enforcement of a gaming law, by written notice served on a person, require the
person--
         (a)     to provide to the commission (either orally or in writing) information
that is described in the notice; or
         (b)     to attend and give evidence before the commission or an authorised
officer; or
         (c)     to produce to the commission a record or other document described in
the notice that is in the person's custody or control.
Note     For how documents may be served, see the Legislation Act
, pt 19.5.
     (2)     If a notice to a person under subsection (1) is made to determine that
person's tax liability, the notice must state that the requirement is made
for that purpose, but the commission is not otherwise required to identify a
person in relation to whom any information, evidence, record or other document
is required under this section.
     (3)     The commission--
         (a)     may specify whether information or evidence to be provided or given
under this section must be given orally or in writing; and
         (b)     may require any information or evidence given orally to be given on
oath or affirmation.
Note     It is an offence to make a false or misleading statement, give
false or misleading information or produce a false or misleading document (see
Criminal
Code
, pt 3.4).
     (4)     A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail--
         (a)     to comply with the requirements of a notice under this section within
the period specified in the notice or any further period allowed by the
commission; or
         (b)     to comply with any other requirement of the commission about the
giving of evidence or how information or evidence is to be provided or given
under this section.
Maximum penalty:  50 penalty units.
     (5)     A person required to attend before an authorised officer to give oral
evidence must be paid expenses in accordance with the scale of allowances
determined under the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, section 139 for that Act
, section 82 (5).
     (6)     Subsection (5) does not apply to a person, or a representative of a
person, giving evidence in relation to the person's own obligations under
a gaming law.
Section 22A Commission may require records to be kept
     (1)     For the administration or enforcement of a gaming law, the commission
may require a stated class of people to keep records of the kind, and in the
way, stated in the instrument.
     (2)     A person to whom a requirement under subsection (1) applies must
comply with the requirement.
Maximum penalty:  50 penalty units.
     (3)     An instrument under this section is a disallowable
instrument.
Section 23 Powers of entry and inspection
     (1)     An authorised officer may, for a purpose related to the administration
or enforcement of a gaming law, enter and inspect any premises at any reasonable
time and do any of the following:
         (a)     remain on the premises;
         (b)     examine all documents and remove, or take copies of or extracts from,
any document on behalf of the commission;
         (c)     inspect any gaming equipment and remove any gaming equipment that the
officer believes on reasonable grounds to be connected with an offence against a
gaming law;
         (d)     remove any thing that the officer believes on reasonable grounds might
be used as evidence in a prosecution for an offence against a gaming
law;
         (e)     require any person on the premises to answer questions or otherwise
give information, including information about the identity of the person or
another person;
         (f)     require any person on the premises to give access to any document in
the person's custody or control, and to--
               (i)     produce or display the document; or
               (ii)     provide a copy of the document or a version of it in some form other
than that in which it is normally kept;
in any printed, electronic or other form that it is reasonably practicable
to provide;
         (g)     require any person on the premises to produce any gaming equipment in
the person's custody or control;
         (h)     require the owner or occupier of the premises to provide the officer
with the assistance and facilities that are reasonably necessary to enable the
officer to exercise powers under this part.
     (2)     An authorised officer who enters premises under subsection (1) and is
requested by the occupier to identify themself is not authorised to remain on
the premises unless the officer produces the officer's identity card to
the occupier.
     (3)     The powers of entry and inspection under this section must not be
exercised in relation to premises, or a part of premises, used for residential
purposes except with the consent of the owner or occupier of the premises or
part.
     (4)     In this section:
"occupier", in relation to premises, includes a person
apparently in charge or responsible for the premises.
Section 24 Search warrant
     (1)     If a magistrate is satisfied, on the application of the chief
executive officer supported by an affidavit or other sworn evidence, that there
is a reasonable ground for suspecting that a document or gaming equipment
relevant to an investigation into a possible offence against a gaming law, or
any other thing constituting evidence of an offence against a gaming law, may be
found in certain premises, the magistrate may issue a warrant authorising an
authorised officer together with any assistants named or described in the
warrant--
         (a)     to enter those premises, using the force that is necessary for the
purpose; and
         (b)     to search the premises and to break open and search anything in the
premises in which a document or any gaming equipment may be stored or concealed;
and
         (c)     to seize and remove, on behalf of the commission--
               (i)     any document that appears to be relevant to the obligations of a
person under a gaming law; or
               (ii)     any gaming equipment that the officer believes on reasonable grounds
to be connected with an offence against a gaming law; or
               (iii)     any other thing that the officer believes on reasonable grounds
might be used as evidence in a prosecution for an offence against a gaming
law.
     (2)     The powers given by this section are in addition to, and not in
derogation of, any other powers given by law.
Section 25 Use and inspection of documents and records produced or seized
     (1)     This section applies to a document that has been produced to the
commission or seized and removed by an authorised officer.
     (2)     The document may be kept for as long as is reasonably necessary to
enable it to be inspected, copies of, or extracts or notes from it to be made,
and for a decision to be made about whether subsection (3)
applies.
     (3)     If the document is required by the commission as evidence for a legal
proceeding, it may be kept until the proceeding is finally decided.
     (4)     The commission must permit a person who would be entitled to inspect
the document if it were not in the possession of the commission to inspect the
document at any reasonable time.
     (5)     Nothing in this section prejudices a lien a person has on the
document.
Section 26 Use of goods produced or seized
     (1)     This section applies to any thing, other than a document, that has
been produced to the commission or seized and removed by an authorised
officer.
     (2)     The thing may be kept for as long as is reasonably necessary to enable
it to be inspected and for a decision to be made about whether subsection (3)
applies.
     (3)     If the thing is required by the commission as evidence for a legal
proceeding, it may be kept until the proceeding is finally decided.
     (4)     If the owner of the thing is convicted as a result of the legal
proceedings, the court may direct that the thing be forfeited to the Territory,
and in that case it may be disposed of as the Minister directs.
     (5)     If the thing is no longer required by the commission, but the
commission cannot return it to the owner within 12 months despite reasonable
efforts to do so (for example, because the owner has left the ACT), the
commission may direct that the thing be disposed of by auction and the proceeds
held for the owner instead of the thing.
     (6)     Nothing in this section prejudices a lien a person has on the
thing.
Section 27 Self-incrimination
     (1)     A person is not excused from answering a question, providing
information or producing a document, when required to do so under this Act, on
the ground that to do so might tend to incriminate the person or make the person
liable to a penalty.
     (2)     If the person objects to answering the question, providing the
information or producing the document on that ground, the answer, information or
document is not admissible against the person in any criminal proceedings other
than--
         (a)     proceedings for an offence in relation to false or misleading
statements, information or records; or
         (b)     proceedings for an offence in the nature of perjury.
Section 28 Failing to comply with requirement of authorised officer
     (1)     A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with a
requirement of an authorised officer under this division.
Maximum penalty:  50 penalty units.
     (2)     A person does not commit an offence against this section arising from
the entry of an authorised officer onto premises unless it is established that,
at the material time, the authorised officer--
         (a)     identified themself as an authorised officer; and
         (b)     warned the person that a refusal or failure to comply with the
requirement constituted an offence.
Section 30 Access to public records without fee The commission is entitled to inspect and take copies of any public record kept under an Act or law of the Territory without payment of any fee that would
otherwise be payable.
Section 31 Investigation of complaints
     (1)     A person may lodge a complaint with the commission, in a form approved
by the commission, about compliance with a gaming law.
     (2)     If the commission investigates the complaint, the commission or an
authorised officer may give the complainant information about the status or
results of the investigation if satisfied that--
         (a)     the complainant has a legitimate interest in the information;
and
         (b)     giving the information to the complainant would not unreasonably do
any of the following:
               (i)     prejudice another person's privacy or other interests;
               (ii)     deny another person procedural fairness;
               (iii)     adversely affect the conduct of the investigation.
Section 32 Cooperative agreements The commission may make agreements with the responsible authorities of reciprocating jurisdictions governing cooperation under this division.
Section 33 Investigation at request of reciprocating jurisdiction
     (1)     The commission may authorise a gaming officer of the Territory or of a
reciprocating jurisdiction to investigate a matter that relates to the
administration or enforcement of a gaming law of that jurisdiction, on the
written request of an officer of that jurisdiction who exercises functions in
relation to a gaming law of that jurisdiction.
     (2)     This Act applies in relation to an investigation under this section as
if it were an investigation into a matter relating to the administration or
enforcement of a gaming law of the Territory.
Section 34 Meaning of gaming officer in div 4.4 In this division: "gaming officer" includes any person who has acquired a
confidential document or confidential information under a gaming law or as a
result of exercising functions under or in relation to a gaming law.
Section 35 Gaming officers must respect confidentiality
     (1)     A person who is or has been a gaming officer must not, otherwise than
in the performance of the person's duties as a gaming officer, make a
record of any confidential information about another person.
Maximum penalty:  50 penalty units, imprisonment for 6 months or
both.
     (2)     A person who is or has been a gaming officer must not disclose any
information obtained under or in relation to the administration of a gaming law,
except as permitted by this part.
Maximum penalty:  50 penalty units, imprisonment for 6 months or
both.
     (3)     The commission may require a gaming officer to make an oath or
affirmation, in a way specified by the commission in writing, to maintain
secrecy in accordance with this section.
     (4)     For subsection (2), information disclosed to the commission by a
person exercising a function under a law of the Commonwealth, a State or another
Territory in relation to gaming or racing is information obtained under this
Act.
Section 36 Permitted disclosures of a general nature
     (1)     The commission may disclose information obtained under or in relation
to the administration of a gaming law that does not and is not likely
to--
         (a)     directly or indirectly identify a particular person; or
         (b)     disclose matters about the personal affairs of a particular
person.
     (2)     The commission may disclose statistical information that does not
satisfy subsection (1) if--
         (a)     the reason that a person or the person's affairs might be
identified is that there are few people in particular categories; and
         (b)     the commission is satisfied that it is in the public interest to
disclose that information.
Section 37 Permitted disclosures to particular people A gaming officer may disclose information obtained under or in relation to the administration of a gaming law--
         (a)     with the consent of the person to whom the information relates or at
the request of a person acting on behalf of the person to whom the information
relates; or
         (b)     in connection with the administration or execution of a gaming law
(including for the purpose of any legal proceedings arising out of a gaming law
or a report of any such proceedings); or
         (c)     in accordance with a requirement imposed under an Act; or
         (d)     to any of the following, or to a person authorised to receive the
information by any of the following:
               (i)     for the purpose of the administration or enforcement of a gaming law
of a reciprocating jurisdiction--a person who, or authority that, exercises
functions under that law;
               (ii)     for the purpose of advising or assisting an administrative unit, the
Minister or any other Minister on policy matters or the operation of a gaming
law--the administrative unit responsible for this Act, the commission or
the Minister;
               (iii)     for the purpose of administering the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, part 2A (Reducing cap on authorisations to 3 500 or fewer)--the
administrative unit responsible for this Act, the commission, the Minister or a
tax officer under the Taxation Administration Act 1999
;
               (iv)     for the purpose of administering the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, division 11.3 (Diversification and sustainability support fund)--a
member of the advisory board under that division, a public servant, the
commission or the Minister;
               (v)     the auditor-general;
               (vi)     the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission;
               (vii)     the Australian Crime Commission;
               (viii)     the Australian Federal Police;
               (ix)     the Australian Securities and Investments Commission;
               (x)     the Australian statistician;
               (xi)     the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre
(AUSTRAC);
               (xii)     the chief police officer;
               (xiii)     the commissioner for revenue;
               (xiv)     the Commissioner of Taxation of the Commonwealth;
               (xv)     the Department of Home Affairs (Cwlth);
               (xvi)     the Commonwealth Services Delivery Agency (Centrelink);
               (xvii)     the ombudsman;
               (xiii)     the police force or service of a State;
Note     State includes the Northern Territory (see Legislation Act
, dict, pt 1).
               (xix)     the integrity commission;
               (xx)     an authority or agency of a State that is responsible for collecting
or receiving taxation revenue of the State;
               (xxi)     a person prescribed by regulation; or
         (e)     in accordance with section 31.
Section 37A Permitted disclosures--enforceable undertakings The commission may disclose information relating to a person as agreed with the person in an enforceable undertaking under the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, part 3A.
Section 37B Public register--disciplinary actions and enforceable undertakings
     (1)     The commission must keep a public register that lists--
         (a)     the business or trading names of licensees that have had disciplinary
action taken against them under the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, part 4; and
         (b)     a description of the--
         (a)     disciplinary action taken; and
         (b)     disciplinary ground for which the action was taken.
     (2)     The commission may enter any details agreed with a licensee on the
register if the licensee has entered into an enforceable undertaking under the
Gaming
Machine Act 2004
, part 3A.
     (3)     The commission must not enter details relating to disciplinary action
on the register--
         (a)     if the details contain any references to the names of individuals;
and
         (b)     unless--
               (i)     the time for any appeal or review in relation to the disciplinary
action has not ended; and
               (ii)     any appeal or review in relation to the disciplinary action has not
been decided or withdrawn.
Section 38 Prohibition on secondary disclosures of information A person must not disclose any information provided to the person by a gaming officer in accordance with this Act unless the disclosure is made with
the consent of the commission or to enable the person to exercise a function
given to the person by law for the purpose of the enforcement of a law for
protecting the public revenue.
Maximum penalty:  50 penalty units, imprisonment for 6 months or
both.
Section 39 Further restrictions on disclosure
     (1)     A person who is or has been a gaming officer must not be
required--
         (a)     to produce a confidential document in court; or
         (b)     to disclose any confidential information to a court;
unless the court considers that it is necessary to do so for the
administration or execution of a gaming law.
     (2)     In this section:
"court" includes any tribunal, authority or person having power
to require documents to be produced or questions to be answered.
Section 40 Starting an inquiry
     (1)     The commission must inquire into any matter referred to it by the
Minister or under a gaming law.
     (2)     The commission may inquire into any other matter as it considers
appropriate.
Section 41 Interested people may make submissions The commission must give any entity directly affected by or interested in the subject matter of an inquiry an opportunity to make submissions.
Section 42 Hearings to be in public An inquiry by the commission must be heard in public unless the commission, for good reason, decides otherwise.
Section 43 Adjournments The commission may at any time adjourn an inquiry as it considers appropriate.
Section 44 Record of proceedings The commission must keep a record of its proceedings.
Section 45 Evidence The commission may inform itself in any way it considers appropriate.
Section 46 Report and recommendations
     (1)     The commission must report its findings in an inquiry, other than an
inquiry mentioned in subsection (2), to the Minister and may make
recommendations on its findings.
     (2)     If a gaming law requires the commission to make an inquiry before
taking a specified action, the commission must report its findings in the annual
report.
     (3)     The Minister must present any reports and recommendations before the
Legislative Assembly within 14 sitting days after receiving them.
Section 47 Rules of commission
     (1)     The commission may make rules for the procedure of the commission in
an inquiry.
     (2)     A rule made under subsection (1) is a disallowable
instrument.
Section 48 Provisions of Taxation Administration Act apply The provisions of the Taxation Administration Act 1999 , except for part 9 (Taxation officers, investigation and secrecy
provisions), apply in relation to a gaming law as if--
         (a)     a reference to an authorised officer were a reference to an authorised
officer under this Act; and
         (b)     a reference to the commissioner were a reference to the commission
under this Act; and
         (c)     a reference to the Minister were a reference to the Minister in
relation to this Act; and
         (d)     a reference to a tax law were a reference to a gaming law under this
Act; and
         (e)     a reference to a tax officer were a reference to a gaming officer
under this Act.
Section 49 Commission may exercise functions under Commonwealth Act The commission may exercise the functions of a State taxation officer under the Taxation Administration Act 1953
 (Cwlth), part 3A.
Section 50 Cap on number of authorisations for electronic gaming in ACT
     (1)     The cap on the number of authorisations for electronic gaming for all
authorised premises in the ACT is worked out as follows:
SN - (NS + NC + NF)
"NC" means the total number of authorisations cancelled after
the relevant day.
"NF" means the total number of authorisations forfeited to the
Territory after the relevant day.
"NS" means the total number of authorisations surrendered after
the relevant day.
"SN" means the number notified by the commission under
subsection (3).
     (2)     The total number of authorisations for electronic gaming under all
authorisation schedules issued under a gaming law must not exceed the cap on the
number worked out under subsection (1).
Note     An authorisation schedule is included in an authorisation
certificate (see Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
, s 12 (1) (e) and s 15 (1) (e) and Gaming Machine Act 2004
, s 27 (1) (h) and s 30 (3) (j)).
     (3)     As soon as practicable after each time the cap on the number of
authorisations for electronic gaming changes, the commission must prepare a
notice stating the new cap on the number and the date of the change.
     (4)     A notice under subsection (3) is a notifiable instrument.
     (5)     In this section:
"authorisation", for electronic gaming, means--
         (a)     an authorisation for a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004
; and
         (b)     an authorisation for a casino gaming machine or casino FATG terminal
under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
.
"authorised premises"--
         (a)     see the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, dictionary; and
         (b)     includes the casino.
"cancelled"--
         (a)     an authorisation for a gaming machine is cancelled
if--
               (i)     the authorisation is cancelled under either of the following sections
of the Gaming Machine Act 2004
:
     (A)     section 62 (Commission may take disciplinary action against
licensee);
     (B)     section 64 (Cancellation of authorisation certificate
because of cancellation etc of general and on licences); and
               (ii)     the cancellation has become final; and
         (b)     an authorisation for a casino gaming machine or casino FATG terminal
is "cancelled" if--
               (i)     the authorisation is cancelled under--
     (A)     the Casino Control Act 2006
, section 34 (Disciplinary action against casino licensee);
or
     (B)     the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
, section 41 (Cancellation of authorisation certificates and
authorisations on surrender of casino licence); and
               (ii)     the cancellation has become final.
"casino"--see the Casino Control Act 2006
, dictionary.
"casino FATG terminal"--see the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
, dictionary.
"casino gaming machine"--see the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
, dictionary.
"electronic gaming" means gaming machines, casino gaming
machines, casino FATG terminals and fully-automated table game
machines.
"final"--a cancellation of an authorisation becomes
"final" when--
         (a)     the time for any appeal or review in relation to the decision has
ended; or
         (b)     any appeal or review in relation to the decision has been decided or
withdrawn.
"forfeited"--an authorisation is forfeited
if the authorisation is forfeited under--
         (a)     the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, section 127F (Trading authorisations--forfeiture requirement);
or
         (b)     the following sections of the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
:
               (i)     section 17 (Acquiring authorisations--forfeiture
requirement);
               (ii)     section 23 (Status of restricted authorisations if development
approval ends under Planning Act 2023, s 211 or because no approval
given);
               (iii)     section 24 (Status of restricted authorisations if development
approval ends in other circumstances);
               (iv)     section 42 (Cancellation of authorisation certificates and
authorisations--forfeiture).
"gaming machine" means a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, dictionary.
"relevant day" means the date of the change stated in the
notice prepared by the commission under subsection (3).
"surrendered"--
         (a)     an authorisation for a gaming machine is surrendered if
the licensee, under the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, section 37F (1) (c) (Surrender of licences, authorisation
certificates and authorisations), surrenders the authorisation and the surrender
takes effect under that Act
, section 173E (Notifiable actions--date of effect); and
         (b)     an authorisation for a casino gaming machine or casino FATG terminal
is surrendered if the casino licensee, under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
, section 43 (Surrender of authorisation certificates and authorisations),
surrenders the authorisation and the surrender takes effect under that Act
, section 50 (Notifiable actions--date of effect).
Section 50A Review of cap on number of authorisations
     (1)     Before 31 December 2026, the Minister must--
         (a)     review the operation of section 50; and
         (b)     present a report of the review to the Legislative Assembly.
     (2)     This section expires on 31 December 2027.
Section 51 Definitions--pt 6B In this part: "authorisation", for electronic gaming, means--
         (a)     an authorisation for a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004
; and
         (b)     an authorisation for a casino gaming machine or casino FATG terminal
under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
.
"authorisation certificate", for electronic gaming,
means--
         (a)     an authorisation certificate for a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004
; and
         (b)     an authorisation certificate for a casino gaming machine or casino
FATG terminal under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
.
"authorisation number", for electronic gaming,
means--
         (a)     an authorisation number for a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004
; and
         (b)     an authorisation number for a casino gaming machine or casino FATG
terminal under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
.
"authorisation schedule", for electronic gaming,
means--
         (a)     an authorisation schedule for an authorisation certificate for a
licence for a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004
; and
         (b)     an authorisation schedule for an authorisation certificate for a
casino gaming machine or casino FATG terminal under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
.
"casino FATG terminal"--see the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
, dictionary.
"casino gaming machine"--see the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
, dictionary.
"electronic gaming" means gaming machines, casino gaming
machines, casino FATG terminals and fully-automated table game
machines.
"gaming machine" means a gaming machine under the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, dictionary.
"general purpose", for a storage permit--see the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, dictionary.
"interim purpose", for a storage permit--see the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, dictionary.
"licence" means--
         (a)     a casino licence granted under the Casino Control Act 2006
, section 21; or
         (b)     a licence for a class B or class C gaming machine issued under the Gaming Machine Act 2004
.
Note     Licensee has a meaning corresponding to the meaning of
licence (see Legislation Act
, s 157).
"maximum number", of authorisations--
         (a)     for gaming machines--see the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, dictionary; and
         (b)     for casino gaming machines--means the maximum number of
authorisations for casino gaming machines the casino licensee is allowed under
an authorisation certificate; and
         (c)     for casino FATG terminals--means the maximum number of
authorisations for casino FATG terminals the casino licensee is allowed under an
authorisation certificate.
"storage permit"--see the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, section 127L.
Section 52 Licences and authorisation certificates--register
     (1)     The commission must keep a register of licences, authorisation
certificates and authorisations.
     (2)     The register must include the following details:
         (a)     the date of issue, amendment or transfer of a licence or authorisation
certificate;
         (b)     the date of the suspension or cancellation of a licence or
authorisation certificate;
         (c)     for each authorisation certificate included in the
register--
               (i)     for an authorisation certificate in relation to gaming
machines--the maximum number of authorisations for gaming machines the
licensee may have under the authorisation certificate; and
               (ii)     for an authorisation certificate in relation to casino gaming
machines or casino FATG terminals--the maximum number of authorisations for
casino gaming machines or casino FATG terminals the licensee is allowed under
the authorisation certificate; and
               (iii)     the authorisation number for each authorisation; and
               (iv)     details of any gaming machine, casino gaming machine or casino FATG
terminal under each authorisation;
         (d)     if a licensee holds a storage permit--
               (i)     whether the permit is for a general purpose or an interim purpose;
and
               (ii)     the serial number of each gaming machine to be stored under the
permit; and
               (iii)     for a storage permit for a general purpose--the authorisation
number for each gaming machine's associated authorisation;
         (e)     anything else prescribed by regulation.
     (3)     The register may be kept in any form, including electronically, that
the commission decides.
     (4)     The commission may correct an error or omission in the
register.
     (5)     A licensee may ask the commission, in writing, to correct an error or
omission in the register.
     (6)     The commission may change a detail included in the register to keep
the register up-to-date.
Example
A detail in the register may be changed as a consequence of receiving
notification under the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
, s 49 or the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, s 173D about a notifiable action.
Section 53 Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisation schedules--replacement copies
     (1)     This section applies if a licensee's licence, authorisation
certificate or authorisation schedule is lost, stolen or destroyed.
     (2)     The licensee must give the commission a statement verifying the loss,
theft or destruction of the licence, authorisation certificate or authorisation
schedule as soon as practicable after becoming aware of the loss, theft or
destruction.
Note     It is an offence to make a false or misleading statement, give
false or misleading information or produce a false or misleading document (see
Criminal
Code
, pt 3.4).
     (3)     If the commission receives a statement under subsection (2), the
commission must give the licensee a replacement licence, replacement
authorisation certificate or replacement authorisation schedule.
Section 53C Acts and omissions of representatives
     (1)     In this section:
"person" means an individual.
Note     See the Criminal Code
, pt 2.5 for provisions about corporate criminal responsibility.
"representative", of a person, means an employee or agent of
the person.
"state of mind", of a person, includes--
         (a)     the person's knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose;
and
         (b)     the person's reasons for the intention, opinion, belief or
purpose.
     (2)     This section applies to a prosecution for any offence against this
Act.
     (3)     If it is relevant to prove a person's state of mind about an act
or omission, it is enough to show--
         (a)     the act was done or omission made by a representative of the person
within the scope of the representative's actual or apparent authority;
and
         (b)     the representative had the state of mind.
     (4)     An act done or omitted to be done on behalf of a person by a
representative of the person within the scope of the representative's
actual or apparent authority is also taken to have been done or omitted to be
done by the person.
     (5)     However, subsection (4) does not apply if the person establishes that
reasonable precautions were taken and appropriate diligence was exercised to
avoid the act or omission.
     (6)     A person who is convicted of an offence cannot be punished by
imprisonment for the offence if the person would not have been convicted of the
offence without subsection (3) or (4).
Section 53CA Protection for authorised officers
     (1)     This section applies to an authorised officer who is not a member of
the governing board.
Note     Members of governing boards are protected from liability under
the Financial Management Act 1996
, s 90.
     (2)     The authorised officer is not civilly liable for anything done or
omitted to be done honestly and without recklessness--
         (a)     for the purpose of administering or enforcing a territory gaming law;
or
         (b)     for the purpose of administering or enforcing a gaming law of a
reciprocating jurisdiction under division 4.3; or
         (c)     in the reasonable belief that the act or omission was for a purpose
mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b).
     (3)     Any liability that would, apart from this section, attach to the
authorised officer attaches instead to the commission.
Section 53D Approved forms
     (1)      The commission may approve forms for a gaming law.
     (2)     If the commission approves a form for a particular purpose, the
approved form must be used for that purpose.
     (3)     An approved form is a notifiable instrument.
Section 54 Regulation-making power
     (1)      The Executive may make regulations for this Act.
     (2)     A regulation may prescribe offences for contraventions of a regulation
and prescribe maximum penalties of not more than 30 penalty units for
offences against a regulation.
GAMBLING AND RACING CONTROL ACT 1999
- NOTES Dictionary
Dictionary
(see s 2)
Note 1     The Legislation Act
 contains definitions and other provisions relevant to this Act.
Note 2     For example, the Legislation Act
, dict, pt 1 defines the following terms:
               o      ACT
               o      administrative unit
               o      Australian statistician
               o      director-general (see s 163)
               o      exercise
               o      found guilty
               o      function
               o      integrity commission
               o      Minister (see s 162)
               o      public servant
               o      under.
"annual report" means the report that the commission is
required to prepare under the Annual Reports (Government Agencies) Act 2004
.
"authorisation", for electronic gaming, for part 6B (Licences,
authorisation certificates and authorisations--register and replacement
copies)--see section 51.
"authorisation certificate", for electronic gaming, for part 6B
(Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations--register and
replacement copies)--see section 51.
"authorisation number", for electronic gaming, for part 6B
(Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations--register and
replacement copies)--see section 51.
"authorisation schedule", for electronic gaming, for part 6B
(Licences, authorisation certificates and authorisations--register and
replacement copies)--see section 51.
"authorised officer" means a person who is an authorised
officer under section 20.
"casino" means the casino under the Casino Control Act 2006
.
"casino FATG terminal", for part 6B (Licences, authorisation
certificates and authorisations--register and replacement copies)--see
the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
, dictionary.
"casino gaming machine", for part 6B (Licences, authorisation
certificates and authorisations--register and replacement copies)--see
the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
, dictionary.
"chief executive officer" means the chief executive officer of
the commission.
"club licensee" means a licensee that is a club under the Gaming Machine Act 2004
.
"code of practice"--see section 18.
"commission "means the ACT Gambling and Racing Commission
established under section 5.
"electronic gaming", for part 6B (Licences, authorisation
certificates and authorisations--register and replacement copies)--see
Section 51. "gaming" means conducting or playing a game of chance, or of mixed chance and skill, in which money or any other valuable thing is offered as a prize or is staked or risked (by a participant or someone else) on an event or
contingency.
"gaming equipment" means any electrical, electronic or
mechanical device or any other thing (other than chips) used, or suitable for
use, in connection with gaming.
"gaming law"--
         (a)     in relation to the Territory--see section 4; and
         (b)     in relation to the Commonwealth, a State, another Territory, or a
foreign country, (the "other jurisdiction")--means a law of the
other jurisdiction that relates to gaming or racing.
"gaming machine", for part 6B (Licences, authorisation
certificates and authorisations--register and replacement copies)--see
Section 51. "gaming officer"--
         (a)     for this Act generally--means any of the following:
               (i)     a member of the governing board;
               (ii)     any other authorised officer;
               (iii)     anyone else engaged (whether as an officer or employee or otherwise)
in the administration or enforcement of a gaming law; and
         (b)     for division 4.4 (Secrecy)--see section 34.
"general purpose", for a storage permit, for part 6B (Licences,
authorisation certificates and authorisations--register and replacement
copies)--see the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, dictionary.
"governing board" means the governing board of the
commission.
"inquiry" means an inquiry conducted under part 5.
"interim purpose", for a storage permit, for part 6B (Licences,
authorisation certificates and authorisations--register and replacement
copies)--see the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, dictionary.
"licence", for part 6B (Licences, authorisation certificates
and authorisations--register and replacement copies)--see section
51.
"maximum number", of authorisations, for part 6B (Licences,
authorisation certificates and authorisations--register and replacement
copies)--see section 51.
"racing" means racing conducted for the purpose of
betting.
"reciprocating jurisdiction" means a jurisdiction, being the
Commonwealth, a State, another Territory or New Zealand, under a law of which an
officer of the jurisdiction is authorised to give to the commission, for the
purposes of the administration of a gaming law, information within the knowledge
of the officer.
"storage permit", for part 6B (Licences, authorisation
certificates and authorisations--register and replacement copies)--see
the Gaming Machine Act 2004
, section 127L.
"workplace rights training "means training on rights and
obligations under laws in force in the ACT that apply in relation to workers at
premises of club licensees.
Examples--rights and
obligations
               o      employment agreements
               o      minimum wages and employment conditions
               o      termination of employment agreements
               o      workplace safety
GAMBLING AND RACING CONTROL ACT 1999
- NOTES Endnotes
Endnotes
Section 1 About
the endnotes
Amending and modifying laws are annotated in the legislation history and
the amendment history.  Current modifications are not included in the
republished law but are set out in the endnotes.
Not all editorial amendments made under the Legislation Act 2001
, part 11.3 are annotated in the amendment history.  Full details of any
amendments can be obtained from the Parliamentary Counsel's
Office.
Uncommenced amending laws are not included in the republished law.  The
details of these laws are underlined in the legislation history.  Uncommenced
expiries are underlined in the legislation history and amendment
history.
If all the provisions of the law have been renumbered, a table of
renumbered provisions gives details of previous and current numbering.
The endnotes also include a table of earlier republications.
Section 2 Abbreviation
key
A = Act
NI = Notifiable instrument
AF = Approved form
o = order
am = amended
om = omitted/repealed
amdt = amendment
ord = ordinance
AR = Assembly resolution
orig = original
ch = chapter
par = paragraph/subparagraph
CN = Commencement notice
pres = present
def = definition
prev = previous
DI = Disallowable instrument
(prev...) = previously
dict = dictionary
pt = part
disallowed = disallowed by the Legislative
r = rule/subrule
Assembly
reloc = relocated
div = division
renum = renumbered
exp = expires/expired
R[X] = Republication No
Gaz = gazette
RI = reissue
hdg = heading
s = section/subsection
IA = Interpretation Act 1967
sch = schedule
ins = inserted/added
sdiv = subdivision
LA = Legislation Act 2001
SL = Subordinate law
LR = legislation register
sub = substituted
LRA = Legislation (Republication) Act
1996
underlining = whole or part not
commenced
mod = modified/modification
or to be expired
Section 3 Legislation
history
Gambling and Racing Control Act 1999 A1999-46
notified 17 September 1999 (Gaz 1999 No
S54)
s 1, s 2 commenced 17 September 1999 (s 2
(1))
remainder commenced 1 December 1999 (s 2 (2) and Gaz
Section 1999 No S63)
as amended by
Gambling Legislation Amendment Act 1999
 A1999-56 sch 3 (as am by A2000-80
 amdt 3.5)
notified 10 November 1999 (Gaz 1999 No
45)
s 1, s 2 commenced 10 November 1999 (s 2
(1))
sch 3 commenced 1 December 1999 (s 2 (2) and Gaz 1999 No
S63)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2000
 A2000-80 amdt 1.1
notified 21 December 2000 (Gaz 2000 No
S69)
s 1, s 2 commenced 21 December 2000 (IA s
10B)
amdt 1.1 taken to have commenced 1 December 1999 (s 2
(2), amdt 1.1)
Legislation (Consequential Amendments) Act 2001
 A2001-44 pt 161
notified 26 July 2001 (Gaz 2001 No 30)
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 July 2001 (IA s
10B)
pt 161 commenced 12 September 2001 (s 2 and see Gaz 2001
No S65)
Race and Sports Bookmaking Act 2001
 A2001-49 sch 2 pt 3
notified 12 July 2001 (Gaz 2001 No 28)
s 1, s 2 commenced 12 July 2001 (IA s
10B)
sch 2 pt 3 commenced 7 September 2001 (s 2 and Gaz 2001
No S68)
Legislation (Gay, Lesbian and Transgender) Amendment Act 2003
 A2003-14 sch 1 pt 1.17
notified LR 27 March 2003
s 1, s 2 commenced 27 March 2003 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.17 commenced 28 March 2003 (s
2)
Australian Crime Commission (ACT) Act 2003
 A2003-58 sch 1 pt 1.2
notified LR 17 December
Section 2003s 1, s 2 commenced 17 December 2003 (LA s 75
(1))sch 1 pt 1.2 commenced 17 June 2004 (s 2 and
LA s 79)
Annual Reports Legislation Amendment Act 2004
 A2004-9 sch 1 pt 1.16
notified LR 19 March 2004
s 1, s 2 commenced 19 March 2004 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.16 commenced 13 April 2004 (s 2 and see Annual Reports (Government Agencies) Act 2004
 A2004-8, s 2 and CN2004-5
)
Criminal Code (Theft, Fraud, Bribery and Related Offences) Amendment Act 2004
 A2004-15 sch 1 pt 1.18, sch 2 pt
2.40
notified LR 26 March 2004
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 March 2004 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.18, sch 2 pt 2.40 commenced 9 April 2004 (s 2
(1))
Gaming Machine Act 2004
 A2004-34 sch 2
notified LR 9 July 2004
s 1, s 2 commenced 9 July 2004 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 2 commenced 1 November 2004 (s 2 and CN2004-14
)
Financial Management Legislation Amendment Act 2005
 A2005-52 sch 1 pt 1.8
notified LR 26 October
Section 2005s 1, s 2 commenced 26 October 2005 (LA s 75
(1))sch 1 pt 1.8 commenced 1 January 2006 (s 2
(2))
Casino Control Act 2006
 A2006-2 sch 1 pt 1.1
notified LR 22 February
Section 2006s 1, s 2 commenced 22 February 2006 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.1 commenced 1 May 2006 (s 2 and CN2006-6
)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2007
 A2007-3 sch 3 pt 3.51
notified LR 22 March 2007
s 1, s 2 taken to have commenced 1 July 2006 (LA s 75
(2))
sch 3 pt 3.51 commenced 12 April 2007 (s 2
(1))
Statute Law Amendment Act 2007 (No 2)
 A2007-16 sch 3 pt 3.16
notified LR 20 June 2007
s 1, s 2 taken to have commenced 12 April 2007 (LA s 75
(2))
sch 3 pt 3.16 commenced 11 July 2007 (s 2
(1))
Statute Law Amendment Act 2008
 A2008-28 sch 3 pt 3.28
notified LR 12 August 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 12 August 2008 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.28 commenced 26 August 2008 (s
2)
Unlawful Gambling Act 2009
 A2009-39 sch 2 pt 2.1
notified LR 17 November 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 17 November 2009 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 2 pt 2.1 commenced 22 March 2010 (s 2 and CN2010-2
)
Administrative (One ACT Public Service Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2011
 A2011-22 sch 1 pt 1.70
notified LR 30 June 2011
s 1, s 2 commenced 30 June 2011 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.70 commenced 1 July 2011 (s 2
(1))
Statute Law Amendment Act 2013
 A2013-19 sch 3 pt 3.22
notified LR 24 May 2013
s 1, s 2 commenced 24 May 2013 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.22 commenced 14 June 2013 (s
2)
Totalisator Act 2014
 A2014-4 sch 2 pt 2.1
notified LR 26 March 2014
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 March 2014 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 2 pt 2.1 commenced 27 March 2014 (s
2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2014
 A2014-18 sch 3 pt 3.9
notified LR 20 May 2014
s 1, s 2 commenced 20 May 2014 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.9 commenced 10 June 2014 (s 2
(1))
Annual Reports (Government Agencies) Amendment Act 2015
 A2015-16 sch 1 pt 1.12
notified LR 27 May 2015
s 1, s 2 commenced 27 May 2015 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.12 commenced 3 June 2015 (s
2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2015 (No 2)
 A2015-50 sch 3 pt 3.18
notified LR 25 November 2015
s 1, s 2 commenced 25 November 2015 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.18 commenced 9 December 2015 (s
2)
Red Tape Reduction Legislation Amendment Act 2016
 A2016-18 sch 3
pt 3.24
notified LR 13 April 2016
s 1, s 2 commenced 13 April 2016 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.24 commenced 27 April 2016 (s
2)
Public Sector Management Amendment Act 2016
 A2016-52 sch 1 pt 1.30
notified LR 25 August 2016
s 1, s 2 commenced 25 August 2016 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.30 commenced 1 September 2016 (s
2)
Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
 A2017-42 sch 3 pt 3.2, sch 4 pt 4.1
(as am by A2018-45
 sch 1 pt 1.1)
notified LR 13 November 2017
s 1, s 2 commenced 13 November 2017 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.2 commenced 13 May 2018 (s 2 (1) and LA s
79)
sch 4 pt 4.1 om before commenced (see A2018-45
 sch 1 amdt 1.1)
Casino and Other Gaming Legislation Amendment Act 2018
 A2018-21 pt 4
notified LR 14 June 2018
s 1, s 2 commenced 14 June 2018 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 4 commenced 15 June 2018 (s 2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2018
 A2018-42 sch 3 pt 3.16
notified LR 8 November 2018
s 1, s 2 taken to have commenced 1 July 2018 (LA s 75
(2))
sch 3 pt 3.16 commenced 22 November 2018 (s 2
(1))
Gaming Legislation Amendment Act 2018
 A2018-45 pt 2, sch 1 pt 1.1, sch
2
notified LR 4 December 2018
pt 1 taken to have commenced 15 June 2015 (s 2
(1))
pt 2 commenced 11 December 2018 (s 2
(6))
sch 1 pt 1.1 taken to have commenced 13 November 2017 (s
Section 2 (3))
sch 2 commenced 1 May 2020 (s 2 (5))
Note     This Act also amends the Casino (Electronic Gaming) Act 2017
 A2017-42.
Integrity Commission Act 2018
 A2018-52 sch 1 pt 1.11 (as am
byA2019-18
 s 4)
notified LR 11 December 2018
s 1, s 2 commenced 11 December 2018 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.11 commenced 1 December 2019 (s 2 (2) (a) as
am byA2019-18
 s 4)
Gaming Legislation Amendment Act 2019
 A2019-14 pt 2
notified LR 23 May 2019
s 1, s 2 commenced 23 May 2019 (s 2
(1))
pt 2 commenced 1 July 2019 (s 2 and see Gaming Legislation Amendment Act 2018
 A2018-45 s 2)
Integrity Commission Amendment Act 2019
 A2019-18 s 4
notified LR 14 June 2019
s 1, s 2 commenced 14 June 2019 (LA s 75
(1))
s 3, s 4 commenced 15 June 2019 (s 2
(1))
Note     This Act only amends the Integrity Commission Act 2018
A2018-52.
Statute Law Amendment Act 2022
 A2022-14 sch 3 pt 3.17
notified LR 10 August 2022
s 1, s 2 commenced 10 August 2022 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.17 commenced 24 August 2022 (s
2)
Planning (Consequential Amendments) Act 2023
 A2023-36 sch 1 pt 1.28
notified LR 29 September 2023
s 1, s 2 commenced 29 September 2023 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.28 commenced 27 November 2023 (s 2 (1) and
see Planning Act 2023
 A2023-18, s 2 (2) and CN2023-10
)
Gaming Machine (Compulsory Surrender) Amendment Act 2024
 A2024-50 sch 1 pt 1.1
notified LR 19 September 2024
s 1, s 2 commenced 19 September 2024 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.1 commenced 20 September 2024 (s
2)
Justice and Community Safety Legislation Amendment Act 2025
 A2025-2 pt 3
notified LR 20 February 2025
s 1, s 2 commenced 20 February 2025 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 3 commenced 27 February 2025 (s 2
(1))
Justice and Community Safety Legislation Amendment
Act 2025 (No 2)
 A2025-3 sch 1 pt 1.4
notified LR 14 March 2025
s 1, s 2 commenced 14 March 2025 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.4 commenced 21 March 2025 (s
2)
Gaming Legislation Amendment Act 2025
 A2025-19 pt 2
notified LR 27 June 2025
s 1, s 2 commenced 27 June 2025 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 1 July 2025 (s 2 and CN2025-3
)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2025
 A2025-29 sch 4 pt 4.80
notified LR 6 November 2025
s 1, s 2 commenced 6 November 2025 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 4 pt 4.80 commenced 16 December 2025 (s 2
(6))
Section 4 Amendment
history
Name of
Acts 1     sub A2005-52
 amdt 1.111
Dictionarys
Section 2 om A2001-44
 amdt
Section 1.1866 ins A2005-52
 amdt 1.114
Notess
Section 3 defs reloc to dict A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.113 sub A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.114 def casino om A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.112 def commission om A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.112 def gaming officer om A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.112 def penalty unit om
A2001-49
 amdt 2.20
Gaming
lawss 4     am A2001-44
 amdts 1.1867-1.1869; A2001-49
 amdts 2.21-2.23; A2004-34
 amdt 2.3; A2006-2
 amdt 1.1; A2009-39
 amdt 2.1, amdt 2.2; pars renum R13 LA; A2014-4
 amdt 2.1, amdt 2.2; pars renum R16 LA; A2017-42
 amdt 3.10; pars renum R22
LA
The
commissionpt 2 hdg     am A2005-52
 amdt 1.115
Establishment and functions of
commissiondiv 2.1 hdg     (prev pt 2 div
Section 2 hdg) renum R1 LA     sub A2005-52
 amdt 1.116
Establishment of gambling and racing
commissions 5     sub A2005-52
 amdt 1.117
Functions of
commissions 6     am A2001-44
 amdt 1.1870, amdt 1.1871; A2005-52
 amdt 1.118; A2013-19
 amdt 3.163; A2015-16
 amdt 1.16; A2018-45
 s 4; A2025-29
 amdt 4.80
How commission must exercise its
functionss 7     am A2018-45
 s 5
Community
consultations 8     am A2015-16
 amdt 1.16
Powers of
commissions 9     om A2005-52
 amdt 1.119
Delegations
Section 10 sub A2007-16
 amdt 3.65
Governing
boarddiv 2.2 hdg     (prev pt 2 div 2
hdg) renum R1 LA     sub A2005-52
 amdt 1.121
Establishment of governing
boards 11     om A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.120 ins A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.122 am A2008-28
 amdt 3.92; A2013-19
 amdt 3.164
Governing board
memberss 12     sub A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.122 am A2013-19
 amdt 3.165; A2018-45
 s 6
Chief executive officer of
commissions 13     om A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.123 ins A2005-52
 amdt 1.122
Commission's
staffs 14     sub A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.124 am A2007-3
 amdt 3.283; A2011-22
 amdt
Section 1.216 sub A2016-52
 amdt 1.92
Consultants and
contractorss 15     sub A2005-52
 amdt 1.124
Annual
reports 16     om A2004-9
 amdt 1.24
Monitoring and
researchdiv 3.1 hdg     (prev pt 3 div 1
hdg) renum R1 LA
Monitoring and
researchs 17     am A2018-45
 s 7
Dealing with social effects of
gamblingdiv 3.2 hdg     (prev pt 3 div 2
hdg) renum R1 LA
Code of
practices 18     am A2013-19
 amdt 3.166; A2018-45
 s 8, s 9; A2019-14
 ss 4-8, ss renum R26 LA
Education and counselling
s 19     am A2018-45
 s 10, s 11; A2019-14
 s 9
Authorised
officersdiv 4.1 hdg     (prev pt 4 div 1
hdg) renum R1 LA
Authorised
officerss 20     sub A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.125 am A2011-22
 amdt 1.217
Powers of
investigationdiv 4.2 hdg     (prev pt 4
div 2 hdg) renum R1 LA
Power to require information, instruments or
records or attendance for
examinations 22     am A2014-18
 amdt 3.37, amdt 3.38; A2016-18
 amdt 3.107, amdt 3.108; pars renum R20
LA
Commission may require records to be
kepts 22A     ins A2001-49
 amdt
Section 2.24 am A2013-19
 amdt 3.167; A2025-29
 amdt 4.80
Powers of entry and
inspections 23     am A2022-14
 amdt 3.98, amdt 3.99
warrants 24     am A2005-54
 amdt 1.126
Failing to comply with requirement of
authorised officers 28 hdg     sub A2004-15
 amdt
Section 2.89s 28     am A2004-15
 amdt 2.90; ss renum R4 LA (see A2004-15
 amdt 2.91); A2022-14
 amdt 3.100
Impersonating authorised
officers 29     om A2004-15
 amdt 2.92
Investigation of
complaintss 31     am A2015-16
 amdt 1.16; A2025-19
 s 4
Cooperation with other
jurisdictionsdiv 4.3 hdg     (prev pt 4
div 3 hdg) renum R1 LA
Secrecydiv
Section 4.4 hdg     (prev pt 4 div 4 hdg) renum R1 LA
Gaming officers must respect
confidentialitys 35     am A2001-44
 amdt 1.1872, amdt 1.1873; A2025-29
 amdt 4.80
Permitted disclosures of a general
natures 36     am A2022-14
 amdt 3.101
Permitted disclosures to particular
peoples 37     am A2003-58
 amdt 1.2; A2009-39
 amdt 2.3; A2015-50
 amdt 3.109; A2018-42
 amdt 3.47; A2018-45
 s 12; pars renum R25 LA; A2019-14
 s 10; pars renum R26 LA; A2018-52
 amdt 1.78; pars renum R27 LA; A2024-50
 amdt 1.1; A2025-19
 s 5
Permitted disclosures--enforceable
undertakingss 37A     ins A2018-45
 s 13
Public register--disciplinary actions
and enforceable undertakingss 37B     ins
A2018-45
 s 13
Rules of
commissions 47     am A2001-44
 amdt 1.1874, amdt 1.1875; A2013-19
 amdt 3.167; A2025-29
 amdt 4.80
Provisions of Taxation Administration Act
applys 48     am A2001-49
 amdt 2.25
Authorisation numbers for electronic
gamingpt 6A hdg     ins A2017-42
 amdt 3.11
Cap on number of authorisations for
electronic gaming in ACTs 50 hdg     sub
A2018-45
 s 14s
Section 50 om A2006-2
 amdt
Section 1.2 ins A2017-42
amdt 3.11     am A2018-45
 s 15, s 16, amdt 2.1; A2023-36
 amdt 1.157; A2025-29
 amdt 4.80
Review of cap on number of
authorisationss 50A     ins A2018-45
 amdt
Section 2.2 am A2025-2
 s 6, s
Section 7 exp 31 December 2027 (s 50A
(2))
Licences, authorisation certificates and
authorisations--register and replacement
copiespt 6B hdg     ins A2018-21
 s 24
Definitions--pt
Section 6Bs 51     am A1999-56
 s 90 sch 3 (as am A2000-80
 amdt
3.5)     om A2006-2
 amdt
Section 1.2 ins A2018-21
 s
Section 24 def authorisation ins A2018-21
 s
Section 24 def authorisation
certificate ins A2018-21
 s
Section 24 def authorisation number
ins A2018-21
 s
Section 24 def authorisation
schedule ins A2018-21
 s
Section 24 def casino FATG terminal
ins A2018-21
 s
Section 24 def casino gaming
machine ins A2018-21
 s
Section 24 def electronic gaming
ins A2018-21
 s
Section 24 def gaming machine ins
A2018-21
 s
Section 24 def general purpose ins
A2018-21
 s
Section 24 def interim purpose ins
A2018-21
 s
Section 24 def licence ins A2018-21
 s
Section 24 def maximum number ins
A2018-21
 s
Section 24 def permit ins A2018-21
 s 24     om
A2025-3
 amdt
Section 1.10 def quarantine permit
ins A2018-21
 s 24     om
A2025-3
 amdt
Section 1.10 def storage permit ins
A2018-21
 s 24
Licences and authorisation
certificates--registers 52     om A2006-2
 amdt
Section 1.2 ins A2018-21
 s 24     am
A2018-45
 s 17
Licences, authorisation certificates and
authorisation schedules--replacement
copiess 53     om A2006-2
 amdt
Section 1.2 ins A2018-21
 s 24
Miscellaneouspt
Section 7 hdg     orig pt 7 hdg om A2006-2
 amdt
Section 1.2 (prev pt 9 hdg) renum A2006-2
 amdt 1.3
Racingpt
Section 8 hdg     om A2006-2
 amdt 1.2
Service of
documentspt 8A hdg     ins A2001-49
 amdt
Section 2.26 om A2006-2
 amdt 1.2
Service of documents etc on people
generallys 53A     ins A2001-49
 amdt
Section 2.26 om A2006-2
 amdt 1.2
Serving documents etc on
commissions 53B     ins A2001-49
 amdt
Section 2.26 om A2006-2
 amdt 1.2
Miscellaneouspt
Section 9 hdg     renum as pt 7 hdg
Acts and omissions of
representativess 53C     ins A2001-49
 amdt
Section 2.27 sub A2004-15
 amdt 1.22
Protection for authorised
officerss 53CA     ins A2005-52
 amdt 1.127
Approved
formss 53D     ins A2001-44
 amdt
Section 1.1876 (4)-(7) exp 12 September 2002 (s
Section 53D (7))     am A2013-19
 amdt 3.167; A2025-29
 amdt 4.80
Regulation-making
powers 54     sub A2001-44
 amdt
Section 1.1876 am A2018-45
 s 18; A2025-29
 amdt 4.80
Appointment and terms of office of members
of commissionsch 1     om A2005-52
 amdt 1.128
Transitional--Casino (Electronic
Gaming) Act 2017pt 20 hdg     ins A2017-42
amdt 3.12     om R28 LA
Transitional--Gaming Machine Act 2004,
s 10 (3) instrumentss 100     ins A2017-42
amdt 3.12     om R28 LA
Expiry--pt
Section 20s 101     ins A2017-42
amdt 3.12     am A2018-45
 amdt
Section 2.3 om R28 LA
Appointment of ordinary
memberss 1.2     am A2003-14
 amdt 1.60, amdt
Section 1.61 om A2005-52
 amdt 1.128
Term of
offices 1.5     am A2000-80
 amdt
Section 1.1 om A2005-52
 amdt 1.128
Meetingssch
Section 2 om A2005-52
 amdt 1.128
Meetingss
Section 2.7 am A2004-34
 amdt
Section 2.4 om A2005-52
 amdt 1.128
Dictionarydict     ins
A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.129 am A2011-22
 amdt 1.218; A2013-19
 amdt 3.168; A2014-18
 amdt 3.39; A2016-52
 amdt 1.93; A2018-45
 s 19; A2018-52
 amdt
Section 1.79 def annual report ins
A2004-9
 amdt
Section 1.23 reloc from s 3 A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.113 def authorisation ins
A2018-21
 s
Section 25 def authorisation
certificate ins A2018-21
 s
Section 25 def authorisation number
ins A2018-21
 s
Section 25 def authorisation
schedule ins A2018-21
 s
Section 25 def authorised officer
ins A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.129 def casino ins A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.129 sub A2006-2
 amdt
Section 1.4 def casino FATG
terminal ins A2018-21
 s
Section 25 def casino gaming
machine ins A2018-21
 s
Section 25 def chief executive officer
ins A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.129 def club licensee ins
A2019-14
 s
Section 11 def code of practice
reloc from s 3 A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.113 def commission ins A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.129 sub A2013-19
 amdt
Section 3.169 def electronic gaming
ins A2018-21
 s
Section 25 def executive officer
ins A2001-49
 amdt
Section 2.19 reloc from s 3 A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.113 om A2013-19
 amdt
Section 3.170 def gaming reloc from
s 3 A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.113 sub A2009-39
 amdt
Section 2.4 def gaming equipment
reloc from s 3 A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.113 def gaming law am A2004-34
 amdt
Section 2.1 reloc from s 3 A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.113 def gaming machine
ins A2018-21
 s
Section 25 def gaming officer ins
A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.129 sub A2008-28
 amdt
Section 3.93 def general purpose
ins A2018-21
 s
Section 25 def governing board ins
A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.129 def inquiry reloc
from s 3 A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.113 def interim purpose
ins A2018-21
 s
Section 25 def licence ins A2018-21
 s
Section 25 def maximum number ins
A2018-21
 s
Section 25 def permit ins A2018-21
 s 25     om
A2025-3
 amdt
Section 1.11 def quarantine permit
ins A2018-21
 s 25     om
A2025-3
 amdt
Section 1.11 def racing reloc from
s 3 A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.113 def reciprocating
jurisdiction am A2004-34
 amdt
Section 2.2 reloc from s 3 A2005-52
 amdt
Section 1.113 def storage permit
ins A2018-21
 s
Section 25 def workplace rights
training ins A2019-14
 s 12
Section 5 Earlier
republications
Some earlier republications were not numbered.  The number in column 1
refers to the publication order.
Since 12 September 2001 every authorised republication has been published
in electronic pdf format on the ACT legislation register.  A selection of
authorised republications have also been published in printed format.  These
republications are marked with an asterisk (*) in column 1.  Electronic and
printed versions of an authorised republication are identical.
Republication No and date
Effective
Last amendment made by
Republication for
R0A13
Feb 2006
Section 1 Dec
Section 1999-20 Dec 2000
A1999-56
amendments by A1999-56
R0B13
Feb 2006
Section 21 Dec
Section 2000-6 Sept 2001
A2000-80
amendments by A2000-80
R12 Nov
2001
Section 12 Sept
Section 2001-12 Sept 2002
A2001-49
amendments by A2001-44
 and A2001-49
R213
Sept 2002
Section 13 Sept
Section 2002-27 Mar 2003
A2001-49
commenced expiry
R328 Mar
2003
Section 28 Mar
Section 2003-8 Apr 2004
A2003-14
amendments by A2003-14
R49 Apr
2004
Section 9 Apr
Section 2004-12 Apr 2004
A2004-15
amendments by A2004-15
R513 Apr
2004
Section 13 Apr
Section 2004-16 June 2004
A2004-15
amendments by A2004-9
R617
June 2004
Section 17 June
Section 2004-31 Oct 2004
A2004-15
amendments by A2003-58
R71 Nov
2004
Section 1 Nov
Section 2004-31 Dec 2005
A2004-34
amendments by A2004-34
R81 Jan
2006
Section 1 Jan
Section 2006-30 Apr 2006
A2005-52
amendments by A2005-52
R91 May
2006
Section 1 May
Section 2006-11 Apr 2007
A2006-2
amendments by A2006-2
R1012
Apr 2007
Section 12 Apr
Section 2007-10 July 2007
A2007-3
amendments by A2007-3
R1111
July 2007
Section 11 July
Section 2007-25 Aug 2008
A2007-16
amendments by A2007-16
R12*26
Aug 2008
Section 26 Aug
Section 2008-21 Mar 2010
A2008-28
amendments by A2008-28
R1322
Mar 2010
Section 22 Mar
Section 2010-30 June 2011
A2009-39
amendments by A2009-39
R141
July 2011
Section 1 July
Section 2011-13 June 2013
A2011-22
amendments by A2011-22
R1514
June 2013
Section 14 June
Section 2013-26 March 2014
A2013-19
amendments by A2013-19
R1627
Mar 2014
Section 27 Mar
Section 2014-9 June 2014
A2014-4
amendments by A2014-4
R1710
June 2014
Section 10 June
Section 2014-2 June 2015
A2014-18
amendments by A2014-18
R183
June 2015
Section 3 June
Section 2015-8 Dec 2015
A2015-16
amendments by A2015-16
R199 Dec
2015
Section 9 Dec
Section 2015-26 Apr 2016
A2015-50
amendments by A2015-50
R2027
Apr 2016
Section 27 Apr
Section 2016-31 Aug 2016
A2016-18
amendments by A2016-18
R211
Sept 2016
Section 1 Sept
Section 2016-12 May 2018
A2016-52
amendments by A2016-52
R2213
May 2018
Section 13 May
Section 2018-14 June 2018
A2017-42
amendments by A2017-42
R2315
June 2018
Section 15 June
Section 2018-21 Nov 2018
A2018-21
amendments by A2018-21
R2422
Nov 2018
Section 22 Nov
Section 2018-10 Dec 2018
A2018-42
amendments by A2018-42
R2511
Dec 2018
Section 11 Dec
Section 2018-30 June 2019
A2018-45
amendments by A2018-45
R261
July 2019
Section 1 July
Section 2019-30 Nov 2019
A2019-14
amendments by A2019-14
R271 Dec
2019
Section 1 Dec
Section 2019-30 Apr 2020
A2019-18
amendments by A2018-52
 as amended by A2019-18
R281 May
2020
Section 1 May
Section 2020-23 Aug 2022
A2019-18
amendments by A2018-45
 and expiry of transitional provisions (pt
20)
R2924
Aug 2022
Section 24 Aug
Section 2022-26 Nov 2023
A2022-14
amendments by A2022-14
R3027
Nov 2023
Section 27 Nov
Section 2023-19 Sept 2024
A2023-36
amendments by A2023-36
R3120
Sept 2024
Section 20 Sept
Section 2024-26 Feb 2025
A2024-50
amendments by A2024-50
R3227
Feb 2025
Section 27 Feb
Section 2025-20 Mar 2025
A2025-2
amendments by A2025-2
R3321
Mar 2025
Section 21 Mar
Section 2025-30 June 2025
A2025-3
amendments by A2025-3
R341
July 2025
Section 1 July
Section 2025-15 Dec 2025
A2025-19
amendments by A2025-19
Section 6 Expired
transitional or validating provisions
This Act may be affected by transitional or validating provisions that have
expired.  The expiry does not affect any continuing operation of the provisions
(see Legislation Act 2001
, s 88 (1)).
Expired provisions are removed from the republished law when the expiry
takes effect and are listed in the amendment history using the abbreviation
'exp' followed by the date of the expiry.
To find the expired provisions see the version of this Act before the
expiry took effect.  The ACT legislation register has point-in-time versions of
this Act.
(c)  Australian Capital
Territory 2025
GAMBLING AND RACING CONTROL ACT 1999
- NOTES
Australian Capital
Territory
A1999-46
Republication No 35
Effective: 16 December 2025 Republication date: 16 December 2025 Last amendment made by A2025-29
About this republication The republished law
This is a republication of the Gambling and Racing
Control Act 1999
 (including any amendment made under the Legislation Act 2001
, part 11.3 (Editorial changes)) as in force on 16 December 2025
.  It also includes any commencement, amendment, repeal or expiry
affecting this republished law to 16 December 2025
.
The legislation history and amendment history of the republished law are
set out in endnotes 3 and 4.
Kinds of republications
The Parliamentary Counsel's Office prepares 2 kinds of republications
of ACT laws (see the ACT legislation register at www.legislation.act.gov.au
):
               o     authorised republications to which the Legislation Act 2001
 applies
               o     unauthorised republications.
The status of this republication appears on the bottom of each
page.
Editorial changes
The Legislation Act 2001
, part 11.3 authorises the Parliamentary Counsel to make editorial
amendments and other changes of a formal nature when preparing a law for
republication.  Editorial changes do not change the effect of the law, but have
effect as if they had been made by an Act commencing on the republication date
(see Legislation Act 2001
, s 115 and s 117).  The changes are made if the Parliamentary Counsel
considers they are desirable to bring the law into line, or more closely into
line, with current legislative drafting practice.
This republication does not include amendments made under part 11.3 (see
endnote 1).
Uncommenced provisions and
amendments
If a provision of the republished law has not commenced, the symbol
 U  appears immediately before the
provision heading.  Any uncommenced amendments that affect this republished law
are accessible on the ACT legislation register (www.legislation.act.gov.au
). For more information, see the home page for this law on the
register.
Modifications
If a provision of the republished law is affected by a current
modification, the symbol  M  appears
immediately before the provision heading.  The text of the modifying provision
appears in the endnotes.  For the legal status of modifications, see the Legislation Act 2001
, section 95.
Penalties
At the republication date, the value of a penalty unit for an offence
against this law is $160 for an individual and $810 for a corporation (see Legislation Act 2001
, s 133).
Australian Capital
Territory
Gambling and
Racing Control Act 1999
Endnotes45
Australian Capital
Territory
Gambling and Racing Control Act 1999
