Land Tax Act 2000
Jurisdiction: tasmania
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/tas/consol_act/lta200090/
Register: https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-2000-074
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/tas/consol_act/lta200090.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-30T01:18:52.421958Z

Land Tax Act 2000
   An Act to provide for taxation on land
   Be it enacted by His Excellency the Governor of Tasmania, by and with
   the advice and consent of the Legislative Council and House of
   Assembly, in Parliament assembled, as follows:
     PART 1 - Preliminary
   1.   Short title
     This Act may be cited as the Land Tax Act 2000 .
   2.   Commencement
     This Act commences on 1 January 2001.
   3.   Interpretation
     In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears -
     agent includes a person who -
     (a) for or on behalf of any other person -
     (i) has the control, receipt or disposal of any real property,
     personal property, income or money belonging to that other person;
     or
     (ii) directly or indirectly remits income or money belonging to that
     other person to that person; or
     (iii) directly or indirectly sells or otherwise disposes of any real
     property or personal property belonging to that other person; or
     (b) directly or indirectly sells or otherwise disposes of any real
     property belonging to another person;
     assessed land value means -
     (a) in relation to the value of land for the purposes of determining
     the amount of land tax, other than foreign investor land tax, that
     is payable - the value as calculated under section 23 ; or
     (b) in relation to the value of land for the purposes of determining
     the amount of land tax, that is foreign investor land tax, that is
     payable - the value of the land as calculated under
     section 16A(2)(b) or section 16B , as applicable;
     assessment means assessment as defined in the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 ;
     business includes any profession, trade, employment, vocation or
     calling, other than the occupation as an employee;
     certified forest practices plan has the same meaning as in the
     Forest Practices Act 1985 ;
     charitable institution is an institution that, in the opinion of the
     Commissioner, is established solely for charitable purposes and not
     for profit or gain;
     Commissioner means the Commissioner of State Revenue appointed under
     the Taxation Administration Act 1997 ;
     community service organisation means an organisation, association,
     society or club that, in the opinion of the Commissioner, is
     established for community service purposes;
     cooperative housing society means a registered society within the
     meaning of the Co-operative Housing Societies Act 1963 ;
     day-procedure centre means premises at which a person is admitted
     for medical treatment and discharged on the same day, but does not
     include -
     (a) such premises conducted by or on behalf of the State or the
     Commonwealth; or
     (b) a hospital or other health service conducted by or on behalf of
     the State or the Commonwealth; or
     (c) a private hospital; or
     (d) a residential care service;
     dwelling includes a flat or structure used as a residence;
     educational institution means -
     (a) the University of Tasmania; or
     (b) the Australian Maritime College; or
     (c) an institution, conducted by or on behalf of the State
     government, that provides post-secondary vocational and educational
     training; or
     (d) a school within the meaning of the Education Act 2016 ;
     exempt land means land exempted under Division 2 of Part 2 ;
     flat means -
     (a) a room or suite of rooms designed or adapted for separate
     occupation; and
     (b) any separate car parking accommodation or other separate
     facility located on or within the same parcel of land as that on
     which the building containing the room or suite of rooms is
     constructed;
     Forest Practices Authority means the body continued by section 4AA
     of the Forest Practices Act 1985 under the name "Forest Practices
     Authority";
     general land is land referred to in section 8 ;
     Government Business Enterprise has the same meaning as in the
     Government Business Enterprises Act 1995 ;
     home-unit company means a company in which all the issued shares are
     owned by persons each of whom has an exclusive right to occupy a
     flat which forms part of a building on land owned by a home-unit
     company;
     interest means interest as defined in the Taxation Administration
     Act 1997 ;
     land includes a stratum flat;
     land tax means tax imposed by this or any other land tax rating Act;
     land tax rating Act means an Act any or all of the provisions of
     which fix a scale of land tax;
     land value means the value of land as assessed under the Valuation
     of Land Act 2001 ;
     medical establishment means -
     (a) a day-procedure centre; or
     (b) a private hospital; or
     (c) a residential care service;
     owner has the meaning given by section 3A ;
     penalty tax means a penalty tax as defined in the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 ;
     prescribed dwelling means a permanent building of predominantly
     residential character affixed to land for which human occupation or
     habitation is not forbidden by a closure order made by a council
     under section 87 of the Public Health Act 1997 ;
     primary production land means land referred to in section 7 ;
     principal residence means a dwelling used as the main place of
     residence;
     principal residence land means land referred to in section 6 ;
     private hospital means premises at which a person is provided for
     fee, gain or reward with medical, surgical or other treatment, or
     accommodation for the purposes of such treatment, and with ancillary
     nursing care but does not include -
     (a) such premises conducted by or on behalf of the State or the
     Commonwealth; or
     (b) a day-procedure centre; or
     (c) a residential care service;
     qualifying home business means a business -
     (a) operated from land on which a prescribed dwelling is located;
     and
     (b) operated from that prescribed dwelling or a building ordinarily
     found on residential land that is not of a solely commercial
     character; and
     (c) operated by a person who is the owner of the land or spouse,
     sibling, child or parent of the owner of the land; and
     (d) for which the land is the sole permanent business premises of
     that person; and
     (e) for the operation of which no more than 50% of the floor area of
     the prescribed dwelling is ordinarily used;
     reassessment means reassessment as defined in the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 ;
     registered trustee company means -
     (a) a trustee company as defined in the Trustee Companies Act 1953
     or in a similar law of another State or a Territory of the
     Commonwealth; or
     (b) the Public Trustee as defined in the Public Trustee Act 1930 ;
     related companies means companies that are related as provided by
     section 31 ;
     related person, in relation to an owner, means -
     (a) the spouse or former spouse of the owner; or
     (b) if the owner is deceased, the beneficiary of the estate of the
     owner; or
     (c) a beneficiary of a trust appointed by a court; or
     (d) a shareholder of a home-unit company or a spouse or former
     spouse of the shareholder; or
     (e) a person with an exclusive right to occupy a flat owned by a
     retirement village or a spouse or former spouse of that person; or
     (f) the person with whom the owner is in a caring relationship which
     is the subject of a deed of relationship registered under Part 2 of
     the Relationships Act 2003 ;
     residential care service means premises where accommodation and
     personal care or nursing are provided to an elderly person who is
     not a member of the immediate family of the proprietor of the
     service, but does not include a service providing accommodation for
     persons otherwise living independently, even though the provision of
     accommodation may or may not include domestic services such as the
     preparation of meals, cleaning services and laundry services;
     retirement village means a complex of residential premises,
     including adjacent land, established for retired persons and their
     spouses, or predominantly for retired persons and their spouses -
     (a) if before or on becoming a resident of the complex a retired
     person or spouse, or both, is required to pay a contribution to the
     operator of the complex; and
     (b) if any one or more of the following situations apply:
     (i) a residential premises in the complex is occupied by a retired
     person and spouse by reason of a contract, lease or licence for the
     residency of the premises to which the retired person or spouse, or
     both, is a party;
     (ii) a residential premises in the complex is occupied by a retired
     person and spouse by a right of occupation conferred by the
     ownership of shares by the retired person or spouse, or both;
     (iii) a residential premises in the complex is purchased from the
     operator of the complex by a retired person or spouse, or both,
     subject to a right or option of the operator to buy back those
     premises;
     (iv) a residential premises in the complex is purchased from the
     operator of the complex by a retired person or spouse, or both,
     subject to conditions restricting the right of the retired person or
     spouse, or both, to dispose of those premises;
     (v) other prescribed circumstances exist;
     retirement village company means a company that operates a
     retirement village;
     shareholder includes member or stockholder;
     special disability trust has the meaning it has in section 1209L of
     the Social Security Act 1991 of the Commonwealth;
     spouse, in relation to a person, includes the person who is in a
     significant relationship, within the meaning of the Relationships
     Act 2003 , with that person;
     State Permanent Forest Estate Policy means the policy of that name
     referred to in section 4C(fb) of the Forest Practices Act 1985 ;
     stratum flat means a flat in respect of which a separate valuation
     made under the Valuation of Land Act 2001 is in force;
     taxpayer means a person who is liable to pay land tax;
     transfer, in relation to land, means the passage of an estate or
     interest in land from one person to another person -
     (a) by an act done by any means by the transferor with that
     intention, regardless of whether or not consideration is given; or
     (b) by operation of law, including but not limited to a transfer on
     forfeiture of the land under an Act, on inheritance or descent on
     the death of the person, on the bankruptcy or administration of the
     person and on the order of a court;
     trustee includes -
     (a) a person appointed or constituted trustee by any act of parties,
     order, declaration of a court or operation of law; and
     (b) an executor or administrator, guardian, committee, receiver or
     liquidator; and
     (c) a person who -
     (i) has the administration or control of income affected by any
     express or implied trust; or
     (ii) is acting in any fiduciary capacity; or
     (iii) has the possession, control or management of the income of a
     person under any legal or other disability.
   3A.   Owner of land
     (1)  In respect of land -
     owner means -
     (a) the person in whom the estate in fee simple is vested; or
     (b) a person, or a person of a class, prescribed by the regulations
     for the purposes of this definition.
     (1A)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , the person in whom the
     estate in fee simple is vested is, unless the Commissioner on
     reasonable grounds determines otherwise, the person who appears,
     from a folio of the Register kept under section 33 of the Land
     Titles Act 1980 , to be the owner of that estate.
     (2)  If a person appears by a folio of the Register kept under
     section 33 of the Land Titles Act 1980 to be entitled, in respect of
     any land, to an estate of freehold for his or her life, that person
     is taken to be the owner of the land instead of the person entitled
     to the estate in fee simple in remainder.
   3B.   Joint tenants to be treated as tenants in common
     For the purposes of this Act, joint tenants in relation to land are
     to be taken to be tenants in common in equal shares in relation to
     the land.
   4.   Defined terms in land tax rating Act
     Any term defined in this Act when used in a land tax rating Act has
     the same meaning as so defined unless the context otherwise
     indicates.
   5.   Exclusive right of occupation
     A person has an exclusive right to occupy a flat even if the
     person -
     (a) lets the flat or part of the flat to another person; or
     (b) shares the occupation of the flat with one or more persons.
   6.   Principal residence land
     (1)  Principal residence land is land on which the principal
     residence of an owner of at least a 50% interest in the land or a
     related person of such an owner is situated.
     (2)  The Commissioner is to determine that adjoining land is
     principal residence land if satisfied that -
     (a) the land is on a separate title held by the owner of the
     principal residence land; and
     (ab) there is no dwelling on the land that is used as a place of
     residence; and
     (b) the land is used by that owner solely in conjunction with the
     principal residence land; and
     (c) the owner does not receive any income from the use of that land;
     and
     (d) the owner of at least a 50% interest in the principal residence
     land is also the owner of at least a 50% interest in the adjoining
     land.
     (3)  The Commissioner, on application by a trustee of a trust, is to
     determine that land is principal residence land for a financial year
     if -
     (a) the land is held by -
     (i) a registered trustee company; or
     (ii) an executor, administrator, guardian, committee, receiver or
     liquidator; or
     (iia) the trustee of a special disability trust; or
     (iii) a trustee appointed by a court; or
     (iv) the trustee of a fixed trust in which all of the beneficiaries
     are individually named or are descendants of individually named
     beneficiaries; and
     (b) the principal residence of a beneficiary of the trust is
     situated on the land as at 1 July in that financial year; and
     (c) the Commissioner is satisfied that the beneficiary does not own
     any other principal residence land.
     (3A)  For the purposes of subsection (3)(b) , a person is taken to
     be a beneficiary of a fixed trust referred to in
     subsection (3)(a)(iv) only if the person would be entitled, on the
     winding up of the trust, to 50% or more of the value of the income
     and capital of the trust.
     (4)  The Commissioner, on application by a company, is to determine
     that land is principal residence land for a financial year, if -
     (a) the land is beneficially owned by the company; and
     (b) the principal residence of a person who owns 50% or more of
     shares in the company is situated on the land as at 1 July in that
     financial year; and
     (c) the Commissioner is satisfied that the person does not own any
     other principal residence land; and
     (d) the Commissioner is satisfied that the person, by reason of his
     or her ownership of 50% or more shares in another company, does not
     have another principal residence situated on other land which -
     (i) is beneficially owned by that other company; and
     (ii) has been determined under this subsection to be principal
     residence land.
     (5)  The Commissioner is to determine that land owned by a home-unit
     company is principal residence land if any flat on that land is the
     principal residence of a person owning shares in the home-unit
     company.
     (6)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (7)  The Commissioner is to determine that a part of land owned by a
     cooperative housing society is principal residence land if that part
     is used for residential purposes.
     (8)  If a person occupies residential premises in a retirement
     village as his or her principal place of residence, any other land
     owned by the person is not that person's principal place of
     residence.
     (9)  Subsections (10) and (11) apply in relation to land in relation
     to a financial year only if, but for those subsections, the land
     would not, under this section, be principal residence land in
     relation to that financial year.
     (10)  This subsection and subsection (11) apply to land in relation
     to a financial year (in this section referred to as the relevant
     financial year) beginning on 1 July of that year (the assessment
     day) if -
     (a) at 1 July in the previous financial year (in this section
     referred to as the critical date), land is principal residence land
     under subsection (1) ; and
     (b) the person who -
     (i) was the sole owner of the land on the critical date; or
     (ii) is a person who the Commissioner determines is to be taken to
     be the sole owner of the land on the critical date -
     dies on or after the critical date and before the assessment day;
     and
     (c) the principal residence of that person was, on the critical
     date, situated on the land; and
     (d) the land is not, after the critical date and before the
     assessment day -
     (i) sold in whole or in part; or
     (ii) transferred, in whole or in part, other than to the personal
     representative of the deceased person.
     (11)  If subsection (10) applies to land in relation to a relevant
     financial year -
     (a) the land is taken to be, on the assessment day, principal
     residence land; and
     (b) section 26 does not apply in relation to the land for the
     relevant financial year.
     (12)  If -
     (a) subsection (10) applies to land in relation to a relevant
     financial year; and
     (b) another area of land was, at the critical date, adjoining land
     under subsection (2) in relation to the land referred to in
     paragraph (a) ; and
     (c) the adjoining land satisfies, on the assessment day, the
     requirements of subsection (2)(a) , (ab) and (d) ; and
     (d) no income is derived from the adjoining land after the critical
     date and before the assessment day; and
     (e) the adjoining land is not, after the critical date and before
     the assessment day -
     (i) sold in whole or in part; or
     (ii) transferred, in whole or in part, other than to the personal
     representative of the deceased person -
     the adjoining land is taken to be, on the assessment day, principal
     residence land and section 26 does not apply in relation to the
     adjoining land for the relevant financial year.
   6A.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   7.   Primary production land
     (1)  Land is primary production land if it is -
     (a) used substantially for the business of primary production; or
     (b) declared a private timber reserve under the Forest Practices Act
     1985 ; or
     (c) permanent timber production zone land within the meaning of the
     Forest Management Act 2013 ; or
     (d) land in respect of which there is in effect a certified forest
     practices plan, being a plan certified by the Forest Practices
     Authority under section 19 of the Forest Practices Act 1985 in
     accordance with the State Permanent Forest Estate Policy.
     (1A)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (2)  The business of primary production means any one or more of the
     following carried out in a business-like manner with a reasonable
     expectation of profit:
     (a) cultivating land to sell the produce of the cultivation;
     (b) maintaining animals or poultry for sale or selling their natural
     increase or bodily produce;
     (c) keeping bees to sell their honey;
     (d) commercial fishing and cultivating aquatic plants or animals,
     including the preparation for fishing and the storage and
     preservation of fish and fishing gear;
     (e) cultivating or propagating for sale plants, seedlings, mushrooms
     or orchids.
   8.   General land
     General land is land that is not -
     (a) principal residence land; or
     (b) primary production land.
     (c) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   9.   Application of other Act
     The Taxation Administration Act 1997 applies to land tax.
     PART 2 - Land tax
     Division 1 - Liability
   10.   Liability for land tax
     (1)  Land tax is payable in respect of land that is not exempt land
     by the person who is the owner of the land as at the commencement of
     the financial year.
     (2)  Land tax is payable in respect of each financial year and is
     due on a date the Commissioner determines or, if there is a sale, or
     transfer, of land by an owner of land by whom land tax is payable,
     is due on the relevant day, within the meaning of section 39 , in
     relation to the sale or transfer, whichever date occurs first.
     (3)  Except as provided by Division 11 of Part 9 of the Local
     Government Act 1993 , land tax is a first charge on the land in
     priority to all mortgages, rates, charges, liens and encumbrances.
     (4)  For the avoidance of doubt, land tax payable under this section
     includes any land tax that is imposed under Division 1A .
   11.   List of owners
     (1)  The Commissioner is to maintain a list containing -
     (a) details of all land in the State; and
     (b) details of the owners of the land.
     (2)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (3)  If there is a change in ownership of land, that change takes
     effect on the date on which the contract for the sale of the land is
     completed.
     (4)  The Valuer-General is to provide the Commissioner details of
     the valuation of land -
     (a) at 1 July in each year; and
     (b) whenever the valuation is changed during that year.
     (5)  If it appears to the Commissioner that a person has become the
     owner of the land and the Commissioner has not received any details
     or advice, the Commissioner, by notice served on the person, may
     require the person to state any interest in the land.
     (6)  The statement is to be -
     (a) by statutory declaration; and
     (b) lodged with the Commissioner within 14 days after service of the
     notice.
   12.   Assessment of land tax
     (1)  The Commissioner is to assess land tax payable in respect of
     land.
     (1A)  If land tax is payable by an owner of land, the Commissioner
     is to issue to the owner -
     (a) an assessment of land tax payable; and
     (b) a demand for the payment of the land tax.
     (2)  A person who receives an assessment of land tax and considers
     that he or she was not the owner of the land as at the commencement
     of the financial year may apply to the Commissioner to reassess the
     liability for that land tax.
     (3)  If the Commissioner is satisfied that a person was not the
     owner of the land at the commencement of the financial year, the
     Commissioner is to issue -
     (a) an amended assessment to that person; and
     (b) an assessment to the person who was the owner of the land at the
     commencement of the financial year.
   13.   Payment by instalments
     (1)  If the amount of land tax payable in any financial year exceeds
     $500, the Commissioner may accept payment of land tax for that
     financial year in 3 instalments.
     (2)  If a taxpayer fails to pay the first or second instalment, the
     Commissioner may require the taxpayer to pay the full amount within
     a specified period.
   14.   Joint owners
     (1)  Land tax is payable by joint owners of land.
     (2)  Joint owners are -
     (a) taken to be a single taxpayer; and
     (b) jointly and severally liable for the full payment of the tax
     without regard to the relative shares or interests in the land.
     (3)  For the purposes of Division 1A and the determination of
     foreign investor land tax within the meaning of that Division,
     subsection (2)(a) does not apply.
   15.   Trustees and agents
     (1)  A trustee of land is -
     (a) to be assessed for land tax in respect of that land in a
     representative capacity; and
     (b) liable for any land tax in respect of the land as if the land
     were the trustee's.
     (2)  An assessment of land tax payable as a trustee is separate from
     an individual assessment of land tax payable by the trustee.
     (3)  If an owner of land is represented by an agent, the agent is
     liable for any land tax in respect of that land.
     (4)  Any agent or trustee is -
     (a) to do anything required to be done by the owner under this Act;
     and
     (b) subject to the same penalty or liability for any neglect,
     refusal or default in respect of any obligation or requirement of
     this Act as the person whom the agent or trustee represents would be
     subject to.
   16.   Notice of change in use of land
     An owner of land must, within 30 days, notify the Commissioner in
     writing, if -
     (a) the land ceases to be principal residence land, ceases to be
     primary production land, ceases to be exempt land or ceases to be
     land to which section 30A applies; or
     (b) a factor that is relevant to determining whether or not, or the
     extent to which, the land, or a part of the land, is principal
     residence land, primary production land or exempt land, has altered;
     or
     (c) all or part of the land has ceased to be, or has become, land
     that the Commissioner is required to apportion under section 19A ,
     19B or 19C or section 30A .
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 10 penalty units.
     Division 1A - Foreign investor land tax
   16A.   Interpretation
     (1)  In this Division -
     foreign corporation has the same meaning as in the Duties Act 2001 ;
     foreign investor land tax means the component of land tax that is
     imposed under this Division;
     foreign natural person has the same meaning as in the Duties Act
     2001 ;
     foreign person has the same meaning as in the Duties Act 2001 ;
     foreign trust has the same meaning as in the Duties Act 2001 ;
     foreign trustee has the same meaning as in the Duties Act 2001 .
     (2)  For the purposes of this Division -
     (a) a reference to general land includes a reference to any part of
     land, to which part of land the Commissioner has apportioned, under
     Division 4 , the land value as general land; and
     (b) the value of the part of land is, despite section 16B , the
     value so apportioned under Division 4 .
   16B.   How assessment or reassessment of land to be made
     (1)  An assessment, or reassessment, of the liability for foreign
     investor land tax is to be made in respect of each folio of the
     Register kept under section 33 of the Land Titles Act 1980 in
     respect of the land to which the assessment or reassessment relates.
     (2)  If -
     (a) there is a folio of the Register kept under section 33 of the
     Land Titles Act 1980 in respect of land to which an assessment or
     reassessment relates; and
     (b) a determination of the value of the land has been made under the
     Valuation of Land Act 2001  -
     the assessed land value of the land is the value specified in the
     determination on applying any relevant adjustment factor determined
     by the Valuer-General under Part 9A of that Act.
     (3)  If -
     (a) an area of land (the initial area of land) has been divided into
     areas of land (the subsequent areas) consisting of -
     (i) lots, or lots and common property, on a strata plan within the
     meaning of the Strata Titles Act 1998 ; or
     (ii) lots created after land has been subdivided within the meaning
     of Part 3 of the Local Government (Building and Miscellaneous
     Provisions) Act 1993 ; or
     (iii) areas of land that are distinguishable from each other; and
     (b) folios of the Register kept under section 33 of the Land Titles
     Act 1980 have not been, before 1 July of the financial year to which
     the assessment, or reassessment relates, issued in respect of the
     subsequent areas of land -
     an assessment, or reassessment, in relation to the initial area of
     land, of the liability for foreign investor land tax is to be made
     in respect of each of the subsequent areas of land as if, for each
     of the subsequent areas, a folio of the Register kept under section
     33 of the Land Titles Act 1980 had been issued in respect of the
     subsequent area of land.
     (4)  Subsection (5) applies in relation to an area of land (referred
     to in this subsection and subsection (5) as the relevant land) if -
     (a) a folio of the Register kept under section 33 of the Land Titles
     Act 1980 has been issued, or is, under subsection (3) , taken to
     have been issued, in relation to the relevant land; and
     (b) a determination of the value of the relevant land has not been
     made under the Valuation of Land Act 2001 , except as part of a
     larger area of land (referred to in subsection (5) as the larger
     area of land) to which one or more other folios of the Register kept
     under section 33 of the Land Titles Act 1980 have been issued or are
     taken under subsection (3) to have been issued.
     (5)  For the purposes of an assessment, or reassessment, of
     liability for foreign investor land tax, if this subsection applies
     in relation to relevant land, the value of the relevant land is to
     be determined by multiplying the determination of the value of the
     larger area of land made under the Valuation of Land Act 2001
     (including any relevant adjustment factor determined by the
     Valuer-General under Part 9A of that Act) by the proportion that the
     relevant land bears to the larger area of land.
     (6)  Sections 23, 24 and 25 do not apply, for the purposes of this
     Division, in relation to the determination of the land value of land
     to which this section applies.
   16C.   Application of foreign investor land tax
     (1)  Subject to this Division, an owner of land is liable to pay
     foreign investor land tax in respect of the land for a financial
     year if, at the commencement of the financial year -
     (a) the land is general land -
     (i) that is vacant land on which a building may be lawfully
     constructed and occupied as a place of residence so that the land is
     capable of being lawfully used, solely or primarily, for residential
     purposes; or
     (ii) that is capable of being lawfully used solely, or primarily,
     for residential purposes; or
     (iii) that includes a building, or part of a building, which is
     being, or has begun to be, constructed, refurbished, renovated or
     extended, if the work, when completed, will result in the land being
     capable of being lawfully used solely, or primarily, for residential
     purposes; and
     (b) one or more owners of the land are foreign persons -
     (i) who acquired an interest in the land, as a result of a dutiable
     transaction under the Duties Act 2001 , or by right of survivorship,
     on or after 1 July 2022; or
     (ii) who became foreign persons, other than foreign natural persons,
     on or after 1 July 2022.
     (2)  For the purposes of this section, if -
     (a) an owner of land is a foreign person who acquired an interest in
     land before 1 July 2022; and
     (b) on or after 1 July 2022, the foreign person acquired a further
     interest in the land as a result of a dutiable transaction under the
     Duties Act 2001 or by right of survivorship -
     all of the foreign person's interest in the land is taken to have
     been acquired on or after 1 July 2022.
     (3)  If, at the commencement of a financial year, foreign investor
     land tax is payable in respect of land, this section applies only to
     the percentage of the land -
     (a) in which a foreign person holds, at the commencement of that
     financial year, an interest that is acquired on or after 1 July
     2022; or
     (b) held by a foreign person (except a foreign natural person) who
     became a foreign person on or after 1 July 2022.
     (4)  For the avoidance of doubt, an interest under subsection (3)
     includes an interest that the person is taken, by virtue of
     subsection (2) , to have acquired on or after 1 July 2022.
   16D.   Non-application of foreign investor land tax
     (1)  Section 16C does not apply to general land on which a building
     is being lawfully used solely, or primarily, as one of the following
     premises:
     (a) a commercial establishment whose primary purpose is to offer
     short-term accommodation, or lodging, to persons for consideration;
     (b) a hostel or boarding house;
     (c) premises that are primarily used, to provide residential
     accommodation, by or on behalf of -
     (i) a school, within the meaning of the Education Act 2016 ; or
     (ii) TasTAFE, within the meaning of the Education Act 2016 ; or
     (iii) an institution within the meaning of the Higher Education
     Funding Act 1988 of the Commonwealth;
     (d) a residential care service;
     (e) a retirement village.
     (2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , premises that are short
     stay premises, within the meaning of the Short Stay Accommodation
     Act 2019 , are not a commercial establishment.
   16E.   Reassessment of land tax if trust is not foreign trust
     (1)  For the purposes of determining whether foreign investor land
     tax is payable in respect of land for a financial year, a trust is
     not a foreign trust for the financial year if -
     (a) at the commencement of the financial year, the trust was a
     foreign trust; and
     (b) under the terms of the trust deed, a trustee of the trust has a
     power or discretion as to the distribution of the capital of the
     trust estate to a person or a member of a class of persons; and
     (c) the trust deed for the trust is amended no later than 6 months
     after the date on which the notice of assessment, for land tax that
     includes an amount for foreign investor land tax, has been issued,
     under the Taxation Administration Act 1997 , in respect of the land
     for the financial year; and
     (d) as a result of the amendment to the trust deed, the trust is not
     a foreign trust.
     (2)  If -
     (a) a trust is not a foreign trust in respect of a financial year by
     virtue of subsection (1) ; and
     (b) foreign investor land tax was payable in respect of the land
     held by a trustee on behalf of the trust in the financial year -
     the trustee may apply to the Commissioner, in writing, to reassess
     the foreign investor land tax payable in respect of the land for the
     financial year.
     (3)  If the Commissioner receives an application under
     subsection (2) for the reassessment of the foreign investor land tax
     payable in respect of the land held by a trustee on behalf of the
     trust for a financial year, the Commissioner must -
     (a) reassess the foreign investor land tax payable for the financial
     year as if, at the commencement of the financial year, the trust was
     not a foreign trust; and
     (b) refund any amount of foreign investor land tax, paid in respect
     of the land for the financial year, that is in excess of the amount
     of foreign investor land tax so reassessed.
   16F.   Determination as to whether person is foreign person or land is
   capable of certain use
     (1)  For the purposes of this Division and for the avoidance of
     doubt, the Commissioner may make a determination that a person is a
     foreign person if the Commissioner is satisfied, on the basis of any
     information available to the Commissioner, that the person is a
     foreign person.
     (2)  For the purposes of this Division, the Commissioner may make a
     determination that a person is a foreign person if the person has
     failed to provide to the Commissioner, within the period specified
     in a notice to the person under section 65 of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 or any extended period that the Commissioner
     allows, information that the Commissioner requires in order to
     determine whether the person is a foreign person.
     (3)  For the purposes of this Division, the Commissioner may make a
     determination that land is, or will be, capable of being lawfully
     used primarily for residential purposes if the Commissioner is
     satisfied, on reasonable grounds, that at least 50% of the land is,
     or will be, capable of being used for such a purpose, whether or not
     the land is, or will be, capable of use for another purpose.
   16G.   Determination that owner of land is not foreign person
     (1)  An owner of land may apply to the Commissioner, in writing, for
     a determination under this section, in respect of a financial year,
     if -
     (a) the owner was a foreign person at the commencement of the
     financial year; and
     (b) as a result of being a foreign person, the owner is liable to
     pay foreign investor land tax in respect of the financial year.
     (2)  After considering an application under subsection (1) in
     respect of a financial year, the Commissioner may -
     (a) determine that the applicant is not a foreign person, in respect
     of the financial year, for the purposes of this Act; or
     (b) refuse to grant a determination under this section to the
     applicant.
     (3)  If the Commissioner makes a determination under
     subsection (2)(a) that an applicant is not a foreign person, in
     respect of a financial year, for the purposes of this Act, the
     Commissioner must -
     (a) reassess the foreign investor land tax payable in respect of the
     land for the financial year as if, at the commencement of the
     financial year, the applicant was not a foreign person for the
     purposes of this Act; and
     (b) refund any amount of foreign investor land tax paid by the
     person for the financial year that is in excess of the amount of
     foreign investor land tax so reassessed.
     (4)  A determination of the Commissioner under subsection (2) is a
     non-reviewable decision within the meaning of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 .
     (5)  If a determination under subsection (2)(a) was made as a result
     of an application containing, or the applicant providing, false or
     misleading information, the Commissioner may -
     (a) revoke the determination; and
     (b) require the applicant to pay the foreign investor land tax that
     is payable for the financial year to which the application relates.
   16H.   Commissioner may publish circumstances where owner of land is
   not foreign person
     (1)  The Commissioner may publish, in a manner that is freely
     available to members of the public, circumstances in which the owner
     of land is not taken to be a foreign person for the purposes of this
     Act.
     (2)  Circumstances published under subsection (1) are in force only
     while the circumstances remain so published.
     (3)  An owner of land is not a foreign person for a financial year,
     for the purposes of this Act, if the circumstances, published under
     subsection (1) , that are in force at the commencement of the
     financial year apply in relation to the owner of land.
     (4)  An owner of land may apply to the Commissioner, in writing, to
     reassess the foreign investor land tax paid in respect of a
     financial year if -
     (a) the owner has paid foreign investor land tax in respect of the
     financial year; and
     (b) the circumstances, published under subsection (1) , that are in
     force at the commencement of the financial year, apply in relation
     to the owner of land.
     (5)  If the Commissioner receives an application under
     subsection (4) and the Commissioner is satisfied that the
     circumstances, published under subsection (1) , that were in force
     at the commencement of the financial year, apply in relation to the
     applicant, the Commissioner must -
     (a) reassess the foreign investor land tax payable for the financial
     year as if, at the commencement of the financial year, the applicant
     was not a foreign person; and
     (b) refund any amount of foreign investor land tax paid by the
     applicant for the financial year that is in excess of the amount of
     foreign investor land tax so reassessed.
   16I.   Reassessment of land tax for certain developers of property
     (1)  In this section -
     occupancy permit has the same meaning as in the Building Act 2016 ;
     reassessment period, in relation to a relevant dwelling, means the
     period between -
     (a) the acquisition of the land, on which the dwelling is situated,
     by the relevant person, within the definition of relevant dwelling,
     for that dwelling; and
     (b) the issue of the occupancy permit, in respect of the dwelling,
     to that relevant person;
     relevant dwelling means a dwelling where -
     (a) the dwelling is situated on land, within Tasmania, that is
     acquired by a person (the relevant person) on or after 1 July 2022;
     and
     (b) on or after that date -
     (i) the laying of the foundations of the dwelling occurred; or
     (ii) if no foundations are to be laid in respect of the dwelling, an
     equivalent act determined by the Commissioner occurred in respect of
     the dwelling; and
     (c) the completed dwelling is capable of being lawfully used solely,
     or primarily, for residential purposes; and
     (d) an occupancy permit is first issued, to the relevant person, in
     respect of the dwelling within 3 years after the relevant person
     acquired the land on which the dwelling is situated;
     Tasmania-based foreign developer, in respect of a financial year,
     means a foreign person who operates a business -
     (a) that acquires land within Tasmania with the aim of developing
     the land; and
     (b) of which at least 80% of the wages of management and
     administration staff of the business are taxable wages, within the
     meaning of the Payroll Tax Act 2008 , in that year; and
     (c) that operates in Tasmania for the majority of its business hours
     in that year.
     (2)  A person may apply to the Commissioner, in writing, to reassess
     the foreign investor land tax payable by the person for a specified
     financial year after the 2021-2022 financial year, if -
     (a) the person is a Tasmania-based foreign developer in respect of
     the financial year; and
     (b) the person, or the business by virtue of which the person is a
     Tasmania-based foreign developer for the purposes of this section,
     has -
     (i) been issued with occupancy permits, in that year, in respect of
     at least 50 relevant dwellings; and
     (ii) paid foreign investor land tax in respect of the land on which
     one or more of those relevant dwellings are situated.
     (3)  If the Commissioner receives an application under
     subsection (2) and is satisfied that the applicant meets the
     requirements of subsection (2)  -
     (a) the Commissioner must reassess the foreign investor land tax
     payable under this Act -
     (i) in respect of the land on which each relevant dwelling, to which
     the application relates, is situated; and
     (ii) for the reassessment period for each such relevant dwelling -
     as if the applicant were not a foreign person; and
     (b) the Commissioner must refund any amount of foreign investor land
     tax, paid in respect of land referred to in paragraph (a) for the
     reassessment period, that is in excess of the amount so reassessed
     for that land; and
     (c) the applicant is not liable to pay foreign investor land tax
     under this Act in respect of land, on which a relevant dwelling
     referred to in paragraph (a) is situated, for the 12-month period
     that commences on the applicant being issued with the initial
     occupancy permit for that dwelling.
     (4)  Despite subsection (3)  -
     (a) the Commissioner must not refund an amount of foreign investor
     land tax paid in respect of land by an applicant; and
     (b) an applicant is liable to pay foreign investor land tax under
     this Act in respect of land -
     unless the Commissioner is satisfied that the applicant complied
     with all of the relevant requirements of the Foreign Investment
     Review Board, established by the Commonwealth Government, that apply
     in respect of the acquisition of the land to which the land tax
     relates.
   16J.   Notice of change in certain circumstances
     An owner of land must, within 30 days after one or more of the
     following changes occur, notify the Commissioner in writing of the
     change:
     (a) the owner of land ceases to be liable to pay foreign investor
     land tax, under this Division, in respect of the land;
     (b) the owner of land becomes liable to pay foreign investor land
     tax, under this Division, in respect of the land.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 10 penalty units.
     Division 2 - Exempt land
   17.   Exempt Crown and public lands
     (1)  Land tax is not payable in respect of the following:
     (a) Crown land;
     (b) public roads and public cemeteries that are not the property of
     any joint stock or public company;
     (c) public recreation grounds and reserves held by a State
     Government body;
     (d) land on which is built a public library or public museum;
     (e) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (f) land owned by any association or society used solely by it for
     holding public exhibitions and not for profit or gain.
     (2)  For the purpose of subsection (1)  -
     (a) land owned by or vested in a Government Business Enterprise is
     not -
     (i) Crown land; or
     (ii) land the property of and occupied by or on behalf of the Crown;
     or
     (iii) land vested in trust for public purposes; and
     (b) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (3)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (4)  In this section -
     State Government body means a State Service Agency, a statutory
     authority, a State-owned company or a Government Business
     Enterprise;
     State-owned company means a company incorporated under the
     Corporations Act that is controlled by the Crown, a Government
     Business Enterprise or a statutory authority or another company that
     is so controlled;
     statutory authority means a body or authority, whether incorporated
     or not, that is established or constituted by or under an Act or
     under the Royal Prerogative, being a body or authority which, or of
     which the governing authority, wholly or partly comprises a person
     or persons appointed by the Governor, a Minister or another
     statutory authority but does not include a State Service Agency.
   18.   Exempt trust land
     Land tax is not payable in respect of the following:
     (a) land used for purposes related to a medical establishment or
     convalescent home and owned by, or in trust for or vested in, any
     person or body having the management or control of the medical
     establishment or convalescent home;
     (b) land owned by, or in trust for or vested in, a religious
     denomination or religious society and used solely -
     (i) for religious, charitable or educational purposes; or
     (ii) for the support of aged or infirm clergy or ministers of the
     religious denomination or religious society or their spouses,
     widows, widowers or dependent children; or
     (iii) as a place of worship for members of the religious
     denomination, religious society or a religious order; or
     (iv) as a place of residence for clergy or ministers of the
     religious denomination or religious society or for members of a
     religious order;
     (c) land owned by, or in trust for or vested in, a religious
     denomination or religious society, the proceeds of which are applied
     for a purpose specified in paragraph (b) ;
     (d) land owned by, or in trust for or vested in, a charitable
     institution and that is -
     (i) exempt from the payment of income tax under the Income Tax
     Assessment Act 1997 of the Commonwealth; and
     (ii) used solely for charitable purposes;
     (e) land vested in trust for public purposes;
     (f) land used solely for non-profit educational purposes and owned
     by, or in trust for or vested in, a person or body having the
     ownership, management or control of an educational institution;
     (g) land owned by, or in trust for or vested in, an association of
     ex-servicemen or of dependents of ex-servicemen and used for the
     purposes of the association;
     (h) land owned by, or in trust for, or vested in, a community
     service organisation if -
     (i) the organisation is exempt from payment of income tax under the
     Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 of the Commonwealth; and
     (ii) the land is not primarily used to raise income for the
     organisation.
   19.   Other exempt land
     Land tax is not payable in respect of the following:
     (a) principal residence land or primary production land owned 50% or
     more by a person in receipt of -
     (i) a current Pensioner Concession Card issued under a relevant Act
     of the Commonwealth; or
     (ii) a card that is prescribed to be equivalent to the card referred
     to in subparagraph (i) ;
     (b) principal residence land or primary production land, 50% or more
     of which is owned by a person who is -
     (i) in receipt of a special rate pension under the Veterans'
     Entitlements Act 1986 of the Commonwealth; and
     (ii) totally and permanently incapacitated;
     (ba) land used for the purposes of a retirement village;
     (bb) land used for purposes which are ancillary to the purposes of a
     retirement village;
     (c) Aboriginal land within the meaning of the Aboriginal Lands Act
     1995 used principally for Aboriginal cultural purposes;
     (d) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (e) land in respect of which land tax was not levied pursuant to
     section 10(1)(q)(ix) of the Land and Income Taxation Act 1910 .
   19A.   Partially exempt land: conservation covenants
     (1)  Land tax is not payable in respect of land -
     (a) that is subject to a conservation covenant; or
     (b) in respect of which a conservation covenant has been entered
     into, where the conservation covenant has not been registered under
     the Land Titles Act 1980 .
     (2)  However, for the purposes of subsection (1) , if the
     conservation covenant applies only to a part of the land, the
     Commissioner is to apportion the land value of the land between
     exempt land and general land, for which purpose -
     (a) the apportioned assessed land value in respect of exempt land is
     to be determined by multiplying the assessed land value of the land
     by the proportion of the land to which the conservation covenant
     applies; and
     (b) the apportioned assessed land value in respect of general land
     is to be the assessed land value of the land less the apportioned
     assessed land value in respect of exempt land as calculated under
     paragraph (a) .
     (3)  In this section -
     conservation covenant means -
     (a) a conservation covenant under Part 5 of the Nature Conservation
     Act 2002 ; or
     (b) a conservation covenant under a prescribed instrument.
   19B.   Partially exempt land: public parks and gardens
     (1)  Land tax is not payable in respect of land that is a park or
     garden, where the park or garden is -
     (a) held or owned by a local authority or other local governing or
     statutory public body (other than an applicable authority as defined
     in section 39A of the Local Government Act 1993 ); and
     (b) in public recreational use.
     (2)  However, for the purposes of subsection (1) , if any part of
     land is not a park or garden in public recreational use, the
     Commissioner is to apportion the land value of the land between
     exempt land and general land, for which purpose -
     (a) the apportioned assessed land value in respect of exempt land is
     to be determined by multiplying the assessed land value of the land
     by the proportion of the land that is a park or garden in public
     recreational use; and
     (b) the apportioned assessed land value in respect of general land
     is to be the assessed land value of the land less the apportioned
     assessed land value in respect of exempt land calculated under
     paragraph (a) .
     (3)  For the purposes of this section -
     (a) a park or garden held or owned as provided in subsection (1) is
     taken to be in public recreational use if -
     (i) the park or garden is used for recreational purposes; and
     (ii) the relevant local authority or other local governing or
     statutory public body normally provides the public with free access
     to the park or garden; and
     (b) a park or garden held or owned by a local authority or other
     local governing or statutory public body is taken not to include any
     premises that are built, and used, for the specific purpose of
     conducting sporting activities; and
     (c) a Government Business Enterprise is taken not to be a statutory
     public body.
     (4)  In this section -
     park or garden includes part of a park or garden.
   19C.   Partially exempt land: flood prevention structure
     (1)  Land tax is not payable in respect of land that contains a
     flood prevention structure, where the land is held or owned by a
     local authority or other local governing body or statutory public
     body (other than an applicable authority as defined in section 39A
     of the Local Government Act 1993 ).
     (2)  However, for the purposes of subsection (1) , if any part of
     land is not used for the purposes of a flood prevention structure,
     the Commissioner is to apportion the land value of the land between
     exempt land and general land, for which purpose -
     (a) the apportioned assessed land value in respect of exempt land is
     to be determined by multiplying the assessed land value of the land
     by the proportion of the land on which the flood prevention
     structure is situated; and
     (b) the apportioned assessed land value in respect of general land
     is to be the assessed land value of the land less the apportioned
     assessed land value in respect of exempt land calculated under
     paragraph (a) .
     (3)  In this section -
     flood prevention structure means any of the following things:
     (a) a flood levee, a stormwater basin or a subterranean stormwater
     drain, whether the levee, basin or drain is a naturally occurring
     phenomenon or a man-made structure;
     (b) an improvement of any type that is designed and used to regulate
     water levels for the purposes of flood protection;
     (c) a naturally occurring ridge or wall that regulates water
     levels -
     but does not include such a thing if an unrelated capital
     improvement is situated on, above or below the thing;
     unrelated capital improvement means a capital improvement that is
     not -
     (a) a capital improvement related to providing protection against
     floods; or
     (b) a pipeline, drain, cable or wire.
   19D.   Limited exempt land: new properties available for rent
     (1)  Land tax is not payable in respect of land on which a dwelling
     is located, during the exemption period for the land, if -
     (a) the land is general land; and
     (b) each dwelling on the land is a new dwelling; and
     (c) the first occupancy permit issued in respect of the initial
     dwelling on the land is issued within the period commencing on 8
     February 2018 and ending on 30 June 2026; and
     (d) at the commencement of the exemption period for the land -
     (i) at least one dwelling on the land is the subject of a relevant
     residential tenancy agreement; and
     (ii) the owner of the land intends that each dwelling on the land is
     to be the subject of a relevant residential tenancy agreement; and
     (e) the owner of the land has applied to the Commissioner, in a form
     approved by the Commissioner, for land tax to not be payable in
     respect of the land during the exemption period for the land; and
     (f) the Commissioner has approved the application referred to in
     paragraph (e) in respect of the land.
     (2)  An exemption under subsection (1) in respect of land ceases to
     have effect -
     (a) if, during a financial year that forms part of the exemption
     period for the land -
     (i) a dwelling on the land is sold; or
     (ii) the land ceases to be general land; or
     (iii) a dwelling that has been the subject of a relevant residential
     tenancy agreement is no longer subject to such an agreement for a
     cumulative period of more than 6 weeks in that financial year; or
     (iv) a dwelling on the land is used for any purpose other than being
     the subject of a relevant residential tenancy agreement; or
     (b) on the expiry of the exemption period for the land.
     (3)  If an exemption ceases to have effect under subsection (2) in
     respect of land -
     (a) the exemption lapses in respect of the land and cannot be
     revived or renewed; and
     (b) if the exemption ceases to have effect under subsection (2)(a)
     -
     (i) land tax is payable, in respect of the land, for the entire
     financial year in which the exemption ceases to have effect; and
     (ii) land tax is not payable in respect of the land for any
     financial year of the exemption period for the land that ends before
     the financial year in which the exemption ceases to have effect.
     (4)  In this section -
     exemption period, for land, means the 3 consecutive financial years
     after the financial year in which the first occupancy permit is
     issued in respect of a dwelling on the land;
     new dwelling means a home, within the meaning of the First Home
     Owner Grant Act 2000 , that has not previously been occupied or sold
     as a place of residence;
     occupancy permit has the same meaning as in the Building Act 2016 ;
     relevant residential tenancy agreement, in relation to a dwelling,
     means a written residential tenancy agreement, within the meaning of
     the Residential Tenancy Act 1997 , for a fixed period of at least 12
     months, that applies to the dwelling as a whole.
   19E.   Limited exempt land: former short-stay accommodation properties
     (1)  Land tax is not payable in respect of land on which a dwelling
     is located, during the exemption period for the land, if -
     (a) the land is general land; and
     (b) each dwelling on the land was the subject of a relevant
     residential tenancy agreement; and
     (c) the relevant residential tenancy agreement for each dwelling on
     the land -
     (i) commenced within the eligible period; and
     (ii) was in force at the commencement of the exemption period for
     the land; and
     (d) the Commissioner is satisfied that each dwelling on the land was
     lawfully used, or was advertised as available for lawful use, as
     short-stay accommodation during the majority of the 3-month period
     immediately before the commencement of the relevant residential
     tenancy agreement for each dwelling; and
     (e) the owner of the land has applied to the Commissioner, in a form
     approved by the Commissioner, for land tax to not be payable in
     respect of the land during the exemption period for the land; and
     (f) the Commissioner has approved the application referred to in
     paragraph (e) in respect of the land.
     (2)  The Commissioner must not approve an application in accordance
     with subsection (1)(f) in respect of land if a previous application
     in respect of the land has been approved under this section.
     (3)  In this section -
     eligible period means the period commencing on 15 March 2018 and
     ending on 30 June 2026;
     exemption period, for land, means the single financial year that
     immediately follows the financial year in which the final relevant
     residential tenancy agreement, required under subsection (1)(c) ,
     for the land commenced;
     relevant residential tenancy agreement, in relation to a dwelling,
     means a written residential tenancy agreement, within the meaning of
     the Residential Tenancy Act 1997 , for a fixed period of at least 12
     months;
     short-stay accommodation, in relation to a dwelling, means that the
     dwelling -
     (a) is being used or is available for use, for monetary gain by the
     owner of the dwelling, as accommodation for a person away from his
     or her normal place of residence; and
     (b) is ordinarily intended to be used as accommodation by such a
     person for periods of not more than 4 weeks.
   19EA.   Limited exempt land: adversely impacted commercial properties
     (1)  Land tax is not payable in respect of land, during the eligible
     period, if -
     (a) the Commissioner is satisfied, on either or both of the
     following grounds, that the land, on 1 July 2020, is commercial
     land:
     (i) the code assigned to the land, as part of the last valuation of
     the land performed on or before 1 July 2020 under the Valuation of
     Land Act 2001 , is a commercial code;
     (ii) such other grounds that the Commissioner considers reasonable
     in the circumstances; and
     (b) the Commissioner is satisfied that the owner of the land has
     been adversely financially impacted during the pandemic period, in a
     manner that is unexpected and not insignificant, as a result of one
     or more of the following:
     (i) the amount of income, payable to the owner in respect of the
     land, has been reduced as a result of the effects of COVID-19,
     including a loss of rent or licence fees;
     (ii) all or any part of the land -
     (A) is available for lease, or licence, during the pandemic period;
     and
     (B) has remained vacant for all or part of that period despite the
     owner taking all actions, that are reasonable in the circumstances,
     to advertise that the land is so available; and
     (C) in the opinion of the Commissioner, was not so leased, or
     licensed, as a result of the effects of COVID-19;
     (iii) the business operated on the land by the owner has been
     affected as a result of the effects of COVID-19; and
     (c) the owner of the land has applied to the Commissioner, before 1
     July 2021 and in a form approved by the Commissioner, for land tax
     not to be payable in respect of the land during the eligible period;
     and
     (d) the Commissioner has approved the application referred to in
     paragraph (c) in respect of the land.
     (2)  Despite subsection (1)(a)(i) , the Commissioner may determine
     that land is not commercial land even if the code assigned to the
     land, as part of the last valuation of the land performed on or
     before 1 July 2020 under the Valuation of Land Act 2001 , is a
     commercial code.
     (3)  A decision of the Commissioner as to whether this section
     applies to land is a non-reviewable decision within the meaning of
     the Taxation Administration Act 1997 .
     (4)  In this section -
     COVID-19 means the disease, known as coronavirus disease 2019
     (COVID-19), declared under section 40 of the Public Health Act 1997
     to be a notifiable disease;
     eligible period means the financial year commencing on 1 July 2020;
     pandemic period means the period during which a public health
     emergency has been declared in respect of COVID-19 under the Public
     Health Act 1997 .
   19F.   Extension of certain periods
     (1)  The Minister, by order and on one or more occasion, may extend
     one or more of the following periods by omitting the date on which
     the period ends and substituting a new date:
     (a) the period specified in section 19D(1)(c) as the period in which
     an occupancy permit must be issued for a dwelling for the first
     time;
     (b) the eligible period within the meaning of section 19E .
     (2)  The provisions of section 47(3), (3A), (4), (5), (6) and (7) of
     the Acts Interpretation Act 1931 apply to an order under
     subsection (1) as if the order were regulations within the meaning
     of that Act.
     (3)  An order under subsection (1)  -
     (a) is a statutory rule for the purposes of the Rules Publication
     Act 1953 ; and
     (b) is not an instrument of legislative character for the purposes
     of the Subordinate Legislation Act 1992 .
     Division 3 - Amount of tax
   20.   Amount of land tax
     (1)  The amount of land tax is to be -
     (a) determined on the assessed land value or the apportioned
     assessed land value of the land as at 1 July in each financial year;
     and
     (b) set at a rate specified in a land tax rating Act.
     (2)  Land tax may be set in respect of -
     (a) principal residence land; and
     (b) primary production land; and
     (ba) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (c) general land.
   21.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   22.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   23.   Assessed land value
     (1)  The assessed land value of land is the land value as determined
     under the Valuation of Land Act 2001 on applying any relevant
     adjustment factor determined under Part 9A of that Act.
     (2)  If a parcel of land is subdivided from land which has a land
     value determined under the Valuation of Land Act 2001 and the value
     of that subdivided parcel of land has not been so determined -
     (a) the value of the subdivided parcel of land is to be determined
     by multiplying the assessed land value of the total area of land
     before the subdivision (inclusive of any relevant adjustment factor
     determined by the Valuer-General under Part 9A of that Act) by the
     proportion that the subdivided parcel of land bears to the total
     area of land before the subdivision; and
     (b) the value of the remaining land from which the parcel was
     subdivided is the assessed land value of the total area of land
     before the subdivision less the value calculated under paragraph (a)
     .
   24.   Aggregate land value
     (1)  In the case of an owner of more than one parcel of land of the
     same class, land tax is to be levied on the aggregate assessed land
     value of those parcels of land as if they were a single parcel of
     land.
     (1A)  For subsection (1) , there are 3 classes of land: principal
     residence land, primary production land and general land.
     (2)  If a company or related companies own more than one parcel of
     land, land tax is to be levied on the aggregate assessed land value
     of those parcels of land as if they were a single parcel owned by a
     single company.
     (3)  For the purpose of subsection (1) , if a company co-owns land
     with a natural person, a trustee or another company, the company is
     the owner of the land if it owns more than 50% of the land.
     (4)  If land is held by a trustee on behalf of more than one trust,
     land held on behalf of one trust is not to be aggregated with land
     held on behalf of another trust if the trustee is -
     (a) a registered trustee company; or
     (b) an executor, an administrator, a guardian, a committee, a
     receiver or a liquidator; or
     (c) appointed by a court.
   25.   Subdivisions
     If land is subdivided within the meaning of Part 3 of the Local
     Government (Building and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1993 , the
     land value of that land is -
     (a) before any block in that subdivision is sold or transferred, the
     land value determined as if it were a single parcel of land; and
     (b) after a block in that subdivision is sold or transferred, the
     aggregate land value of the remaining blocks not sold nor
     transferred.
     Division 4 - Apportioned assessed land value
   26.   Apportioned assessed land value for principal residence land
     (1)  If principal residence land is used for other purposes, not
     including a qualifying home business, in addition to the principal
     residence of an owner or a related person of the owner, the
     Commissioner is to apportion the land value of the land between
     principal residence land and general land.
     (2)  The apportioned assessed land value in respect of principal
     residence land used as the principal residence of the owner, or a
     related person of the owner, is determined by multiplying the
     assessed land value by the proportion of land area so used.
     (2A)  For the purposes of subsection (2), the land area is the area
     of the land together with the areas of all additional floors above
     or below ground level (but not including the ground floor) of all
     structures on the land.
     (3)  The apportioned assessed land value in respect of general land
     is the assessed land value less the apportioned assessed land value
     in respect of principal residence land.
   27.   Apportioned assessed land value for primary production land
     (1)  If primary production land is used for other purposes in
     addition to being used for primary production purposes, the
     Commissioner is to apportion the land value of the land between
     primary production land and general land.
     (2)  The apportioned assessed land value in respect of primary
     production land used for primary production purposes is determined
     by multiplying the assessed land value of the land by the proportion
     of the land so used.
     (3)  The apportioned assessed land value in respect of general land
     is the assessed land value less the apportioned assessed land value
     in respect of primary production land.
     (4)  In this section, primary production land is used for primary
     production purposes if the land is -
     (a) used for the business of primary production within the meaning
     of section 7(2) ; or
     (b) declared a private timber reserve under the Forest Practices Act
     1985 ; or
     (c) permanent timber production zone land within the meaning of the
     Forest Management Act 2013 ; or
     (d) land in respect of which there is in effect a certified forest
     practices plan, being a plan certified by the Forest Practices
     Authority under section 19 of the Forest Practices Act 1985 in
     accordance with the State Permanent Forest Estate Policy.
   28.   Home-unit companies
     (1)  The Commissioner is to apportion the land value of land owned
     by a home-unit company between the flats located on that land.
     (2)  The apportioned assessed land value in respect of a flat in a
     home-unit company is determined by multiplying the assessed land
     value by the ratio of the floor area of the flat to the total area
     of all flats in the home-unit company.
     (3)  If part of principal residence land owned by a home-unit
     company is not used as the principal residence of a person owning
     shares in the home unit company, the Commissioner is to apportion
     the land value of the land between principal residence land and
     general land.
     (4)  The apportioned assessed land value in respect of principal
     residence land owned by a home-unit company is the sum of the
     apportioned assessed land value in respect of the flats in the
     home-unit company used as principal residences of persons owning
     shares in the home-unit company.
     (5)  The apportioned assessed land value in respect of general land
     is the assessed land value less the apportioned assessed land value
     in respect of principal residence land.
   29.   Retirement villages
     If a part of land owned by a retirement village company is exempt
     land, the Commissioner is to apportion the land value of the land
     between exempt land and general land.
   30.   Cooperative housing societies
     (1)  If land owned by a cooperative housing society is used partly
     for residential purposes and partly for other purposes, the
     Commissioner is to request the Valuer-General to supply separate
     valuations in respect of each part.
     (2)  The apportioned assessed land value in respect of land owned by
     a cooperative housing society is determined by multiplying the
     assessed land value by the ratio of the area of the land to the
     total land used for residential purposes.
     (3)  If part of principal residence land owned by a cooperative
     housing society is not used as a principal residence, the
     Commissioner is to apportion the land value of the land between
     principal residence land and general land.
     (4)  The apportioned assessed land value in respect of principal
     residence land owned by a cooperative housing society is the sum of
     the apportioned assessed land value in respect of the land owned by
     the cooperative housing society used as principal residences.
     (5)  The apportioned assessed land value in respect of general land
     is the assessed land value less the apportioned assessed land value
     in respect of principal residence land.
   30A.   Apportionment where multiple partial exemptions apply
     (1)  This section applies in relation to land if the land is land to
     which, but for subsection (2) , more than one of section 19A , 19B
     or 19C may apply.
     (2)  If this section applies in relation to land -
     (a) sections 19A , 19B and 19C do not apply in relation to the land;
     and
     (b) the Commissioner is to apportion the land value of the land
     between exempt land and general land.
     (3)  For the purpose of the Commissioner apportioning under
     subsection (2)(b) the land value of the land between exempt land and
     general land -
     (a) the apportioned assessed land value in respect of exempt land is
     to be determined by multiplying the assessed land value of the land
     by the relevant exempt proportion of the land; and
     (b) the apportioned assessed land value in respect of general land
     is to be the assessed land value of the land less the apportioned
     assessed land value in respect of exempt land calculated under
     paragraph (a) .
     (4)  For the purposes of subsection (3) , the relevant exempt
     proportion of the land is the proportion of the land determined by
     adding together all the parts of the land to which the apportioned
     assessed land value in respect of exempt land may, but for this
     section, be applied under section 19A(2)(a) , section 19B(2)(a) or
     section 19C(2)(a) , respectively.
     (5)  Land tax is not payable in respect of so much of the land as is
     land to which the apportioned assessed land value in respect of
     exempt land is assigned under subsection (3)(a) .
     Division 5 - Companies
   31.   Related companies
     (1)  Two companies are related to each other if -
     (a) the same person or same persons together have a controlling
     interest in both companies; or
     (b) one of those companies is related to a company to which the
     other is related; or
     (c) the companies are related bodies corporate for the purposes of
     the Corporations Act.
     (2)  Two companies are also related to each other if -
     (a) more than one-half of the issued share capital of one of those
     companies is held by the other company or its shareholders or by
     both the other company and its shareholders together; and
     (b) the proportion of the issued share capital of that other company
     held by shareholders of the first company is more than the
     difference between one-half and the proportion of the issued share
     capital of the first company held by the other company.
     (3)  Companies may be related to each other notwithstanding that
     they do not own land in Tasmania.
     (4)  A reference in subsection (2) to the issued share capital of a
     company does not include a reference to any part of that issued
     share capital that confers no right to participate beyond a
     specified amount in a distribution of either profits or capital.
   32.   Controlling interest
     (1)  A person or several persons together have a controlling
     interest in a company if -
     (a) the person or persons acting together may control the
     composition of the board of directors of the company; or
     (b) the person or the persons acting together may cast or control
     the casting of more than half of the maximum number of votes that
     might be cast at a general meeting of the company; or
     (c) the person or the persons acting together hold more than
     one-half of the issued share capital of the company.
     (2)  The composition of a company's board of directors is taken to
     be controlled by a person if that person, by the exercise of a power
     with or without the consent or concurrence of any other person, may
     appoint or remove all or a majority of the directors.
   33.   Shares
     (1)  Any shares held or power exercisable by a person as a trustee
     or nominee for any other person are to be treated as also held or
     exercisable by that other person.
     (2)  Any shares held or power exercisable by a person under the
     provisions of any debentures of another company or of a trust deed
     for securing any issue of any debentures are to be disregarded.
     (3)  Any shares held or power exercisable by, or by a nominee for,
     any person otherwise than as mentioned in subsection (2) are to be
     taken as not held or exercisable by that person if -
     (a) the ordinary business of that person includes the lending of
     money; and
     (b) the shares are held or the power is exercisable only by way of
     security given for the purposes of a transaction entered into in the
     ordinary course of business in connection with the lending of money,
     unless the transaction is entered into with a person associated with
     that person within the meaning of the Corporations Act.
   34.   Liability of companies
     If 2 or more companies related to each other are liable for land
     tax -
     (a) those companies are jointly and severally liable for the full
     payment of that land tax; and
     (b) this section does not affect any right of contribution or
     indemnity between the companies.
   35.   Nominee company
     (1)  If 2 or more companies related to each other are liable for
     land tax, they may nominate one of their number to be the one from
     whom the Commissioner may seek payment of land tax.
     (2)  A nomination is valid even though one or more of the related
     companies did not join in making the nomination.
     (3)  The Commissioner is to nominate one of the companies referred
     to in subsection (1) to be the company from whom the Commissioner
     may seek payment of the land tax payable by those companies if -
     (a) a nomination is not made; or
     (b) a nomination is made but the company fails to pay the land tax
     when required to do so.
     PART 3 - Miscellaneous
   36.   Onus of establishing facts
     (1)  The onus is on the owner of land to establish to the
     satisfaction of the Commissioner any of the following facts:
     (a) that land or any part of land is principal residence land;
     (b) that land or any part of land is primary production land;
     (c) that a dwelling is a principal residence;
     (d) that a business operated from principal residence land is a
     qualifying home business.
     (e) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (2)  Until the owner establishes a fact under subsection (1) , the
     Commissioner is to determine land to be general land.
   37.   Land tax rebate
     (1)  The owner of land may apply to the Commissioner for a rebate of
     land tax in relation to a financial year if -
     (a) the owner was the owner at the start of the financial year; and
     (b) during that financial year a dwelling was constructed on the
     land and occupied as principal residence -
     (i) by the owner or a related person of the owner; or
     (ii) by a person who owns 50 per cent or more of the shares in the
     company that owns the land; and
     (c) the owner during the financial year did not own -
     (i) in Tasmania any other land classified as principal residence
     land; or
     (ii) in another State or a Territory any land which in that State or
     Territory is treated for the purposes of an Act or other law that
     substantially corresponds to this Act as the principal residence of
     the owner.
     (1A)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (2)  An application is to be in a form approved by the Commissioner.
     (3)  On receipt of an application, the Commissioner, if satisfied
     that a rebate is payable, is to grant a rebate equal to the amount
     of land tax paid.
     (4)  If land tax has been assessed but has not been paid, the
     Commissioner may waive the requirement to pay the land tax if a
     rebate would have been granted under this section if the land tax
     had been paid.
   37A.   Land tax rebate (Transitional circumstances)
     (1)  The owner of land may apply to the Commissioner for a rebate of
     land tax paid if at the commencement of a financial year the owner
     was -
     (a) the owner of principal residence land; and
     (b) the owner of other land -
     (i) that was purchased with the intention that it become the
     principal residence land of the owner; or
     (ii) that was the principal residence land of the owner in the
     period of 3 months preceding the commencement of the financial year.
     (2)  A rebate is payable in respect of the land tax paid on the
     other land.
     (3)  The Commissioner is to grant a rebate of land tax under this
     section if the Commissioner is satisfied that -
     (a) the owner became the owner of the principal residence land or
     the other land during the period of 3 months preceding the
     commencement of the financial year; and
     (b) the principal residence land of the owner was -
     (i) the principal residence land of the owner in the period of 3
     months preceding the commencement of the financial year; or
     (ii) the other land became the principal residence land of the owner
     in the financial year; and
     (c) before 1 October of the financial year the owner entered into a
     contract to sell or otherwise disposed of -
     (i) the principal residence land; or
     (ii) the other land -
     and the new owner took possession of the land in the financial year;
     and
     (d) no rent or other income was derived from the principal residence
     land or the other land during the period in which the owner owned
     both the principal residence land and the other land; and
     (e) the owner did not recover a proper proportion of any land tax
     paid or payable in accordance with section 40(1) ; and
     (f) an application for a rebate has been lodged by the owner in a
     form approved by the Commissioner -
     (i) after the sale or other disposition of the land and the new
     owner has taken possession of the land referred to in paragraph (c)
     ; and
     (ii) not later than 3 months after the end of the financial year.
     (4)  In this section, a person is an owner of land if the person is
     the owner of 50% or more of the principal residence land and 50% or
     more of the other land.
   37B.   Extension of classification in case of natural disasters, &c.
     (1)  Where land that is classified as principal residence land is
     affected by flood, fire or other similar disaster so that the land
     is not suitable to be occupied as principal residence land, the
     owner of the land may apply to the Commissioner of State Revenue to
     extend the classification of that land as principal residence land
     for a period of up to 2 years, notwithstanding that the land is
     unsuitable for use as principal residence land.
     (2)  If an extension is granted under subsection (1) , the owner of
     the principal residence land is not entitled to have any other land
     classified as principal residence land during the period of the
     extension.
     (3)  Where land that is classified as primary production land is
     affected by flood, fire or other similar disaster so that the land
     is not suitable to be used as primary production land, the owner of
     the land may apply to the Commissioner of State Revenue to extend
     the classification of that land as primary production land for a
     period of up to 2 years, notwithstanding that the land is unsuitable
     for use as primary production land.
     (4)  The Commissioner of State Revenue is not to extend the
     classification of land under this section unless satisfied that the
     flood, fire or other similar disaster was outside the control of the
     owner of the land.
   38.   Special rate of land tax
     (1)  The Commissioner, on application, may determine that land tax
     in respect of land owned by a club or body of persons be at a
     special rate if satisfied that -
     (a) the land is used principally for the purpose of cricket,
     football, golf, tennis, bowls or other athletic sports or exercises
     and not for the pecuniary profit of the members of that club or
     body; or
     (b) the club or body of persons is formed for the purpose of
     promoting or controlling horseracing, trotting-racing, dog-racing or
     the racing of motor vehicles and the land is used principally for
     those purposes.
     (2)  The special rate of land tax is -
     (a) four-tenths of a cent for every dollar of so much of the
     assessed land value of the land as is more than the exempt amount
     and zero cents for every dollar of so much of the assessed land
     value of the land as is equal to, or less than, the exempt amount;
     or
     (b) any greater proportion the Commissioner determines.
     (2A)  In subsection (2)(a)  -
     exempt amount means the assessed land value for which no land tax is
     payable, as specified in Schedule 1 to the Land Tax Rating Act 2000
     .
     (3)  If a club or body of persons mentioned in subsection (1) sells
     or otherwise disposes of, or otherwise uses, any part of any land in
     respect of which a special rate of land tax applies for any purpose
     other than for the purpose of public recreation or amusement -
     (a) the Commissioner may determine that the special rate no longer
     applies; and
     (b) the club or body of persons is liable, on demand, to pay to the
     Commissioner an amount equal to the difference between -
     (i) the total amount of land tax paid during the period during which
     the special rate was in force; and
     (ii) the total amount of land tax that, but for this section, would
     have been payable in respect of that land during that period.
     (4)  Land tax is payable under subsection (3) -
     (a) only for a period up to 3 years; and
     (b) as if it were an amount due by way of land tax.
     (5)  A special rate applies until the Commissioner revokes the
     determination made under subsection (1) .
     (6)  If the Commissioner determines a special rate or revokes the
     determination, the Commissioner is to give notice in writing to the
     affected club or body of persons.
     (7)  A club or body of persons mentioned in subsection (1) must
     advise the Commissioner by notice in writing if -
     (a) it sells or otherwise disposes of land in respect of which a
     special rate applies; or
     (b) it changes the use of the land from that mentioned in that
     subsection.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 10 penalty units.
   39.   Recovery of unpaid land tax
     (1)  The Commissioner may recover -
     (a) from an agent any unpaid land tax in respect of land of which
     the agent is, or was at the time the land tax was imposed or
     payable, the representative of the owner; or
     (b) from a mortgagee in possession of land any unpaid land tax in
     respect of that land.
     (2)  The owner of land, on the sale or transfer of that land, if
     there is a land value assessed in respect of that land, must, before
     the end of the relevant day, pay -
     (a) if the owner owns only that land, any amount of land tax owing
     and any penalty tax and interest payable; or
     (b) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (c) if the owner owns additional land -
     (i) the total amount of land tax owing in respect of the land that
     was sold or transferred plus any penalty tax and interest payable;
     and
     (ii) if a tax default, within the meaning of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 , has occurred in respect of the additional
     land, the total amount of land tax to which the default relates plus
     any penalty tax and interest payable.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 10 penalty units.
     (3)  The owner of land, on the sale or transfer of that land, if
     there is no land value assessed in respect of that land, must,
     before the end of the relevant day, pay -
     (a) if the owner owns only that land, the total of the following
     amounts:
     (i) any amount of land tax owing and any penalty tax and interest
     payable;
     (ii) an amount equivalent to the amount of land tax that would be
     payable had that land had an assessed land value equal to the
     determined value of that land; or
     (b) if the owner owns additional land -
     (i) the amount of land tax that would be payable had the land that
     was sold or transferred had an assessed land value equal to the
     determined value of that land plus any penalty tax and interest
     payable; and
     (ii) if a tax default, within the meaning of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1997 , has occurred in respect of the additional
     land, the total amount of land tax to which the default relates plus
     any penalty tax and interest payable.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 10 penalty units.
     (4)  For the purpose of calculating any amount under
     subsection (2)(c)(ii) or (3)(b)(ii) , any land in respect of which
     no land tax is payable is to be excluded.
     (5)  For the purposes of subsection (3) , the determined value of
     land is -
     (a) if the Commissioner is satisfied that the contract price of the
     land is a true reflection of its value, the contract price of the
     land; or
     (b) if the Commissioner is not satisfied that the contract price of
     the land is a true reflection of its value, the value of the land
     determined by a competent valuer and accepted by the Commissioner as
     a true reflection of the value of the land.
     (6)  In subsection (5)  -
     contract price means the purchase price of the land as -
     (a) specified in a written agreement for the sale or transfer of the
     land; or
     (b) if there is no such written agreement, the purchase price for
     the sale or transfer of the land as agreed between the vendor and
     purchaser.
     (7)  For the purpose of determining the determined value of land,
     the Commissioner -
     (a) may require the owner of the land to provide a declaration by a
     competent valuer as to the value of the land; and
     (b) if not satisfied that the value of the land as stated in a
     declaration provided under paragraph (a) is a true reflection of the
     value of the land, may have the land valued by another competent
     valuer.
     (8)  The Commissioner may recover the cost of obtaining a valuation
     of land under subsection (7)(b) from the owner of the land.
     (9)  The Commissioner, if satisfied that special circumstances
     exist, may, by notice in writing to a person who is, before the sale
     or transfer of land, the owner of the land, determine that the
     relevant day in relation to the sale or transfer of land is a day
     specified in the notice or determined in accordance with the notice.
     (10)  In this section -
     relevant day, in relation to a sale or transfer of land, means -
     (a) the day on which the sale or transfer of land is completed; or
     (b) if a day is specified in, or determined in accordance with, a
     notice issued under subsection (9) in relation to the sale or
     transfer of land, that day.
   40.   Recovery of paid land tax
     (1)  A person who pays land tax in respect of land of which the
     person has ceased to be the owner before the end of the financial
     year for which the land tax is imposed may recover a proper
     proportion of the tax from any other person who became owner before
     that end as money paid for that other person at his or her request.
     (2)  A taxpayer who pays any land tax may recover from every other
     taxpayer in respect of the same land a proper proportion of the
     amount paid.
     (3)  An agent or trustee may -
     (a) recover from any person for whom, or on whose behalf, he or she
     is liable to pay and has paid land tax the amount of land tax so
     paid; or
     (b) retain out of any money coming in his or her representative
     capacity sufficient money to pay the land tax.
   41.   Keeping of accounts by Commissioner
     (1)  The account of a taxpayer relating to land tax payable in a
     representative capacity is to be kept separate and distinct from the
     account of land tax payable by that taxpayer as an individual.
     (2)  The account of taxpayers jointly entitled to, or interested in,
     the same land relating to land tax payable is to be kept jointly and
     separate from their sole accounts.
   42.   Searches
     (1)  The Commissioner, on application and payment of a prescribed
     fee, is to arrange for a search to be carried out in relation to any
     land tax paid or owing in respect of any specified land.
     (2)  The Commissioner, on payment of a prescribed fee, is to issue a
     certificate stating any or all of the following:
     (a) the amount of land tax paid in respect of any specified land;
     (b) the amount of land tax owing in respect of that land if the land
     is the only land owned by the owner;
     (c) the amount of land tax owing determined in accordance with
     section 39(2) or (3) ;
     (d) the date and time at which the search was carried out;
     (e) any other information the Commissioner determines.
     (3)  A certificate is a statement of facts as at the time and date
     specified in the certificate.
   43.   Regulations
     (1)  The Governor may make regulations for the purpose of this Act.
     (2)  The regulations may contain provisions of a savings or
     transitional nature consequent on the enactment of this Act.
     (3)  A provision referred to in subsection (2) may take effect on
     and from the day on which this Act commences or a later day.
   44.   Administration of Act
     Until provision is made in relation to this Act by order under
     section 4 of the Administrative Arrangements Act 1990  -
     (a) the administration of this Act is assigned to the Treasurer; and
     (b) the department responsible to the Treasurer in relation to the
     administration of this Act is the Department of Treasury and
     Finance.
   45.   Savings and transitional
     The provisions of Schedule 1 have effect.
   46.   Miscellaneous amendments
     (1)  The Income Tax Collection Arrangement Act 1948 is repealed.
     (2)  The Land and Income Taxation Act 1910 is repealed.
     SCHEDULE 1 - Savings and transitional Section 45
     1.   Interpretation
     In this Schedule,
     repealed Act means the Land and Income Taxation Act 1910 .
     2.   Land tax payable for financial year 1 July 2000
     Any land tax due and payable under the repealed Act for the
     financial year beginning 1 July 2000 is payable at the date or dates
     determined by the Commissioner under section 170 of the repealed
     Act.
     3.   Amendment of assessment
     Any amendment of an assessment under the repealed Act for the
     financial year beginning on 1 July 2000 is to be made under the
     repealed Act.
     4.   Proceedings
     Any proceedings instituted but not determined before the
     commencement of this Act for the recovery of land tax payable under
     the repealed Act are, on and after that commencement, to be
     determined under the repealed Act.
