National Taxation Reform (Consequential Provisions) Act 2000
Jurisdiction: victoria
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/vic/consol_act/ntrpa2000552/
Register: https://www.legislation.vic.gov.au/in-force/acts/national-taxation-reform-consequential-provisions-act-2000/
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/vic/consol_act/ntrpa2000552.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-30T01:55:52.329541Z

NATIONAL TAXATION REFORM (CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS) ACT 2000
- TABLE OF PROVISIONS
PART 1--PRELIMINARY
Section 1. Purposes
Section 2. Commencement
Section 3. Definitions
PART 2--INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Section 4. Intergovernmental Agreement
PART 3--PAYMENT OF GST EQUIVALENTS BY STATE ENTITIES
Section 5. Voluntary GST equivalent payments
Section 6. Directions to State entities
PART 4--GOVERNMENT FEES AND CHARGES
Section 7. Fees set by statutory rules may be increased
SCHEDULE
APPENDIX ASCH.
APPENDIX B
APPENDIX C
APPENDIX D
APPENDIX E
APPENDIX F
ENDNOTES
Section 1 Purposes
The purposes of this Act are&#8212;
         (a)     to record the State's intention to give effect to the
Intergovernmental Agreement on the Reform of Commonwealth&#8211;State Financial
Relations;
         (b)     to enable State entities to make GST equivalent payments;
         (c)     to amend the Financial Institutions Duty Act 1982 and the
Stamps Act 1958 to discontinue financial institutions duty and stamp duty
on certain share transfers and on bookmakers' statements;
         (d)     to alter government fees and charges to take GST into
account;
         (e)     to amend various Acts as a consequence of national taxation
reform.
Section 2 Commencement
     (1)     This Act, except Parts 8 and 9 and
sections 17, 18, 19, 24, 33 and 34, comes into operation on the day after the
day on which it receives the Royal Assent.
     (2)     Section 31 is deemed to have come into operation on 17 February
1999.
     (3)     The remaining provisions of Part 9 and sections 17, 18, 19, 24, 33 and
Section 34 come into operation on 1 July 2000.
     (4)     Part 8 comes into operation on 3 July 2000.
Section 3 Definitions
In this Act&#8212;
"Commissioner of Taxation" means the person holding office for
the time being as Commissioner of Taxation under the Taxation Administration Act
Section 1953 of the Commonwealth;
"GST" has the same meaning as it has in the A New Tax
System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 of the Commonwealth;
"GST Imposition Acts" means the following Acts of the
Commonwealth&#8212;
         (a)     A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax Imposition&#8212;Customs) Act
1999;
         (b)     A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax Imposition&#8212;Excise) Act
1999;
         (c)     A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax Imposition&#8212;General) Act
1999;
S. 3 def. of GST law inserted by No.
42/2012 s. 9.
"GST law" has the same meaning as it has in the A New Tax
System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 of the Commonwealth;
S. 3 def. of interest inserted by No.
42/2012 s. 9.
"interest" means the general interest charge the liability for
which arises under the Taxation Administration Act 1953 of the Commonwealth and
which would otherwise be payable if the GST law applied to a State
entity;
"Intergovernmental Agreement" means the Intergovernmental
Agreement on the Reform of Commonwealth&#8211;State Financial Relations set out
in the Schedule;
S. 3 def. of penalties inserted by
No. 42/2012 s. 9.
"penalties" means any penalties imposed in respect of GST by
Part 4-25 of Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 of the
Commonwealth and which would otherwise be payable if the GST law applied to a
State entity;
"State entity" means a person that is not liable for GST that
it would be liable for if&#8212;
         (a)     the imposition of that GST were not prevented by section 114 of the
Commonwealth Constitution; and
         (b)     section 5 of each of the GST Imposition Acts had not been
enacted.
_______________
PART
2&#8212;INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Section 4 Intergovernmental Agreement
     (1)     A copy of the Intergovernmental Agreement on the Reform of
Commonwealth&#8211;State Financial Relations is set out in the
Schedule.
     (2)     It is the intention of the State to comply with, and give effect to,
the Intergovernmental Agreement.
_______________
S. 5
amended by No. 42/2012 s. 10
(ILA s. 39B(1)).
Section 5 Voluntary GST equivalent payments
     (1)     A State entity may pay to the Commissioner of Taxation amounts
representing amounts that would have been payable for GST if&#8212;
         (a)     the imposition of that GST were not prevented by section 114 of the
Commonwealth Constitution; and
         (b)     section 5 of each of the GST Imposition Acts had not been
enacted&#8212;
and may do things of a kind that it would be necessary or expedient for it
to do if it were liable for that GST.
S. 5(2) inserted by No. 42/2012
s. 10.
     (2)     Without limiting subsection (1), a State entity may also pay to the
Commissioner of Taxation amounts representing amounts that would have been
payable as penalties or interest in respect of amounts paid under subsection (1)
if&#8212;
         (a)     the imposition of that GST were not prevented by section 114 of the
Commonwealth Constitution; and
         (b)     section 5 of each of the GST Imposition Acts had not been
enacted.
Section 6 Directions to State entities
     (1)     The Treasurer may give a State entity
written directions that it&#8212;
         (a)     make payments that it is authorised by section 5 to make;
         (b)     do anything else that it is authorised by that section to
do.
     (2)     The Treasurer, by a further written direction given to the State
entity, may amend or revoke a direction previously given under this
section.
     (3)     Requirements in a direction under this section may relate to things
that have happened before the direction was given.
     (4)     A State entity is to comply with directions under this section despite
any other written law.
_______________
Section 7 Fees set by statutory rules may be increased
     (1)     The Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister, may
make regulations providing for a fee or charge set by a statutory rule specified
in the regulations to be increased by an amount or a percentage specified in the
regulations.
     (2)     Except as provided in subsection (6), the increase in the fee or
charge cannot exceed the amount of GST payable on the supply to which the fee or
charge relates.
     (3)     The Minister may make a recommendation under subsection (1) only if he
or she considers that the increase in the fee or charge is necessary to cover
the increased cost of the supply to which the fee or charge relates as a result
of the implementation of&#8212;
         (a)     the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 of the
Commonwealth; and
         (b)     the GST Imposition Acts; and
         (c)     the Intergovernmental Agreement.
     (4)     Part 2 of the Subordinate Legislation Act 1994 does not apply
to regulations made under this section.
     (5)     A fee or charge may be increased only once under this
section.
     (6)     In determining the amount of GST payable on the supply to which a fee
or charge relates for the purposes of regulations under this section, the fee or
charge is to be taken to be payable in relation to supplies made wholly on or
after 1 July 2000.
     (7)     Despite subsection (6), the increase in a fee or charge under this
section does not apply to that part of the supply to which the fee or charge
relates that is in respect of the period before 1 July 2000 and any such fee or
charge must be reduced accordingly.
     (8)     In this section&#8212;
"GST" includes notional GST of the kind for which payments may
be made under Part 3 by a State entity.
_______________
Pts 5&#8211;10 (Headings and ss 8&#8211;35)
repealed by No. 28/2007 s. 3(Sch. item 45).
     *     *     *     *     *
NATIONAL TAXATION REFORM (CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS) ACT 2000
- SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE
Sch.
Section 4
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
ON THE REFORM OF COMMONWEALTH&#8211;STATE FINANCIAL RELATIONS
THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
THE STATE OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE STATE OF VICTORIA
THE STATE OF QUEENSLAND
THE STATE OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA
THE STATE OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA
THE STATE OF TASMANIA
THE AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY, AND
THE NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA
WHEREAS
     (1)     the Special Premiers' Conference on 13 November 1998 developed
principles for the reform of Commonwealth&#8211;State financial
relations;
     (2)     the Commonwealth, States and Territories are in agreement that the
current financial relationship between levels of government must be reformed to
facilitate a stronger and more productive federal system for the new
millennium;
     (3)     while a majority of the States and Territories support the
introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), the agreement of New South
Wales, Queensland and Tasmania to the reform of Commonwealth&#8211;State
financial relations does not imply their in-principle endorsement of the
GST;
     (4)     an Agreement was reached between the Commonwealth and the States and
Territories on the reform of Commonwealth&#8211;State financial relations on 9
April 1999;
     (5)     this revised Agreement was made necessary by the changes to the
Commonwealth Government's A New Tax System (ANTS) package announced by the
Prime Minister on 28 May 1999; and
     (6)     this revised Agreement supersedes the previous Agreement of 9 April
1999:
IT IS HEREBY AGREED:
PART 1&#8212;PRELIMINARY
Sch.
               Commencement Clause
     1.     This Agreement will commence between the Commonwealth, the States and
the Territories on 1 July 1999 unless otherwise agreed by the Parties.
               Objectives
     2.     The objectives of the reforms set down in this agreement
include:
               (i)     the achievement of a new national tax system, including the
elimination of a number of existing inefficient taxes which are impeding
economic activity;
               (ii)     the provision to State and Territory Governments of revenue from a
more robust tax base that can be expected to grow over time; and
               (iii)     an improvement in the financial position of all State and Territory
Governments, once the transitional changes have been completed, relative to that
which would have existed had the current arrangements continued.
     3.     All Parties to the Agreement acknowledge the need to pursue on-going
reform of Commonwealth&#8211;State financial relations.
               Acknowledgment of Agreement
     4.     The Commonwealth will attach the Agreement as a schedule to the A
New Tax System (Commonwealth&#8211;State Financial Arrangements) Act 1999.
The Commonwealth will use its best endeavours to ensure the Act will require
compliance with the Agreement. The States and Territories will attach the
Agreement as a schedule to relevant State and Territory legislation. The States
and Territories will use their best endeavours to ensure their legislation will
require compliance with the Agreement.
PART 2&#8212;COMMONWEALTH-STATE FINANCIAL
REFORM
               Reform MeasuresSch.
     5.     The Parties will undertake all necessary steps to have appropriate
legislation enacted to give effect to the following reform measures.
               (i)     The Commonwealth will legislate to provide all of the revenue from the
GST to the States and Territories and will legislate to maintain the rate and
base of the GST in accordance with this Agreement.
               (ii)     The Commonwealth will cease to apply the Wholesale Sales Tax from 1
July 2000 and will not reintroduce it or a similar tax in the future.
               (iii)     The temporary arrangements for the taxation of petrol, liquor and
tobacco under the safety net arrangements announced by the Commonwealth on
Section 6 August 1997 will cease on 1 July 2000.
               (iv)     The payment of Financial Assistance Grants will cease on 1 July
2000.
               (v)     The Commonwealth will continue to provide Specific Purpose Payments
(SPPs) to the States and Territories and has no intention of cutting aggregate
SPPs as part of the reform process set out in this Agreement, consistent with
the objective of the State and Territory Governments being financially better
off under the new arrangements.
               (vi)     The States and Territories will cease to apply the taxes referred to
in Appendix A from the dates outlined below and will not reintroduce them
or similar taxes in the future.
               &#8226     Bed taxes, from 1 July 2000;
               &#8226     Financial Institutions Duty, from 1 July 2001;
               &#8226     Stamp duties on quoted marketable securities from 1 July
2001;
               &#8226     Debits tax by 1 July 2005, subject to review by the Ministerial
Council;
               (vii)     The Ministerial Council will by 2005 review the need for retention
of stamp duty on non-residential conveyances; leases; mortgages, debentures,
bonds and other loan securities; credit arrangements, installment purchase
arrangements and rental arrangements; and on cheques, bills of exchange,
promissory notes; and unquoted marketable securities.
               (viii)     The States and Territories will adjust their gambling tax
arrangements to take account of the impact of the GST on gambling
operators.Sch.
               (ix)     Following negotiations under the CSHA, the States and Territories
will ensure that increases in pensions and allowances specified in the tax
reform package will not flow through to increased public housing rents where
these rents are linked to the level of pensions.
               (x)     Nothing in this clause will prevent any Party from introducing
anti-avoidance measures that are reasonably necessary to protect its remaining
tax base or liabilities accrued prior to the date the tax ceases to
apply.
               GST Legislation
     6.     All Parties agree to reconsider this Agreement should the Commonwealth
Parliament pass the GST legislation in a way that significantly affects this
Agreement.
               Distribution of GST Revenue
     7.     The Commonwealth will make GST revenue grants to the States and
Territories equivalent to the revenue from the GST subject to the arrangements
in this Agreement. GST revenue grants will be freely available for use by the
States and Territories for any purpose.
     8.     The Commonwealth will distribute GST revenue grants among the States
and Territories in accordance with horizontal fiscal equalisation (HFE)
principles subject to the transitional arrangements set out below and other
relevant provisions of this Agreement.
     9.     Details of the payment arrangements are contained in Appendix B to this
Agreement.
               Transitional ArrangementsSch.
     10.     In each of the transitional years following the introduction of the
GST, the Commonwealth guarantees that the budgetary position of each individual
State and Territory will be no worse off than it would have been had the reforms
set out in this Agreement not been implemented.
     11.     The Commonwealth will extend the transitional period by Regulation (as
provided for in the A New Tax System (Commonwealth&#8211;State Financial
Arrangements) Act 1999) to give effect to the commitments in clause 10 in
the event that transitional assistance is required by any State or Territory
after 30 June 2003.
     12.     To meet this guarantee, the Commonwealth will make transitional
assistance payments to each State and Territory, as necessary, over this period.
These payments will take the form of interest free loans and grants in July
2000&#8211;01 and grants paid quarterly in subsequent years and will be freely
available for use by the States and Territories for any purpose. Any payments or
repayments made by way of loans or grants under the Commonwealth's
guarantee will be excluded from assessments of per capita relativities
recommended by the Commonwealth Grants Commission (CGC).
     13.     The amounts of any additional assistance under the guarantee will be
determined in accordance with the processes set out in Appendix C to this
Agreement.
     14.     After the second year following the introduction of the GST, GST
revenue grants will be determined on the basis of HFE principles. That is, after
the first two years, any State or Territory which is receiving more than would
have been received under the current arrangements will retain that
excess.
               First Home Owners Scheme
     15.     To offset the impact of the introduction of a GST, the States and
Territories will assist first homebuyers through the funding and administration
of a new uniform First Home Owners Scheme.Sch.
     16.     This assistance will be provided to first home owners consistent with
Appendix D to this Agreement.
               Application of the GST to Government
     17.     The Parties intend that the Commonwealth, States, Territories and
local government and their statutory corporations and authorities will operate
as if they were subject to the GST legislation. They will be entitled to
register, will pay GST or make voluntary or notional payments where necessary
and will be entitled to claim input tax credits in the same way as
non-Government organisations. All such payments will be included in GST
revenue.
     18.     The Commonwealth will legislate to require the States and the Northern
Territory to withhold from any local government authority being in breach of
clause 17 a sum representing the amount of unpaid voluntary or notional GST
payments. Amounts withheld will form part of the GST revenue pool. Detailed
arrangements will be agreed by the Ministerial Council on advice from Heads of
Treasuries.
               Government Taxes and Charges
     19.     The Commonwealth, States and Territories agree that the GST does not
apply to the payment of some taxes and compulsory charges.
     20.     The Parties will agree a list of taxes and compulsory charges that are
outside the scope of the GST. This list will be promulgated by a determination
by the Commonwealth Treasurer as set out in Division 81-5 of the A New Tax
System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (the GST Act).
     21.     In agreeing the list, the Commonwealth, States and Territories will
have regard to the following principles:
               (i)     taxes that are in the nature of a compulsory impost for general
purposes and compulsory charges by the way of fines or penalties should not be
subject to GST as these will not relate to any specific supply of goods or
services;
               (ii)     similarly, those regulatory charges that do not relate to particular
goods or services should be outside the scope of the GST; and
               (iii)     the inclusion of any other charge in the Commonwealth
Treasurer's determination notwithstanding that it may relate to the supply
of a particular good or service will require the unanimous agreement of the
Commonwealth, States and Territories.
     22.     The agreed list of taxes and other compulsory charges that are outside
the scope of the GST will be subject to on-going review and adjustment as
necessary in consultation with the Ministerial Council. The Parties will notify
any objections to changes to the list within a period to be specified by the
Ministerial Council.
               Reciprocal TaxationSch.
     23.     Reciprocal taxation will be progressed on a revenue neutral basis,
through the negotiation of a Reciprocal Taxation Agreement with the objectives
of:
               (i)     improving the transparency of tax arrangements between all levels of
government;
               (ii)     ensuring tax neutrality; and
               (iii)     replacing the Statement of Policy Intent (SOPI) for the taxation
treatment of Government Business Enterprises with tax arrangements which are
broader in scope.
     24.     It is the intention of the Parties to this Agreement that a National
Tax Equivalent Regime (NTER) for income tax will be operational for State and
Territory government business enterprises from 1 July 2000. It is also intended
that the reciprocal application of other Commonwealth, State and Territory taxes
will be subsequently implemented as soon as practicable.
     25.     Local government organisations will be consulted with a view to making
the NTER for income tax operational for wholly owned local government business
enterprises from 1 July 2000 and including local government in the
Reciprocal Tax Agreement at a later date.
     26.     Where the application of full indirect reciprocal tax arrangements is
prevented by the Constitution, jurisdictions have agreed to work cooperatively
to introduce voluntary payment arrangements in these circumstances.
     27.     All governments have agreed that no further compensation payments will
be payable by any jurisdiction under the SOPI.
               Monitoring of PricesSch.
     28.     In accordance with the Trade Practices Act 1974, as amended,
the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will formally monitor prices
and take action against businesses that take pricing decisions in a manner
inconsistent with tax reform.
     29.     In order to ensure that these measures apply to the whole economy, the
States and Territories will adopt the Schedule version of Part VB of the
Trade Practices Act 1974 (Part XIAA of The New Tax System Price
Exploitation Code) to extend the measures in Part VB to cover those areas
outside the Commonwealth's constitutional power. All Parties will
work towards having any necessary legislation in place by 1 July
1999.
     30.     The monitoring and prohibition on unreasonable pricing decisions will
commence on 1 July 1999 and continue until 30 June 2002.
PART 3&#8212;ADMINISTRATION OF THE GST
               Management of the GST Rate
     31.     After the introduction of the GST, a proposal to vary the 10 per
cent rate of the GST will require:
               (i)     the unanimous support of the State and Territory
Governments;
               (ii)     the endorsement by the Commonwealth Government of the day;
and
               (iii)     the passage of relevant legislation by both Houses of the
Commonwealth Parliament.
               Management of the GST Base
     32.     Subject to clauses 34, 35 and 36 of this Agreement, after the
introduction of the GST, any proposal to vary the GST base will
require:
               (i)     the unanimous support of the State and Territory
Governments;
               (ii)     the endorsement by the Commonwealth Government of the day;
and
               (iii)     the passage of relevant legislation by both Houses of the
Commonwealth Parliament.Sch.
     33.     All future changes to the GST base should be consistent
with:
               (i)     the maintenance of the integrity of the tax base;
               (ii)     simplicity of administration; and
               (iii)     minimising compliance costs for taxpayers.
     34.     A proposal to vary the GST base by way of a Ministerial determination
under the GST Act and the GST Transition Act will require the unanimous
agreement of the Ministerial Council established under clause 40. The
Ministerial Council will develop practical arrangements to ensure timely
consideration of proposed Ministerial determinations.
     35.     During the first 12 months following the implementation of the GST,
the Commonwealth Government will retain the discretion to make changes
unilaterally to the GST base where such changes:
               (i)     are of an administrative nature (as defined in Appendix E to
this Agreement);
               (ii)     are necessary to facilitate the implementation of the new tax;
and
               (iii)     have regard to the need to protect the revenue of the States and
Territories.
     36.     From July 2001, changes to the GST base of an administrative nature
(as defined in Appendix E) would require the majority support of the
Commonwealth, the States and the Territories.
               Australian Taxation Office
     37.     The States and Territories will compensate the Commonwealth for the
agreed costs incurred by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) in administering
the GST.
     38.     Accountability and performance arrangements will be established
between the ATO and the State and Territory Governments consistent with
Appendix F to this Agreement. These arrangements will include maximising
compliance, cost efficiency, simplicity for taxpayers and administrative
transparency.
     39.     The ATO and State and Territory Governments will collaborate to
explore options for the States and Territories to benefit from the use of the
Australian Business Number system.
PART 4&#8212;INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Sch.
               Establishment of Ministerial Council
     40.     A Ministerial Council comprising the Commonwealth, the States and the
Territories will be established from 1 July 1999 to oversee the operation of
this Agreement.
     41.     The membership of the Ministerial Council will comprise the Treasurer
of the Commonwealth and the Treasurers of the States and Territories (or
designated representatives).
     42.     The functions of the Ministerial Council will include:
               (i)     the oversight of the operation of the GST;
               (ii)     the oversight and coordination of the implementation of this
Agreement;
               (iii)     the review of matters of operational significance raised through the
GST Administration Sub-Committee;
               (iv)     discussion of CGC recommendations regarding relativities prior to the
Commonwealth Treasurer making a determination;
               (v)     monitoring compliance with the conditions governing the provision of
assistance to first home owners set out in Appendix D to this
Agreement;
               (vi)     monitoring compliance with the Commonwealth's undertaking with
respect to SPPs;
               (vii)     considering reports of the GST Administration Sub-Committee on the
performance of the ATO in GST administration;
               (viii)     reviewing the operation of the Agreement over time and considering
any amendments which may be proposed as a consequence of such review;
               (ix)     making recommendations to the Commonwealth Treasurer on the
Guaranteed Minimum Amount applying to each State and Territory under the
Transitional Arrangements;
               (x)     approving changes to the GST base which require the support of a
majority of Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments;Sch.
               (xi)     considering on-going reform of Commonwealth&#8211;State financial
relations; and
               (xii)     considering other matters covered in this Agreement.
     43.     The Treasurer of the Commonwealth will convene the Ministerial Council
in consultation with the other members of the Council not less than once each
financial year. If the Commonwealth Treasurer receives a request from a member
of the Council, he will consult with the other members concerning convening a
meeting. The Treasurer of the Commonwealth will be the chair of the Council. The
Council may also conduct its business by correspondence.
     44.     All questions arising in the Ministerial Council will be determined by
unanimous agreement unless otherwise specified in this Agreement.
     45.     While it is envisaged that the Ministerial Council will take decisions
on most business arising from the operation of this Agreement, major issues will
be referred by the Ministerial Council to Heads of Government for consideration,
including under the auspices of the Council of Australian Governments.
     46.     The Ministerial Council will establish a GST Administration
Sub-Committee comprised of Commonwealth, State and Territory officials to
monitor the operation of the GST, make recommendations regarding possible
changes to the GST base and rate and to monitor the ATO's performance in
GST administration. The GST Administration Sub-Committee will function in
accordance with the arrangements set out in Appendix E to this
Agreement.
SIGNED for and on behalf of the Parties by: Sch.
The Honourable John Winston Howard, Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of
Australia, on the 20th day of June 1999
The Honourable Robert John Carr, Premier of the State of New South Wales,
on the 24th day of June 1999
The Honourable Jeffrey Gibb Kennett, Premier of the State of Victoria, on
the 26th day of June 1999
The Honourable Peter Douglas Beattie, Premier of the State of Queensland,
on the 25th day of June 1999
The Honourable Richard Fairfax Court, Premier of the State of Western
Australia, on the 29th day of June 1999
The Honourable John Wayne Olsen, Premier of the State of South Australia,
on the 25th day of June 1999
The Honourable James Alexander Bacon, Premier of the State of Tasmania, on
the 25th day of June 1999
Kate Carnell, Chief Minister of the Australian Capital Territory, on the
Section 22nd day of June 1999
The Honourable Denis Gabriel Burke, Chief Minister of the Northern
Territory of Australia, on the 22nd day of June 1999
APPENDICES
     A:     Taxes Subject to Reform
     B:     Payment of GST Revenues to the States and Territories
     C:     Transitional Arrangements
     D:     First Home Owners Scheme
     E:     GST Administration
     F:     GST Administration Performance Agreement&#8212;Guiding
Principles
NATIONAL TAXATION REFORM (CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS) ACT 2000
- APPENDIX  A
APPENDIX ASch.
TAXES SUBJECT TO REFORM
The taxes which will cease to apply in accordance with paragraph 5 of this
Agreement are set out below and in the relevant Commonwealth, State and
Territory statutes as at 13 November 1998.
     A1.     The following taxes will cease to apply from 1 July 2000:
               (i)     Wholesale Sales Tax
Sales tax levied on the value of the last wholesale sale of goods sold or
otherwise dealt with as imposed by the Commonwealth's Sales Tax
(Imposition) Acts.
               (ii)     Bed Taxes
Accommodation taxes levied on the cost of temporary residential
accommodation.
     A2.     The following State and Territory taxes will cease to apply from 1
July 2001:
               (i)     Financial Institutions Duty
Financial Institutions Duty levied on the value of receipts (credits) at
financial institutions and on the average daily liabilities and/or investments
of short term money market dealers.
               (ii)     Stamp Duty on Marketable Securities
Stamp duty levied on turnover (ie sale price times quantity traded) on the
transfer of marketable securities quoted on the ASX or another recognised stock
exchange.
This excludes transfers of marketable securities in private companies and
trusts, and in public companies and trusts where the securities are not quoted
on the ASX or another recognised stock exchange.
     A3.     The following State and Territory tax will cease to apply by 1 July
2005, subject to review by the Ministerial Council:
               (i)     Debits Tax
Debits tax levied on the value of withdrawals (debits) from accounts with
financial institutions with cheque drawing facilities.
Debits duty levied on transactions, including credit card transactions.
This does not include stamp duty on electronic debits (refer A4 (v)
below).
     A4.     The Ministerial Council will by 2005 review the need for retention of
stamp duties on the following:Sch.
               (i)     Stamp Duty on Non-residential Conveyances
Stamp duty levied on the value of conveyances other than residential
property conveyances.
               (ii)     Stamp Duty on Non-quotable Marketable Securities
Stamp duty levied on transfers of marketable securities in private
companies and trusts, and in public companies and trusts where the securities
are not quoted on the ASX or another recognised stock exchange.
               (iii)     Stamp Duty on Leases
Stamp duty levied on the rental payable under tenancy agreements.
               (iv)     Stamp Duty on Mortgages, Bonds, Debentures and Other Loan
Securities
Stamp duty levied on the value of a secured loan property.
               (v)     Stamp Duty on Credit Arrangements, Installment Purchase
Arrangements and Rental Arrangements
Stamp duty levied on the value of the loan under credit
arrangements.
Stamp duty levied on credit business in respect of loans made, discount
transactions and credit arrangements.
Stamp duty levied on the price of goods purchased under installment
purchase arrangements.
Stamp duty levied on the rent paid in respect of the hire of goods,
including consumer and producer goods.
               (vi)     Stamp Duty on Cheques, Bills of Exchange and Promissory
Stamp duty levied on cheques, bills of exchange, promissory notes, or other
types of payment orders, promises to pay or acknowledgment of debts, including
duty on electronic debits.
NATIONAL TAXATION REFORM (CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS) ACT 2000
- APPENDIX  B
APPENDIX B
PAYMENT OF GST REVENUES TO THE STATES AND TERRITORIESSch.
     B1.     Subject to the transitional arrangements and other relevant provisions
in this Agreement, the Commonwealth will distribute GST revenue grants among the
States and Territories in accordance with horizontal fiscal equalisation (HFE)
principles.
     B2.     The pool of funding to be distributed according to HFE principles in a
financial year will comprise GST revenue grants and health care grants as
defined under an Australian Health Care Agreement between the Commonwealth and
the States and Territories. A State or Territory's share of the pool will
be based on its population share, adjusted by a relativity factor which embodies
per capita financial needs based on recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants
Commission. The relativity factor for a State or Territory will be determined by
the Commonwealth Treasurer after he has consulted with each State and
Territory.
     B3.     The total amount of GST revenue to be provided to the States and
Territories in a financial year will be defined as:
               (i)     the sum of GST collections, voluntary and notional payments made by
government bodies, and amounts withheld pursuant to clause 18; reduced
by
               (ii)     the amounts paid or applied under Division 35 of the GST Act and
under section 39 of the Taxation Administration Act 1953.
     B4.     The total amount of GST revenue in a financial year will be determined
by the Commissioner of Taxation in the following way:
               (i)     actual outcomes for the items listed in paragraph B3 for the period 1
July to 31 May; plus
               (ii)     estimated outcomes for the items listed in paragraph B3 for the
month of June; plus
               (iii)     an adjustment amount (which may be positive or negative) to account
for any difference between the estimated and actual outcome for the items listed
in paragraph B3 for the month of June in the previous year.
     B5.     GST revenue grants will be paid by the Commonwealth on the
twenty-seventh day of each month. Where the scheduled payment day is a Saturday,
Sunday or public holiday in Canberra, the payment will be made on the next
business day of the Reserve Bank of Australia in Canberra.Sch.
     B6.     The States and Territories shall be informed of the quantum of each
monthly payment by close of business Canberra time on the twenty sixth day of
each month. Where the day is a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday in Canberra,
the States and Territories shall be informed of the quantum of the payment on
the last business day of the Reserve Bank of Australia in Canberra prior to
payment day.
     B7.     The distribution between the States and Territories of the payments of
GST revenue grants up to 15 June in each year will be based on:
               (i)     the Treasurer's determination of per capita
relativities;
               (ii)     the latest available Australian Bureau of Statistics'
projections, or estimates, of State and Territory populations as at 31
December;
               (iii)     the latest available Department of Health and Aged Care estimates of
health care grants to be provided to a State or Territory; and
               (iv)     the latest available estimates of the guaranteed minimum amount for
each State and Territory to be calculated under Appendix C of this
Agreement.
The Commonwealth will inform the States and Territories of any changes to
the estimates as part of the advice to be provided to the States and Territories
under paragraph B6.
     B8.     The payments of GST revenue grants after 15 June in each year will
take into account the determinations of:
               (i)     per capita relativities and Guaranteed Minimum Amounts by the
Treasurer;
               (ii)     populations by the Statistician;
               (iii)     health care grants by the Minister administering the National
Health Act 1953; and
               (iv)     GST revenues by the Commissioner of Taxation.
For this purpose, the final payment will be made no later than the
seventeenth day of June in each year. Where the seventeenth day of June is a
Saturday, Sunday or public holiday in Canberra, the payment will be made on the
next business day of the Reserve Bank of Australia in Canberra.Sch.
     B9.     States shall be informed of the quantum of the final monthly payment
of GST revenues grants by close of business Canberra time on the sixteenth day
of June. Where the sixteenth day of June is a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday
in Canberra, the Commonwealth shall inform the States of the quantum of the
final payment on the last business day of the Reserve Bank of Australia in
Canberra prior to the thirteenth.
     B10.     The timing of payments of GST revenue grants may be varied by
agreement between the Parties to this Agreement.
NATIONAL TAXATION REFORM (CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS) ACT 2000
- APPENDIX  C
APPENDIX C
TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
               Guarantee in Legislation
     C1.     Commonwealth legislation will provide a State or Territory with an
entitlement to an additional amount of funding from the Commonwealth to offset
any shortfall between its entitlement to GST revenue grants and the total amount
of funding which would ensure that the budgetary position of a State or
Territory is not worse off during the transition period.
        (i)     In 2000&#8211;01, transitional assistance will be provided to a State
or Territory as a grant or an interest free loan to be repaid to the
Commonwealth in full in 2001&#8211;02.
        (ii)     In subsequent transitional years, transitional assistance will be
provided to a State or Territory as a grant.
               Guaranteed Minimum Amount
     C2.     The amount of a State or Territory's entitlement to transitional
assistance in a financial year will be calculated by subtracting its entitlement
to GST revenue grants from a &#8220;Guaranteed Minimum Amount&#8221; constructed
in the following way:
State revenues forgone: financial assistance grants, revenue
replacement payments and State and Territory taxes as defined in Appendix
A of this Agreement with the exception of stamp duties on marketable
securities which will be the amount as if fully abolished.Sch.
plus
Reduced revenues: the amount by which States and Territories adjust
gambling taxation arrangements to take account of the impact of the GST on
gambling operators.
plus
Interest costs on cash flow shortfalls: the interest cost incurred
by States and Territories as a result of the change to cash flows arising from
the replacement of weekly financial assistance grants, revenue replacements and
State and Territory taxes with monthly GST revenue grants.
plus
Loan Repayments: in 2001&#8211;02 only, the repayment of a guarantee
loan by a State or Territory.
plus
Additional expenditures: payments to first home owners in accordance
with Appendix D of this Agreement and the amount of the agreed GST
administration costs payable to the ATO by a State or Territory.
plus
Other items: $338 million spread evenly over three years starting in
2000&#8211;01 in respect of the claim by States and Territories in relation to
revenue forgone from the abolition of the Wholesale Sales Tax (WST) Tax
Equivalent Regimes (with the distribution to be agreed among the States and
Territories).
minus
Reduced expenditures: off-road diesel subsidies and reduced costs
from the removal of embedded WST and excises on purchases by a State or
Territory government.
minus
Growth dividend: the increase in revenue to a State or Territory
(not including GST revenue payments) that is attributable to the impact of the
Commonwealth's taxation reform measures on economic growth.
plus
Adjustments: from 2001&#8211;02, the net difference between
preliminary estimates and outcomes or final estimates for items that were taken
into account in the previous year's Guaranteed Minimum Amount.
In addition, $269 million in total, spread evenly over three years, will be
included in the new Commonwealth State Housing Agreement starting in 2000-01 in
respect of the net increased public housing costs as a result of tax reform
(with the distribution to be agreed among the States and
Territories).Sch.
               Heads of Treasuries' Advice to Ministerial Council
     C3.     The Guaranteed Minimum Amount for a State or Territory will be
determined by the Commonwealth Treasurer by 10 June of each year of the
transition period. The Ministerial Council will make recommendations to the
Treasurer on the Guaranteed Minimum Amount for each State and
Territory.
     C4.     The Heads of Treasuries will provide written advice to the Ministerial
Council on the following issues by the indicated dates.
               (i)     By 1 March 2000, advice on the estimated loans and grants to be
provided to each State and Territory in 2000&#8211;01 and the amounts which the
Commonwealth should provide to each State and Territory on Tuesday 4 July
2000.
               (ii)     By 1 November 2000 advice on the most recent estimates of
transitional assistance for the year and any adjustment that may need to be made
to the amount of the loans and grants made to each State and
Territory.
               (iii)     By 1 September of each subsequent year of the transition period,
advice on the most recent estimates of the transitional assistance to be
provided to each State and Territory in the financial year and the installment
amounts which the Commonwealth should provide to each State and Territory on the
first Tuesday of the following October and January. This advice should
identify the adjustments for the net difference between preliminary estimates
and outcomes or final estimates for items that were taken into account in the
previous year's Guaranteed Minimum Amount for a State or Territory.
               (iv)     By 1 March of each subsequent year of the transition period, advice
on the most recent estimates of the transitional assistance to be provided to
each State and Territory in both the current financial year and the next
financial year, and the installment amounts which the Commonwealth should
provide to each State and Territory on the first Tuesday of the following April
and July.
               (v)     By 1 June of each year of the transition period, advice on the
Guaranteed Minimum Amount for each State and Territory in the current financial
year.
               Frequency and Amounts of Payments and RepaymentsSch.
     C5.     In each year of the transitional period after 2000&#8211;01, the
Commonwealth will provide an installment of the guarantee payment to a State or
Territory on the first Tuesday (or the first business day thereafter) of
January, April, July and October. The installment amounts will reflect the
advice to be provided to the Ministerial Council by the Heads of Treasuries
under paragraph C4.
     C6.     Adjustments to the total amount of additional assistance to a State or
Territory in light of actual GST collections and the Treasurer's determination
of the Guaranteed Minimum Amount will be made in conjunction with the payments
of GST revenue grants after 10 June in each year.
     C7.     A State or Territory will repay a loan which it receives from the
Commonwealth in 2000&#8211;01 in quarterly installments in 2001&#8211;02. These
installments will be paid to the Commonwealth on the same day on which a State
or Territory receives an amount of GST revenue grants in the months of July,
October, January and April.
     C8.     The methodology for calculating the amounts of particular components
of the Guaranteed Minimum Amount for a State or Territory has been agreed by the
Heads of Treasuries and is set out in the document titled Methodology for
Estimation of Components of the Guaranteed Minimum Amount.
NATIONAL TAXATION REFORM (CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS) ACT 2000
- APPENDIX  D
APPENDIX D
FIRST HOME OWNERS SCHEME
Principles
     D1.     The States and Territories will make legislative provision for the
First Home Owners Scheme (FHOS) from 1 July 2000 which will incorporate
programme criteria consistent with the following principles:
               (i)     Eligible applicants will be entitled to $7,000 assistance (per
application) on eligible homes under the FHOS.Sch.
               (ii)     Assistance will be available directly as a one off payment. If the
recipient expressly consents, it may be available as an offset against statutory
levies and charges or some combination of these.
               (iii)     Eligible applicants must be natural persons who are Australian
citizens or permanent residents who are buying or building their first home in
Australia. An applicant's spouse (or de facto) must be included on the
application.
               (iv)     To qualify for assistance, neither the applicant or the applicant's
spouse (or de facto) must have previously owned a home, either jointly,
separately or with some other person.
               (v)     Entering into a binding contract or commencement of building in the
case of owner builders, must have occurred on or after 1 July 2000.
               (vi)     An eligible home will be a new or established house, home unit, flat
or other type of self contained fixed dwelling that meets local planning
standards. Fixed dwellings will include demountable dwellings where these meet
local planning standards.
               (vii)     An eligible home must be intended to be a principal place of
residence and occupied within a reasonable period. The home must be located in
the State or Territory in which the application is made. Applicants who have
entered into a financing mechanism which involves a shared equity arrangement
will be eligible.
               (viii)     Assistance will not be means tested.
               (ix)     The relevant State and Territory legislation will contain adequate
administrative review and appeal mechanisms, along with provision to prevent
abuse of the FHOS. The States and Territories will cooperate in the exchange of
information to identify eligible first home owners.
Other matters
     D2.     Funding of grants under the FHOS may not be drawn from Home Purchase
Assistance (HPA) funds provided through the Commonwealth State Housing
Agreement, including the pool of existing HPA revenues.Sch.
     D3.     Further details concerning eligibility criteria consistent with the
above principles are to be agreed between the Commonwealth and each State and
Territory.
     D4.     The States and Territories will not introduce or vary any taxes or
charges associated with home purchase with the intention of offsetting the
benefits of the FHOS for recipients.
NATIONAL TAXATION REFORM (CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS) ACT 2000
- APPENDIX  E
APPENDIX E
GST ADMINISTRATION
     E1.     The Commissioner of Taxation has the general administration of the GST
law.
     E2.     The ATO will arrange for the Australian Customs Service to assist with
the collection of the GST on imports.
     E3.     During the first 12 months following the implementation of the GST,
the Commonwealth will retain the discretion to make changes to the GST base of
an administrative nature. For this purpose, changes of an administrative nature
involves legislation necessary to:
               (i)     protect the integrity of the GST base; or
               (ii)     prevent tax avoidance.
     E4.     The Commonwealth will include the definition of change of an
administrative nature in the A New Tax System (Commonwealth&#8211;State
Financial Arrangements) Bill 1999.
     E5.     From July 2001, changes of an administrative nature as defined in E3
will require the majority support of the Commonwealth, States and
Territories.
     E6.     The GST Administration Sub-Committee, which will commence operation
from 1 July 1999, will monitor the operation and administration of the GST and
make recommendations regarding modifications to the GST and the administration
of the GST.
     E7.     The GST Administration Sub-Committee will comprise officials from each
Party to the Agreement including representatives from the ATO as required. The
Commonwealth Treasury will chair the GST Administration Sub-Committee.
     E8.     The Chair will convene the GST Administration Sub-Committee in
consultation with other members of the Sub-Committee as often as may be
necessary to conduct its business. If the Chair receives a request from a member
of the Sub-Committee, the Chair will consult with the other members concerning
convening a meeting.Sch.
     E9.     The functions of the Sub-Committee will include:
               (i)     monitoring the performance of the ATO in the administration of the GST
(Appendix F of this Agreement);
               (ii)     the assessment of policy proposals for the modification of the GST
rate and base;
               (iii)     making recommendations to the Ministerial Council on the need for
legislation which might significantly affect the GST base; and
               (iv)     requesting the ATO to produce draft Public Rulings in specified
areas.
     E10.     The States and Territories will be consulted on draft Public Rulings
prior to consideration by the ATO Rulings Panel and before public consultation.
There will be a representative from the States and Territories on the ATO
Rulings Panel in relation to GST matters.
     E11.     Public rulings will not be referred to the Ministerial Council.
However, the GST Administration Sub-Committee will refer a proposed GST change
to the Ministerial Council for consideration if the Sub-Committee is of the view
that the change could have a significant impact on GST revenues and so warrants
Ministerial review.
     E12.     Draft legislation which might significantly affect the GST base will
be forwarded through the GST Administrative Sub-Committee to the Ministerial
Council for consideration.
NATIONAL TAXATION REFORM (CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS) ACT 2000
- APPENDIX  F
APPENDIX F
GST ADMINISTRATION PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT&#8212;GUIDING
PRINCIPLES
PreambleSch.
     F1.     This Appendix outlines the principles that will guide the subsequent
development of a GST Administration Performance Agreement (the Performance
Agreement) between the ATO and its agents, and the States and Territories (the
Parties).
Objectives and Context of the Performance Agreement
     F2.     The purpose of the Performance Agreement is to provide accountability
between the ATO and the States and Territories on behalf of whom the GST revenue
is being collected. It also provides an agreed basis for the GST Administration
Sub-Committee to monitor the administration of the GST by the ATO and its agents
in return for the agreed GST administration costs being paid by the States and
Territories.
     F3.     The Performance Agreement will reflect the commitment by the Parties
to:
               (i)     achieving world's best practice for GST administration in
Australia;
               (ii)     a cost-effective and transparent GST administration; and
               (iii)     a cooperative relationship between the Parties.
     F4.     The Performance Agreement will recognise that achievement of
world's best practice GST administration, including cost-effectiveness, is
dependent on the GST policy framework and integrated administrative
design.
     F5.     The Performance Agreement will be consistent with the arrangements set
out in this Intergovernmental Agreement.
Components of Agreement
     F6.     The Performance Agreement will include outcomes to be achieved,
budgeting arrangements and monitoring and review arrangements for the purposes
of maintaining accountability and transparency of operations.
The Performance Agreement will also include the process for raising matters
of operational significance with the Ministerial Council.
Outcomes
     F7.     The Performance Agreement will stipulate performance outcomes and
appropriate benchmarks to be achieved by the ATO. These outcomes may include,
but are not limited to: revenue, taxpayer registration, compliance, reporting,
education and legislative review. Consistent with the objectives of the
Agreement, the benchmarks are to reflect world best practice in GST
administration.
Cost of Administration Sch.
     F8.     The Performance Agreement will outline the Commonwealth administration
activities that are GST related for the purposes of agreeing the GST
administration costs.
     F9.     The Performance Agreement will stipulate arrangements for an audit of
GST costs and the systems for the control of GST costs.
     F10.     The Performance Agreement will outline the process and timing of
consultation for developing/modifying budgets and business plans for GST
administration. These budgets and business plans will be developed, and/or
revised, in an appropriate and timely manner so as to broadly accord with
Commonwealth arrangements for funding agency operations.
     F11.     The Performance Agreement will recognise that the States and
Territories will fully compensate the Commonwealth for the agreed costs of
administering the GST.
Monitoring and Review
     F12.     The Performance Agreement will stipulate the:
               (i)     number and timing of formal reports by the ATO to the
Sub-Committee;
               (ii)     number and timing of progress reports by the ATO to the
Sub-Committee; and
               (iii)     arrangements for special briefings on particular issues.
     F13.     The Parties to the Performance Agreement will ensure appropriate
alignment of ATO Parliamentary reporting responsibilities and reporting
responsibilities under the Performance Agreement.Sch.
     F14.     The Performance Agreement will stipulate that ATO reports to the
Sub-Committee on outcomes will include:
               (i)     updates on relevant internal governance arrangements, including
appropriate strategic plans and annual and other relevant reports that
scrutinise aspects of GST operations (including annual and other relevant
reports from the Australian National Audit Office);
               (ii)     accrual-based financial reports;
               (iii)     key outcome performance indicators (including, registrations,
revenue, refunds, costs, key processing workloads, Taxpayer Charter standards
and international benchmark comparisons);
               (iv)     litigation and public ruling information;
               (v)     updates on relevant compliance and cost-of-compliance
research;
               (vi)     administrative base issues; and
               (vii)     commentary on administrative performance and any key emerging GST
compliance issues and related initiatives.
     F15.     The Performance Agreement will ensure that the States and Territories
will have access to GST data held by the ATO subject to statutory
limitations.
Matters of Operational Significance
     F16.     The Performance Agreement will outline arrangements for raising
matters of operational significance with the Ministerial Council. Matters of
operational significance may include disputes over the interpretation of the
Performance Agreement and non-performance by the ATO against agreed targets. The
Performance Agreement will ensure that the ATO will have the opportunity to
provide direct advice to the Ministerial Council on any matters submitted to the
Council.
Development of AgreementSch.
     F17.     The Performance Agreement will be developed by the GST Administration
Sub-Committee and representatives of the ATO. The Performance Agreement is to be
developed with reference to both:
               (i)     the guiding principles outlined in this Appendix; and
               (ii)     actual GST performance data (including revenue) in the Australian
context, gathered during the transitional years.
     F18.     The Performance Agreement is to be finalised by the end of the GST
transitional year ending June 2002. The Performance Agreement is to be endorsed
by the Ministerial Council prior to being signed.
     F19.     The Performance Agreement will stipulate the process for its
amendment.
Transitional Arrangements
     F20.     The ATO and the GST Administration Sub-Committee will discuss key
operational issues and costs commencing in October 1999 and on a semiannual
basis throughout the GST transitional year ending 30 June 2002.
     F21.     The ATO will arrange for an audit of the systems for the control of
GST costs and the GST costs incurred during the period from 1 July 1999 to the
date of the signing of the Performance Agreement by the Parties.
     F22.     The ATO will undertake to establish, by the end of the Transitional
year ending 30 June 2002, final GST benchmarking arrangements with relevant
overseas administrations, subject to their agreement.  The ATO will discuss
benchmarking plans with the GST Administration Sub-Committee.Sch.
&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;
NATIONAL TAXATION REFORM (CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS) ACT 2000
- NOTES
Version No.
004
No. 6 of 2000Version incorporating amendments as at 1 July 2012
__________________&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;
Version No. 004
National Taxation Reform (Consequential Provisions) Act 2000
No. 6 of 2000Version incorporating amendments as at 1 July 2012
NATIONAL TAXATION REFORM (CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS) ACT 2000
- NOTES Endnotes
ENDNOTES
Endnotes          1.     General
Information
Minister's second
reading speech&#8212;
Legislative Assembly: 2 March 2000
Legislative Council: 21 March 2000
The long title for the Bill for this Act was "to record the State's
intention to give effect to the Intergovernmental Agreement on the Reform of
Commonwealth&#8211;State Financial Relations and to enable State entities to
make GST equivalent payments, to discontinue financial institutions duty and
stamp duty on certain share transfers and on bookmakers' statements, to alter
government fees and charges to take GST into account, to amend various Acts as a
consequence of national taxation reform and for other purposes."
The National Taxation Reform (Consequential Provisions) Act 2000 was
assented to on 11 April 2000 and came into operation as follows:
Section 31 on 17 February 1999: section 2(2); sections 1&#8211;16,
20&#8211;23, 25, 35, Schedule on 12 April 2000: section 2(1); sections
17&#8211;19, 24, 28&#8211;30, 32&#8211;34 on 1 July 2000: section 2(3);
Part 8 (sections 26, 27) on 3 July 2000: section 2(4).
          2.     Table of
AmendmentsEndnotes
This Version incorporates amendments made to the
National Taxation Reform (Consequential Provisions) Act 2000 by Acts and
subordinate instruments.
&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;
Statute Law Revision Act 2007,
No. 28/2007
Assent Date:
26.6.07
Commencement Date:
S. 3(Sch. item 45) on 27.6.07: s. 2(1)
Current State:
This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the National Taxation Reform (Consequential Provisions) Act
2000
State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2012,
No. 42/2012
Assent Date:
27.6.12
Commencement Date:
Ss 9. 10 on 1.7.12: s. 2(2)
Current State:
This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the National Taxation Reform (Consequential Provisions) Act
2000
&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;
          3.     Explanatory
DetailsEndnotes
No entries at date of publication.
