Partnership Act 1891
Jurisdiction: queensland
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/qld/consol_act/pa1891154/
Register: https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-1891-007
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/qld/consol_act/pa1891154.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-30T01:58:52.469770Z

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1891 - As at 1 July 2025 - Act 7 of 1891
 
          20 penalty units; and
          (b) for each day during which the offence continues—to a
          maximum penalty of 1 penalty unit.
     (6) If a corporate person commits an offence against subsection (1),
     each director or member of the governing body of the corporate person
     is to be taken also to have committed the offence and is liable to be
     proceeded against and punished accordingly.
 
Chief executive may accept and record notices given by person registered as a
partner
*** 67 Chief executive may accept and record notices given by person registered
as a partner ***
Upon receipt by the chief executive of a notice in writing given by a person
shown on the register as a partner in a limited partnership of the happening of
an event affecting the partnership, in relation to which event the chief
executive may amend the register upon notice given to the chief executive under
section 52 or 63, the chief executive must record in the register that the
notice has been received and the tenor of the notice.
 
Chief executive’s power to cancel limited partnership’s registration
*** 68 Chief executive’s power to cancel limited partnership’s registration
***
     (1) This section applies if the chief executive reasonably believes
     that a limited partnership has ceased to exist because the
     partnership’s business is not being carried on in the State under
     the partnership’s firm-name, or by the partners, stated in the
     register.
     (2) The chief executive may, by written notice given to the person
     registered as the partnership’s general partner and to the
     partnership at its registered office stated in the register—
          (a) ask whether the partnership still exists; and
          (b) ask for documentary proof of its existence or non-
          existence.
     (3) The notice must state that the chief executive may cancel the
     partnership’s registration unless the chief executive is satisfied,
     within 1 month after the date of the notice, that the partnership
     still exists.
     (4) The chief executive must also, by public notice, notify the chief
     executive’s intention to cancel the registration unless the chief
     executive is satisfied, by the day that is 1 month after the date of
     the notice mentioned in subsection (2), that the limited partnership
     still exists.
     (5) If the chief executive is not satisfied within 1 month after the
     date of the notice mentioned in subsection (2) that the partnership
     still exists, the chief executive may cancel the registration.
     (6) If the chief executive cancels the registration, the chief
     executive must give written notice of the cancellation—
          (a) to the person registered as the partnership’s general
          partner and to the partnership at its registered office
          stated in the register; and
          (b) by public notice.
     (7) In this section—

     "public notice" means a notice in a newspaper circulating throughout
     the State.
 
Chief executive’s power to revoke cancellation of registration
*** 69 Chief executive’s power to revoke cancellation of registration ***
     (1) If, for any reason, the chief executive reasonably believes it is
     appropriate, the chief executive may revoke the cancellation of a
     registration made under section 68.
     (2) If a cancellation is revoked under this section, the registration
     is taken not to have been cancelled.
 
Definitions for ch 4
*** 70 Definitions for ch 4 ***
In this chapter—

"AFOF" means an AFOF within the meaning of the Venture Capital Act 2002
(Cwlth).

"ESVCLP" means an ESVCLP within the meaning of the Venture Capital Act 2002
(Cwlth).

"fee" includes tax.

"person" includes a partnership.

"register" means the register of incorporated limited partnerships kept under
section 78.

"special resolution", in relation to the limited partners, means a resolution
that has been passed by at least 75% of the limited partners.

"VCLP" means a VCLP within the meaning of the Venture Capital Act 2002 (Cwlth).

"VCMP" means a venture capital management partnership.

"venture capital management partnership" means a venture capital management
partnership within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cwlth),
section 94D (3).
 
Partnership is formed on registration
*** 71 Partnership is formed on registration ***
An incorporated limited partnership is formed on registration under this
chapter.
 
Partnership is separate legal entity
*** 72 Partnership is separate legal entity ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership—
          (a) is a body corporate with legal personality separate
          from that of the partners in it and with perpetual
          succession; and
          (b) may have a common seal; and
          (c) may sue and be sued in its firm-name.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership’s common seal must be kept
     in the custody of a person nominated by the partnership and may be
     used only as authorised by the partnership.
 
Partners in an incorporated limited partnership
*** 73 Partners in an incorporated limited partnership ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership must have—
          (a) at least 1 general partner but no more than 20 general
          partners; and
          (b) at least 1 limited partner.
          Note—
               There is no limit on the number of limited
               partners.
     (2) Any of the following may be a general partner or a limited
     partner—
          (a) an individual;
          (b) a partnership;
          (c) a body corporate.
     (3) For subsection (1) (a), if a general partner is a partnership and
     no partner in the partnership has, under the relevant law, limited
     liability, the number of partners in the partnership is to be
     counted.
     (4) Also for subsection (1) (a), if a general partner is a
     partnership and any partner in the partnership has, under the
     relevant law, limited liability—
          (a) the number of partners in the partnership who do not
          have limited liability is to be counted; and
          (b) the number of partners in the partnership who do have
          limited liability is not to be counted.
     (5) In this section—

     "limited liability" means limited liability for the liabilities of
     the partnership.

     "relevant law", for a partnership, means the law of the place where
     the partnership is formed.
 
Partnership agreement
*** 74 Partnership agreement ***
     (1) A written partnership agreement between the partners in an
     incorporated limited partnership must be in force at all times.
     (2) A partnership agreement also has effect as a contract between the
     incorporated limited partnership and each partner under which the
     partnership and each partner agree to observe and perform the
     agreement so far as it applies to them.
     (3) Nothing in subsection (2) prevents an incorporated limited
     partnership itself executing a partnership agreement.
     (4) The interests of the partners in an incorporated limited
     partnership and their rights and duties in relation to the
     partnership are, subject to this Act, to be decided in accordance
     with the agreement.
 
Who may apply for registration
*** 75 Who may apply for registration ***
     (1) An application for registration as an incorporated limited
     partnership may be made, in the circumstances described in subsection
     (2), by a partnership or by persons proposing to be the partners in
     the proposed incorporated limited partnership.
     (2) The circumstances are—
          (a) that—
               (i) the partnership is a VCLP, ESVCLP or AFOF; or
               (ii) a general partner in the partnership or a
               proposed general partner in the proposed
               incorporated limited partnership intends to apply
               for registration of the partnership or proposed
               partnership under the Venture Capital Act 2002
               (Cwlth), part 2 as a VCLP, ESVCLP or AFOF; or
          (b) that—
               (i) the partnership is a VCMP; or
               (ii) the partners in the partnership or the
               proposed partners in the proposed incorporated
               limited partnership intend that the partnership
               or proposed partnership will meet the
               requirements set out in the Income Tax Assessment
               Act 1936 (Cwlth), section 94D for recognition as
               a VCMP.
 
How is an application made
*** 76 How is an application made ***
     (1) An application for registration as an incorporated limited
     partnership must—
          (a) be made to the chief executive; and
          (b) be in the approved form signed by each partner or
          proposed partner or someone on the partner’s or proposed
          partner’s behalf; and
          (c) be accompanied by any fee prescribed under a
          regulation.
     (2) Without limiting what the application may include, the
     application must include the following general information—
          (a) the proposed firm-name of the proposed incorporated
          limited partnership;
          (b) the full address of the proposed registered office in
          Queensland of the proposed incorporated limited
          partnership;
          (c) the full name of each partner or proposed partner or,
          if the partner or proposed partner is a partnership, the
          name of the firm or, if the firm does not have a name, the
          full name of each partner in the firm;
          (d) the full address of each partner or proposed partner,
          as follows—
               (i) if the partner or proposed partner is an
               individual—his or her principal place of
               residence;
               (ii) if the partner or proposed partner is a body
               corporate—its registered office or principal
               place of business;
               (iii) if the partner or proposed partner is a
               partnership—its registered office or principal
               place of business.
     (3) The firm-name of the partnership must include at the end as part
     of the firm-name 1 of the following—
          (a) ‘An incorporated limited partnership’;
          (b) ‘L.P.’;
          (c) ‘LP’.
     (4) Also, the application must include, or be accompanied by, the
     following additional information—
          (a) a statement in relation to each partner or proposed
          partner as to whether the partner or proposed partner is,
          or is proposed to be, a general partner or a limited
          partner;
          (b) a statement in relation to each partner or proposed
          partner that is a partnership to the effect that the
          partner or proposed partner is a partnership;
          (c) for an application by a partnership that is a VCLP,
          ESVCLP or an AFOF—evidence of its registration under the
          Venture Capital Act 2002 (Cwlth);
          (d) for an application by persons proposing to be the
          partners in a VCLP, ESVCLP or an AFOF—a statement that
          the persons propose to be the partners in a VCLP, ESVCLP or
          an AFOF;
               Note—
                    Person is defined in section 70 to
                    include a partnership.
     (e) for an application by a partnership that is a VCMP—a statement
     that the partnership is a VCMP;
     (f) for an application by persons proposing to be the partners in a
     VCMP—a statement that the persons propose to be the partners in a
     VCMP;
     (g) anything else prescribed under a regulation.
 
Registration of incorporated limited partnership
*** 77 Registration of incorporated limited partnership ***
     (1) If an application for registration of an incorporated limited
     partnership has been made under section 76, the chief executive may
     register the incorporated limited partnership.
     (2) If the chief executive registers an incorporated limited
     partnership—
          (a) the firm-name of the partnership is its name as
          recorded in the register; and
          (b) the registered office of the partnership is its office
          as recorded in the register.
     (3) An incorporated limited partnership must have as part of its
     firm-name the words ‘An incorporated limited partnership’ or
     ‘L.P.’ or ‘LP’, as recorded in the register, at the end of
     its firm-name.
     (4) However, the chief executive must not record in the register, as
     the firm-name of an incorporated limited partnership, a name that
     would not be available to the incorporated limited partnership for
     registration under the Business Names Registration Act 2011 (Cwlth).
          Notes—
                    1 See the Business Names Registration
                    Act 2011 (Cwlth), section 25 in
                    relation to whether a business name
                    would be available to the entity under
                    that Act.
                    2 The register of incorporated limited
                    partnerships is a notified State/
                    Territory register under the Business
                    Names Registration Act 2011 (Cwlth).
     (5) Subject to subsection (4), registration is effected when the
     chief executive records in the register the details of information
     included in, or accompanying, the application for registration (the
     "registered particulars") that may be prescribed under a regulation.
 
Register of incorporated limited partnerships
*** 78 Register of incorporated limited partnerships ***
     (1) The chief executive must keep a register of incorporated limited
     partnerships registered under this chapter.
     (2) The register may be kept in any form the chief executive
     considers appropriate and may form part of the register of limited
     partnerships kept under section 51.
     (3) The chief executive must make the information recorded in the
     register available for public inspection, on payment of the fee
     prescribed under a regulation, at an office of a department at
     Brisbane during normal office hours.
     (4) The chief executive may, on application or on the chief
     executive’s own initiative, correct any error or omission in the
     register by—
          (a) inserting an entry; or
          (b) amending an entry; or
          (c) omitting an entry;
     if the chief executive decides that the correction is necessary.
     (5) The chief executive must not omit an entry in the register unless
     satisfied that the entire entry was included in error.
 
Changes in registered particulars
*** 79 Changes in registered particulars ***
     (1) If any change happens in relation to the registered particulars
     of an incorporated limited partnership, a statement setting out the
     changed particulars must be given to the chief executive within 7
     days after the change happens.
     (2) The statement must be signed by all the general partners, or by a
     general partner authorised by all the general partners for this
     section.
     (3) The statement must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) contain any particulars required under a regulation;
          and
          (c) be accompanied by the fee prescribed under a
          regulation.
     (4) If subsection (1) is not complied with, each general partner in
     the incorporated limited partnership commits an offence.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (4) —10 penalty
               units.
 
Certificates of registration etc.
*** 80 Certificates of registration etc. ***
     (1) The chief executive, if—
          (a) registering an incorporated limited partnership; or
          (b) recording a change in the registered particulars of an
          incorporated limited partnership; or
          (c) correcting an error or omission in the register in
          relation to an incorporated limited partnership;
     must issue to the general partners a certificate in the approved form
     as to the formation and registered particulars as at that time of the
     incorporated limited partnership.
     (2) The chief executive may, on application accompanied by the fee
     prescribed under a regulation, issue to the applicant a certificate
     in the approved form in relation to an incorporated limited
     partnership as to the formation and registered particulars as at that
     time of the incorporated limited partnership.
     (3) A certificate under this section stating any of the following
     matters is evidence of the matter stated—
          (a) an incorporated limited partnership was formed on the
          date of registration mentioned in the certificate;
          (b) an incorporated limited partnership existed at a time
          mentioned in the certificate;
          (c) named persons were the general partners and limited
          partners in an incorporated limited partnership at a time
          mentioned in the certificate;
          (d) any other particular of an incorporated limited
          partnership mentioned in the certificate was recorded in
          the register at a stated time.
 
Acts preparatory to registration do not constitute partnership
*** 82 Acts preparatory to registration do not constitute partnership ***
Any act done in connection with the making of an application for registration
under this chapter by or for persons proposing to be the partners in a proposed
incorporated limited partnership does not of itself create a partnership
between the persons.
 
Powers of partnership
*** 83 Powers of partnership ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership has the legal capacity and
     powers of an individual and also all the powers of a body corporate
     including, for example, the power, whether within or outside
     Queensland or outside Australia—
          (a) to carry on the business of the partnership; and
          (b) to do all things necessary or convenient to be done in
          connection with the carrying on of the business of the
          partnership including, for example, the power to—
               (i) enter into contracts or otherwise acquire
               rights or liabilities; or
               (ii) create, confer, vary or cancel interests in
               the partnership; or
               (iii) acquire, hold and dispose of real or
               personal property or of an interest, whether
               beneficial or legal, in real or personal
               property; or
               (iv) appoint agents and attorneys, and act as
               agent for other persons; or
               (v) form, and participate in the formation of,
               companies or incorporated limited partnerships;
               or
               (vi) participate in partnerships, trusts,
               unincorporated joint ventures and other
               arrangements for the sharing of profits; or
               (vii) do any other thing it is authorised to do
               by or under this chapter or the partnership
               agreement.
     (2) The powers of an incorporated limited partnership may be limited
     by the partnership agreement.
     (3) If a statement is made under section 76 (4) (d), despite
     subsections (1) and (2), the incorporated limited partnership’s
     powers are limited to carrying on activities related to becoming
     registered as a VCLP, ESVCLP or AFOF until the incorporated limited
     partnership becomes a VCLP, ESVCLP or AFOF.
     (4) If a statement is made under section 76 (4) (f), despite
     subsections (1) and (2), the incorporated limited partnership’s
     powers are limited to carrying on activities related to becoming a
     VCMP until the incorporated limited partnership becomes a VCMP.
 
Relationship of partners to others and between themselves
*** 84 Relationship of partners to others and between themselves ***
     (1) Other than as provided by the partnership agreement or agreed
     between the partners—
          (a) a general partner, the incorporated limited partnership
          or an officer, employee or agent of a general partner or of
          the incorporated limited partnership is not an agent of a
          limited partner; and
          (b) the acts of a general partner or of the incorporated
          limited partnership or of an officer, employee or agent of
          a general partner or of the incorporated limited
          partnership do not bind a limited partner; and
          (c) a limited partner is not an agent of, or a fiduciary
          for—
               (i) a general partner; or
               (ii) another limited partner; or
               (iii) the incorporated limited partnership; and
          (d) the acts of a limited partner do not bind a general
          partner or another limited partner or the incorporated
          limited partnership itself.
     (2) A reference in subsection (1) to a general partner includes, if
     the general partner is a partnership, a partner in that partnership.
     (3) Nothing in subsection (1) stops the making of, or limits or
     restricts, an agreement between 2 partners or between a partner and
     the incorporated limited partnership under which—
          (a) 1 partner acts as an agent of another partner or of the
          partnership and, by so acting, binds the other partner or
          the partnership; or
          (b) the partnership acts as an agent of a partner and, by
          so acting, binds the partner.
     (4) Any consent or authority that under this Act is required or
     permitted to be given by a partner or 2 or more partners or all the
     partners may, in the case of an incorporated limited partnership, be
     given by that partner or those partners by or under the partnership
     agreement either in relation to all cases, or in relation to all
     cases subject to stated exceptions, or in relation to any stated case
     or class of case.
     (5) Subsection (4) does not limit any other way in which a consent or
     authority might be given.
     (6) Any consent or authority that under this Act is required or
     permitted to be given by an incorporated limited partnership may,
     without limiting any other way in which it might be given, be given
     by a general partner or 2 or more general partners acting under the
     partnership agreement.
     (7) A limited partner, as limited partner, is not a proper party to
     any proceeding commenced in a court or tribunal by or against the
     incorporated limited partnership, other than a proceeding commenced
     by the incorporated limited partnership against the limited partner
     or by the limited partner against the incorporated limited
     partnership.
 
Definitions for pt 5
*** 85 Definitions for pt 5 ***
In this part—

"related body corporate" has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations
Act.

"security holder", in relation to a body, whether corporate or unincorporated,
includes a holder of securities (within the meaning of the Corporations Act,
section 92 (3)) in or of the body.
 
Limitation of liability of limited partners
*** 86 Limitation of liability of limited partners ***
     (1) A limited partner has no liability for the liabilities of the
     incorporated limited partnership or of a general partner.
     (2) Nothing in subsection (1) or section 92 or 93 stops—
          (a) a contribution of capital or property made by a limited
          partner to the incorporated limited partnership being used;
          or
          (b) an obligation of a limited partner to contribute
          capital or property to the incorporated limited partnership
          being enforced by any person to whom the obligation is
          owed;
     in satisfaction of a liability of the partnership or of a general
     partner.
     (3) This section is subject to section 87.
 
Limited partner not to take part in the management of the incorporated limited
partnership
*** 87 Limited partner not to take part in the management of the incorporated
limited partnership ***
     (1) A limited partner must not take part in the management of the
     business of the incorporated limited partnership.
     (2) If—
          (a) as a direct result of any wrongful act or omission of a
          limited partner in taking part in the management of the
          business of an incorporated limited partnership, the
          limited partner causes any loss or injury to any person
          other than a partner in the partnership (a
          "third party"); and
          (b) at the time of the act or omission the third party had
          reasonable grounds to believe that the limited partner was
          a general partner in the partnership;
     the limited partner is liable for the loss or injury to the same
     extent that the limited partner would have been liable if the limited
     partner were in fact a general partner in the partnership.
          Note—
               A limited partner is not an agent of an
               incorporated limited partnership and the acts of
               a limited partner do not bind a general partner,
               another limited partner or the partnership
               itself. See section 84 (1).
     (3) A limited partner is not to be regarded as taking part in the
     management of the business of the incorporated limited partnership
     only because the limited partner or a person acting for the limited
     partner—
          (a) is an employee or an independent contractor of the
          partnership or of a general partner or an associate of the
          general partner, or is an officer of a general partner that
          is a body corporate; or
          (b) gives advice to, or for, the partnership or a general
          partner or an associate of the general partner in the
          proper performance of functions arising from—
               (i) the engagement of the limited partner in a
               professional capacity or a person acting on
               behalf of the limited partner in a professional
               capacity; or
               (ii) business dealings between the limited
               partner, or a person acting on behalf of the
               limited partner, and the partnership or between
               the limited partner and a general partner or an
               associate of the general partner; or
          (c) gives a guarantee or indemnity in relation to any
          liability of the partnership or of a general partner or an
          associate of the general partner; or
          (d) takes any action, or participates in any action taken
          by any other limited partner, for the purpose of enforcing
          the rights, or safeguarding the interests, of the limited
          partner as a limited partner; or
          (e) if permitted by the partnership agreement—
               (i) calls, requisitions, convenes, chairs,
               participates in, postpones, adjourns or makes a
               record of a meeting of the partners or of the
               limited partners or of any of them; or
               (ii) whether at the meeting or in writing or
               otherwise, requisitions, formulates, signs,
               approves, disapproves, proposes, moves, supports,
               opposes, speaks to or votes on any resolution, or
               an amendment to any resolution of the partners or
               of the limited partners or of any of them; or
          (f) exercises a power conferred on the limited partner by
          subsection (4) or under the partnership agreement or
          otherwise has, or exercises, a right to—
               (i) have access to and inspect the books or
               records of the partnership or copy any of them;
               or
               (ii) examine the state or prospects of the
               business of the partnership or advise, or consult
               with, other partners in relation to the state or
               prospects of the business of the partnership; or
          (g) is or acts as an officer, director, security holder,
          partner, agent, employee or independent contractor of an
          associate of the partnership; or
          (h) gives advice to, or consults with, an associate of the
          partnership; or
          (i) is or acts as a lender to, or fiduciary for, an
          associate of the partnership; or
          (j) to the extent authorised by the partnership agreement,
          participates on, or has or exercises any right to appoint 1
          or more persons to, or remove 1 or more persons from, or to
          nominate 1 or more persons for appointment to or removal
          from, a committee that considers, approves of, consents to
          or disapproves of any 1 or more of the following proposals
          from a general partner—
               (i) a proposal involving a material change in the
               nature of the business of the partnership,
               including a change in, or departure from, any
               investment guidelines, policies or conditions
               relating to the business of the partnership;
               (ii) a proposal for the adoption of a method for
               valuing some or all of the assets of the
               partnership, including a change to, replacement
               of or variation from a method for valuing some or
               all of the assets of the partnership;
               (iii) a proposal for an extension or reduction in
               the period in which, under the partnership
               agreement, investments (or particular types of
               investments) can be made by the partnership, or
               for any approval or disapproval of investments
               that the partnership does not otherwise have a
               right to make;
               (iv) a proposal relating to any actual or
               potential transaction or other matter involving
               any actual or potential conflict of interest;
               (v) a proposal relating to any actual or
               potential transaction, contract, arrangement or
               understanding between 1 or more of the partners,
               or their associates, and the general partner, the
               partnership or any associate of the general
               partner or of the partnership;
               (vi) a proposal for the delegation, waiver,
               release or variation of an authority, right, duty
               or obligation of the general partner;
               (vii) a proposal for the appointment or approval
               under the partnership agreement of any person as
               a senior executive of the general partner or of
               an associate of the general partner; or
          (k) nominates, selects, investigates, evaluates or
          negotiates with any person in connection with the removal
          or replacement of a general partner, or participates on a
          committee that proposes, considers, approves of, consents
          to or disapproves of any nomination, selection,
          appointment, change in control or ownership, suspension,
          replacement or removal of a general partner or an associate
          of a general partner; or
          (l) takes any action, or participates in any action taken
          by any other limited partner, for the purpose of
          registering or maintaining the registration of the
          partnership or a general partner in the partnership under
          the Venture Capital Act 2002 (Cwlth), part 2 as a VCLP,
          ESVCLP or an AFOF.
     (4) Subject to the partnership agreement, a limited partner or a
     person authorised by the limited partner may at any time—
          (a) have access to and inspect the books or records of the
          partnership or copy any of them; and
          (b) examine the state or prospects of the business of the
          partnership and advise, or consult with, other partners in
          relation to the state or prospects of the business of the
          partnership.
     (5) The provisions of this section may not be varied by the
     partnership agreement or with the consent of the partners, whether
     given by or under the partnership agreement or otherwise.
          Note—
               Section 84 (4) enables partners to give consent
               by or under the partnership agreement.
     (6) No implication is to be taken to arise from subsection (3) that a
     limited partner in an incorporated limited partnership is to be
     regarded as taking part in the management of the business of the
     partnership only because the limited partner or a person acting on
     behalf of the partner does any thing in connection with the conduct
     of that business that is not referred to in that subsection.
     (7) For the purposes of this section, a limited partner in an
     incorporated limited partnership that is a VCMP is not to be regarded
     as taking part in the management of the business of the incorporated
     limited partnership only because of any act the limited partner takes
     in relation to the incorporated limited partnership in the capacity
     of a partner or associate of a partner in the VCMP.
     (8) In this section, a reference to a general partner in an
     incorporated limited partnership includes, if the general partner is
     a partnership, a partner in that partnership.
 
Definitions, etc. applicable to s 87
*** 88 Definitions, etc. applicable to s 87 ***
     (1) In section 87 —
          (a) a reference to an associate of a general partner
          includes a reference to—
               (i) if the general partner is a partnership, a
               partner in that partnership (a
               "partner in the general partner"); and
               (ii) any person who has an interest in the
               general partner or in any partner in the general
               partner, whether as security holder, trustee,
               responsible entity, manager, custodian, sub-
               custodian, nominee, administrator, executor,
               legal personal representative, beneficiary or
               otherwise; and
               (iii) any person to whom the general partner or
               any partner in the general partner has delegated
               any power, authority, right, duty or obligation
               of the general partner in relation to the
               partnership or any partnership in which the
               general partner is a general partner; and
               (iv) if the general partner or a partner in the
               general partner or a person covered by
               subparagraph (ii) or (iii) is a body corporate, a
               related body corporate of that body corporate;
               and
               (v) a director, officer, employee, agent,
               representative or security holder of the general
               partner or of any partner in the general partner
               or of a person covered by subparagraph (ii),
               (iii) or (iv); and
          (b) a reference to an associate of a limited partner
          includes a reference to—
               (i) if the limited partner is a partnership, a
               partner in that partnership (a
               "partner in the limited partner"); and
               (ii) any person who has an interest in the
               limited partner or in any partner in the limited
               partner, whether as security holder, trustee,
               responsible entity, manager, custodian, sub-
               custodian, nominee, administrator, executor,
               legal personal representative, beneficiary or
               otherwise; and
               (iii) if the limited partner or a partner in the
               limited partner or a person covered by
               subparagraph (ii) is a body corporate, a related
               body corporate of that body corporate; and
               (iv) a director, officer, employee, agent,
               representative or security holder of the limited
               partner or of any partner in the limited partner
               or of a person covered by subparagraph (ii) or
               (iii); and
          (c) a reference to an associate of an incorporated limited
          partnership includes a reference to—
               (i) any person or partnership in which the
               incorporated limited partnership has an interest,
               whether as security holder or otherwise; and
               (ii) if a person or partnership covered by
               subparagraph (i) is a body corporate, a related
               body corporate of that body corporate.
     (2) In this section, a reference to a general partner in an
     incorporated limited partnership includes, if the general partner is
     a partnership, a partner in that partnership.
 
Differences between partners
*** 89 Differences between partners ***
     (1) A difference arising as to ordinary matters connected with the
     business of an incorporated limited partnership may be decided by a
     majority of the general partners.
     (2) The provision made by subsection (1) may be varied by the
     partnership agreement or with the consent of the partners.
 
Change in partners
*** 90 Change in partners ***
     (1) A limited partner may, with the consent of the general partners
     and the agreement of the transferee, transfer the whole or a part of
     the limited partner’s interest in the incorporated limited
     partnership.
     (2) If the limited partner’s entire interest in the incorporated
     limited partnership is transferred to the 1 transferee, the
     transferee becomes a limited partner in substitution for the
     transferor with all the rights and obligations of the transferor.
     (3) If only a part of the limited partner’s interest in the
     incorporated limited partnership is transferred to a transferee, the
     transferee becomes a limited partner in substitution for the
     transferor in relation to the transferred part and with all the
     rights and obligations of the transferor in relation to that part.
     (4) A person may be admitted as a partner in an incorporated limited
     partnership without the necessity to obtain the consent of any
     limited partner.
     (5) The provision made by subsections (1) to (4) may be varied by the
     partnership agreement or with the consent of the partners.
 
Change in status of partners
*** 91 Change in status of partners ***
     (1) If a general partner becomes a limited partner, the partner
     remains liable for any liability of the incorporated limited
     partnership that arose before the partner became a limited partner to
     the extent that the partnership is unable to satisfy the liability or
     to the greater extent provided by the partnership agreement.
     (2) If a limited partner becomes a general partner, the partner
     remains not liable (subject to section 87 (2)) for any liability of
     the incorporated limited partnership that arose before the partner
     became a general partner.
          Note—
               Section 87 (2) imposes liability in particular
               circumstances on a limited partner who takes part
               in the management of the business of the
               incorporated limited partnership.
 
Liability for conduct or acts outside the State
*** 92 Liability for conduct or acts outside the State ***
A limited partner in an incorporated limited partnership may only be liable for
a liability incurred by the partnership as a result of—
     (a) the conduct of the incorporated limited partnership’s business
     outside the State; or
     (b) acts outside the State of a general partner, a limited partner or
     the incorporated limited partnership or of any officer, employee or
     agent of a general partner or of the incorporated limited
     partnership;
if the limited partner would be so liable if the conduct or acts occurred
within the State.
     Note—
          Section 87 (2) imposes liability in particular
          circumstances on a limited partner who takes part in the
          management of the business of the incorporated limited
          partnership.
 
Recognised incorporated limited partnerships under corresponding laws
*** 93 Recognised incorporated limited partnerships under corresponding laws
***
     (1) A partner in a recognised incorporated limited partnership may
     only be liable for a liability incurred by the partnership as a
     result of—
          (a) the conduct of the recognised incorporated limited
          partnership’s business in this State; or
          (b) the acts in this State of a partner in the recognised
          incorporated limited partnership or of the partnership
          itself or of any officer, employee or agent of a partner in
          the partnership or of the partnership;
     if the partner would be so liable under the corresponding law if the
     conduct or acts happened in the place where the recognised
     incorporated limited partnership was formed.
     (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the Governor in Council may,
     by regulation, declare a law of another State or another country or
     jurisdiction to be a corresponding law for this chapter.
     (3) The law of another State may be declared to be a corresponding
     law only if the Minister is satisfied that under that law a limited
     partner in an incorporated limited partnership formed under this
     chapter and registered or otherwise recognised under that law may
     only be liable for a liability incurred by the partnership as a
     result of—
          (a) the conduct in that State of the business of the
          partnership; or
          (b) the acts in that State of a partner in the partnership
          or of the partnership itself or of any officer, employee or
          agent of a general partner in the partnership or of the
          partnership;
     if the partner would be so liable under this chapter if the conduct
     or acts happened within the State.
     (4) The law of another country or jurisdiction, other than another
     State, may not be declared to be a corresponding law unless the
     Minister is satisfied that that law provides for the limitation of
     liability of particular partners in particular partnerships.
     (5) This section is in addition to, and does not limit, any rule of
     law under which recognition is or may be given to a limitation of
     liability of a partner in a partnership.
     (6) In this section—

     "corresponding law" means—
          (a) a law of another State or of another country or
          jurisdiction that substantially corresponds to this
          chapter; or
          (b) a law declared under subsection (2) to be a
          corresponding law for this chapter.

     "recognised incorporated limited partnership" means a partnership
     formed under a corresponding law.
 
Effect of ss 92 and 93
*** 94 Effect of ss 92 and 93 ***
No implication is to be taken to arise from section 92 or 93 that a limited
partner has any liability, or apart from that section would have any liability,
in connection with conduct of a partnership’s business or acts outside the
State that the limited partner would not have in connection with conduct or
acts within the State.
 
Definition for pt 6
*** 95 Definition for pt 6 ***
In this part—

"assets", in relation to an incorporated limited partnership, means the assets
remaining after satisfaction of the liabilities of the partnership and the
costs, charges and expenses of the winding up.
 
Voluntary winding up
*** 96 Voluntary winding up ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership may be wound up
     voluntarily—
          (a) if the partnership agreement sets out the terms on
          which the partnership may be voluntarily wound up, in
          accordance with the partnership agreement; or
          (b) subject to the partnership agreement, if the limited
          partners so resolve by special resolution.
     (2) On a voluntary winding up of an incorporated limited
     partnership—
          (a) if the partnership agreement sets out how the assets
          are to be dealt with on a voluntary winding up—the assets
          must be dealt with in accordance with the partnership
          agreement; or
          (b) otherwise—the assets are to be distributed among the
          partners in shares that are proportionate to their
          respective contributions of capital or property to the
          partnership.
     (3) Any person aggrieved by the operation of this section in relation
     to the assets of an incorporated limited partnership may apply to the
     Supreme Court.
     (4) On an application under subsection (3), the Supreme Court may
     make any order relating to the disposal of the assets that it
     considers appropriate.
 
Winding up on chief executive’s certificate
*** 97 Winding up on chief executive’s certificate ***
     (1) The chief executive may, by notice given to the incorporated
     limited partnership, require an incorporated limited partnership to
     show good cause why it should not be required to be wound up if the
     chief executive considers—
          (a) that the partnership has ceased to carry on business;
          or
          (b) that, having been registered under this chapter on the
          basis that the partnership is or is intended to be a VCLP,
          ESVCLP or an AFOF—
               (i) the partnership’s registration under the
               Venture Capital Act 2002 (Cwlth), part 2 has been
               revoked; or
               (ii) the partnership has not within 2 years after
               its incorporation become a VCLP, ESVCLP or an
               AFOF; or
          (c) that, having been registered under this chapter on the
          basis that the partnership is or is intended to be a VCMP,
          it has ceased to meet, or has not in the period of 2 years
          after its incorporation met, the requirements set out in
          the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cwlth), section 94D (3)
          for recognition as a VCMP; or
          (d) that none of the partners is a limited partner; or
          (e) that incorporation of the partnership has been obtained
          by mistake or fraud; or
          (f) that the partnership exists for an illegal purpose.
     (2) If, at the end of 28 days after the notice is given under
     subsection (1), the chief executive is satisfied that the
     incorporated limited partnership should be required to be wound up,
     the chief executive may publish in the gazette a certificate as to
     the requirement that the incorporated limited partnership be wound
     up.
     (3) The chief executive must give notice of the publication of the
     certificate to the incorporated limited partnership as soon as
     possible after the publication.
     (4) The chief executive must, as soon as practicable after giving a
     notice to an incorporated limited partnership, record the giving of
     the notice in the register.
     (5) The chief executive must not publish a certificate under
     subsection (2) unless satisfied that good cause has not been shown
     why the incorporated limited partnership should not be required to be
     wound up.
     (6) A notice under subsection (1) or (3) must be given to the
     incorporated limited partnership—
          (a) by being given to the incorporated limited partnership
          at its registered office; or
          (b) if notice can not reasonably be given under paragraph
          (a), by being published in a newspaper circulating
          generally in the State.
 
Review of certificate
*** 98 Review of certificate ***
     (1) A person whose interests are affected by a decision of the chief
     executive to publish a certificate under section 97 (2) may apply to
     the Supreme Court for review of the decision.
     (2) An application under subsection (1) must be made within 28 days
     after the certificate is published.
     (3) The operation of the certificate is suspended on the making of an
     application for review until the application is withdrawn or the
     review is decided.
     (4) In deciding an application for review, the Supreme Court may—
          (a) affirm the decision under review; or
          (b) set aside the decision under review and cancel the
          certificate.
     (5) Nothing in this section stops the chief executive cancelling a
     certificate published under section 97 (2) at any time after an
     application is made under subsection (1).
 
Procedure for winding up on certificate
*** 99 Procedure for winding up on certificate ***
     (1) A winding up of an incorporated limited partnership required on a
     certificate of the chief executive published under section 97 (2) —
          (a) must start—
               (i) no later than the end of 28 days after the
               day on which the certificate is published unless
               an application is made under section 98 (1); or
               (ii) if an application is made under section 98
               (1) and the Supreme Court affirms the decision to
               publish the certificate—no later than 28 days
               after the application is decided; and
          (b) must end by the day stated by the chief executive in a
          notice given to the partnership, not being a day earlier
          than 60 days after the day on which the winding up must be
          so started.
     (2) When the winding up is started, the chief executive may appoint a
     person to be the liquidator of the incorporated limited partnership.
     (3) If the chief executive approves, the liquidator may be a general
     partner in the incorporated limited partnership and need not be a
     registered liquidator under the Corporations Act or give security as
     required under that Act.
     (4) The liquidator must publish notice of his or her appointment in
     the gazette within 10 days after being appointed.
     (5) In relation to the winding up, the liquidator has all the powers
     and duties of a liquidator appointed to wind up a company under the
     Corporations Act.
     (6) Any vacancy occurring in the office of liquidator is to be filled
     by a person appointed by the chief executive.
     (7) The reasonable costs of a winding up required on a certificate of
     the chief executive published under section 97 (2) are payable out of
     the property of the incorporated limited partnership.
 
Distribution of assets on winding up required on chief executive’s
certificate
*** 100 Distribution of assets on winding up required on chief executive’s
certificate ***
     (1) On a winding up of an incorporated limited partnership required
     on a certificate of the chief executive published under section 97
     (2) —
          (a) if the partnership agreement sets out how the assets
          are to be dealt with on a winding up on a certificate of
          the chief executive—the assets must be dealt with in
          accordance with the partnership agreement; or
          (b) otherwise—the assets are to be distributed among the
          partners in shares that are proportionate to their
          respective contributions of capital or property to the
          partnership.
     (2) Any person aggrieved by the operation of this section in relation
     to the assets of an incorporated limited partnership may apply to the
     Supreme Court.
     (3) On an application under subsection (2), the Supreme Court may
     make any order relating to the disposal of the assets that it
     considers appropriate.
 
Application of Corporations Act to winding up
*** 101 Application of Corporations Act to winding up ***
     (1) This section applies to the winding up of an incorporated limited
     partnership, other than a voluntary winding up or a winding up
     required on a certificate of the chief executive published under
     section 97 (2).
     (2) To the extent that the Corporations Act, part 5.7 does not apply,
     the winding up of the incorporated limited partnership is declared to
     be an applied Corporations legislation matter for the purposes of the
     Corporations (Ancillary Provisions) Act 2001, part 3 in relation to
     the provisions of the Corporations Act, part 5.7.
     (3) The Corporations Act, part 5.7 applies as if the incorporated
     limited partnership were a part 5.7 body within the meaning of that
     Act, subject to the following modifications—
          (a) as if the words ‘or in the public interest’ were
          inserted in section 583 (c) (ii) after the words ‘just
          and equitable’;
          (b) as if section 583 (d) were omitted;
          (c) any other modifications (within the meaning of the
          Corporations (Ancillary Provisions) Act 2001, part 3) that
          are prescribed under a regulation.
               Note—
                    The Corporations (Ancillary Provisions)
                    Act 2001, part 3 provides for the
                    application of provisions of the
                    Corporations Act and the ASIC Act, part
                    3 as laws of the State in relation to
                    any matter declared by a law of the
                    State (whether with or without
                    modification) to be an applied
                    Corporations legislation matter for the
                    purposes of that part in relation to
                    those Commonwealth provisions. This
                    does not apply to any provisions that
                    already apply to a matter as a law of
                    the Commonwealth.
     (4) The Australian Securities and Investments Commission may perform
     a function conferred on it under a law applied by subsection (3) —
          (a) under an agreement or arrangement of the kind referred
          to in the ASIC Act, section 11 (8) or (9A)(b); and
          (b) if the Commission is authorised to perform that
          function under section 11 of that Act.
     (5) Unless a function under a law applied by subsection (3) is
     conferred on the Australian Securities and Investments Commission as
     referred to in subsection (4), that law applies as if a reference in
     it to the Commission were a reference to the chief executive.
 
Chief executive to be notified of winding up
*** 102 Chief executive to be notified of winding up ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership must give to the chief
     executive written notice in the approved form of the commencement of
     the winding up of the partnership within 7 days after—
          (a) the passing of a special resolution mentioned in
          section 96 (1) (b); or
          (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply—the commencement of
          the winding up.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership must give to the chief
     executive written notice in the approved form of the completion of
     the winding up of the partnership within 7 days after that
     completion, stating the date on which the winding up was completed.
     (3) The chief executive must, as soon as practicable after receiving
     a notice under subsection (1) or (2), record the receipt of the
     notice in the register.
     (4) If subsection (1) or (2) is not complied with, each general
     partner in the incorporated limited partnership commits an offence.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (4) —10 penalty
               units.
 
Cancellation of registration
*** 103 Cancellation of registration ***
     (1) The chief executive must, by gazette notice, cancel the
     registration of an incorporated limited partnership as soon as
     practicable after the partnership is wound up.
     (2) The chief executive must, as soon as practicable after the
     publication of the gazette notice, record the cancellation of the
     registration in the register.
     (3) An incorporated limited partnership ceases to exist on the
     cancellation of its registration under this chapter.
 
Execution of documents
*** 104 Execution of documents ***
     (1) All courts must take judicial notice of the common seal of an
     incorporated limited partnership affixed to a document and, until the
     contrary is proved, must presume that it was properly affixed.
     (2) Without limiting the ways in which an incorporated limited
     partnership may execute a document, including a deed, an incorporated
     limited partnership may execute a document—
          (a) without using a common seal, whether it has one or not,
          if the document is signed by a general partner; or
          (b) as a deed if the document is expressed to be executed
          as a deed and is executed with the use of a common seal or
          as provided under paragraph (a).
 
Entitlement to make assumptions
*** 105 Entitlement to make assumptions ***
     (1) In relation to dealings with an incorporated limited
     partnership—
          (a) a person is entitled to make the assumptions in section
          106; and
          (b) the incorporated limited partnership is not entitled to
          assert in proceedings in relation to the dealings that any
          of the assumptions are incorrect.
     (2) In relation to dealings with another person who has, or purports
     to have, directly or indirectly acquired title to property from an
     incorporated limited partnership—
          (a) a person is entitled to make the assumptions in section
          106; and
          (b) the incorporated limited partnership and the other
          person are not entitled to assert in proceedings in
          relation to the dealings that any of the assumptions are
          incorrect.
     (3) The assumptions may be made even if a partner or agent of the
     incorporated limited partnership acts fraudulently, or forges a
     document, in connection with the dealings.
     (4) A person is not entitled to make an assumption in section 106 if
     at the time of the dealings the person knew or suspected that the
     assumption was incorrect.
 
Assumptions that can be made under s 105
*** 106 Assumptions that can be made under s 105 ***
     (1) A person may assume that the partnership agreement of the
     incorporated limited partnership has been complied with.
     (2) A person may assume that anyone who appears, from information
     provided by the incorporated limited partnership that is available to
     the public from the register, to be a general partner in the
     incorporated limited partnership—
          (a) is a general partner in the incorporated limited
          partnership; and
          (b) has authority to exercise the powers and perform the
          duties customarily exercised or performed by a general
          partner in an incorporated limited partnership.
     (3) A person may assume that anyone who is held out by the
     incorporated limited partnership to be a general partner in, or an
     agent of, the incorporated limited partnership—
          (a) is a general partner in the incorporated limited
          partnership or has been properly appointed as an agent of
          the incorporated limited partnership; and
          (b) has authority to exercise the powers and perform the
          duties customarily exercised or performed by that kind of
          partner in, or agent of, an incorporated limited
          partnership.
     (4) A person may assume that the general partners in, and agents of,
     the incorporated limited partnership properly perform their duties to
     the incorporated limited partnership.
     (5) A person may assume that a document has been properly executed by
     the incorporated limited partnership if the document appears to have
     been signed under section 104 (2).
     (6) A person may assume that a document has been properly executed by
     the incorporated limited partnership if the incorporated limited
     partnership’s common seal appears to have been affixed to the
     document.
     (7) A person may assume that a general partner in, or agent of, the
     incorporated limited partnership who has authority to issue a
     document or certified copy of a document on its behalf also has
     authority to warrant that the document is genuine or is a true copy.
     (8) Without limiting this section, the assumptions that may be made
     under this section apply for the purposes of this section.
 
Identification of incorporated limited partnerships
*** 107 Identification of incorporated limited partnerships ***
     (1) Any document issued for an incorporated limited partnership in
     connection with the conduct of the partnership’s business must
     contain in legible letters the words ‘An incorporated limited
     partnership’ or ‘L.P.’ or ‘LP’ at the end as part of the
     firm-name of the partnership.
     (2) A person who—
          (a) issues or authorises the issue of a document in
          contravention of this section; or
          (b) being a general partner in the incorporated limited
          partnership concerned—is aware that documents are being
          issued in contravention of this section;
     commits an offence.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—20 penalty units.
     (3) The certificate of registration of an incorporated limited
     partnership must be displayed at all times in a conspicuous position
     at the registered office of the partnership.
     (4) If the certificate of registration is not so displayed, each
     general partner in the incorporated limited partnership commits an
     offence.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (4) —20 penalty
               units.
 
Registered office
*** 108 Registered office ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership must keep in Queensland, at
     the place shown in the register as the address of the registered
     office of the partnership, an office to which all communications with
     the partnership may be addressed.
     (2) A regulation may prescribe the hours during which the registered
     office is to be open and accessible to the public.
     (3) If subsection (1) is not complied with, each general partner in
     the incorporated limited partnership commits an offence.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (3) —10 penalty
               units.
 
Lodgement of certain documents with the chief executive
*** 109 Lodgement of certain documents with the chief executive ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership that was registered under
     this chapter on the basis of an intention to become a VCLP, ESVCLP or
     an AFOF must, within 1 month after becoming a VCLP, ESVCLP or an
     AFOF, give to the chief executive a copy of a document evidencing its
     status as a VCLP, ESVCLP or an AFOF.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership that was registered under
     this chapter on the basis of an intention to meet the requirements
     for recognition as a VCMP must, within 1 month after becoming a VCMP,
     give to the chief executive a statement that it is a VCMP.
     (3) If—
          (a) the registration of an incorporated limited partnership
          as a VCLP, ESVCLP or an AFOF under the Venture Capital Act
          2002 (Cwlth), part 2 is revoked; or
          (b) an incorporated limited partnership ceases to be a
          VCMP;
     the incorporated limited partnership must, within 7 days after the
     date on which that revocation took effect or it ceased to be a VCMP,
     give to the chief executive a notice of that revocation or cessation,
     stating the date on which it took effect.
     (4) If an incorporated limited partnership ceases to carry on
     business, the incorporated limited partnership must, as soon as
     practicable, give to the chief executive a notice of the cessation,
     stating the date on which it took effect.
     (5) A copy of a document, a statement or a notice required to be
     given to the chief executive under this section must be accompanied
     by the fee prescribed under a regulation.
     (6) A notice required to be given to the chief executive under this
     section must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) contain any particulars required under a regulation.
     (7) If subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) is not complied with, each
     general partner in the incorporated limited partnership commits an
     offence.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (7) —10 penalty
               units.
 
Duty to give information
*** 110 Duty to give information ***
     (1) For the purpose of monitoring compliance with this chapter or any
     regulation made for the purposes of this chapter, the chief
     executive, may by written notice, require an incorporated limited
     partnership to give the chief executive, within a period stated in
     the notice (being at least 28 days) or within the further period the
     chief executive allows, the information stated in the notice.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership required under subsection (1)
     to give information to the chief executive must, within the period
     stated in the notice or within the further period the chief executive
     allows, give the information, as it is within its power to give, to
     the chief executive unless the incorporated limited partnership has a
     reasonable excuse.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (2) —60 penalty
               units.
 
Offences by partnerships and partners
*** 111 Offences by partnerships and partners ***
     (1) If this chapter provides that a general partner, being a
     partnership in an incorporated limited partnership, commits an
     offence, that reference to the person is to be read as a reference
     to—
          (a) each general partner in the partnership; or
          (b) in the case of a partnership in which any partner has
          under the law of the place where it is formed limited
          liability for the liabilities of the partnership—each
          partner in the partnership whose liability is not so
          limited.
     (2) In any proceeding against a partner for an offence against this
     chapter brought in reliance on subsection (1), it is a defence to the
     charge for the partner to prove that the partner took all reasonable
     precautions and exercised proper diligence to avoid the commission of
     the offence.
 
Confidentiality
*** 112 Confidentiality ***
     (1) A person must not disclose information gained by the person in
     the administration of this Act, unless the disclosure is permitted
     under subsection (2).
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—60 penalty units.
     (2) The person may disclose the information to someone else—
          (a) to the extent necessary to perform the person’s
          functions under this Act; or
          (b) to a court or tribunal in the course of a legal
          proceeding; or
          (c) if the disclosure is authorised under this Act or
          another Act; or
          (d) if the disclosure is otherwise required or permitted by
          law; or
          (e) to the extent reasonably required to enable the
          investigation or the enforcement of a law of this State or
          of any other State or of the Commonwealth; or
          (f) with the written authority of the person to whom the
          information relates.
     (3) This section does not limit the Right to Information Act 2009.
 
False or misleading statements
*** 113 False or misleading statements ***
A person must not state anything to the chief executive the person knows is
false or misleading in a material particular.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—60 penalty units.
 
False or misleading documents
*** 114 False or misleading documents ***
     (1) A person must not give to the chief executive a document
     containing information the person knows is false or misleading in a
     material particular.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—60 penalty units.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who, when giving the
     document—
          (a) informs the chief executive, to the best of the
          person’s ability, how it is false or misleading; and
          (b) gives the correct information to the chief executive if
          the person has, or can reasonably obtain, the correct
          information.
 
Delegations
*** 115 Delegations ***
     (1) The chief executive may delegate the chief executive’s powers
     under this Act to an appropriately qualified public service employee.
     (2) In this section—

     "appropriately qualified" includes having the qualifications,
     experience or standing appropriate to the exercise of the power.
          Example of standing—
               a person’s classification in the public service
 
Offences against the Act are summary
*** 116 Offences against the Act are summary ***
     (1) An offence against this Act is a summary offence.
     (2) A proceeding for an offence against this Act must start within
     the later of the following periods to end—
          (a) 1 year after the commission of the offence;
          (b) 6 months after the offence comes to the complainant’s
          knowledge, but within 2 years after the commission of the
          offence.
 
Service of limited partnerships and incorporated limited partnerships
*** 117 Service of limited partnerships and incorporated limited partnerships
***
     (1) Without limiting any other way of serving a document on partners
     in a limited partnership, a document concerning the business of the
     partnership is taken to be properly served on the partners if it is
     left at or sent by post addressed to the registered office of the
     partnership.
     (2) Without limiting any other way of serving documents on an
     incorporated limited partnership, a document concerning the business
     of an incorporated limited partnership may be properly served on the
     partnership if it is left at, or sent by post addressed to, the
     registered office of the incorporated limited partnership.
 
Entries in registers
*** 118 Entries in registers ***
     (1) An entry in the register kept for limited partnerships under
     section 51 of any particular fact concerning a limited partnership,
     including an entry stating the effect of any notice received by the
     chief executive—
          (a) is sufficient notice of the fact or the effect of the
          notice to all persons who afterwards deal with the firm
          concerned; and
          (b) is to have effect, for the purposes of section 39 (2),
          as if it were an advertisement in the gazette.
     (2) An entry in the register kept for incorporated limited
     partnerships under section 78 of any particular fact concerning an
     incorporated limited partnership, including an entry stating the
     effect of any notice received by the chief executive, is sufficient
     notice of the fact or of the effect of the notice to all persons who
     deal with the partnership.
 
Approved forms
*** 119 Approved forms ***
The chief executive may approve forms for use under this Act.
 
Regulation-making power
*** 120 Regulation-making power ***
     (1) The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
     (2) A regulation may prescribe—
          (a) the particulars to be stated in a statement or notice
          filed with the chief executive; or
          (b) matters relating to the keeping of the registered
          office of a limited partnership or an incorporated limited
          partnership; or
          (c) the fees payable under this Act; or
          (d) offences for contraventions of the regulation, and may
          fix a penalty of not more than 20 penalty units for a
          contravention.
 
Saving of rules of equity and common law
*** 121 Saving of rules of equity and common law ***
The rules of equity and of common law applicable to partnership shall continue
in force except so far as they are inconsistent with the express provisions of
this Act.
 
Transitional provision for Tourism, Racing and Fair Trading (Miscellaneous
Provisions) Act 2003
*** 123 Transitional provision for Tourism, Racing and Fair Trading
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2003 ***
Section 13, as in force before the commencement of this section, continues to
apply to an act or omission that happened before the commencement.
 
Continuation of limited partnerships under the Partnership (Limited Liability)
Act
*** 124 Continuation of limited partnerships under the Partnership (Limited
Liability) Act ***
This Act applies to a limited partnership formed, and registered, under the
Partnership (Limited Liability) Act 1988, and in existence immediately before
the repeal of that Act, as if it were a limited partnership formed, and
registered, under chapter 3.
 
Continuation of register under the Partnership (Limited Liability) Act
*** 125 Continuation of register under the Partnership (Limited Liability) Act
***
     (1) The register of limited partnerships as in force under the
     Partnership (Limited Liability) Act 1988 immediately before the
     repeal of that Act is preserved and continued as the register of
     limited partnerships kept by the chief executive under section 51.
     (2) The chief executive may issue a certificate in relation to the
     formation and composition of a limited partnership formed and
     registered before the repeal of the Partnership (Limited Liability)
     Act 1988 and the certificate has effect as a certificate issued under
     section 51(3).
 
Applications under the Partnership (Limited Liability) Act
*** 126 Applications under the Partnership (Limited Liability) Act ***
An application made or notice given to the registrar under the Partnership
(Limited Liability) Act 1988 and not finally dealt with before the repeal of
that Act may be dealt with by the chief executive under this Act.
 
Regulations under Partnership (Limited Liability) Act preserved
*** 127 Regulations under Partnership (Limited Liability) Act preserved ***
     (1) Regulations in force under the Partnership (Limited Liability)
     Act 1988 immediately before the repeal of that Act are taken to have
     been made under this Act and may be amended or repealed accordingly.
     (2) A regulation mentioned in subsection (1) expires on 31 March
     2005.
     (3) Subsection (2) has effect despite the Statutory Instruments Act
     1992, part 7.
 
Prescribed forms under Partnership (Limited Liability) Act
*** 128 Prescribed forms under Partnership (Limited Liability) Act ***
Despite the repeal of the Partnership (Limited Liability) Act 1988, a form
prescribed for use under section 7 (1) or 8 (3) of that Act immediately before
the repeal may continue to be used, with necessary changes, for the purpose for
which it was prescribed for a period of 3 months after the commencement of this
section.
 
Relation between members of any company registered under State Companies Acts
not affected
*** 129 Relation between members of any company registered under State
Companies Acts not affected ***
The relation between members of any company mentioned in section 5(2)(a), as in
force immediately before the commencement of this section, is not a partnership
within the meaning of this Act.
 
Liability
*** 130 Liability ***
The liability of a person arising under this Act as in force before the
commencement of this section is unaffected by the definition
"liability" as inserted by the Partnership and Other Acts Amendment Act 2004.
 
References to Partnership (Limited Liability) Act 1988
*** 131 References to Partnership (Limited Liability) Act 1988 ***
A reference in an Act or document to the Partnership (Limited Liability) Act
1988 may, if the context permits, be taken to be a reference to this Act.
 
- SCHEDULE
*** SCHEDULE Dictionary ***

"AFOF", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"approved form" means a form approved by the chief executive under section 119.

"assets", for chapter 4, part 6, see section 95.

"business" includes every trade, occupation, or profession.

"court" includes every court and judge having jurisdiction in the case.

"departure", in relation to a partner, for chapter 3, see section 48.

"ESVCLP", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"fee", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"firm" see section 4.

"firm-name" —
     (a) of a limited partnership, means the firm-name shown in relation
     to the partnership in the register kept by the chief executive under
     section 51; or
     (b) of a incorporated limited partnership, means the firm-name of the
     partnership recorded in the register kept by the chief executive
     under section 78 (1); or
     (c) of a partnership other that a partnership mentioned in paragraph
     (a) or (b), means the name under which the business of the
     partnership is carried on.

"general partner" —
     (a) of a limited partnership, means a partner in the limited
     partnership who is not a limited partner; or
     (b) of an incorporated limited partnership, means a partner in the
     incorporated limited partnership who is not a limited partner.

"incorporated limited partnership" means a partnership formed under chapter 4.

"insolvency", for chapter 3, see section 48.

"liability" includes a debt, obligation or other liability of any kind,
wherever and however incurred.

"limited partner" —
     (a) of a limited partnership, means a partner in the limited
     partnership whose liability to contribute is limited under chapter 3;
     or
     (b) of an incorporated limited partnership, means a partner in the
     incorporated limited partnership whose liability to contribute is
     limited under chapter 4.

"limited partnership", without reference to an incorporated limited
partnership, means a limited partnership formed under chapter 3.

"partnership property" see section 23 (1).

"person", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"register" —
     (a) for chapter 3, see section 48; or
     (b) for chapter 4, see section 70.

"registered office" —
     (a) of a limited partnership—means the registered office of the
     limited partnership recorded in the register; or
     (b) of an incorporated limited partnership—means the registered
     office of the incorporated limited partnership recorded in the
     register.

"related body corporate", for chapter 4, part 5, see section 85.

"security holder", for chapter 4, part 5, see section 85.

"special resolution", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"VCLP", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"VCMP", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"venture capital management partnership", for chapter 4, see section 70.
