Property Law Act 2023
Jurisdiction: queensland
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/qld/consol_act/pla2023179/
Register: https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-2023-027
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/qld/consol_act/pla2023179.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-30T02:54:22.451208Z

PROPERTY LAW ACT 2023 - As at 1 August 2025 - Act 27 of 2023
TABLE OF PROVISIONS
**** TABLE OF PROVISIONS ****
PART 1 - PRELIMINARY
Division 1 - Introduction
      1.  Short title
      2.  Commencement
Division 2 - Application of Act
      3.  Act binds all persons
      4.  Act applies to land, property and documents
      5.  Relationship with other Acts
Division 3 - Interpretation
      6.  Dictionary
PART 2 - GENERAL RULES AFFECTING PROPERTY
Division 1 - Requirement for writing
      7.  Contracts for disposition of land not enforceable unless in writing
      8.  Writing required for creation of particular interests in land
      9.  Nature of interest in land created by parol
     10.  Particular matters not affected
Division 2 - Other rules
     11.  Transfer or lease to self and others
     12.  Merger of estate
PART 3 - FREEHOLD ESTATES
     13.  Freehold estates capable of creation
     14.  Abolition of obsolete estates and rules
     15.  Abolition of incidents of tenure for benefit of State
     16.  Abolition of quit rent
     17.  Abolition of escheat for dissolved corporation
     18.  Waiver by State of any remaining rights to property by escheat
     19.  Voluntary waste or equitable waste by life tenant
     20.  Recovery of property when life estate ends
     21.  Penalty for holding over possession after life estate ends
PART 4 - FUTURE INTERESTS
     22.  Creation of future interests in land
     23.  Creation and disposition of interests in property
     24.  When gift over stops being capable of taking effect
PART 5 - CO-OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY
Division 1 - General rules
     25.  Forms of co-ownership
     26.  Corporation may hold property as joint tenant
     27.  Liability of co-owners to account
     28.  Construction of disposition of property to 2 or more persons
     29.  Tenants in common of equitable interest who become entitled to legal
interest
Division 2 - Sale and division of co-owned property
Subdivision 1 - Preliminary
     30.  Definitions for division
     31.  Other forms of severance not affected
     32.  Security interests not affected
Subdivision 2 - Sale and division
     33.  Application to court for sale or division of co-owned property
     34.  Orders court may make
     35.  Sale and division of proceeds to be preferred
     36.  Order varying entitlements to property
     37.  Order appointing trustee
     38.  Vesting of property in trustee
     39.  Other orders court may make
     40.  Orders for compensation and accounting
Subdivision 3 - Accounting of amounts received by co-owners
     41.  Application to court for accounting
     42.  Orders court may make
Subdivision 4 - Miscellaneous matters
     43.  Adjournment or stay of co-ownership proceeding—family law
proceeding
PART 6 - DEEDS AND COVENANTS
Division 1 - Deeds
Subdivision 1 - Preliminary
     44.  Definitions for division
     45.  What is a counterpart for a document
     46.  Division does not apply to enduring documents
     47.  Application of division to powers of attorney
     48.  Execution of documents under other Acts
Subdivision 2 - Form and execution
     49.  How deed is made generally
     50.  Electronic document and electronic signing
     51.  Execution by individual
     52.  Execution by corporation
     53.  Execution by partnership or unincorporated association
     54.  Execution by the State
     55.  Signing counterpart or true copy
Subdivision 3 - Miscellaneous matters
     56.  Delivery
     57.  Receipt in body of deed sufficient
     58.  Deposit of deed in registry
     59.  Protection for third parties
     60.  Abolition of rule in Pigot’s case
Division 2 - Covenants
     61.  Construction of expressions used in deeds and other documents
     62.  Implied covenants may be negatived
     63.  Covenants and agreements made by person with self and others
     64.  Covenants relating to land bind successors
     65.  Particular covenants in registered easements bind successors
     66.  No right to register restrictive covenant
PART 7 - CONTRACTS, SALES OF LAND, INSTALMENT CONTRACTS AND SELLER DISCLOSURE
FOR SALES OF LOTS
Division 1 - Contracts
     67.  Effect of joint promises and liabilities
     68.  Contract containing promise for benefit of third party
     69.  Guarantee not enforceable unless in writing
     70.  Effect of conclusive evidence provision
     71.  Effect on contract of non-compliance with statutory instrument
     72.  Effect of statutory requirement for certificate
     73.  Stipulations not of essence of contract
Division 2 - Sales of land
     74.  Definitions for division
     75.  Reference to settlement of sale of land using e-conveyancing
     76.  Implied conditions
     77.  Buyer may rescind contract if residential dwelling unfit for
occupation
     78.  When day of settlement is next business day
     79.  Effect of inoperative computers in office of the land registry on day
of settlement
     80.  Effect of inoperative computers in particular entities on day of
settlement
     81.  Effect of adverse event on day of settlement
     82.  Direction for payment given by seller’s authorised agent sufficient
discharge of buyer
     83.  Buyer may recover damages if defective title
     84.  Buyer may recover deposit and instalments if defective title but no
rescission
     85.  Seller may forfeit deposit of no more than 20 per cent if buyer
breaches contract for sale of proposed lot
     86.  When statutory right of termination on settlement ends if e-
conveyance
Division 3 - Instalment contracts for sale of land
     87.  Definitions for division
     88.  Application of division
     89.  What is an instalment contract
     90.  When buyer must give seller notice to constitute contract an
instalment contract
     91.  Restriction on seller’s right to termination if buyer defaults on
payment of instalment
     92.  Seller can not sell or mortgage land
     93.  Buyer may lodge caveat
     94.  Buyer not in default may require seller to transfer land
Division 4 - Seller disclosure for sales of lots
Subdivision 1 - Preliminary
     95.  Definitions for division
     96.  When buyer and seller are related
     97.  References to things done by or in relation to buyer or seller
     98.  Contracting out prohibited
Subdivision 2 - Disclosure requirement
     99.  Seller must give buyer disclosure documents
    100.  Exceptions to requirement
    101.  How disclosure documents to be given
    102.  Electronic communication of disclosure documents
    103.  Giving of disclosure documents to buyer who is not registered as
bidder until after start of auction
Subdivision 3 - Termination by buyer
    104.  Buyer may terminate contract if seller fails to disclose or makes
inaccurate disclosure
    105.  Seller must repay amounts to buyer on termination
    106.  No other remedy if prescribed certificate contains inaccurate
information given by body corporate or other entity
Subdivision 4 - Miscellaneous matters
    107.  Original owner of lot in community titles scheme must give statement
describing power of attorney
PART 8 - MORTGAGES
Division 1 - Preliminary
    108.  Definition for part
    109.  Application of part
Division 2 - General rules
    110.  Variation of mortgage
    111.  Effect of advance out of joint account
    112.  Mortgages lodged electronically
Division 3 - Powers and rights of mortgagees
    113.  Implied powers of mortgagee
    114.  Restriction on exercise of power of sale
    115.  Power of sale if disclaimer of onerous property
    116.  Duty to sell at market value
    117.  Protection of buyer
    118.  Application of proceeds of sale
    119.  Other matters relating to power of sale
    120.  Receipt of mortgagee sufficient discharge
    121.  Insurance of mortgaged property
    122.  Application of insurance money
    123.  Appointment of receiver
    124.  Judgment debt does not permit seizure
    125.  Subsequent mortgage does not affect first mortgage
    126.  When further advance ranks in priority to subsequent mortgage
Division 4 - Obligations and rights of mortgagors
    127.  Contracting out prohibited
    128.  Implied obligations of mortgagor
    129.  Right to obtain copy of documents in possession of mortgagee
    130.  Right to relief against payment of accelerated sum
    131.  Right to relief against payment of overdue principal amount if
payment of interest accepted
    132.  Right to require transfer of mortgage instead of discharge
    133.  Abolition of consolidation of mortgages
Division 5 - Proceedings
    134.  Court may order sale of mortgaged property in proceeding for
redemption or foreclosure
    135.  Realisation of equitable mortgage of land
    136.  Facilitation of redemption in case of absent or unknown mortgagee
PART 9 - LEASES
Division 1 - Preliminary
    137.  Definition for part
Division 2 - General rules
    138.  Lease for term of years may take effect without entry into possession
    139.  Implied terms
Division 3 - Transfer of reversion of lease
    140.  Effect of transfer of reversion of lease by lessor
    141.  Payment of rent or other amount without notice of transfer of
reversion
Division 4 - Dealings with leases
    142.  Effect of requirement in lease for consent of lessor to assign lease
or take other action
    143.  Effect of assignment of lease by lessee to assignee
    144.  Effect of assignment of lease by transferee to subsequent transferee
    145.  Effect of surrender or merger of lease
    146.  Effect of reconfiguration of land
    147.  Head lease may be surrendered and new head lease granted without
affecting other rights and obligations
    148.  Involuntary transmission not breach of lease
Division 5 - Relief
Subdivision 1 - Preliminary
    149.  Definition for division
    150.  Application of division
    151.  Contracting out prohibited
Subdivision 2 - Relief against forfeiture for breach of term of lease
    152.  Definitions for subdivision
    153.  Lessor must give lessee notice to remedy breach
    154.  Lessor must give copy of notice to designated persons
    155.  Acceptance of rent paid by lessee in possession not waiver of
lessor’s rights
    156.  Notice to remedy breach not required if lessee has given up
possession
    157.  How lessor may exercise right of re-entry
    158.  Powers of court in making order for possession
    159.  Lessor’s claim for damages not affected
    160.  Proceedings for relief against forfeiture
    161.  Application for relief against forfeiture not admission
    162.  Powers of court in making order for relief against forfeiture
Subdivision 3 - Relief against refusal to renew, or extend term of, or sell
reversion of, lease
    163.  Definitions for subdivision
    164.  When lessor may refuse to renew, or extend term of, or sell reversion
of, lease
    165.  Lessor must give copy of notice to designated persons
    166.  Proceedings for relief against refusal
    167.  Powers of court in making order for relief against refusal
Division 6 - Apportionment of rent
    168.  Apportionment in respect of time
    169.  Payment and recovery of apportioned part of rent
Division 7 - Termination of particular leases
    170.  Definitions for division
    171.  Contracting out permitted
    172.  Meaning of lease terminable at will
    173.  What is a termination notice
    174.  Termination of lease terminable at will
    175.  Termination of periodic tenancy
    176.  Termination of other tenancies
Division 8 - Miscellaneous matters
    177.  Effect of waiver
    178.  Limitation on award of damages for breach of obligation to repair
PART 10 - NEIGHBOURING LAND
Division 1 - Support for land
    179.  Duty of care in relation to support for land
Division 2 - Easements and rights of use
    180.  Power of court to impose statutory right of use
    181.  Power of court to modify or extinguish easement or covenant
    182.  No interest created by prescription
Division 3 - Encroachment of buildings
    183.  Definitions for division
    184.  Relationship with other Acts
    185.  Proceedings for relief
    186.  Minimum compensation
Division 4 - Improvements under mistake of title
    187.  Relationship with other Acts
    188.  Proceedings for relief
PART 11 - TRANSACTIONS
Division 1 - Assignment of debts or things in action
    189.  Definitions for division
    190.  Assignment of debt or legal thing in action
    191.  Discharge of debt or legal thing in action when no actual notice of
assignment
    192.  Assignment in equity
Division 2 - Dispositions to defraud creditors
    193.  Disposition with intent to defraud creditor voidable
PART 12 - POWERS OF APPOINTMENT
    194.  When exercise of power of appointment valid
    195.  Appointment among 2 or more objects
    196.  Protection of buyer if invalid appointment
    197.  Release and disclaimer of power
PART 13 - PERPETUITIES
Division 1 - Preliminary
    198.  Definitions for part
    199.  When disposition in will made
Division 2 - General rules
    200.  Abolition of rule against perpetuities
    201.  What is the perpetuity period
    202.  Vesting of trust property
    203.  Wait and see rule
Division 3 - Trust saving devices
    204.  Reduction of age to ensure disposition within perpetuity period
    205.  Exclusion of class members to ensure disposition within perpetuity
period
    206.  Acceleration of prior disposition to ensure subsequent disposition
within perpetuity period
Division 4 - Ambit of perpetuity period
    207.  Non-charitable purpose trust
    208.  Powers of appointment
    209.  Conditions precedent and conditions subsequent
    210.  Determinable interests
    211.  Accumulation of income
    212.  Particular trusts, powers and funds
    213.  Commercial arrangements
    214.  Gift over from charity to charity
    215.  Particular matters relating to land
Division 5 - Variation of vesting date
    216.  Variation of trust to opt in to 125-year perpetuity period if trustee
has power of variation
    217.  Variation of trust to opt in to 125-year perpetuity period if trustee
does not have power of variation
Division 6 - Applications to court
    218.  Application to court for declaration of validity
    219.  Application to court to opt in to 125-year perpetuity period
PART 14 - CORPORATIONS SOLE AND PARTICULAR BODIES CORPORATE
    220.  Perpetual succession of corporation sole
    221.  Constitution of corporation sole
    222.  Effect of transaction if temporary vacancy in particular bodies
corporate
    223.  Powers of particular corporations
    224.  Appointment of administrator if particular corporations incapable of
acting
PART 15 - UNREGISTERED LAND
    225.  Registrar must give public notice if request to register unregistered
land
    226.  Registrar must give public notice if registrar believes land
unregistered
    227.  Registrar may hold inquiry
    228.  Obligations of registrar
PART 16 - GENERAL
Division 1 - Service
    229.  Application of division
    230.  Relationship of division with other matters
    231.  General requirements for service
    232.  Individual absent from State or deceased
    233.  Electronic communication
Division 2 - Miscellaneous
    234.  Approved forms
    235.  Regulation-making power
    236.  Transitional regulation-making power
PART 17 - REPEAL
    237.  Repeal of Property Law Act 1974
PART 18 - SAVINGS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
Division 1 - Preliminary
    238.  Application of Acts Interpretation Act 1954
    239.  Definitions for part
Division 2 - Savings provisions
   239A.  Express references to general law of agency
    240.  Saving of abolition or modification of common law provided for in
repealed Act
    241.  Saving of abolition of common law rule that alien can not take, give,
buy or sell property
    242.  Particular provisions do not apply in relation to matters that
happened before 1 December 1975
Division 3 - Transitional provisions
    243.  Waiver of State’s rights to property by escheat on death intestate
of person before commencement
    244.  Liability of co-owner of property to account for interest in property
arising before commencement
    245.  Abolition of rule in Pigot’s case
    246.  Covenant or agreement made by person with self and others before
commencement
    247.  Particular covenants in registered easements created before
commencement
    248.  Effect of inoperative computers in office of the land registry on day
of settlement on contract entered into before commencement
    249.  Effect of inoperative computers in particular entities on day of
settlement on contract entered into before commencement
    250.  Effect of adverse event on day of settlement on contract entered into
before commencement
    251.  Seller disclosure for sales of lots
    252.  Mortgagee’s power of sale in relation to disclaimed property
mortgaged before commencement
    253.  Court may order sale of mortgaged property in proceeding for
redemption or foreclosure started before commencement
    254.  Realisation of equitable mortgage in proceeding started before
commencement
    255.  Dealings with leases entered into before commencement
    256.  Relief in relation to leases entered into before commencement
    257.  No interest created by prescription before commencement
    258.  Disposition with intent to defraud creditor before commencement
    259.  Powers of appointment over property created before commencement
SCHEDULE 1
SCHEDULE 2
- LONG TITLE
An Act to consolidate and provide for the law relating to property
Short title
*** 1 Short title ***
This Act may be cited as the Property Law Act 2023.
Commencement
*** 2 Commencement ***
This Act commences on a day to be fixed by proclamation.
Act binds all persons
*** 3 Act binds all persons ***
     (1) This Act binds all persons, including the State and, to the
     extent the legislative power of the Parliament permits, the
     Commonwealth and the other States.
     (2) Nothing in this Act makes the State, the Commonwealth or another
     State liable to be prosecuted for an offence against this Act.
Act applies to land, property and documents
*** 4 Act applies to land, property and documents ***
This Act applies to—
     (a) land in Queensland; and
     (b) property, other than land, whether in or outside Queensland, to
     the extent the general law of Queensland applies to the property; and
     (c) documents, whether executed in or outside Queensland, to the
     extent the general law of Queensland applies to the documents.
Relationship with other Acts
*** 5 Relationship with other Acts ***
     (1) This Act applies subject to the following Acts—
          (a) the Land Act 1994;
          (b) the Land Title Act 1994;
          (c) the Mineral and Energy Resources (Common Provisions)
          Act 2014;
          (d) each Resource Act.
     (2) If this Act is inconsistent with an Act mentioned in subsection
     (1), unless this Act or the Act mentioned in subsection (1) expressly
     provides otherwise, the Act mentioned in subsection (1) prevails to
     the extent of the inconsistency.
Dictionary
*** 6 Dictionary ***
The dictionary in schedule 2 defines particular words used in this Act.
     Note—
          The Acts Interpretation Act 1954, schedule 1 defines
          particular words used in this Act, including, for
          example—
               • property
               • land
               • interest
               • estate
               • mortgage
               • lease
               • transfer
               • transmission
               • document
               • proceeding
               • corporation
Contracts for disposition of land not enforceable unless in writing
*** 7 Contracts for disposition of land not enforceable unless in writing ***
A contract for the disposition of land is not enforceable by action in a
proceeding unless—
     (a) the contract is in writing or some memorandum or note of the
     contract is recorded in writing; and
     (b) the contract or the memorandum or note of the contract is signed
     by the party against whom the contract is sought to be enforced.
Writing required for creation of particular interests in land
*** 8 Writing required for creation of particular interests in land ***
     (1) The creation of a legal or equitable interest in land must be in
     writing and signed by the person creating the interest.
     (2) A trust relating to land must be created or declared in writing
     and signed by the person creating or declaring the trust.
Nature of interest in land created by parol
*** 9 Nature of interest in land created by parol ***
     (1) An interest in land created by parol, and not put in writing and
     signed by the person creating the interest, has the effect of an
     interest at will only.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies despite any consideration given for the
     interest.
Particular matters not affected
*** 10 Particular matters not affected ***
     (1) This division does not affect—
          (a) the creation of a short lease; or
          (b) the application of the law relating to part
          performance; or
          (c) the creation or operation of a resulting, implied or
          constructive trust; or
          (d) the making or operation of a will; or
          (e) the disposition of land by operation of law; or
          (f) the disposition of land by order of any court.
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a short lease created by
     parol takes effect when the lessee has an immediate entitlement to
     possession.
Transfer or lease to self and others
*** 11 Transfer or lease to self and others ***
A person may transfer or lease property to the person’s self, or to the
person’s self and others.
Merger of estate
*** 12 Merger of estate ***
An estate does not merge by operation of law with another estate unless the
person acquiring both estates intends the estates to merge.
Freehold estates capable of creation
*** 13 Freehold estates capable of creation ***
The following estates of freehold are capable of being created and subsisting
in land—
     (a) an estate in fee simple;
     (b) a life estate.
Abolition of obsolete estates and rules
*** 14 Abolition of obsolete estates and rules ***
     (1) The following estates can not be created—
          (a) an estate tail;
          (b) a quasi-entail.
     (2) In a document, words that, apart from this section, would have
     created an estate tail are taken to create an estate in fee simple.
     (3) The rule known as the rule in Shelley’s Case is abolished.
Abolition of incidents of tenure for benefit of State
*** 15 Abolition of incidents of tenure for benefit of State ***
A tenure created by the State on granting an estate in fee simple is in free
and common socage without any incident of tenure for the benefit of the State.
Abolition of quit rent
*** 16 Abolition of quit rent ***
If quit rent issues to the State out of land, or the residue of quit rent
issues to the State out of land in relation to which quit rent has been
apportioned or redeemed, the land is released from quit rent.
Abolition of escheat for dissolved corporation
*** 17 Abolition of escheat for dissolved corporation ***
If a corporation is dissolved or otherwise ceases to exist, subject to the
Corporations Act, the State is entitled to take as bona vacantia any of the
corporation’s property that would have been liable to escheat if escheat had
not been abolished.
Waiver by State of any remaining rights to property by escheat
*** 18 Waiver by State of any remaining rights to property by escheat ***
     (1) This section applies if a person believes the State may have a
     right to property by escheat, devolution or bona vacantia on the
     death intestate of a person.
     (2) The person may apply to the Minister to waive the State’s
     rights.
     (3) The Minister may waive the State’s rights on terms the Minister
     considers appropriate.
     (4) The Minister must publish in the gazette the details of a waiver
     under this section.
     (5) The Minister may delegate the Minister’s functions or powers
     under this section to an appropriately qualified public service
     employee.
     (6) In this section—
     "right" includes a supposed right.
Voluntary waste or equitable waste by life tenant
*** 19 Voluntary waste or equitable waste by life tenant ***
     (1) A life tenant who commits voluntary or equitable waste in
     relation to land, other than under subsection (3) or (4), is liable
     in damages to the person entitled, immediately after the life estate
     ends, to the fee simple interest in remainder in the land (the
     "remainder person").
     (2) If the interest of the life tenant is an equitable interest, the
     trustee for the remainder person may bring a proceeding for the
     damages on behalf of the remainder person.
     (3) A life tenant may commit voluntary waste in relation to land if
     an express or implied term in the document creating the life estate
     permits the waste.
     (4) A life tenant may commit equitable waste in relation to land if
     an express term in the document creating the life estate permits the
     waste.
Recovery of property when life estate ends
*** 20 Recovery of property when life estate ends ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a life estate ends; and
          (b) a person (the
          "remainder person") is entitled, immediately after the life
          estate ends, to an interest in the property; and
          (c) a person, other than the remainder person (the
          "third person"), continues in possession of, or receives
          rent or profits in relation to, the remainder person’s
          interest in the property.
     (2) The remainder person may apply to the court for any or all of the
     following in relation to the interest in the property—
          (a) possession;
          (b) damages;
          (c) an account of rent or profits.
     (3) If the life tenant or third person has been absent for at least 7
     years, the court may presume the life tenant or third person has
     died.
     (4) The presumption mentioned in subsection (3) is rebuttable.
     (5) The court may hear and decide the application and make the orders
     it considers appropriate.
     (6) If, after the court has decided the application, a life tenant or
     third person presumed dead by the court is proved to be alive—
          (a) a person with an interest in the property may apply to
          the court for any or all of the following in relation to
          the property—
               (i) possession;
               (ii) damages;
               (iii) an account of rent or profits; and
          (b) the court may hear and decide the application and make
          the orders it considers appropriate.
Penalty for holding over possession after life estate ends
*** 21 Penalty for holding over possession after life estate ends ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a life estate ends; and
          (b) a person (the
          "remainder person") is entitled, immediately after the life
          estate ends, to an interest in remainder in the land; and
          (c) another person (the
          "third person") holds over possession of the remainder
          person’s interest in remainder in the land; and
          (d) the remainder person gives the third person a notice
          asking for possession of the remainder person’s interest
          in remainder in the land; and
          (e) the third person does not give the remainder person
          possession of the remainder person’s interest in
          remainder in the land within 30 days after the notice
          mentioned in paragraph (d) has been given.
     (2) The third person is liable to the remainder person for the market
     rent for the remainder person’s interest in remainder in the land
     for the period—
          (a) starting on the day the life estate ends; and
          (b) ending on the day the remainder person is given
          possession of the land.
     (3) The remainder person may recover the market rent for the
     remainder person’s interest in remainder in the land as a debt due
     to the remainder person.
Creation of future interests in land
*** 22 Creation of future interests in land ***
     (1) If a future interest in land is created, it takes effect as an
     equitable and not a legal interest.
     (2) Despite the Land Title Act 1994, an interest in remainder must
     not be registered in the freehold land register.
     (3) In this section—
     "future interest" means—
          (a) a legal contingent remainder; or
          (b) a legal executory interest.
Creation and disposition of interests in property
*** 23 Creation and disposition of interests in property ***
     (1) Each interest in property that can be created or disposed of may
     be created or disposed of by an individual—
          (a) during the individual’s lifetime; or
          (b) by will.
     (2) However, subsection (1) does not make a joint tenancy severable
     by will.
When gift over stops being capable of taking effect
*** 24 When gift over stops being capable of taking effect ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a person (the
          "first person") is entitled to an interest in property; and
          (b) the interest in property is subject to a gift over to
          another person if the first person has no child, or no
          child of a stated class, whether at any stated time or
          within any stated period.
     (2) The gift over stops being capable of taking effect when the first
     person has a child, or a child of the stated class, who attains 18
     years.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies even if the child dies after attaining 18
     years.
     (4) For this section, a gift over includes a gift over expressed to
     take effect on the ending of an interest preceding that of the person
     whose interest is the subject of the gift over.
     (5) In this section—
     "child", of a person, has the meaning given by the Succession Act
     1981, section 5A.
Forms of co-ownership
*** 25 Forms of co-ownership ***
Property may be held by 2 or more persons—
     (a) as joint tenants; or
     (b) as tenants in common.
Corporation may hold property as joint tenant
*** 26 Corporation may hold property as joint tenant ***
     (1) A corporation may acquire and hold property in joint tenancy in
     the same way as if it were an individual.
     (2) If a corporation and an individual, or 2 or more corporations,
     become entitled to property under circumstances or because of a
     document that would, if the corporation or corporations had been
     individuals, have created a joint tenancy, the corporation and the
     individual, or the 2 or more corporations, are entitled to the
     property as joint tenants.
     (3) However, the acquisition and holding of property by a corporation
     in joint tenancy is subject to the same conditions and restrictions
     as attach to the acquisition and holding of property by a corporation
     in severalty.
     (4) If a corporation is a joint tenant of property and the
     corporation is dissolved or otherwise ceases to exist, the property
     devolves on the other joint tenant.
Liability of co-owners to account
*** 27 Liability of co-owners to account ***
If a co-owner of property receives more than the co-owner’s just or
proportionate share according to the co-owner’s interest in the property, the
co-owner is liable to account to each other co-owner of the property.
Construction of disposition of property to 2 or more persons
*** 28 Construction of disposition of property to 2 or more persons ***
     (1) A disposition of an equitable interest in property, whether with
     or without a legal interest in the property, to 2 or more persons
     together beneficially takes effect as a disposition to the persons as
     tenants in common, and not as joint tenants.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to—
          (a) a disposition to 2 or more persons that provides the
          persons are to take as joint tenants; or
          (b) a disposition to 2 or more persons as administrators,
          executors, mortgagees or trustees; or
          (c) a disposition to 2 or more persons carrying on business
          in partnership for partnership purposes.
     (3) Subject to the Partnership Act 1891 or any agreement to the
     contrary, a disposition of property to 2 or more persons carrying on
     business in partnership for partnership purposes takes effect as—
          (a) a disposition of the legal interest, if any, in the
          property to the persons as joint tenants; and
          (b) a disposition of the equitable interest, if any, in the
          property to the persons as tenants in common.
     (4) In this section—
     "disposition" includes a disposition that is wholly or partly oral.
Tenants in common of equitable interest who become entitled to legal interest
*** 29 Tenants in common of equitable interest who become entitled to legal
interest ***
     (1) This section applies if 2 or more persons holding property—
          (a) are entitled beneficially as tenants in common to an
          equitable interest in the property; and
          (b) are or become entitled in their own right, whether as
          joint tenants or tenants in common, to a legal interest in
          the property equal to and coextensive with their equitable
          interest in the property.
     (2) Subject to any agreement to the contrary, both the legal and
     equitable interests in the property are held by the persons as
     tenants in common.
Definitions for division
*** 30 Definitions for division ***
In this division—
"property" does not include a future or contingent legal or equitable interest
in real or personal property.
"security interest" —
     (a) means an interest in property by way of security for the payment
     of a debt or other pecuniary obligation; and
     (b) in relation to land—includes a mortgage and a lien, whether or
     not registered under the Land Title Act 1994.
Other forms of severance not affected
*** 31 Other forms of severance not affected ***
Nothing in this division affects or prevents the severing of a joint tenancy
under—
     (a) a provision of this Act other than this division; or
     (b) another Act or law.
Security interests not affected
*** 32 Security interests not affected ***
Despite anything to the contrary appearing in a document creating or related to
a security interest, the severing of a joint tenancy under this division—
     (a) does not constitute a breach of the terms of the document; and
     (b) does not affect any existing powers, rights or interests of a
     person who holds a security interest over the property to which the
     severance relates.
Application to court for sale or division of co-owned property
*** 33 Application to court for sale or division of co-owned property ***
     (1) A co-owner of property may apply to the court for an order under
     this subdivision to be made in relation to the property.
     (2) The application may request—
          (a) the sale of the property and the division of the
          proceeds among the co-owners; or
          (b) the physical division of the property among the co-
          owners; or
          (c) a combination of the actions mentioned in paragraphs
          (a) and (b).
     (3) The applicant must, within 30 days after making the application,
     give a copy of the application to each person who holds a security
     interest over the property.
Orders court may make
*** 34 Orders court may make ***
     (1) In the proceeding, the court may make any order that the nature
     of the case requires to ensure a just and fair sale or division of
     the property.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the court may make any of the
     following orders—
          (a) an order for the sale of the property and the division
          of the proceeds among the co-owners;
          (b) an order for the physical division of the property
          among the co-owners;
          (c) an order for a combination of the actions mentioned in
          paragraphs (a) and (b).
Sale and division of proceeds to be preferred
*** 35 Sale and division of proceeds to be preferred ***
     (1) If the court decides to make an order for the sale or division of
     the property, the court must make an order under section 34 (2) (a)
     unless the court considers an order under section 34 (2) (b) or (c)
     would be more just and fair.
     (2) In deciding whether an order under section 34 (2) (b) or (c)
     would be more just and fair, the court must consider—
          (a) the use being made of the property, including, for
          example, any use of the property for residential or
          business purposes; and
          (b) whether the property is able to be divided and the
          practicality of dividing the property; and
          (c) any particular links with or attachment to the
          property, including, for example, whether the property is
          unique or has a special value to 1 or more of the co-
          owners.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not limit or otherwise affect the matters the
     court may consider.
Order varying entitlements to property
*** 36 Order varying entitlements to property ***
In making an order under section 34, the court may order that—
     (a) the property be physically divided into parcels or shares that
     differ from the entitlements of each of the co-owners; and
     (b) compensation be paid by a stated co-owner to another stated co-
     owner to compensate for any difference in the value of the parcels or
     shares when the property is physically divided under paragraph (a).
Order appointing trustee
*** 37 Order appointing trustee ***
     (1) In the proceeding, if the court considers the appointment of a
     trustee for the sale or physical division of the property is
     necessary or desirable, the court may order—
          (a) the appointment of a trustee; or
          (b) the removal of a trustee.
     (2) In an order appointing a trustee for the sale of the property,
     the court may make any order that the nature of the case requires,
     including, for example, any of the following orders—
          (a) an order directing the trustee as to the terms and
          conditions on which the sale is to be carried out;
          (b) an order directing the distribution of the proceeds of
          the sale in a way stated by the court;
          (c) an order that the remuneration of the trustee be paid
          from the proceeds of the sale.
     (3) In an order appointing a trustee for the physical division of the
     property, the court may make any order that the nature of the case
     requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
          (a) an order directing the trustee as to the way in which
          the division is to be carried out;
          (b) an order that the remuneration of the trustee be paid
          by the parties to the proceeding.
     (4) If the property is held by joint tenants, an order of the court
     appointing a trustee for the sale of the property does not of itself
     sever the joint tenancy.
     (5) Subject to an order of the court, if the property is land held by
     co-owners, an order of the court appointing a trustee for the sale of
     the land converts the interest of each co-owner into an interest in
     the proceeds of the sale of the land.
     (6) Subject to an order of the court, a trustee appointed by the
     court may pay the following amounts out of income generated by the
     property or the proceeds of the sale of the property—
          (a) costs, expenses and other outgoings relating to the
          property;
          (b) costs and expenses relating to the sale of the
          property.
Vesting of property in trustee
*** 38 Vesting of property in trustee ***
     (1) If the court orders the appointment of a trustee for the sale or
     physical division of the property, the order is taken to vest the
     property in the trustee in the same way as a vesting order under the
     Trusts Act 1973, section 90.
     (2) If the property is subject to a security interest affecting the
     entirety, the property vests in the trustee subject to the security
     interest.
     (3) If the property is subject to a security interest affecting an
     undivided share of the property—
          (a) the property vests in the trustee free of the security
          interest; and
          (b) the interest of the person entitled to the benefit of
          the security interest is converted to an equitable interest
          in the proceeds of sale.
Other orders court may make
*** 39 Other orders court may make ***
     (1) In the proceeding, the court may also make any other order the
     court considers appropriate, including, for example, any of the
     following orders—
          (a) an order that the property be sold by private sale or
          at auction;
          (b) an order that the co-owners may purchase the property
          at the sale or auction mentioned in paragraph (a);
          (c) for a private sale—an order that the sale be at
          market value as determined by an independent valuation;
          (d) for an auction—an order that the reserve price be the
          reserve price set by the court;
          (e) an order that an independent valuation of the property
          take place;
          (f) an order that a sale be completed within a stated time;
          (g) an order that the costs of the sale be paid—
               (i) by 1 or more of the co-owners; or
               (ii) from the proceeds of the sale;
          (h) an order that the sale and division of the proceeds of
          sale or the physical division of the property be subject to
          stated terms and conditions;
          (i) an order that any document be produced or other thing
          done that is necessary to enable an order to be carried out
          effectively.
     (2) This section does not limit or otherwise affect section 34 or 37.
Orders for compensation and accounting
*** 40 Orders for compensation and accounting ***
     (1) In the proceeding, the court may order that—
          (a) a co-owner pay compensation or make a reimbursement to
          another co-owner; or
          (b) a co-owner account to another co-owner under section
          27; or
          (c) a co-owner’s interest in the property be adjusted to
          take account of amounts payable by the co-owners to each
          other during the co-ownership.
     (2) In deciding whether to make an order under subsection (1), the
     court must consider the following matters—
          (a) amounts reasonably spent by a co-owner in improving the
          property;
          (b) costs reasonably incurred by a co-owner in the
          maintenance or insurance of the property;
          (c) damage caused by the unreasonable use of the property
          by a co-owner;
          (d) the payment by a co-owner of more than that co-
          owner’s proportionate share of rates, mortgage
          repayments, purchase money, instalments or other outgoings
          in relation to the property for which 1 or more of the
          other co-owners are liable;
          (e) for land—whether or not a co-owner who has occupied
          the land should pay an amount equivalent to rent to a co-
          owner who did not occupy the land;
          (f) for property other than land—whether or not a co-
          owner who has used the property should pay an amount
          equivalent to rent to a co-owner who did not use the
          property.
     (3) The court must not make an order requiring a co-owner who has
     occupied land (the
     "occupying co-owner") to pay an amount equivalent to rent to a co-
     owner who did not occupy the land (the
     "non-occupying co-owner") unless—
          (a) the occupying co-owner seeks compensation,
          reimbursement or an accounting for money expended by the
          occupying co-owner in relation to the land; or
          (b) the non-occupying co-owner has been excluded from
          occupation of the land; or
          (c) the non-occupying co-owner has suffered a detriment
          because it was not practicable for the non-occupying co-
          owner to occupy the land with the occupying co-owner.
     (4) The court must not make an order requiring a co-owner who has
     used property other than land (the
     "using co-owner") to pay an amount equivalent to rent to a co-owner
     who did not use the property (the
     "non-using co-owner") unless—
          (a) the using co-owner seeks compensation, reimbursement or
          an accounting for money expended by the using co-owner in
          relation to the property; or
          (b) the non-using co-owner has been excluded from using the
          property; or
          (c) the non-using co-owner has suffered a detriment because
          it was not practicable for the non-using co-owner to use
          the property with the using co-owner.
     (5) This section applies despite any other Act or law.
Application to court for accounting
*** 41 Application to court for accounting ***
     (1) A co-owner of property may apply to the court for an order for an
     accounting under section 42.
     (2) An application under subsection (1) may be made whether or not an
     application is made under subdivision 2.
Orders court may make
*** 42 Orders court may make ***
     (1) In the proceeding, the court may make any order that the nature
     of the case requires to ensure a just and fair accounting of amounts
     received by the co-owners in relation to the property.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the court may make an order that
     a co-owner, who has received more than the share of rent or other
     payments from a third party in respect of the property to which that
     co-owner is entitled, account for that rent or those other payments
     to the other co-owners.
Adjournment or stay of co-ownership proceeding—family law proceeding
*** 43 Adjournment or stay of co-ownership proceeding—family law proceeding
***
     (1) The court may adjourn or stay a proceeding under subdivision 2 or
     3 in relation to property at any time before it has made a final
     order if a co-owner starts, or has started, a family law proceeding
     in relation to the property.
     (2) Also, the court may adjourn a proceeding under subdivision 2 or 3
     in relation to property at any time before it has made a final order
     to allow a co-owner of the property to start a family law proceeding.
     (3) This section does not limit or otherwise affect the power of the
     court to grant or refuse an adjournment or stay in relation to a
     proceeding.
     (4) In this section—
     "family law proceeding" means a proceeding under the Family Law Act
     1975 (Cwlth).
Definitions for division
*** 44 Definitions for division ***
In this division—
"copy", of an electronic document, means a reproduction of the document in
either electronic or hard copy form.
"counterpart", for a document, see section 45.
"director", of a corporation, means—
     (a) if the corporation is established under an Act of the
     Commonwealth or a State—a director under that Act; or
     (b) if the corporation is established under a constitution or another
     governing document—a director under that constitution or governing
     document; or
     (c) otherwise—a member of the board of directors, council or other
     governing body of the corporation.
"document" means a record of information however recorded and includes—
     (a) a physical document; and
     (b) an electronic document.
"information" includes information in the form of data, text or images.
"seal", of a corporation, includes a common seal of the corporation.
"secretary", of a corporation, means the clerk, secretary or other permanent
officer of the corporation.
"sign", a document, means—
     (a) for a physical document—physically sign the document; or
     (b) for an electronic document—electronically sign the document.
What is a counterpart for a document
*** 45 What is a counterpart for a document ***
     (1) A
     "counterpart", for a document, is a copy of the document that
     includes the entire content of the document.
     (2) Despite subsection (1), a counterpart need not include—
          (a) the signatures of all persons who have signed, or are
          to sign, the document; or
          (b) if a seal is, or is to be, fixed to the document—the
          seal.
Division does not apply to enduring documents
*** 46 Division does not apply to enduring documents ***
This division does not apply to an enduring document under the Powers of
Attorney Act 1998.
Application of division to powers of attorney
*** 47 Application of division to powers of attorney ***
     (1) Each of the following documents made by an individual must be a
     physical document that is signed by the individual in the presence of
     a witness—
          (a) a general power of attorney made under the Powers of
          Attorney Act 1998;
          (b) a power of attorney given under a deed.
     (2) However, a document containing a power of attorney given by an
     individual under a deed may be an electronic document that is
     electronically signed by the individual if—
          (a) the document is part of a commercial or other arms-
          length transaction; and
          (b) the power of attorney is given for the purpose of the
          commercial or other arms-length transaction.
          Example of a document that may be electronically signed—
               a document containing a power of attorney given
               by an individual under a deed as security for a
               proprietary interest of another party to the
               document or the performance of an obligation owed
               by the individual
     (3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that—
          (a) subsection (2) applies to a document even if the
          document is executed at a different time from, and is
          separate to, other documents that form part of the
          transaction; and
          (b) a power of attorney given by an individual under a deed
          under subsection (2) may be signed under subsection (2)
          whether or not in the presence of a witness.
     (4) This section applies—
          (a) subject to section 53; and
          (b) despite another provision of this division.
     (5) In this section—
     "individual" includes an individual in the individual’s capacity as
     a sole trader.
Execution of documents under other Acts
*** 48 Execution of documents under other Acts ***
This division does not limit or otherwise affect the way in which documents are
validly executed under the Land Act 1994 or the Land Title Act 1994.
How deed is made generally
*** 49 How deed is made generally ***
     (1) A document takes effect as a deed if the document—
          (a) is in writing; and
          (b) contains a clear statement that the document is a deed;
          and
          (c) is executed under this division; and
          (d) is delivered in accordance with section 56.
     (2) A document takes effect as a deed under subsection (1) even if—
          (a) it is not written on paper or parchment; or
          (b) it is not an indenture or stated to be an indenture; or
          (c) it is not sealed or stated to be sealed.
Electronic document and electronic signing
*** 50 Electronic document and electronic signing ***
A document that is to have effect as a deed may be in the form of an electronic
document and may be electronically signed.
Execution by individual
*** 51 Execution by individual ***
     (1) An individual may execute a document that is to have effect as a
     deed by signing the document.
     (2) An individual may sign a document under subsection (1) whether or
     not in the presence of a witness.
Execution by corporation
*** 52 Execution by corporation ***
     (1) A corporation may execute a document that is to have effect as a
     deed, without using a seal, if the document is signed by—
          (a) 2 directors of the corporation; or
          (b) 1 director and 1 secretary of the corporation; or
          (c) for a proprietary company that has a sole
          director—that director, if—
               (i) the director is also the sole company
               secretary; or
               (ii) the company does not have a company
               secretary; or
          (d) a lawfully authorised agent or attorney of the
          corporation, whether or not the agent or attorney is
          appointed under seal or under a deed.
     (2) A corporation with a common seal may execute a document that is
     to have effect as a deed if the seal is fixed to the document and the
     fixing of the seal is witnessed by—
          (a) 2 directors of the corporation; or
          (b) 1 director and 1 secretary of the corporation; or
          (c) for a proprietary company that has a sole
          director—that director, if—
               (i) the director is also the sole company
               secretary; or
               (ii) the company does not have a company
               secretary.
     (3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), a corporation sole or statutory
     corporation may execute a document that is to have effect as a deed,
     without using a seal, if the document is signed by a person, or in a
     way, authorised by the Act or another document under which the
     corporation is established, incorporated or registered.
     (4) For a corporation with a common seal executing a document that is
     to have effect as a deed, or a corporation sole or statutory
     corporation using a seal, the fixing of the seal to the document is
     taken to have been witnessed by a person if—
          (a) the person observes the fixing of the seal by audio
          visual link; and
          (b) the person signs the document; and
          (c) the document includes a statement that the person
          observed the fixing of the seal by audio visual link.
     (5) A corporation that is not incorporated under a law of the
     Commonwealth or a State may execute a document that is to have effect
     as a deed if the document is signed by a person, or in a way,
     authorised by the law of the place in which the corporation is
     incorporated.
     (6) A document that is to have effect as a deed may be signed under
     this section whether or not in the presence of a witness.
     (7) If a person signs a document that is to have effect as a deed for
     a corporation as a lawfully authorised agent or attorney for the
     corporation, the person must—
          (a) sign the document in a way that indicates the person is
          signing as a lawfully authorised agent or attorney; and
          (b) if the person is an individual—sign the document
          under section 51; and
          (c) if the person is a corporation—sign the document
          under this section.
     (8) This section does not limit or otherwise affect the ways in which
     a document that is to have effect as a deed for a corporation may be
     executed by the corporation.
     (9) In this section—
     "attorney", for a corporation, means a person acting under the
     authority of a power of attorney given by the corporation under a
     deed, a general power of attorney made under the Powers of Attorney
     Act 1998, or another law.
     "audio visual link" means facilities that enable reasonably
     contemporaneous and continuous audio and visual communication between
     persons at different places and includes videoconferencing.
     "statutory corporation" means an entity established, incorporated or
     registered under an Act of the Commonwealth or a State, that is not a
     corporation registered under the Corporations Act.
Execution by partnership or unincorporated association
*** 53 Execution by partnership or unincorporated association ***
     (1) An individual may execute a document that is to have effect as a
     deed on behalf of a partnership or unincorporated association by
     signing the document.
     (2) An individual may sign a document under subsection (1) whether or
     not in the presence of a witness.
     (3) If an individual signs a document under subsection (1), the
     individual must sign the document in a way that indicates the person
     is executing the document on behalf of the partnership or
     unincorporated association.
     (4) A reference in subsection (1) to a document includes a document
     containing a power of attorney for the partnership or unincorporated
     association.
     (5) This section does not limit or otherwise affect another law or
     document that requires or permits a document executed on behalf of a
     partnership or unincorporated association to be executed in a
     particular way.
          Example—
               This section does not affect a document that
               requires or permits a document executed on behalf
               of a partnership to be executed by a stated
               number of partners.
Execution by the State
*** 54 Execution by the State ***
     (1) A person who is authorised to execute a document that is to have
     effect as a deed for the State may execute the document by signing
     the document.
     (2) The person may sign the document under subsection (1) without
     using a seal and whether or not in the presence of a witness.
     (3) If a seal is used to execute a document that is to have effect as
     a deed for the State, the fixing of the seal to the document is taken
     to have been witnessed by a person who is authorised to witness the
     fixing of the seal if—
          (a) the person observes the fixing of the seal by audio
          visual link; and
          (b) the person signs the document; and
          (c) the document includes a statement that the person
          observed the fixing of the seal by audio visual link.
     (4) This section does not limit or otherwise affect—
          (a) section 52 (3); or
          (b) the State’s powers or legal capacity under another
          law.
     (5) In this section—
     "State" includes a public sector unit and any other entity that
     represents the State.
Signing counterpart or true copy
*** 55 Signing counterpart or true copy ***
     (1) A document that is to have effect as a deed for a person may be
     signed by or for the person by signing a counterpart or true copy of
     the document.
     (2) For subsection (1), if the counterpart or true copy is
     electronically signed by a person, the counterpart or true copy need
     not include any material included in the document about the method
     used for electronically signing the document.
     (3) In this section—
     "person" includes a partnership, an unincorporated association and
     the State.
Delivery
*** 56 Delivery ***
     (1) The execution of a document in the form of a deed does not, of
     itself, constitute delivery of a deed, unless it appears the
     execution of the document was intended to constitute delivery of the
     document.
     (2) Subject to subsection (1), delivery of a deed may be inferred
     from any fact or circumstance, including, for example, words or
     conduct, that indicates delivery.
     (3) In this section—
     "delivery", of a deed, means an intention to be legally bound by the
     deed either immediately or subject to the fulfilment of 1 or more
     conditions.
Receipt in body of deed sufficient
*** 57 Receipt in body of deed sufficient ***
     (1) A receipt for consideration in the body of a deed or other
     document is a sufficient discharge for the consideration to the
     person giving the consideration without any further receipt for the
     consideration being endorsed on the deed or document.
     (2) In this section—
     "consideration" includes money and securities.
Deposit of deed in registry
*** 58 Deposit of deed in registry ***
     (1) This section applies to a deed made under this division that is
     proposed to be deposited in a registry for the purpose of supporting
     another document lodged or deposited in the registry.
     (2) If the deed is made in counterparts, each counterpart must be
     deposited in the registry for the purpose.
     (3) If the deed or a counterpart of the deed is in the form of an
     electronic document, a printed copy of the deed or counterpart
     certified under subsection (4) must be deposited in the registry for
     the purpose.
     (4) For subsection (3), the printed copy must be certified as a true
     copy of the original deed or counterpart—
          (a) on a page of the printed copy; and
          (b) by 1 of the following persons—
               (i) 1 of the signatories;
               (ii) a lawyer;
               (iii) a justice;
               (iv) a commissioner for declarations;
               (v) a notary public;
               (vi) a trustee company under the Trustee
               Companies Act 1968;
               (vii) a stockbroker.
     (5) In this section—
     "registry" means—
          (a) the land registry; or
          (b) the water allocations register under the Water Act
          2000.
Protection for third parties
*** 59 Protection for third parties ***
     (1) A person may assume that a document has been duly executed by a
     corporation if—
          (a) the document appears to have been signed under section
          52 (1) or (3); or
          (b) for a corporation using a seal—
               (i) the seal of the corporation appears to have
               been fixed to the document; and
               (ii) the fixing of the seal appears to have been
               witnessed under section 52 (2) or (4).
     (2) This section does not limit or otherwise affect any requirement
     to be satisfied that a person signing a document is a director,
     secretary, or lawfully authorised agent or attorney, of a
     corporation.
Abolition of rule in Pigot’s case
*** 60 Abolition of rule in Pigot’s case ***
     (1) The rule of law known as the rule in Pigot’s case is abolished.
     (2) Accordingly, a material alteration to a deed does not, by itself,
     invalidate the deed or render it voidable, or limit or otherwise
     affect any obligation under the deed.
Construction of expressions used in deeds and other documents
*** 61 Construction of expressions used in deeds and other documents ***
     (1) In a deed, contract, will or other document, unless the context
     otherwise requires—
          (a) the term month means calendar month; and
          (b) the term person includes an individual and a
          corporation; and
          (c) words indicating a gender include each other gender;
          and
          (d) words in the singular include the plural and words in
          the plural include the singular.
     (2) A covenant, power or term implied in a deed, contract, will, or
     other document under this Act or another Act must be construed under
     subsection (1).
Implied covenants may be negatived
*** 62 Implied covenants may be negatived ***
     (1) A covenant, power or term implied, under this Act or another Act,
     in a document has the same effect, and may be enforced in the same
     way, as if the covenant, power or term had been expressed in the
     document.
     (2) However, the covenant, power or term implied in the document may
     be negatived, varied or extended by the express terms of the document
     or another document.
     (3) This section is subject to this Act or another Act.
Covenants and agreements made by person with self and others
*** 63 Covenants and agreements made by person with self and others ***
     (1) A covenant, whether express or implied, or agreement, entered
     into by a person with the person’s self and 1 or more other
     persons, has the same effect, and may be enforced in the same way, as
     if the covenant or agreement had been entered into by the person with
     the other person or persons alone.
     (2) In this section—
     "implied" includes implied under this Act or another Act.
Covenants relating to land bind successors
*** 64 Covenants relating to land bind successors ***
     (1) A covenant relating to land of a covenantee is taken to be made
     with each of the following—
          (a) the covenantee;
          (b) the covenantee’s successors in title;
          (c) each person deriving title from a person mentioned in
          paragraph (a) or (b).
     (2) A covenant relating to land of a covenantor, or land capable of
     being bound by a covenantor, is taken to be made by each of the
     following—
          (a) the covenantor on behalf of the covenantor’s self;
          (b) the covenantor’s successors in title;
          (c) each person deriving title from a person mentioned in
          paragraph (a) or (b);
          (d) for a restrictive covenant—the owners and occupiers
          for the time being of the land burdened by the covenant.
     (3) Subsection (2) extends to a covenant to do some act relating to
     the land, notwithstanding that the subject matter of the covenant may
     not be in existence when the covenant is made.
     (4) This section applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.
Particular covenants in registered easements bind successors
*** 65 Particular covenants in registered easements bind successors ***
     (1) This section applies to a covenant contained in a registered
     easement over land (the
     "burdened land").
     (2) If the covenant imposes an obligation, whether positive or
     negative, in relation to the use, ownership or maintenance of the
     burdened land, the covenant binds the grantor and the grantee of the
     easement, and each of their successors in title.
     (3) A covenant imposes an obligation in relation to the use,
     ownership or maintenance of the burdened land if the covenant imposes
     an obligation—
          (a) to maintain or repair the burdened land; or
          (b) to construct, maintain, repair or replace improvements
          or infrastructure on the burdened land used in connection
          with the easement; or
          (c) to pay for or contribute to the performance of an
          obligation mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b); or
          (d) to pay for or contribute to rates or taxes relating to
          the burdened land; or
          (e) to indemnify a party to the easement in connection with
          the use of the easement; or
          (f) to insure, pay for or contribute to insurance in
          connection with the use of the easement.
     (3A) Subsection (3) does not limit the covenants that may impose an
     obligation in relation to the use, ownership or maintenance of the
     burdened land.
     (4) Subsection (2) does not apply if the covenant is expressed to be
     personal to the grantor or the grantee of the easement.
     (5) This section does not limit or otherwise affect the Land Title
     Act 1994, part 6, division 4 or 4A.
     (6) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a registered easement
     under this section includes a registered easement in gross.
No right to register restrictive covenant
*** 66 No right to register restrictive covenant ***
To remove any doubt, it is declared that this Act does not confer on any person
a right to register a restrictive covenant.
Effect of joint promises and liabilities
*** 67 Effect of joint promises and liabilities ***
     (1) Subject to this Act and any other Act—
          (a) a promise made by 2 or more persons takes effect,
          unless a contrary intention appears, as a promise made
          jointly and severally by each of those persons; and
          (b) a joint liability is discharged, or a cause of action
          with respect to a joint liability is extinguished, by a
          fact, event or other thing only to the extent the liability
          would be discharged, or cause of action extinguished, by
          the fact, event or other thing if the liability were joint
          and several.
     (2) In this section—
     "promise" includes—
          (a) a promise, bond or other obligation under seal or under
          a deed; and
          (b) a covenant, whether express or implied under this Act.
Contract containing promise for benefit of third party
*** 68 Contract containing promise for benefit of third party ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a person (the
          "promisor") and another person (the
          "promisee") enter into a contract; and
          (b) the contract contains a promise that the promisor will
          do or refrain from doing an act for the benefit of another
          person who is not a party to the contract (the
          "third party").
     (2) The promisor is subject to a duty enforceable by the third party
     to perform the promise.
     (3) Subject to the terms of the contract, the contract or the promise
     may be terminated or modified by the agreement of the promisor and
     promisee before the third party accepts the benefit of the promise.
     (4) If the third party accepts the benefit of the promise, either
     expressly or by conduct, an obligation imposed by the contract on the
     third party for the benefit of the promisor is enforceable by the
     promisor.
     (5) The promise is enforceable by the third party in a proceeding
     brought in the third party’s own name.
     (6) If the third party brings a proceeding under subsection (5) —
          (a) the third party must serve each party to the contract
          with a copy of the proceeding; and
          (b) a defence that would have been available to the
          promisor had the third party been a party to the contract
          is available to the promisor.
     (7) If the promise creates an interest in land, this section applies
     subject to part 2, division 1.
     (8) In this section—
     "contract" includes a deed or another document if the deed or other
     document provides for the giving of consideration.
     "third party" includes—
          (a) a person designated by name, description or class; and
          (b) a person not in existence when a promise is made.
Guarantee not enforceable unless in writing
*** 69 Guarantee not enforceable unless in writing ***
     (1) A guarantee is not enforceable in a proceeding unless—
          (a) the guarantee is in writing or its terms are recorded
          in writing; and
          (b) the guarantee or written record is signed by the party
          against whom the guarantee is sought to be enforced.
     (2) However, subsection (1) does not require the consideration given
     for the guarantee to appear in writing or by necessary inference from
     a written document.
     (3) Subject to the National Consumer Credit Protection Act 2009
     (Cwlth), a guarantee may comply with subsection (1) even if the
     guarantee is—
          (a) an electronic document; or
          (b) digitally signed.
     (4) In this section—
     "digitally sign", an electronic document, means sign the document
     using a method mentioned in the Electronic Transactions (Queensland)
     Act 2001, section 14.
     "guarantee" includes an indemnity.
Effect of conclusive evidence provision
*** 70 Effect of conclusive evidence provision ***
     (1) If a contract or other document provides that a certificate of a
     person is conclusive evidence of a fact, the certificate is evidence,
     but not conclusive evidence, of the fact.
     (2) However, subsection (1) does not apply to—
          (a) a certificate of a person bound to act judicially,
          quasi-judicially or as an arbitrator in giving the
          certificate; or
          (b) a certificate of an expert, including, for example, an
          architect or engineer, required to be independent and act
          fairly to the parties to the contract or other document in
          giving the certificate; or
          (c) a provision in a contract or other document agreed to
          after a dispute has arisen about the fact.
     (3) Subsection (1) applies—
          (a) subject to any other Act; and
          (b) despite any agreement to the contrary.
     (4) In this section—
     "certificate" includes a statement and an opinion.
     "fact" includes a circumstance, event, matter and state of affairs.
Effect on contract of non-compliance with statutory instrument
*** 71 Effect on contract of non-compliance with statutory instrument ***
     (1) A statutory instrument, other than prescribed subordinate
     legislation, does not and can not—
          (a) render voidable or unenforceable any contract or
          disposition concerning property that is made, entered into
          or effected contrary to the statutory instrument; or
          (b) for a contract for the sale of land—give a party to
          the contract a right to terminate the contract for a
          failure by another party to the contract to comply with the
          statutory instrument.
     (2) In this section—
     "prescribed subordinate legislation" means subordinate legislation
     prescribed by regulation for this section.
Effect of statutory requirement for certificate
*** 72 Effect of statutory requirement for certificate ***
     (1) This section applies if an Act requires a certificate to be
     obtained or given before or when—
          (a) entering a contract for the disposition of property; or
          (b) making a disposition of property.
     (2) It is sufficient compliance with the requirement if the
     certificate is obtained or given before settlement of the contract or
     disposition.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not apply if this Act or another Act
     expressly provides otherwise.
     (4) In this section—
     "certificate" includes an approval and a consent.
     "settlement", of a contract or disposition, means—
          (a) for a sale—settlement of the sale; or
          (b) for a lease—entry into possession under the lease by
          the lessee; or
          (c) for a mortgage—the acceptance of liability under the
          mortgage by the mortgagor; or
          (d) otherwise—the finalisation of the contract or
          disposition.
Stipulations not of essence of contract
*** 73 Stipulations not of essence of contract ***
     (1) This section applies to a stipulation in a contract, as to time
     or otherwise, that under the rules of equity is not of the essence of
     the contract.
     (2) The stipulation must be construed, and has effect at law, under
     the rules of equity.
Definitions for division
*** 74 Definitions for division ***
In this division—
"computer" means all or part of a computer, computer system or computer network
and includes, for example, all external devices connected to the computer in
any way or capable of communicating with each other as part of a system or
network.
"conveyancing transaction" see the Electronic Conveyancing National Law
(Queensland), section 3.
"e-conveyance" means a conveyancing transaction to be completed using e-
conveyancing.
"e-conveyancing" means a system of land conveyancing that uses an ELN to lodge
documents electronically for the purpose of land titles legislation.
"electronic workspace", for an e-conveyance, means a shared electronic
workspace within an ELN that allows the participating subscribers to the e-
conveyance—
     (a) to lodge a document electronically under the Electronic
     Conveyancing National Law (Queensland); and
     (b) if relevant, to authorise or complete financial settlement of the
     e-conveyance.
"ELN" means an Electronic Lodgment Network under the Electronic Conveyancing
National Law (Queensland).
"financial settlement", of an e-conveyance, means the exchange of value, in an
ELN, between financial institutions in accordance with the instructions of
participating subscribers to the e-conveyance.
"land titles legislation" see the Electronic Conveyancing National Law
(Queensland) Act 2013, section 6.
"participating subscriber", to an e-conveyance, means a subscriber who is
involved in the e-conveyance as a party to the e-conveyance or as a
representative of a party.
"sale", of land, includes an exchange for value.
"subscriber" see the Electronic Conveyancing National Law (Queensland), section
3.
Reference to settlement of sale of land using e-conveyancing
*** 75 Reference to settlement of sale of land using e-conveyancing ***
     (1) A reference in this Act or another Act to the settlement, however
     described, of the sale of land or a contract for the sale of land,
     using e-conveyancing, is a reference to the electronic workspace for
     the e-conveyance recording—
          (a) financial settlement of the sale; or
          (b) if there is no financial settlement of the sale—the
          acceptance by the registrar, for electronic lodgement, of
          the documents necessary to transfer title.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if this Act or another Act
     expressly provides otherwise.
Implied conditions
*** 76 Implied conditions ***
     (1) The following conditions are implied in a contract for the sale
     of land—
          (a) the seller must give the buyer, at the cost of the
          seller, a copy of each document, in relation to which a
          caveat is registered, that is in the possession of the
          seller;
          (b) the seller must, at the cost of the seller, remove any
          objection to the registration of any document required to
          give effect to the contract unless—
               (i) the objection arises from the buyer’s own
               act or omission; or
               (ii) the objection may have been discovered by a
               reasonable person in the position of the buyer,
               and was not raised by the buyer, before
               settlement;
          (c) if the seller is required under the contract to
          transfer the land free from encumbrances—the seller must,
          on settlement of the contract—
               (i) discharge any encumbrances out of the
               purchase money payable under the contract by the
               buyer; and
               (ii) for an encumbrance registered on the title
               to the land—give the buyer a release of the
               encumbrance in registrable form.
     (2) Also, if a sale of land is not an e-conveyance, the following
     conditions are implied in the contract for the sale of the land—
          (a) payment or tender of money payable under the contract
          may be made by a cheque drawn on a financial institution;
          (b) settlement of the contract must take place at—
               (i) the office of the land registry at which the
               document relating to the sale may be lodged; or
               (ii) if there is more than 1 office under
               subparagraph (i) —the office of the land
               registry nearest the land.
     (3) This section applies subject to the terms of the contract for the
     sale of the land.
Buyer may rescind contract if residential dwelling unfit for occupation
*** 77 Buyer may rescind contract if residential dwelling unfit for occupation
***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) parties enter into a contract for the sale of land; and
          (b) the land contains or comprises a residential dwelling;
          and
          (c) before the earlier of the following to happen, the
          residential dwelling is so damaged or destroyed as to be
          unfit for occupation as a residential dwelling—
               (i) the settlement of the contract;
               (ii) the buyer taking possession of the land
               under the contract or another document.
     (2) The buyer may rescind the contract by giving notice to the seller
     of the rescission before the earliest of the following to happen—
          (a) the settlement of the contract;
          (b) the buyer taking possession of the land under the
          contract or another document;
          (c) the seller restoring the residential dwelling to the
          condition it was in immediately before it was so damaged or
          destroyed as to be unfit for occupation as a residential
          dwelling.
     (3) If the seller restores the residential dwelling to the condition
     it was in immediately before it was so damaged or destroyed as to be
     unfit for occupation as a residential dwelling, the seller must give
     notice to the buyer of the restoration as soon as practicable after
     the restoration.
     (4) The buyer may, after receiving notice under subsection (3) and
     giving reasonable notice to the seller, inspect the residential
     dwelling.
     (5) On rescission of the contract, an amount, if any, paid under the
     contract by the buyer must be refunded to the buyer.
     (6) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
     (7) In this section—
     "residential dwelling" —
          (a) means a building or part of a building used, or
          currently designed for use, only as a single dwelling; and
          (b) includes a residential dwelling that comprises—
               (i) a lot included in a community titles scheme;
               or
               (ii) a lot under the Building Units and Group
               Titles Act 1980; or
               (iii) a leasehold building units lot under the
               South Bank Corporation Act 1989, section 97B; and
          (c) does not include a building or part of a building used,
          or currently designed for use, as temporary accommodation.
When day of settlement is next business day
*** 78 When day of settlement is next business day ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) parties enter into a contract for the sale of land; and
          (b) the contract provides that the day of settlement of the
          contract is a day that is not a business day in—
               (i) the place where the contract is to be
               settled; or
               (ii) if the contract is to be settled
               electronically and the contract does not provide
               for a place where the contract is to be
               settled—the place where the land is located;
               and
          (c) the contract does not designate the day mentioned in
          paragraph (b) as a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday.
     (2) Despite the terms of the contract, the day of settlement of the
     contract is—
          (a) if the parties to the contract agree to another day of
          settlement—the day agreed; or
          (b) otherwise—the next business day in the place
          mentioned in subsection (1) (b) after the day of settlement
          provided for in the contract.
Effect of inoperative computers in office of the land registry on day of
settlement
*** 79 Effect of inoperative computers in office of the land registry on day of
settlement ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) parties enter into a contract for the sale of land; and
          (b) the contract provides that time is of the essence; and
          (c) the buyer, without default on the buyer’s part, can
          not, on the day of settlement of the contract, verify the
          seller’s title because computers in the office of the
          land registry being used to verify the seller’s title are
          inoperative.
     (2) Time stops being of the essence of the contract.
     (3) The seller is taken—
          (a) not to have proved title to the land; and
          (b) not to be in breach of the contract only because of the
          failure to prove title at that time.
     (4) The seller or buyer may give a notice to the other party to the
     contract to complete the contract.
     (5) The notice must state—
          (a) that the computers are again fully operational; and
          (b) the day, at least 3 business days but not more than 7
          business days after the day the notice is given, for
          settlement of the contract.
     (6) The notice may not be given earlier than the day after the first
     continuous day of operation of the computers after the computers are
     again fully operational.
     (7) From a party’s receipt of the notice, time is again of the
     essence of the contract.
     (8) This section applies subject to the terms of the contract for the
     sale of the land.
Effect of inoperative computers in particular entities on day of settlement
*** 80 Effect of inoperative computers in particular entities on day of
settlement ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) parties enter into a contract for the sale of land that
          is an e-conveyance; and
          (b) the contract provides that time is of the essence; and
          (c) the contract can not, on the day of settlement of the
          contract, be settled because computers used by any of the
          following entities are inoperative, including, for example,
          because the entity is closed for business—
               (i) an office of the land registry;
               (ii) an office of the Commissioner of State
               Revenue under the Taxation Administration Act
               2001;
               (iii) the Reserve Bank of Australia;
               (iv) a financial institution;
               (v) an ELN.
     (2) The parties to the contract are taken not to be in breach of the
     contract only because of the failure, on the day of settlement of the
     contract, to complete settlement of the contract.
     (3) Time does not stop being of the essence of the contract.
     (4) The day of settlement of the contract is taken to be the next
     business day.
     (5) The parties must do everything required under the ELN to enable
     the contract to be settled on the next business day.
     (6) This section applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.
     (6A) To remove any doubt, it is declared that if, on the next
     business day mentioned in subsection (4), the contract again can not
     be settled because of the circumstances mentioned in subsection (1),
     this section again applies in relation to the circumstances.
     (7) In this section—
     "business day" means a day that is not—
          (a) a Saturday or Sunday; or
          (b) a public holiday in—
               (i) the place where the contract is to be
               settled; or
               (ii) if the contract is to be settled
               electronically and the contract does not provide
               for a place where the contract is to be
               settled—the place where the land is located; or
          (c) a day in the period starting on 27 December and ending
          on 31 December.
Effect of adverse event on day of settlement
*** 81 Effect of adverse event on day of settlement ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) parties enter into a contract for the sale of land; and
          (b) the contract provides that time is of the essence; and
          (c) a party to the contract (the
          "non-attending party"), because of an adverse event, can
          not, on the day and at the time of settlement of the
          contract, complete settlement of the contract.
     (2) Time stops being of the essence of the contract.
     (3) The non-attending party—
          (a) must take reasonable steps to mitigate the effects of
          the adverse event on the settlement of the contract; and
          (b) subject to compliance with paragraph (a) —is taken
          not to be in breach of the contract only because of the
          failure, on the day and at the time of settlement of the
          contract, to complete settlement of the contract.
     (4) Despite the terms of the contract, but subject to any right under
     the contract to nominate a new day and time of settlement of the
     contract, the day and time of settlement of the contract are—
          (a) if the parties to the contract agree to another day and
          time—the day and time agreed; or
          (b) otherwise—the day and time determined under
          subsections (5) to (8).
     (5) The non-attending party must—
          (a) as soon as practicable after the adverse event, tell
          the other party of the adverse event and how the adverse
          event has caused the non-attending party to fail to
          complete settlement of the contract; and
          (b) as soon as practicable after the adverse event stops
          preventing the non-attending party from completing
          settlement of the contract, give a notice to the other
          party to the contract to complete the contract.
     (6) The notice under subsection (5) (b) must state—
          (a) a day, at least 5 business days and not more than 10
          business days after the day the notice is given, for
          settlement of the contract; and
          (b) a time for settlement of the contract.
     (7) From a party’s receipt of a notice under subsection (5) (b) and
     (6), time is again of the essence of the contract.
     (8) If a notice is given under subsection (5) (b) by the buyer and
     the seller in relation to the same adverse event on the same day of
     settlement, the notice given by the seller prevails.
     (9) In this section—
     "adverse event" means an event that causes serious disruption to a
     community, including, for example—
          (a) a cyclone, fire, flood, landslide, seismic event,
          storm, storm tide, tsunami or tornado; and
          (b) a public health emergency under the Public Health Act
          2005; and
          (c) a requirement to comply with a lawful direction or
          order given by a government entity under a law of the
          Commonwealth or a State; and
          (d) an act of terrorism, activity related to war, civil
          commotion, public disturbance or riot; and
          (e) an explosion or sudden impact of an object, including,
          for example, an aircraft or object from space.
     "business day" means a day that is not—
          (a) a Saturday or Sunday; or
          (b) a public holiday in—
               (i) the place where the contract is to be
               settled; or
               (ii) if the contract is to be settled
               electronically and the contract does not provide
               for a place where the contract is to be
               settled—the place where the land is located; or
          (c) a day in the period starting on 27 December and ending
          on 31 December.
Direction for payment given by seller’s authorised agent sufficient discharge
of buyer
*** 82 Direction for payment given by seller’s authorised agent sufficient
discharge of buyer ***
     (1) A written direction given by a seller’s authorised agent to the
     buyer or the buyer’s authorised agent in relation to the payment of
     money under a contract for the sale of land is sufficient discharge
     of the buyer in relation to the payment of the money.
     (2) In this section—
     "authorised agent" means—
          (a) a legal practitioner; or
          (b) a manager of a financial institution.
Buyer may recover damages if defective title
*** 83 Buyer may recover damages if defective title ***
     (1) The rule of law known as the rule in Bain v Fothergill is
     abolished in relation to a contract for the sale or other disposition
     of land.
     (2) The court may award damages for loss of bargain against a seller
     who can not perform a contract for the sale or other disposition of
     land because of a defect in the seller’s title.
     (3) This section does not affect a right, power or remedy available
     to a buyer under a contract for the sale or other disposition of land
     in relation to a defect in the seller’s title, or a failure of the
     seller to perform the contract, that is available under a law other
     than this section.
     (4) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
Buyer may recover deposit and instalments if defective title but no rescission
*** 84 Buyer may recover deposit and instalments if defective title but no
rescission ***
     (1) This section applies if a seller is not entitled to specific
     performance of a contract for the sale of land against a buyer
     because of a defect in the seller’s title but the defect does not
     entitle the buyer to rescind the contract.
     (2) The buyer may recover the buyer’s deposit and any instalments
     under the contract and is relieved from all liability under the
     contract, unless the contract discloses the defect and contains a
     term precluding the buyer from objecting to the defect.
     (3) If the defect was known, or should reasonably have been known, to
     the seller at the date of the contract the buyer may also recover the
     buyer’s expenses of investigating the title.
     (4) Also, without being limited by subsection (1), in any proceeding
     in which the court refuses to order specific performance of a
     contract, or in which the buyer seeks return of the deposit or any
     instalments under a contract, the court may order the repayment of
     the deposit and any instalments.
     (5) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
Seller may forfeit deposit of no more than 20 per cent if buyer breaches
contract for sale of proposed lot
*** 85 Seller may forfeit deposit of no more than 20 per cent if buyer breaches
contract for sale of proposed lot ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a contract for the sale of a
     proposed lot.
     (2) The contract may provide for a sum of not more than 20% of the
     purchase price of the proposed lot that is paid under the contract as
     a deposit, whether paid in 1 or more amounts, to be forfeited and
     retained by the seller in the event of a breach of the contract by
     the buyer.
     (3) However, the sum mentioned in subsection (2) may only be
     forfeited or retained by the seller if the breach of the contract by
     the buyer results in termination of the contract.
     (4) The sum mentioned in subsection (2) is not, either at law or in
     equity, a penalty if the sum is forfeited or retained by the seller
     under subsection (3).
When statutory right of termination on settlement ends if e-conveyance
*** 86 When statutory right of termination on settlement ends if e-conveyance
***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an Act provides for a right of termination, however
          described, in relation to a sale of land or a contract for
          the sale of land; and
          (b) the right is expressed to end on settlement; and
          (c) the sale is completed using e-conveyancing.
     (2) The right of termination—
          (a) ends on settlement; and
          (b) may not be exercised during any period the electronic
          workspace for the e-conveyance is locked for the purpose of
          settlement.
     (3) In this section—
     "locked", in relation to an electronic workspace for an e-conveyance,
     means the ELN for the workspace does not allow a participating
     subscriber to the e-conveyance to change a document or instruction in
     the workspace.
Definitions for division
*** 87 Definitions for division ***
In this division—
"buyer", in relation to an instalment contract, includes a person deriving an
interest under the contract from the original buyer.
"contract", for the sale of land, includes—
     (a) an agreement for the sale of land; and
     (b) an option to purchase land.
"deposit", in relation to a contract for the sale of land, means a sum of not
more than the prescribed percentage of the purchase price of the land that is
payable by the buyer in 1 or more amounts, and refundable to the buyer if the
seller breaches the contract or does not fulfil a contingent condition of the
contract.
"instalment", in relation to a contract for the sale of land, does not
include—
     (a) an option fee relating to the land; or
     (b) an amount paid by the buyer, after the contract was entered into
     and before settlement of the contract, in relation to any of the
     following—
          (i) maintenance of the land;
          (ii) rent and outgoings relating to the land;
          (iii) rates and taxes relating to the land;
          (iv) interest on any part of the purchase price under the
          contract for the land;
          (v) an extension of time to complete the contract.
"instalment contract" see section 89.
"option fee", relating to land, means an amount paid for the grant or exercise
of an option to purchase the land.
"prescribed percentage", of the purchase price of land, means—
     (a) if the land is a proposed lot—20%; or
     (b) otherwise—10%.
"seller", in relation to an instalment contract, includes a person to whom the
rights of the seller under the contract have been assigned with the consent
under section 92 of the buyer.
Application of division
*** 88 Application of division ***
     (1) This division applies in relation to an instalment contract
     despite any agreement to the contrary.
     (2) However, despite section 3, this division does not bind the
     State, the Commonwealth or the other States.
     (3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that this division does not
     apply in relation to a contract for the sale of land by the public
     trustee.
     (4) In this section—
     "public trustee" see the Public Trustee Act 1978, section 6.
What is an instalment contract
*** 89 What is an instalment contract ***
An
"instalment contract" is a contract for the sale of land under which the buyer
is bound to make 1 or more payments by instalment of the purchase price of the
land, other than a deposit, and is not entitled to receive a transfer of the
title to the land in exchange for the payments.
When buyer must give seller notice to constitute contract an instalment
contract
*** 90 When buyer must give seller notice to constitute contract an instalment
contract ***
     (1) This section applies if a contract for the sale of land may, at
     the election of the buyer, be performed in a way that would
     constitute the contract an instalment contract.
     (2) The contract is not an instalment contract unless and until the
     buyer gives the seller a notice stating that the buyer elects to
     perform the contract in a way that will constitute the contract an
     instalment contract.
Restriction on seller’s right to termination if buyer defaults on payment of
instalment
*** 91 Restriction on seller’s right to termination if buyer defaults on
payment of instalment ***
     (1) The seller under an instalment contract may not terminate the
     contract because of default by the buyer in payment of an instalment
     of the purchase price of the land, or in payment of any other sum of
     money, other than a deposit, until 30 days after the seller gives the
     buyer a notice in the approved form about the default.
     (2) If a buyer receives a notice under subsection (1) about a default
     by the buyer in payment of an instalment or sum of money mentioned in
     subsection (1), the buyer may, within 30 days after the seller gives
     the notice to the buyer, pay the outstanding instalment or sum to the
     seller.
     (3) If a buyer pays the outstanding instalment or sum to the seller
     under subsection (2), any right or power of the seller to terminate
     the contract because of the default ends and the buyer is taken not
     to be in default under the instalment contract.
Seller can not sell or mortgage land
*** 92 Seller can not sell or mortgage land ***
     (1) The seller under an instalment contract must not without the
     consent of the buyer sell or mortgage the land the subject of the
     contract.
     (2) The buyer may give consent under subsection (1) only by giving
     the seller a notice stating that—
          (a) the buyer has received a notice from the seller stating
          the terms of the sale or mortgage; and
          (b) the buyer consents to the sale or mortgage on the
          stated terms.
     (3) If land is sold or mortgaged in contravention of subsection (1),
     the instalment contract is voidable by the buyer before settlement of
     the contract.
     (4) If the buyer elects to render the instalment contract void under
     subsection (3), the buyer may recover as a debt a deposit or
     instalment paid to the seller under the contract.
     (5) This section does not limit or otherwise affect—
          (a) a right or remedy of the buyer under a law other than
          this section; or
          (b) a right of another person who buys from the seller in
          good faith, for value and without notice of the instalment
          contract.
     (6) In this section—
     "consent", to a sale or mortgage, means consent to the stated terms
     of the sale or mortgage.
Buyer may lodge caveat
*** 93 Buyer may lodge caveat ***
     (1) The buyer under an instalment contract may, by a caveat under the
     Land Title Act 1994 that is stated to be lodged under this section,
     forbid the registration of any document affecting the land the
     subject of the contract until settlement of the contract.
     (2) The caveat is taken, for the Land Title Act 1994, to have been
     lodged other than under part 7, division 2 of that Act.
     (3) The caveat may, on the application of any person interested, be
     removed on proof to the satisfaction of the registrar or of the court
     that—
          (a) the buyer has consented to removal of the caveat; or
          (b) the instalment contract has been rescinded or
          terminated or discharged by performance or otherwise; or
          (c) the caveat should be removed on another ground.
     (4) This section does not limit or otherwise affect the powers of the
     registrar in relation to caveats under the Land Title Act 1994.
Buyer not in default may require seller to transfer land
*** 94 Buyer not in default may require seller to transfer land ***
     (1) A buyer not in default under an instalment contract may give a
     notice to the seller requiring the seller to transfer the land on a
     stated day (the
     "day of settlement") in exchange for payment of the balance of the
     purchase money owing at the day of settlement.
     (2) The notice must—
          (a) make time of the essence of the contract, if time is
          not already of the essence of the contract; and
          (b) be given to the seller at least 3 months before the day
          of settlement.
Definitions for division
*** 95 Definitions for division ***
In this division—
"buyer", under a contract for the sale of a lot, means—
     (a) if the contract is an option—
          (i) for a call option—the grantee of the option; or
          (ii) for a put option—the grantor of the option; or
          (iii) for a put and call option—a person who is the
          grantee of the call option or grantor of the put option; or
     (b) otherwise—the person who is bound under the contract,
     absolutely or conditionally, to buy the lot.
"call option", for the sale of a lot, means an agreement or promise under which
the grantor of the option agrees or promises to sell the lot to the grantee of
the option if requested by the grantee.
"contract", for the sale of a lot, includes—
     (a) an agreement or promise for the sale of the lot; and
     (b) an option for the sale of the lot.
"disclosure documents", for a lot, means the documents required to be given by
the seller of the lot to the buyer of the lot under section 99.
"disclosure statement", for a lot, see section 99 (1) (a).
"listed corporation" see the Corporations Act, section 9.
"lot" —
     (a) has the meaning given by the Land Title Act 1994; and
     (b) does not include a proposed lot.
"option", for the sale of a lot, means—
     (a) a put option for the sale of the lot; or
     (b) a call option for the sale of the lot; or
     (c) a put and call option for the sale of the lot.
"prescribed certificate", applicable to a lot, see section 99 (1) (b).
"put and call option", for the sale of a lot, means a contract under which
there is a call option for the sale of the lot and a put option for the sale of
the lot.
"put option", for the sale of a lot, means an agreement or promise under which
the grantor of the option agrees or promises to purchase the lot from the
grantee of the option if requested by the grantee.
"related", for a buyer of a lot and a seller of a lot, see section 96.
"seller", under a contract for the sale of a lot, means—
     (a) if the contract is an option—
          (i) for a call option—the grantor of the option; or
          (ii) for a put option—the grantee of the option; or
          (iii) for a put and call option—a person who is the
          grantor of the call option or grantee of the put option; or
     (b) otherwise—the person who is bound under the contract,
     absolutely or conditionally, to sell the lot.
"statutory body" —
     (a) has the meaning given by the Financial Accountability Act 2009;
     and
     (b) includes—
          (i) an entity of the Commonwealth or another State that is
          equivalent to a statutory body under the Financial
          Accountability Act 2009; and
          (ii) an entity prescribed by regulation to be a statutory
          body for this definition; and
     (c) does not include an entity prescribed by regulation not to be a
     statutory body for this definition.
When buyer and seller are related
*** 96 When buyer and seller are related ***
     (1) The buyer of a lot and the seller of a lot are
     "related" if—
          (a) for a seller who is an individual—
               (i) the buyer is a relative of the seller; or
               (ii) the buyer is in a partnership under the
               Partnership Act 1891 with the seller; or
               (iii) the buyer is a corporation of which the
               seller is a director or member; or
               (iv) the buyer is a related body corporate of a
               corporation of which the seller is a director or
               member; or
          (b) for a seller that is a corporation—
               (i) the buyer is a related body corporate; or
               (ii) if the seller is a corporation other than a
               listed corporation—the buyer is a director or
               member of the corporation or of a related body
               corporate.
     (2) In this section —
     "related body corporate" see the Corporations Act, section 9.
     "relative", of a seller, means—
          (a) a parent, step-parent or grandparent of the seller; or
          (b) a sibling, half-sibling or step-sibling of the seller;
          or
          (c) an uncle, aunt, nephew, niece or cousin of the seller;
          or
          (d) a child, step-child or grandchild of the seller; or
          (e) a spouse of the seller; or
          (f) if the seller has a spouse—a person who is a
          relative, of the type mentioned in any of paragraphs (a) to
          (d), of the seller’s spouse; or
          (g) if the seller is an Aboriginal person or Torres Strait
          Islander—a person who is a relative, of the type
          mentioned in any of paragraphs (a) to (f), of the seller
          under Aboriginal tradition or Island custom.
References to things done by or in relation to buyer or seller
*** 97 References to things done by or in relation to buyer or seller ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a provision of this division
     that refers to—
          (a) a thing required or permitted to be done by or in
          relation to a buyer of a lot or a seller of a lot; or
          (b) a thing having been done by or in relation to a buyer
          of a lot or a seller of a lot.
     (2) The thing may be done, or the thing may have been done, by or in
     relation to the buyer of the lot or seller of the lot either—
          (a) personally; or
          (b) by an agent who is authorised to act for the buyer or
          seller in relation to the thing.
               Examples—
                         1 A seller of a lot may sign
                         a disclosure statement for
                         the lot personally or by an
                         agent authorised to act for
                         the seller.
                         2 A seller of a lot may give
                         to the buyer of the lot a
                         disclosure statement for the
                         lot personally or by an agent
                         authorised to act for the
                         seller.
Contracting out prohibited
*** 98 Contracting out prohibited ***
This division applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
Seller must give buyer disclosure documents
*** 99 Seller must give buyer disclosure documents ***
     (1) Before a contract for the sale of a lot is signed by the buyer,
     the seller must give the buyer—
          (a) a statement (a
          "disclosure statement") for the lot; and
          (b) each document prescribed by regulation (each a
          "prescribed certificate") applicable to the lot.
          Note—
               See section 97 in relation to acting by an agent.
     (2) The disclosure statement must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) include the information prescribed by regulation; and
          (c) be completed with the information that is true at the
          time the statement is given to the buyer; and
          (d) be signed by the seller.
     (3) The approved form must contain, in appropriate places on the
     form, the warnings and other statements prescribed by regulation.
     (4) A prescribed certificate may be a document that is required to be
     given to the buyer under another Act.
          Examples of prescribed certificates—
                    1 a document relating to the lot issued
                    under another Act
                    2 a document in which the seller of the
                    lot certifies a stated thing has been
                    done under another Act in relation to
                    the lot
                    3 a document containing information
                    about the lot in a register kept under
                    another Act
     (5) For a contract under which there are 2 or more sellers of a lot,
     a reference in subsection (1) to the seller of a lot giving a
     disclosure statement or prescribed certificate is a reference to any
     of the sellers giving the statement or certificate.
     (6) For a contract under which there are 2 or more buyers of a lot—
          (a) a reference in subsection (1) to the seller of a lot
          giving a disclosure statement or prescribed certificate to
          a buyer of the lot is a reference to giving the statement
          or certificate to any of the buyers; and
          (b) a reference in subsection (1) to the time the buyer of
          the lot signed the contract is a reference to the time the
          first buyer signed the contract.
     (7) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a disclosure statement
     may be an electronic document and may be electronically signed.
Exceptions to requirement
*** 100 Exceptions to requirement ***
The seller of a lot is not required to comply with section 99 if—
     (a) both of the following apply—
          (i) the buyer of the lot and the seller of the lot are
          related, or if there is more than 1, all of the buyers and
          all of the sellers are related;
          (ii) before the buyer of the lot signs the contract for the
          sale of the lot, the buyer gives the seller of the lot, or
          if there is more than 1, any of the sellers, a notice
          waiving compliance with section 99; or
          Example—
               A seller is selling a lot to a parent and a
               person who is not related to the seller. The
               buyer who is the seller’s parent gives the
               seller a notice waiving compliance with section
               99. The exception under paragraph (a) does not
               apply in relation to the contract because not all
               of the buyers are related to the seller.
     (b) the buyer of the lot is—
          (i) the State, the Commonwealth or another State; or
          (ii) a local government or a local government, however
          described, of another State; or
          (iii) a constructing authority under the Acquisition of
          Land Act 1967; or
          (iv) a statutory body; or
          (v) a listed corporation; or
          (vi) a subsidiary of a listed corporation; or
     (c) the seller of the lot is the Brisbane City Council or another
     local government and—
          (i) the contract gives effect to the exercise of a power
          under the City of Brisbane Act 2010 or the Local Government
          Act 2009 to sell land to recover overdue rates or charges;
          and
          (ii) before the contract for the sale of the lot is signed
          by the buyer of the lot, the seller gives the buyer, or if
          there is more than 1, any of the buyers, a notice stating
          that—
               (A) the buyer needs to make the buyer’s own
               enquiries about matters affecting the property;
               and
               (B) the seller is not required to comply with
               section 99; or
     (d) the seller of the lot is the State and—
          (i) the buyer of the lot was a tenant of the lot for at
          least 3 years immediately before entering the contract; and
          (ii) before the contract for the sale of the lot is signed
          by the buyer of the lot, the seller gives the buyer, or if
          there is more than 1, any of the buyers, a notice stating
          that—
               (A) the buyer needs to make the buyer’s own
               enquiries about matters affecting the property;
               and
               (B) the seller is not required to comply with
               section 99; or
     (e) the seller of the lot and the buyer of the lot are co-owners of
     the lot and the contract provides for the acquisition by 1 or more
     co-owners of the whole or part of the interest of another co-owner;
     or
     (f) the seller of the lot and the buyer of the lot are owners of
     adjoining land and the contract provides for the adjustment of a
     common boundary; or
     (g) the contract gives effect to—
          (i) a court order; or
          (ii) an enforcement warrant under the Supreme Court of
          Queensland Act 1991; or
          (iii) a financial agreement or a part VIIIAB financial
          agreement under the Family Law Act 1975 (Cwlth); or
     (h) the contract gives effect to—
          (i) the transmission of an interest in the lot, because of
          the death of an owner of the lot, to the owner’s personal
          representative; or
          (ii) the transfer or transmission of an interest in the
          lot, because of the death of an owner of the lot, to a
          person under the owner’s will, the rules of intestacy or
          a court order under the Succession Act 1981, part 4; or
     (i) the contract is for the sale of a lot under the Acquisition of
     Land Act 1967, section 41; or
     (j) all of the following apply—
          (i) the contract for the sale of the lot arises from the
          exercise of an option for the sale of the lot;
          (ii) the buyer under the contract for the sale of the lot
          and the option for the sale of the lot are the same;
          (iii) the seller of the lot complied with section 99 in
          relation to the option for the sale of the lot; or
     (k) both of the following apply—
          (i) the sale price under the contract is more than—
               (A) the amount prescribed by regulation for this
               subparagraph; or
               (B) if no amount is prescribed for this
               subparagraph—$10m including GST;
          (ii) before the contract for the sale of the lot is signed
          by the buyer of the lot, the buyer gives the seller of the
          lot, or if there is more than 1, any of the sellers, a
          notice waiving compliance with section 99.
How disclosure documents to be given
*** 101 How disclosure documents to be given ***
     (1) A seller of a lot may give a buyer of the lot the disclosure
     documents for the lot in a way mentioned in—
          (a) section 231 (1) (a) (i) or (ii) or (b)(i); or
          (b) section 102.
     (2) If the lot is sold by auction—
          (a) for section 99 (1), the contract for the sale of the
          lot is taken to be signed by the buyer of the lot at the
          completion of the auction; and
          (b) if the buyer of the lot was registered as a bidder
          before the start of the auction, the seller of the lot is
          taken to have given the buyer the disclosure documents
          before the completion of the auction only if the seller
          gave the buyer the disclosure documents before the start of
          the auction; and
          (c) if the buyer of the lot was not registered as a bidder
          until after the start of the auction and was not given the
          disclosure documents under subsection (1) before the start
          of the auction, the seller of the lot is taken to have
          given the buyer the disclosure documents before the
          completion of the auction only if the seller complies with Section 103.
     (3) The seller of a lot has the onus of proving that the seller gave
     the buyer of the lot the disclosure documents.
     (4) To remove any doubt, it is declared that—
          (a) this section does not limit or otherwise affect—
               (i) the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 39;
               or
               (ii) the Electronic Transactions (Queensland) Act
               2001; and
          (b) a seller of a lot may give a buyer of the lot the
          disclosure documents by separate or different
          communications and modes of communications and is not
          required to give the disclosure documents in a singular
          communication.
     (5) In this section—
     "completion", of an auction for a lot, means the time at which the
     auctioneer announces the completion of the sale of the lot by the
     fall of the hammer or in another customary way.
Electronic communication of disclosure documents
*** 102 Electronic communication of disclosure documents ***
     (1) A seller of a lot may give a buyer of the lot the disclosure
     documents for the lot by giving the buyer a separate physical
     document (a
     "communication") stating that—
          (a) the disclosure documents can be viewed by using an
          electronic link; and
          (b) the buyer may ask the seller for a copy of the
          disclosure documents.
     (2) Also, if the buyer has consented to the disclosure documents
     being sent to an electronic address, the seller may give the buyer
     the disclosure documents by sending an electronic communication (also
     a
     "communication") to the electronic address that—
          (a) attaches the disclosure documents; or
          (b) includes the content of the disclosure documents; or
          (c) includes an electronic link that allows the person to
          view and obtain a copy of the disclosure documents.
     (3) For subsections (1) (a) and (2) (c), the buyer is taken to have
     received the disclosure documents only if, by using the electronic
     link, the buyer would have been able to view and obtain a copy of the
     disclosure documents—
          (a) at the time the communication was given or sent (the
          "sending time"); and
          (b) for a reasonable period after the sending time.
     (4) Subsection (3) applies whether or not the buyer used the
     electronic link.
     (5) Unless otherwise agreed between the seller of the lot and the
     buyer of the lot, a communication under subsection (1) or (2) is
     taken to be received by the buyer—
          (a) for a physical document—
               (i) if the communication is given to the buyer
               personally—when the communication is given to
               the buyer personally; or
               (ii) if the communication is sent to the buyer by
               post— 7 business days after the communication
               was sent unless the actual time the document was
               received by post is proven; or
          (b) for an electronic communication—
               (i) if the communication is sent to the buyer at
               an electronic address designated by the
               buyer—when the communication becomes capable of
               being retrieved by the buyer at the address; or
               (ii) if the communication is sent to the buyer at
               another electronic address of the buyer—when
               both of the following are satisfied—
                    (A) the buyer becomes aware that the
                    communication has been sent to the
                    address;
                    (B) the communication becomes capable
                    of being retrieved by the buyer at the
                    address.
     (6) Unless otherwise agreed between the seller of the lot and the
     buyer of the lot, an electronic communication is taken to be capable
     of being retrieved by the buyer at the electronic address of the
     buyer when the communication reaches the address.
     (7) Subsection (8) applies if the buyer of a lot is given a
     communication under subsection (1) and asks the seller of the lot for
     a copy of the disclosure documents.
     (8) The seller is taken to have given the buyer the disclosure
     documents only if, before the contract for the sale of the lot is
     signed by the buyer, the seller gives the buyer a copy of the
     disclosure documents in hard copy or electronic form.
     (9) In this section—
     "consent", to disclosure documents being sent to an electronic
     address—
          (a) includes consent that can reasonably be inferred from
          the conduct of the buyer of the lot; and
          (b) does not include consent given subject to conditions
          unless the conditions are complied with.
Giving of disclosure documents to buyer who is not registered as bidder until
after start of auction
*** 103 Giving of disclosure documents to buyer who is not registered as bidder
until after start of auction ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a lot is sold by auction; and
          (b) the buyer of the lot was not registered as a bidder
          until after the start of the auction; and
          (c) the buyer of the lot was not given the disclosure
          documents under section 101 (1) before the start of the
          auction.
     (2) The seller is taken to have given the buyer the disclosure
     documents for the lot before the completion of the auction if—
          (a) for an auction conducted in person, either of the
          following documents was displayed at the place of the
          auction from the start of the auction until the completion
          of the auction—
               (i) a physical copy of the disclosure documents;
               (ii) a physical document stating the disclosure
               documents could be viewed by using a stated
               electronic link; or
          (b) for an auction conducted electronically, either of the
          following documents was made available in the same
          electronic medium being used to conduct the auction from
          the start of the auction until the completion of the
          auction—
               (i) a copy of the disclosure documents;
               (ii) a document stating the disclosure documents
               could be viewed, and a copy obtained, by using a
               stated electronic link.
     (3) However, if subsection (2) (a) (ii) applies and the buyer of the
     lot asks the seller of the lot for a physical copy of the disclosure
     documents, the seller is taken to have given the buyer the disclosure
     documents for the lot before the completion of the auction only if
     the seller—
          (a) gives the buyer a physical copy of the disclosure
          documents; or
          (b) displays at the place of auction a physical copy of the
          disclosure documents.
     (4) For subsections (2) (a) (ii) and (b)(ii), the buyer of the lot is
     taken to have received the disclosure documents only if, by using the
     stated electronic link, the buyer would have been able to view and
     obtain a copy of the disclosure documents for the period—
          (a) starting at the time the document containing the
          electronic link was displayed or sent; and
          (b) ending at the completion of the auction.
     (5) Subsection (4) applies whether or not the buyer of the lot used
     the electronic link.
Buyer may terminate contract if seller fails to disclose or makes inaccurate
disclosure
*** 104 Buyer may terminate contract if seller fails to disclose or makes
inaccurate disclosure ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the seller of a lot fails to give the buyer of the lot
          a disclosure statement for, or prescribed certificate
          applicable to, the lot before the contract for the sale of
          the lot is signed by the buyer of the lot; or
          (b) the seller of a lot gives the buyer of the lot a
          disclosure statement for, or prescribed certificate
          applicable to, the lot before the contract for the sale of
          the lot is signed by the buyer of the lot and all of the
          following apply—
               (i) the statement or certificate is inaccurate or
               incomplete in relation to a material matter
               affecting the lot at the time it is given to the
               buyer;
               (ii) at the time the contract is signed by the
               buyer, the buyer is not aware of the correct
               state of affairs concerning the matter;
               (iii) if the buyer had been aware of the correct
               state of affairs concerning the matter, the buyer
               would not have signed the contract.
     (2) The buyer of the lot may terminate the contract for the sale of
     the lot by giving a notice (a
     "termination notice") to the seller terminating the contract.
     (3) The termination notice may be given at any time before settlement
     of the contract for the sale of the lot.
     (4) However, subsection (2) does not apply if—
          (a) the seller’s failure to give the disclosure statement
          or prescribed certificate, or the giving of the inaccurate
          or incomplete statement or certificate, is also a failure
          to comply with another Act; and
          (b) the other Act provides a consequence to the seller for
          the failure, or for the giving of the inaccurate or
          incomplete statement or certificate, including, for
          example, a remedy to the buyer.
               Example of a consequence to the seller—
                         1 a requirement for the
                         seller to remedy the failure
                         or the inaccurate or
                         incomplete statement or
                         certificate
     Examples of a remedy to the buyer—
               1 the contract of sale is of no effect
               2 the buyer may terminate the contract of sale
               3 the seller is taken to have given the buyer a
               contractual warranty about a particular matter
     (5) For subsection (4) (b), the other Act is taken not to provide a
     consequence to the seller for the failure, or for the giving of the
     inaccurate or incomplete statement or certificate, only because the
     failure, or the giving of the inaccurate or incomplete statement or
     certificate, is an offence under that Act.
     (6) In this section—
     "material matter", affecting a lot, does not include a matter
     prescribed by regulation not to be a material matter for this
     section.
Seller must repay amounts to buyer on termination
*** 105 Seller must repay amounts to buyer on termination ***
     (1) This section applies if a buyer of a lot terminates a contract
     for the sale of the lot under section 104.
     (2) The seller of the lot must, within 14 days after the termination,
     repay to the buyer—
          (a) any amount paid, towards the purchase of the lot, to—
               (i) the seller or the seller’s agent; or
               (ii) another entity to whom the amount is paid
               under the contract; and
          (b) any interest that accrued on the amount while it was
          held by the seller, seller’s agent or other entity.
     (3) The buyer may recover an amount repayable under subsection (2) as
     a debt.
     (4) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the seller of a lot is
     not required to repay an amount that is collateral to the purchase of
     the lot and for which the buyer receives consideration separate to
     the purchase.
          Examples of amounts—
                    1 occupation rent
                    2 contribution for rates and
                    maintenance
No other remedy if prescribed certificate contains inaccurate information given
by body corporate or other entity
*** 106 No other remedy if prescribed certificate contains inaccurate
information given by body corporate or other entity ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the seller of a lot gives the buyer of the lot a
          prescribed certificate applicable to the lot; and
          (b) the certificate contains a true and complete copy of
          information given to the seller by a body corporate or
          other entity; and
          (c) the information given to the seller by the body
          corporate or other entity is inaccurate.
     (2) The buyer’s sole remedy against the seller in relation to the
     inaccurate information is under this division.
          Note—
               See section 104.
     (3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a reference in
     subsection (1) to information given to a seller by a body corporate
     includes a reference to information given to a seller by a body
     corporate manager or another person who is authorised to give the
     information for the body corporate.
     (4) This section does not limit the Body Corporate and Community
     Management Act 1997, chapter 5, part 3.
     (5) In this section—
     "body corporate" means—
          (a) a body corporate created under the Body Corporate and
          Community Management Act 1997 for a community titles
          scheme; or
          (b) a body corporate under the Building Units and Group
          Titles Act 1980, section 7 (1).
     "body corporate manager" means—
          (a) a body corporate manager under the Body Corporate and
          Community Management Act 1997, section 14 for a community
          titles scheme; or
          (b) a body corporate manager under the Building Units and
          Group Titles Act 1980, section 7 (1).
Original owner of lot in community titles scheme must give statement describing
power of attorney
*** 107 Original owner of lot in community titles scheme must give statement
describing power of attorney ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a contract for the sale of a
     lot included in a community titles scheme if—
          (a) the seller is an original owner for the scheme; and
          (b) the buyer gives the seller a power of attorney to act
          for the buyer.
     (2) The power of attorney may be exercised only if, before the power
     is given, the seller gives the buyer a statement that includes a
     detailed description of the circumstances in which the power may be
     exercised.
     (3) The power of attorney may be exercised only in ways, and only for
     purposes, disclosed in the statement.
     (4) The power of attorney expires 1 year after it is given, unless it
     expires earlier other than under this subsection.
     (5) In this section—
     "original owner", for a community titles scheme, means an original
     owner for the scheme under the Body Corporate and Community
     Management Act 1997, section 13.
Definition for part
*** 108 Definition for part ***
In this part—
"term", to the extent the context permits, includes agreement, condition and
covenant.
Application of part
*** 109 Application of part ***
     (1) This part applies to a mortgage over land subject to any of the
     following Acts—
          (a) the Land Act 1994;
          (b) the Land Title Act 1994;
          (c) the Housing Act 2003;
          (d) a Resource Act;
          (e) another Act.
     (2) Subject to this Act or another Act, this part also applies to a
     mortgage over the following property—
          (a) land other than land mentioned in subsection (1);
          (b) property other than land.
Variation of mortgage
*** 110 Variation of mortgage ***
     (1) A mortgage over land evidenced by an instrument of mortgage may
     be varied by an instrument of variation.
     (2) The instrument of variation may do any of the following—
          (a) increase or reduce the rate of interest payable in
          relation to the debt or obligation secured by the mortgage;
          (b) increase or reduce the amount secured by the mortgage;
          (c) shorten, extend or renew the term of the mortgage;
          (d) vary a term of the instrument of mortgage.
     (3) An instrument of variation relating to a mortgage registered
     under the Land Act 1994 may be registered under section 343 of that
     Act if it complies with the requirements of that Act relating to
     registration.
     (4) An instrument of variation relating to land subject to the Land
     Title Act 1994 may be registered under that Act if it complies with
     the requirements of that Act relating to registration.
     (5) This section does not limit or otherwise affect a power of, or
     procedure for, variation or amendment of a mortgage under another
     law.
Effect of advance out of joint account
*** 111 Effect of advance out of joint account ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to—
          (a) a mortgage under which an amount is expressed to be
          advanced by 2 or more persons (the
          "mortgagees") out of money belonging to them on a joint
          account; or
          (b) a mortgage to 2 or more persons (also the
          "mortgagees") jointly.
     (2) An amount owing under the mortgage belongs to the mortgagees on a
     joint account.
     (3) The receipt, for an amount paid under the mortgage, given in
     writing by the survivors or last survivor of the mortgagees is a
     complete discharge for the amount, despite any notice to the
     mortgagor of a severance of the joint account.
     (4) This section applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.
     (5) In this section—
     "mortgage" includes—
          (a) an obligation to pay money; and
          (b) a transfer of a mortgage; and
          (c) a transfer of an obligation to pay money.
Mortgages lodged electronically
*** 112 Mortgages lodged electronically ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a mortgage under this Act or
     another law if—
          (a) the mortgage is lodged under the Electronic
          Conveyancing National Law (Queensland), section 7; and
          (b) the mortgagee holds a document that grants a mortgage
          by the mortgagor that—
               (i) is on the same terms as the lodged mortgage;
               and
               (ii) complies with section 8.
     (2) If the mortgage is required to be given, produced or used for any
     purpose, the document mentioned in subsection (1) (b) may be—
          (a) given, produced or used for the purpose; and
          (b) relied on as evidence of the mortgage.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies whether or not the document mentioned in
     subsection (1) (b) —
          (a) was signed by or for the mortgagor or mortgagee in the
          presence of a witness; or
          (b) was electronically signed by or for the mortgagor or
          mortgagee.
Implied powers of mortgagee
*** 113 Implied powers of mortgagee ***
     (1) A mortgagee under a mortgage over land, or over land and other
     property, has the following powers—
          (a) a power to sell, or concur with another seller in
          selling, or bid at an auction of, the mortgaged property,
          or any part of the mortgaged property, on terms the
          mortgagee considers appropriate;
          (b) a power to insure the mortgaged property, or any part
          of the mortgaged property, against loss or damage;
          (c) a power to appoint a receiver of the mortgaged
          property, or any part of the mortgaged property;
          (d) a power to grant an easement, right or privilege in
          relation to the mortgaged property, or any part of the
          mortgaged property;
          (e) a power, if the mortgagee is in possession, to—
               (i) cut and sell timber on the mortgaged
               property, or any part of the mortgaged property;
               or
               (ii) enter into a contract for the cutting and
               selling of timber on the mortgaged property, or
               any part of the mortgaged property, provided the
               contract is to be completed within 12 months
               after the contract is made;
          (f) a power to sell any mines or minerals apart from the
          surface of the mortgaged property, or any part of the
          mortgaged property, to the extent the mines or minerals are
          not vested in the State;
          (g) a power to do whatever is necessary or convenient in
          relation to the exercise of a power under paragraphs (a) to
          (f).
     (2) A power under subsection (1) takes effect as a term of the
     mortgage.
     (3) If a mortgagee exercises a power under subsection (1) (b), the
     premiums paid for the insurance are a charge on the mortgaged
     property, in addition to the mortgage money, and with the same
     priority, and with interest at the same rate, as the mortgage money.
     (4) This section applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.
     (5) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the power to sell land
     under subsection (1) (a) includes—
          (a) the power to vary or rescind a contract for the sale of
          the land; and
          (b) the power to sell a fixture on the land.
     (6) In this section—
     "timber" does not include trees for shelter or ornament.
Restriction on exercise of power of sale
*** 114 Restriction on exercise of power of sale ***
     (1) A mortgagee under a mortgage over property must not exercise a
     power to sell the property unless and until—
          (a) a default has happened under the mortgage; and
          (b) the mortgagee has given the mortgagor a notice that—
               (i) states the nature of the default; and
               (ii) requires the default to be remedied within
               30 days after the notice is given to the
               mortgagor; and
               Note—
                    If the chief executive has approved a
                    form for this paragraph under section
                    234, the notice may, but need not, be
                    in the approved form.
     (c) the default has not been remedied within the period mentioned in
     paragraph (b) (ii).
     (2) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
     (3) This section does not apply to the exercise by a mortgagee of a
     power of sale given under the Land Act 1994.
Power of sale if disclaimer of onerous property
*** 115 Power of sale if disclaimer of onerous property ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a trustee in bankruptcy disclaims under the Bankruptcy
          Act 1966 (Cwlth), section 133 (1) freehold land that is
          subject to a registered mortgage; and
          (b) notice of the disclaimer is given under the Bankruptcy
          Act 1966 (Cwlth), section 133 (3).
     (2) Also, this section applies if—
          (a) a liquidator disclaims under the Corporations Act,
          section 568 (1) freehold land that is subject to a
          registered mortgage; and
          (b) notice of the disclaimer is given to each person who
          appears to the liquidator to have, or to claim to have, an
          interest in the property under the Corporations Act,
          section 568A; and
          (c) the disclaimer takes effect under the Corporations Act, Section 568C.
     (3) Despite the disclaimer, the mortgagee under the registered
     mortgage may exercise a power to sell the land if—
          (a) the mortgagee has given a notice in the approved form
          to each person who appears to the mortgagee to be an
          interested person for the land stating—
               (i) the property has been disclaimed by a trustee
               in bankruptcy under the Bankruptcy Act 1966
               (Cwlth) or by a liquidator under the Corporations
               Act; and
               (ii) the mortgagee intends to exercise a power of
               sale in relation to the land on or after a day
               (the
               "notified day") at least 30 days after the day
               the notice is given; and
          (b) on the day, on or after the notified day, that the
          power to sell is exercised—
               (i) any application under the Bankruptcy Act 1966
               (Cwlth), section 133 (9) or the Corporations Act,
               section 568E or 568F in relation to the land has
               been finally dealt with or withdrawn; and
               (ii) no order, under the Bankruptcy Act 1966
               (Cwlth), section 133 (9) or the Corporations Act,
               section 568F, vesting the land in another person,
               has been made.
     (4) The mortgagee may exercise a power to sell the land under
     subsection (3) even if the mortgagee has not complied with section
     114.
     (5) In this section—
     "interested person", for land, means—
          (a) the registrar; or
          (b) a person who has an interest in the land.
Duty to sell at market value
*** 116 Duty to sell at market value ***
     (1) This section applies if a mortgagee exercises a power of sale
     given under an instrument of mortgage, or this Act or another Act, in
     relation to property.
     (2) The mortgagee must take reasonable care to ensure the property is
     sold at the market value of the property.
     (3) Also, if the mortgage is a prescribed mortgage, the mortgagee
     must, unless the mortgagee has a reasonable excuse—
          (a) adequately advertise the sale; and
          (b) obtain reliable evidence of the property’s value; and
          (c) maintain the property, including, for example, by
          undertaking reasonable repairs; and
          (d) sell the property by auction, unless it is appropriate
          to sell it in another way; and
          (e) do anything else prescribed by regulation.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—
                    (a) if the contravention relates only
                    to paragraph (e) —20 penalty units;
                    or
                    (b) otherwise—200 penalty units.
     (4) Within 28 days after the sale of the property, the mortgagee must
     give the mortgagor a notice in the approved form about the sale,
     unless the mortgagee has a reasonable excuse.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—2 penalty units.
     (5) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
     (6) This section does not limit or otherwise affect a law relating to
     the duty of a mortgagee to account to a mortgagor.
     (7) Section 113 (1) (a), 119 (4) or 123 (2) do not limit or otherwise
     affect a duty imposed on a mortgagee under this section.
     (8) In this section—
     "mortgagee" includes a person exercising a power of sale under a
     mortgage, including, for example, a receiver.
     "prescribed mortgage" means a mortgage of a type prescribed by
     regulation.
Protection of buyer
*** 117 Protection of buyer ***
     (1) This section applies if a mortgagee exercises a power of sale
     given under an instrument of mortgage, or this Act or another Act, in
     relation to property.
     (2) The buyer—
          (a) is not answerable for the loss, misapplication or non-
          application of the purchase money paid for the property;
          and
          (b) need not inquire whether the power of sale was properly
          exercised, including, for example, whether notice of the
          sale was given, or leave of the court, if required, was
          obtained.
     (3) A person who incurs loss or damage because of a breach of the
     mortgagee’s duty under section 116, or an unauthorised or improper
     exercise of the mortgagee’s power of sale, may claim compensation
     for the loss or damage from the mortgagee.
     (4) In this section—
     "mortgagee" includes a person exercising a power of sale under a
     mortgage, including, for example, a receiver.
Application of proceeds of sale
*** 118 Application of proceeds of sale ***
     (1) This section applies if a mortgagee exercises a power of sale
     given under an instrument of mortgage, or this Act or another Act, in
     relation to property.
     (2) The proceeds of sale must be held by the mortgagee in trust to be
     applied in payment of the following amounts in the following order—
          (a) the reasonable expenses incurred in selling the
          property;
          (b) the following amounts—
               (i) if the property has only 1 mortgage—the
               principal amount, interest and other amounts
               owing under the mortgage;
               (ii) if the property has more than 1
               mortgage—the principal amount, interest and
               other amounts owing under the mortgages in order
               of the priority of the amounts;
          (c) the balance to the owner of the property.
     (3) However, if the property is disclaimed property mentioned in
     section 115, the mortgagee must pay into court the balance mentioned
     in subsection (2) (c).
     (4) A person claiming an amount paid into court under subsection (3)
     may apply to the court for an order dealing with the amount.
Other matters relating to power of sale
*** 119 Other matters relating to power of sale ***
     (1) This section applies to a power of sale given under this Act.
     (2) The power of sale may be exercised by a person entitled to
     receive and give a discharge for the mortgage.
     (3) The power of sale does not affect the right of foreclosure.
     (4) The person exercising the power of sale is not answerable for any
     involuntary loss relating to the exercise of the power.
     (5) The person exercising the power of sale under a mortgage may
     obtain from a person, other than a person having an interest in
     priority to the mortgage, any document that a purchaser under the
     power of sale would be entitled to obtain from the person.
Receipt of mortgagee sufficient discharge
*** 120 Receipt of mortgagee sufficient discharge ***
     (1) The receipt in writing of a mortgagee is sufficient discharge
     for—
          (a) any money arising from a sale under the power of sale
          given by this Act; or
          (b) any money or securities comprised in, or arising under,
          the mortgagee’s mortgage.
     (2) A person paying or transferring money or securities mentioned in
     subsection (1) is not required to—
          (a) ask whether any money remains due under the mortgage;
          or
          (b) ensure the money or securities are properly applied.
     (3) Money received by a mortgagee under the mortgagee’s mortgage or
     from the proceeds of securities comprised in the mortgagee’s
     mortgage must be applied as if—
          (a) the money were money received by the mortgagee under a
          power of sale under this Act; and
          (b) a reference in section 118 (2) (a) to the reasonable
          expenses incurred in selling the property were a reference
          to the reasonable expenses incurred in recovering and
          receiving the money or securities, or of converting the
          securities into money.
Insurance of mortgaged property
*** 121 Insurance of mortgaged property ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to the insurance against loss or
     damage of mortgaged property.
     (2) The mortgagee may not insure the property for an amount of more
     than—
          (a) if the mortgage states an amount for which the property
          may be insured—the amount stated; or
          (b) otherwise—the lesser of the following amounts—
               (i) the full insurable value of the buildings and
               improvements on the property;
               (ii) the amount owing to the mortgagee under the
               mortgage.
     (3) Despite section 113 (1) (b), the mortgagee may not insure the
     property if—
          (a) the mortgage states that no insurance is required; or
          (b) the mortgagor insures the property as required under
          the mortgage; or
          (c) the mortgagor insures the property with the consent of
          the mortgagee.
     (4) Also, the mortgagee may not require a mortgagor to insure the
     property for the reinstatement value of the property if—
          (a) it is not possible to effect the reinstatement of the
          property; or
          (b) it is not lawful to use the property in the way in
          which the property was used before the reinstatement of the
          property.
Application of insurance money
*** 122 Application of insurance money ***
     (1) This section applies if money is received under an insurance of
     mortgaged property.
     (2) The mortgagee may require that the money be applied towards
     reinstatement of the property.
     (3) The mortgagor may require that the money be applied towards
     reinstatement of the property only if—
          (a) the mortgage expressly states the money may be applied
          towards reinstatement of the property; or
          (b) the mortgagor insured the property for the
          reinstatement value of the property—
               (i) to comply with a requirement under the
               mortgage to insure the property for the
               reinstatement value; or
               (ii) with the consent of the mortgagee.
     (4) The mortgagee may require that the money be applied towards
     discharge of the mortgage money only if—
          (a) the mortgagee insured the property; and
          (b) the mortgage expressly states the money may be applied
          towards discharge of the mortgage money.
     (5) The right of the mortgagor under subsection (3) overrides any
     right of the mortgagee under subsection (4).
     (6) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
     (7) In this section—
     "reinstatement" includes replacement.
Appointment of receiver
*** 123 Appointment of receiver ***
     (1) This section applies if a mortgagee under a mortgage over
     property is entitled to take or enter into possession of the
     property.
     (2) The mortgagee may appoint an appropriately qualified person as
     receiver of the property.
     (3) The appointment must be in the approved form.
     (4) The receiver is the agent of the mortgagor.
     (5) The receiver may take or enter into possession of the property.
     (6) As soon as practicable after taking or entering into possession
     of the property, the receiver must give a receipt for the property to
     the person from whom the property was taken or who held possession of
     the property.
     (7) The receiver may take or enter into possession of the property
     despite a lien or other security over the property claimed by another
     person.
     (8) However, the taking or entry into possession does not affect the
     other person’s claim to the lien or other security against a person
     other than the receiver.
     (9) The receiver may deal with the property in the same way as the
     mortgagor may have lawfully dealt with the property if the receiver
     had not taken or entered into possession of the property, including,
     for example, claiming or receiving an amount owing in relation to the
     property.
     (10) The receiver may insure the property, and deal with money
     received under an insurance of the property, to the extent the
     mortgagee is authorised under section 121 to insure the property or
     under section 122 to deal with the money.
     (11) The receiver is entitled to remuneration—
          (a) if an amount of remuneration, of not more than 5% of
          the gross amount of all money received by the receiver, is
          stated in the appointment—in the amount stated in the
          appointment; or
          (b) if no amount of remuneration is stated in the
          appointment—in the amount of 5% of the gross amount of
          all money received by the receiver; or
          (c) if the receiver makes an application to the court to
          decide the amount of remuneration—in the amount decided
          by the court.
     (12) The receiver must apply money received by the receiver in
     payment of the following amounts in the following order—
          (a) rents, taxes, rates, and outgoings relating to the
          property;
          (b) amounts owing on other mortgages over the property
          having priority to the mortgage, including, for example,
          instalments of the principal amount, and interest on the
          principal amount, owing under those mortgages;
          (c) the receiver’s remuneration under subsection (11);
          (d) premiums for insurance of the property under section
          121, if any;
          (e) repairs of the property authorised by the mortgagee, if
          any;
          (f) interest on the principal amount owing under the
          mortgage;
          (g) the principal amount owing under the mortgage, if
          authorised by the mortgagee;
          (h) amounts owing under other mortgages over the property;
          (i) the balance to the owner of the property.
     (13) However, if the property is disclaimed property mentioned in
     section 115, the mortgagee must pay into court the balance mentioned
     in subsection (12) (i).
     (14) A person claiming an amount paid into court under subsection
     (13) may apply to the court for an order dealing with the amount.
     (15) In this section—
     "remuneration" includes costs, charges, expenses and commission.
Judgment debt does not permit seizure
*** 124 Judgment debt does not permit seizure ***
     (1) This section applies if a court gives judgment to a claimant for
     the payment of a debt secured by a mortgage over property.
     (2) The interest of the mortgagor in the property, or any other
     property over which the mortgagor has granted a mortgage to the
     claimant, may not be taken in execution of the judgment.
     (3) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
     (4) This section does not limit or otherwise affect a power of a
     mortgagee under section 113 (1) (a).
     (5) In this section—
     "debt" includes a liquidated demand.
Subsequent mortgage does not affect first mortgage
*** 125 Subsequent mortgage does not affect first mortgage ***
     (1) A mortgagor under a mortgage over property (the
     "first mortgage") may grant a second or subsequent mortgage over the
     property.
     (2) The granting of the second or subsequent mortgage does not—
          (a) constitute a breach of a term of, or proviso for re-
          entry contained in, the first mortgage or second or
          subsequent mortgage; or
          (b) occasion any forfeiture or penalty; or
          (c) make payable or accelerate the time for payment of an
          amount that, if the second or subsequent mortgage had not
          been granted, would not have been payable or would not have
          been payable at that time.
     (3) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
When further advance ranks in priority to subsequent mortgage
*** 126 When further advance ranks in priority to subsequent mortgage ***
     (1) A mortgagee (the
     "prior mortgagee") may make a further advance to rank in priority to
     a subsequent mortgage granted by the mortgagor to another person (the
     "subsequent mortgagee") only if—
          (a) the subsequent mortgagee agrees to the further advance;
          or
          (b) the prior mortgagee has no actual notice, when the
          further advance is made, of the mortgage to the subsequent
          mortgagee; or
          (c) the prior mortgagee is required under the terms of the
          mortgage, immediately before the creation of the subsequent
          mortgage, to make the further advance.
     (2) This section does not affect the right of the prior mortgagee to
     rank in priority to a subsequent mortgagee in relation to expenses
     reasonably incurred in preserving the mortgaged property.
     (3) For subsection (1) (b), and despite any other Act, the
     registration of the subsequent mortgage is not of itself actual
     notice to the prior mortgagee of the subsequent mortgage.
Contracting out prohibited
*** 127 Contracting out prohibited ***
This division, other than section 128, applies despite any agreement to the
contrary.
Implied obligations of mortgagor
*** 128 Implied obligations of mortgagor ***
     (1) The mortgagor under a mortgage over property has the following
     obligations—
          (a) to pay the principal amount and interest secured by the
          mortgage according to the terms of the mortgage without
          deduction;
          (b) if the property is land—
               (i) to keep buildings and other improvements on
               the land in as good and substantial repair as the
               buildings and other improvements were in when the
               mortgage was entered into; and
               (ii) to permit the mortgagee, when reasonably
               convenient, to enter the land to view and inspect
               the state of repair of buildings and other
               improvements on the land.
     (2) An obligation under subsection (1) takes effect as a term of the
     mortgage.
     (3) If the mortgage is under a deed, an obligation under subsection
     (1) takes effect as a covenant by the mortgagor.
     (4) This section applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.
Right to obtain copy of documents in possession of mortgagee
*** 129 Right to obtain copy of documents in possession of mortgagee ***
     (1) A mortgagor under a mortgage over property may ask the mortgagee
     to give the mortgagor a copy of, or allow the mortgagor to inspect at
     a reasonable time, each document in the possession of the mortgagee
     that relates to the property.
     (2) The mortgagee must comply with the request if the mortgagor pays
     the mortgagee’s reasonable costs and expenses of complying with the
     request.
Right to relief against payment of accelerated sum
*** 130 Right to relief against payment of accelerated sum ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a mortgage over land if—
          (a) the mortgagor defaults under the mortgage—
               (i) in payment of an instalment of the principal
               amount or interest secured by the mortgage; or
               (ii) in the performance of an obligation or
               covenant under the mortgage; and
          (b) under the terms of the mortgage the whole or part of
          the principal amount or interest secured by the mortgage
          other than the instalment mentioned in subsection (1) (a)
          (i) (the
          "accelerated sum") is, or may become, payable because of—
               (i) the default; or
               (ii) the exercise on the default of an option or
               election under the mortgage.
     (2) The mortgagor can not be required to pay the accelerated sum if
     the mortgagor, before the mortgagee exercises a power of sale or
     starts a proceeding to enforce the mortgagee’s rights—
          (a) for a default mentioned in subsection (1) (a) (i)
          —pays to the mortgagee—
               (i) the amount of the instalment or interest; and
               (ii) the reasonable expenses, if any, incurred by
               the mortgagee because of the default; or
          (b) for a default mentioned in subsection (1) (a) (ii)
          —performs the obligation or covenant.
     (3) The mortgagor may, in a proceeding brought by the mortgagee to
     enforce the mortgagee’s rights or in a proceeding brought by the
     mortgagor, apply to the court for an order for relief against payment
     of the accelerated sum (a
     "relief order").
     (4) The court may make the relief order if the court is satisfied
     that making the order is appropriate in the circumstances.
     (5) In considering whether or not to make the relief order, the court
     must take into account—
          (a) the conduct of the parties to the proceeding; and
          (b) anything else the court considers relevant.
     (6) The court may also make any other order it considers appropriate,
     including, for example—
          (a) an order for the stay of a proceeding brought by the
          mortgagee; or
          (b) an order removing a stay of a proceeding if the
          mortgagor fails to comply with an undertaking given to the
          court.
Right to relief against payment of overdue principal amount if payment of
interest accepted
*** 131 Right to relief against payment of overdue principal amount if payment
of interest accepted ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a mortgage over land if—
          (a) the term of the mortgage has expired; and
          (b) the principal amount secured by the mortgage has not
          been repaid; and
          (c) the mortgagee has, after the end of the term, accepted
          interest on the principal amount, other than by entering
          into possession of the property or appointing a receiver,
          for at least 3 months after the end of the term; and
          (d) the mortgagor has performed all obligations or
          covenants under the mortgage other than the obligation or
          covenant to repay the principal amount on the due date.
     (2) The mortgagee must not call up as payable the principal amount
     unless—
          (a) the mortgagee has given the mortgagor notice of the
          mortgagee’s intention to call up the amount at the end of
          the period stated in the notice (the
          "notice period"); and
          (b) the notice period has expired.
     (3) The notice period must be at least 3 months starting on the day
     the mortgagee gives the notice to the mortgagor.
     (4) In this section—
     "term", of a mortgage, includes a period for which the original term
     has been renewed or extended.
Right to require transfer of mortgage instead of discharge
*** 132 Right to require transfer of mortgage instead of discharge ***
     (1) This section applies if a mortgagor is entitled to discharge a
     mortgage over property.
     (2) The mortgagor may require the mortgagee (the
     "first mortgagee"), instead of discharging the mortgage, to transfer
     the mortgage to another person as directed by the mortgagor.
     (3) Also, if the property is subject to another mortgage, the
     mortgagee under that mortgage (the
     "subsequent mortgagee"), may require the first mortgagee, instead of
     discharging the mortgage, to transfer the mortgage to another person
     as directed by the subsequent mortgagee.
     (4) The transfer is on the terms on which the first mortgagee would
     be required to discharge the mortgage.
     (5) However, a requirement may not be made under subsection (2) or
     (3) if—
          (a) a mortgagee is in possession of the property; or
          (b) the mortgage contains an enforceable condition in
          favour of a mortgagee in restraint of the trade or business
          of the mortgagor or any other collateral benefit or
          advantage in favour of a mortgagee.
     (6) If a requirement of a mortgagor under subsection (2) is
     inconsistent with a requirement of a subsequent mortgagee under
     subsection (3), the requirement of the subsequent mortgagee under
     subsection (3) prevails.
     (7) Also, if more than 1 requirement of a subsequent mortgagee is
     made under subsection (3), the requirement of the subsequent
     mortgagee under whichever of the subsequent mortgages is earlier
     prevails.
Abolition of consolidation of mortgages
*** 133 Abolition of consolidation of mortgages ***
A mortgagor seeking to discharge a mortgage over property (the
"primary mortgage") is entitled to the discharge without paying any money due
under another mortgage made by the mortgagor over property other than the
property the subject of the primary mortgage.
Court may order sale of mortgaged property in proceeding for redemption or
foreclosure
*** 134 Court may order sale of mortgaged property in proceeding for redemption
or foreclosure ***
     (1) The court may order the sale of mortgaged property if a person
     entitled to redemption of the mortgaged property brings a proceeding
     for either or both of the following in relation to the property—
          (a) sale;
          (b) redemption.
     (2) Also, the court may order the sale of mortgaged property if—
          (a) a person brings a proceeding for any of the following
          in relation to the property—
               (i) sale;
               (ii) redemption;
               (iii) foreclosure;
               (iv) the raising or payment in any way of
               mortgage money; and
          (b) the mortgagee, or another person interested in the
          mortgage money or right of redemption, requests the sale of
          the property.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies even if—
          (a) another person dissents; or
          (b) the mortgagee, or another person interested in the
          mortgage money or right of redemption, does not appear in
          the proceeding.
     (4) In making an order under subsection (2), the court is not
     required to allow time for redemption or for payment of any mortgage
     money.
     (5) Without limiting subsection (1) or (2), the court may also make
     any of the following orders—
          (a) an order that the mortgagee deposit in court a
          reasonable sum fixed by the court to meet the expenses of
          sale and to secure performance of the terms of sale;
          (b) an order giving the conduct of the sale to a respondent
          in the proceeding;
          (c) an order vesting the mortgaged property in a buyer;
          (d) for an equitable mortgage—an order creating and
          vesting a legal interest in the mortgagee to enable the
          mortgagee to carry out the sale as if the mortgage were a
          legal mortgage.
     (6) The court may order a sale of mortgaged property under subsection
     (1) or (2) without previously determining the priorities of
     mortgages.
     (7) In this section—
     "mortgaged property" includes the interest the mortgagee would have
     power to transfer if the power of sale under this Act were
     applicable.
Realisation of equitable mortgage of land
*** 135 Realisation of equitable mortgage of land ***
     (1) This section applies if the court makes an order for sale in
     relation to an equitable mortgage of land.
     (2) Without limiting section 134 or another power of the court, the
     court may make any of the following orders—
          (a) an order creating and vesting a legal interest in the
          mortgagee to enable the mortgagee to carry out the sale as
          if the equitable mortgage were a legal mortgage;
          (b) an order appointing a person to conduct the sale as if
          the equitable mortgage were a legal mortgage;
          (c) an order vesting the land in a buyer as if the
          equitable mortgage were a legal mortgage.
     (3) An order made by a court in relation to an equitable mortgage of
     land is without prejudice to any mortgage having priority to the
     equitable mortgage unless the mortgagee consents to the sale.
Facilitation of redemption in case of absent or unknown mortgagee
*** 136 Facilitation of redemption in case of absent or unknown mortgagee ***
     (1) This section applies if land is subject to a mortgage and the
     person entitled to receive, or alleged to have received, payment of
     any money secured by the mortgage—
          (a) is out of the jurisdiction; or
          (b) is not known or can not be found; or
          (c) is deceased and no personal representative is
          administering the deceased person’s estate; or
          (d) is uncertain in identity.
     (2) The court may, on the application of the person entitled to
     redeem the land, order—
          (a) the amount of the debt secured by the mortgage to be
          determined in the way the court considers appropriate; and
          (b) the amount of any outstanding debt under the mortgage,
          if any, to be paid into court.
     (3) If an order is made under subsection (2), and the person entitled
     to redeem the land pays the amount of any outstanding debt under the
     mortgage into court, the registrar of the court must give the person
     a certificate stating that—
          (a) an order has been made under subsection (2); and
          (b) no amount remains payable under the mortgage.
     (4) The certificate operates to discharge the mortgage debt.
     (5) However, as between the mortgagor and another person entitled to
     the mortgage debt, any amount shown by the other person entitled to
     the mortgage debt to have been in fact due or payable over the amount
     determined by the court under subsection (2) (a), or paid into court
     under subsection (2) (b), continues to be a debt due under the
     mortgage.
     (6) If an amount is paid into court under subsection (2) (b), the
     court must, on the application of the person entitled to the amount,
     order the amount to be paid to that person.
     (7) However, subsection (6) applies only if—
          (a) an instrument releasing the mortgage, capable of
          registration under the Land Act 1994, section 342 or the
          Land Title Act 1994, section 81, is given to the person who
          paid the amount into court; or
          (b) the court is satisfied the mortgage has been
          discharged.
     (8) The certificate mentioned in subsection (3) —
          (a) for a mortgage registered under the Land Act 1994 —is
          capable of registration under the Land Act 1994, section
          342 as a release of mortgage; and
          (b) for a mortgage registered under the Land Title Act 1994
          —is capable of registration under the Land Title Act
          1994, section 81 as an instrument releasing the mortgage;
          and
          (c) for a mortgage under a Resource Act or another
          Act—has effect under that Act as a document signed by the
          mortgagee to the effect that the debt secured by the
          mortgage has been paid.
     (9) For the purpose of effecting registration under subsection (8)
     (b), the registrar may dispense with the publication of any notice or
     the doing of any other act required under the Land Title Act 1994.
     (10) This section does not limit or otherwise affect the Public
     Trustee Act 1978, section 61.
Definition for part
*** 137 Definition for part ***
In this part—
"term", to the extent the context permits, includes agreement, condition and
covenant.
Lease for term of years may take effect without entry into possession
*** 138 Lease for term of years may take effect without entry into possession
***
     (1) A lease of land for a term of years is capable of taking effect
     at law or in equity from the start of the term, without entry into
     possession of the land.
     (2) This section—
          (a) does not affect the right of a person to recover rent
          or to take advantage of a term of the lease; and
          (b) does not limit or otherwise affect section 10 (2).
     (3) In this section—
     "term of years" includes a term for less than a year, or for 1 or
     more years or from year to year.
Implied terms
*** 139 Implied terms ***
     (1) A lease of land includes the standard terms.
     (2) This section is subject to—
          (a) this Act and any other Act; and
          (b) any agreement to the contrary.
     (3) In this section—
     "standard terms" means the terms stated in schedule 1.
Effect of transfer of reversion of lease by lessor
*** 140 Effect of transfer of reversion of lease by lessor ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a lease of land if the lessor
     transfers the reversion of the lease to another person (the
     "transferee").
     (2) Each right conferred under the terms of the lease on the
     lessor—
          (a) runs with the reversion of the lease; and
          (b) may be exercised by the transferee, whether or not the
          lessee has acknowledged that person as the lessor of the
          land.
     (3) Each obligation imposed under the terms of the lease on the
     lessor—
          (a) runs with the reversion of the lease; and
          (b) may be enforced by the lessee against the transferee.
     (4) Also, the transferee is—
          (a) bound by each term of the lease to the extent the
          lessor was bound by the term immediately before the
          transfer; and
          (b) entitled to the benefit of each term of the lease to
          the extent the lessor was entitled to the benefit of the
          term immediately before the transfer.
     (5) Subsection (4) applies whether or not the term—
          (a) touches and concerns the land the subject of the lease;
          or
          (b) is express, implied or imposed by law.
     (6) Subsections (2), (3) and (4) do not apply in relation to a term
     of the lease to the extent—
          (a) the lease expressly provides the term is personal; or
          (b) the lease expressly excludes the operation of the
          subsection in relation to the term; or
          (c) the lessor and the transferee expressly agree in
          writing that the benefit of the term remains with the
          lessor.
     (7) Also, the lessor remains liable for a breach of a term of the
     lease committed by the lessor.
     (8) If a term of the lease restricts the use of the land, the
     reference to the transferee in subsection (4) also includes a
     reference to any person who is the owner of the land to which the
     term relates.
     (9) This section applies despite the Land Title Act 1994, section 62.
     (10) In this section—
     "right", conferred under the terms of a lease, includes a right to—
          (a) receive the rent payable under the lease; and
          (b) enforce a term of the lease, whether or not the subject
          matter of the term was in existence when the lease was
          made; and
          (c) enforce a guarantee of the performance of a term
          mentioned in paragraph (b); and
          (d) give a notice under the lease; and
          (e) take advantage of a term of the lease; and
          (f) re-enter, or apply for an order for possession of, the
          land; and
          (g) terminate the lease.
     "transfer", of a reversion of a lease, includes the passing of the
     reversion including by transmission.
Payment of rent or other amount without notice of transfer of reversion
*** 141 Payment of rent or other amount without notice of transfer of reversion
***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a lease of land if—
          (a) the lessor transfers the reversion of the lease to
          another person; and
          (b) the lessee pays rent or another amount to the lessor,
          without actual notice of the transfer.
     (2) The lessee is discharged from liability to pay the rent or other
     amount to the extent the rent or other amount has been paid under
     subsection (1) (b).
     (3) For subsection (1) (b), and despite any other Act, the
     registration of the transfer of the reversion of the lease is not of
     itself actual notice to the lessee of the transfer.
Effect of requirement in lease for consent of lessor to assign lease or take
other action
*** 142 Effect of requirement in lease for consent of lessor to assign lease or
take other action ***
     (1) This section applies if a lessee is required under a lease of
     land to obtain the lessor’s consent to—
          (a) assign the lease; or
          (b) enter into a sublease; or
          (c) part with or share possession of the leased premises;
          or
          (d) change the use of the leased premises from a use that
          is permitted under the lease; or
          (e) create a mortgage over the lessee’s interest in the
          land; or
          (f) make an alteration or carry out works in relation to
          the leased premises; or
          (g) act under paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) in
          relation to a part of the leased premises or for a period
          of the term of the lease.
     (2) The lessee may give the lessor a notice (a
     "proposal notice"), containing any information required under the
     lease, asking for consent.
     (3) The lessor must not unreasonably withhold consent.
     (4) If the lessor considers the information given in the proposal
     notice is not sufficient to enable the lessor to make a decision, the
     lessor may give the lessee a notice requiring the further information
     the lessor considers is required to make the decision.
     (5) The lessor must give the lessee a notice (the
     "decision notice") stating the lessor’s decision within 1 month
     after receiving full particulars of the lessee’s proposal.
     (6) The decision notice must also state—
          (a) if the lessor gives consent—the conditions, if any,
          attached to the consent and the reasons for the conditions;
          and
          (b) if the lessor withholds consent—the reasons for the
          decision.
     (7) The lessor and lessee may, within the period mentioned in
     subsection (5), agree to extend the period for the giving of the
     decision notice.
     (8) The lessee may apply to the court to make a decision about the
     lessee’s proposal if—
          (a) the lessee believes the lessor has unreasonably
          withheld consent; or
          (b) the lessee believes a condition attached to the
          lessor’s consent is unreasonable, unnecessary or onerous;
          or
          (c) the lessor fails to give the lessee a decision notice
          under subsection (5).
     (9) The court may hear and decide the application and make the orders
     it considers appropriate.
     (10) If the lessee makes an alteration or carries out work in
     relation to the leased premises without the consent of the lessor,
     the lessee must restore the premises to the condition the premises
     were in immediately before the alteration or the carrying out of the
     work.
     (11) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
Effect of assignment of lease by lessee to assignee
*** 143 Effect of assignment of lease by lessee to assignee ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a lease of land if the lessee
     assigns the lease to another person (the
     "assignee").
     (2) On and from the assignment, the assignee is—
          (a) bound by each term of the lease to the extent the
          lessee was bound by the term immediately before the
          assignment; and
          (b) entitled to the benefit of each term of the lease to
          the extent the lessee was entitled to the benefit of the
          term immediately before the assignment.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies whether or not the term—
          (a) touches and concerns the land the subject of the lease;
          or
          (b) is express, implied or imposed by law.
     (4) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to a term of the lease
     to the extent—
          (a) the lease expressly provides the term is personal; or
          (b) the lease expressly excludes the operation of
          subsection (2) in relation to the term; or
          (c) the lessee and the assignee expressly agree in writing
          that the benefit of the term remains with the lessee and
          either—
               (i) the benefit of the term accrued to the lessee
               before the assignment; or
               (ii) the lessor consents to the benefit of the
               term remaining with the lessee.
     (5) If a term of the lease restricts the use of the land, the
     reference to the assignee in subsections (2) and (4) also includes a
     reference to any person who is the occupier of the land to which the
     term relates.
     (6) This section—
          (a) applies despite the Land Title Act 1994, section 62;
          and
          (b) is subject to any agreement to the contrary; and
          (c) does not limit or otherwise affect rights and
          liabilities that have accrued between the lessee and the
          lessor before the assignment.
Effect of assignment of lease by transferee to subsequent transferee
*** 144 Effect of assignment of lease by transferee to subsequent transferee
***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a lease of land if—
          (a) the lessee assigns the lease to another person (the
          "assignee"); and
          (b) after the assignment of the lease, the assignee assigns
          the lease to another person (the
          "subsequent assignee").
     (2) The lessee, and any guarantor of the lessee, is released from
     liability to the lessor for a breach of the lease by the subsequent
     assignee.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
Effect of surrender or merger of lease
*** 145 Effect of surrender or merger of lease ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a lease of land if—
          (a) the lease is surrendered; or
          (b) the lease is merged in another interest in the land,
          including, for example, a future interest.
     (2) The person entitled, on the surrender or merger, to the reversion
     of the lease has the same rights and obligations in relation to the
     lease as the person who, but for the surrender or merger, would have
     been entitled to the reversion.
Effect of reconfiguration of land
*** 146 Effect of reconfiguration of land ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a lease of land if the land
     is reconfigured and 2 or more persons become entitled to the income
     of the land.
     (2) The rights and obligations under the lease—
          (a) must be apportioned between the persons entitled to the
          land under the reconfiguration; and
          (b) to the extent required by the apportionment under
          paragraph (a), are attached to the land under the
          reconfiguration and bind successors in title.
     (3) In this section—
     "reconfigure", land, includes subdivide, amalgamate, and reconfigure
     the boundaries of, the land.
Head lease may be surrendered and new head lease granted without affecting
other rights and obligations
*** 147 Head lease may be surrendered and new head lease granted without
affecting other rights and obligations ***
If a head lease is surrendered in order to be renewed, and another head lease
(the
"new head lease") is granted during the term of a sublease and the parties to
the surrendered head lease and the new head lease are the same—
     (a) the new head lease takes effect as if any sublease were
     surrendered; and
     (b) any sublease remains valid; and
     (c) the lessor under the new head lease, any parties to any sublease
     and any guarantor, have the same rights and obligations against each
     other as if the surrendered head lease had not been surrendered.
Involuntary transmission not breach of lease
*** 148 Involuntary transmission not breach of lease ***
     (1) This section applies if a term of a lease of land—
          (a) prohibits the lessee from transferring the lease; or
          (b) grants the lessee a right to transfer the lease with
          the consent of the lessor.
     (2) A transmission of the lease by the lessee does not cause a breach
     of the term of the lease.
     (3) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
Definition for division
*** 149 Definition for division ***
In this division—
"lease" includes an agreement for a lease.
Application of division
*** 150 Application of division ***
     (1) This division applies to a lease of land other than any of the
     following leases—
          (a) a housing lease;
          (b) a residential tenancy;
          (c) a resources lease;
          (d) a State land lease.
     (2) In relation to a lease of land of not more than 1 year, this
     division applies only in relation to—
          (a) an option to renew the lease; or
          (b) an option to purchase the reversion of the lease.
     (3) In this section—
     "housing lease" —
          (a) means a lease of housing under the Housing Act 2003;
          and
          (b) does not include a sublease of a lease mentioned in
          paragraph (a).
     "residential tenancy" means a residential tenancy under the
     Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008.
     "resources lease" —
          (a) means any of the following leases—
               (i) a mining lease under the Mineral Resources
               Act 1989;
               (ii) a petroleum lease under the Petroleum and
               Gas (Production and Safety) Act 2004;
               (iii) a lease under the Petroleum Act 1923;
               (iv) a geothermal production lease under the
               Geothermal Energy Act 2010;
               (v) a GHG lease under the Greenhouse Gas Storage
               Act 2009; and
          (b) does not include a sublease of a lease mentioned in
          paragraph (a).
     "State land lease" —
          (a) means a lease of land from the State under the Land Act
          1994; and
          (b) does not include a sublease of a lease mentioned in
          paragraph (a).
Contracting out prohibited
*** 151 Contracting out prohibited ***
This division applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
Definitions for subdivision
*** 152 Definitions for subdivision ***
In this subdivision—
"breach", of a term of a lease, includes the happening of an event of default
that under the terms of the lease gives the lessor a right to forfeit the
lease.
"designated person", for a lease of land, means—
     (a) a mortgagee or receiver of a lessee’s interest in the land; or
     (b) a guarantor under the lease; or
     (c) a sublessee under the lease; or
     (d) a mortgagee or receiver of a sublessee’s interest in the land;
     or
     (e) if the lease has been assigned—an assignor under the lease, or
     a guarantor of an assignor, who has not been released from liability
     under the lease.
"notice to remedy breach" see section 153 (1) (a).
"reasonable compensation", for a breach of a term of a lease, means an amount
in payment of reasonable costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the lessor
in—
     (a) preparing and giving a notice to remedy breach in relation to the
     breach; or
     (b) obtaining legal or other professional advice about the nature and
     extent of the breach; or
     (c) doing any other reasonable thing in relation to the breach,
     including, for example, mitigating the loss or damage arising from
     the breach.
Lessor must give lessee notice to remedy breach
*** 153 Lessor must give lessee notice to remedy breach ***
     (1) A lessor may exercise a right to re-enter land under a term of
     the lease for breach of a term of the lease only if—
          (a) the lessor has given the lessee a notice in the
          approved form (a
          "notice to remedy breach") stating—
               (i) the nature and extent of the breach; and
               (ii) if the breach is capable of being remedied
               by the lessee—
                    (A) that the lessee is required to
                    remedy the breach; and
                    (B) a reasonable period within which
                    the lessee is required to remedy the
                    breach; and
               (iii) if the lessor claims an amount of
               reasonable compensation for the breach—
                    (A) the amount claimed and how the
                    amount is calculated; and
                    (B) a reasonable period within which
                    the lessee is required to pay the
                    amount; and
               (iv) that the lessor intends to terminate the
               lease if the breach is not remedied, or the
               amount is not paid, within the reasonable period;
               and
          (b) at the end of the reasonable period stated in the
          notice, the breach has not been remedied or the amount of
          reasonable compensation has not been paid.
     (2) For subsection (1) (a) (ii) (B) and (iii)(B), a period is
     reasonable only if it is reasonable having regard to all of the
     circumstances, including, for example—
          (a) the nature and the extent of the breach; and
          (b) for subsection (1) (a) (ii) (B) —the nature of the
          thing, if any, the lessee must do or stop doing to remedy
          the breach.
Lessor must give copy of notice to designated persons
*** 154 Lessor must give copy of notice to designated persons ***
     (1) If a lessor gives a notice to remedy breach to a lessee, the
     lessor must also give a copy of the notice to each designated person
     for the lease whose name and address is known to the lessor.
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the lessor’s failure
     to comply with subsection (1) does not prevent the lessor from
     exercising a right to terminate the lease, re-enter land under a term
     of the lease, or make an application to the court for any form of
     relief in relation to the lease.
Acceptance of rent paid by lessee in possession not waiver of lessor’s rights
*** 155 Acceptance of rent paid by lessee in possession not waiver of
lessor’s rights ***
     (1) This section applies if a lessor accepts rent, or another amount,
     after the lessor gives the lessee a notice to remedy breach.
     (2) The lessor’s acceptance of the rent, or other amount, does not
     operate as a waiver of the lessor’s right to forfeit the lease
     because of the breach.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.
Notice to remedy breach not required if lessee has given up possession
*** 156 Notice to remedy breach not required if lessee has given up possession
***
     (1) Despite section 153, a lessor of land may exercise a right to re-
     enter the land under a term of the lease for breach of a term of the
     lease if the lessor reasonably believes the lessee has given up
     possession of the land.
     (2) A lessor exercising a right of re-entry under subsection (1) is
     not required to—
          (a) give the lessee a notice to remedy breach; or
          (b) apply to the court for recovery of possession of the
          land.
     (3) As soon as practicable after exercising a right of re-entry under
     subsection (1), the lessor must give each designated person for the
     lease whose name and address is known to the lessor a notice stating
     the lessor has exercised the right of re-entry.
How lessor may exercise right of re-entry
*** 157 How lessor may exercise right of re-entry ***
     (1) This section applies if a lessee of land fails to remedy a breach
     or pay an amount of reasonable compensation required under a notice
     to remedy breach given to the lessee.
     (2) The lessor may exercise a right to re-enter the land under a term
     of the lease for breach of a term of the lease by—
          (a) peaceably re-entering the land; or
          (b) if the lessor can not peaceably re-enter the
          land—making a written demand for possession of the land;
          or
          (c) if the lessee refuses to give up possession of the land
          after a written demand under paragraph (b) —applying to
          the court for recovery of possession of the land.
Powers of court in making order for possession
*** 158 Powers of court in making order for possession ***
     (1) This section applies if a lessor of land applies to the court for
     recovery of possession of the land in exercise of a right to forfeit
     the lease because of a breach by the lessee of a term of the lease.
     (2) The court may make any order that the nature of the case
     requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
          (a) an order for possession of the land;
          (b) an order forfeiting the lease;
          (c) an order that the lessee pay to the lessor an amount
          owed under the lease;
          (d) an order that the lessee pay to the lessor an amount of
          reasonable compensation for the breach;
          (e) an order imposing a condition on the lessee or lessor.
Lessor’s claim for damages not affected
*** 159 Lessor’s claim for damages not affected ***
This subdivision does not limit or otherwise affect a claim by a lessor for
damages for a breach of a term of the lease or another obligation owed by the
lessee to the lessor.
Proceedings for relief against forfeiture
*** 160 Proceedings for relief against forfeiture ***
     (1) The lessee or a designated person for the lease may apply to the
     court for relief against the forfeiture, or proposed forfeiture, of
     the lease because of a breach by the lessee of a term of the lease.
     (2) The application may be—
          (a) an originating process; or
          (b) made in a proceeding brought by the lessor for recovery
          of possession of the land.
     (3) An application mentioned in subsection (2) (b) must be made—
          (a) if the lessor has re-entered the land under section 156
          or 157 (2) (a) —within 1 month after the re-entry; or
          (b) if the lessor has applied to the court for recovery of
          possession of the land—before an order for possession of
          the land is made by the court.
     (4) The court may extend the period in which the lessee or designated
     person may bring an application under subsection (3) (a) if the court
     considers it appropriate.
Application for relief against forfeiture not admission
*** 161 Application for relief against forfeiture not admission ***
     (1) An application under section 160 is not an admission by the
     lessee or designated person for the lease that—
          (a) the lessee has breached a term of the lease; or
          (b) the lessor has a right to forfeit the lease; or
          (c) a notice to remedy breach has been given; or
          (d) a period for remedying the breach has ended.
     (2) A court may order relief against the forfeiture, or proposed
     forfeiture, of a lease without deciding a matter mentioned in
     subsection (1).
Powers of court in making order for relief against forfeiture
*** 162 Powers of court in making order for relief against forfeiture ***
     (1) This section applies if the lessee or a designated person for the
     lease applies under section 160 to the court.
     (2) The court may make any order that the nature of the case
     requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
          (a) an order for relief against the forfeiture, or proposed
          forfeiture, of the lease;
          (b) an order that the lessee pay to the lessor an amount
          owed under the lease;
          (c) an order that the lessee pay to the lessor an amount of
          reasonable compensation for the breach;
          (d) if the applicant is a sublessee—an order that the
          lessor enter into a lease of the land, or a part of the
          land, with the sublessee;
          (e) an order imposing a condition on the lessee, lessor or
          designated person.
     (3) The court may make an order that the lessor enter into a lease of
     the land, or a part of the land, with a sublessee only if the
     lease—
          (a) starts on a day not earlier than—
               (i) the day the lessor re-enters the land under
               section 156 or 157 (2) (a); or
               (ii) the day the lessor recovers possession of
               the land after making a written demand for
               possession of the land or under an order of the
               court; and
          (b) ends on a day not later than the day the sublease would
          have ended but for the forfeiture of the lease.
     (4) In making an order under subsection (3), the court must take into
     account the terms of the sublease.
Definitions for subdivision
*** 163 Definitions for subdivision ***
In this subdivision—
"breach notice" see section 164 (2) (a).
"designated person", for a lease of land, means a mortgagee or receiver of a
lessee’s interest in the land.
When lessor may refuse to renew, or extend term of, or sell reversion of, lease
*** 164 When lessor may refuse to renew, or extend term of, or sell reversion
of, lease ***
     (1) This section applies to a lease of land if—
          (a) the lessor has agreed in writing with the lessee that
          at or before the end of the term of the lease, the lessee
          has an option—
               (i) to renew, or extend the term of, the lease in
               relation to all or part of the land; or
               (ii) to purchase the reversion of the lease; and
          (b) the exercise of the option is conditional on 1 or more
          of the following matters—
               (i) the fulfilment by the lessee of a condition
               precedent to the exercise of the option;
               (ii) the performance by the lessee of the terms
               of the lease;
               (iii) the lessee giving a notice exercising the
               option (an
               "option notice"); and
          (c) 1 or more of the following apply (each a
          "breach")—
               (i) for paragraph (b) (i) —the lessee has not
               fulfilled the condition precedent;
               (ii) for paragraph (b) (ii) —the lessee has not
               performed the terms of the lease;
               (iii) for paragraph (b) (iii) —the lessee has
               not complied with a formal requirement in
               relation to the giving of the option notice.
     (2) The lessor may refuse to renew, or extend the term of, or sell
     the reversion of, the lease, only if—
          (a) the lessor gives the lessee a notice in the approved
          form (a
          "breach notice") stating the following matters—
               (i) that the lessor intends to refuse to renew,
               or extend the term of, or sell the reversion of,
               the lease, because of 1 or more breaches;
               (ii) the details of the breach or breaches;
               (iii) that the lessee or a designated person for
               the lease may apply to the court for relief
               against the refusal;
               (iv) that an application to the court for relief
               against the refusal must be made within 1 month
               after the lessee receives the breach notice;
               (v) that the lessee should seek independent legal
               advice about the refusal and its implications;
               and
          (b) the lessee or a designated person for the lease does
          not apply to the court under section 166 within 1 month
          after the lessor gives the lessee the breach notice.
     (3) The lessor must give the lessee the breach notice—
          (a) within 10 business days after the giving of the option
          notice, if the breach relied on in the breach notice
          happened on or before the giving of the option notice; or
          (b) within 10 business days after the breach relied on in
          the breach notice, if the breach happened after the giving
          of the option notice.
     (4) In this section—
     "formal requirement", in relation to the giving of an option
     notice—
          (a) means a requirement under the lease about—
               (i) the form of the notice; or
               (ii) the way in which the notice is to be given;
               or
               (iii) the person to whom the notice is to be
               given; and
          (b) does not include a requirement under the lease about
          the period within which the notice is to be given.
Lessor must give copy of notice to designated persons
*** 165 Lessor must give copy of notice to designated persons ***
     (1) This section applies if a lessor gives a lessee a breach notice.
     (2) The lessor must also give a copy of the breach notice to each
     designated person for the lease whose name and address is known to
     the lessor.
     (3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the lessor’s failure
     to comply with subsection (2) does not limit or otherwise affect any
     right of the lessor to refuse to renew, or extend the term of, or
     sell the reversion of, the lease.
Proceedings for relief against refusal
*** 166 Proceedings for relief against refusal ***
     (1) The lessee or a designated person for the lease may apply to the
     court for relief against the refusal to renew, or extend the term of,
     or sell the reversion of, the lease, because of 1 or more breaches
     mentioned in section 164 (1) (c).
     (2) The application may be—
          (a) an originating process; or
          (b) made in a proceeding brought by the lessor for recovery
          of possession of the land.
     (3) If the lessor gives the lessee a breach notice relying on 1 or
     more breaches mentioned in subsection (1), the lessee, or designated
     person for the lease, must make the application under subsection (1)
     within 1 month after the giving of the breach notice to the lessee.
Powers of court in making order for relief against refusal
*** 167 Powers of court in making order for relief against refusal ***
     (1) This section applies if the lessee or a designated person for the
     lease applies to the court under section 166.
     (2) In deciding whether to give the relief, the court may consider
     anything the court considers relevant, including, for example—
          (a) the nature of the breach or breaches relied on in the
          breach notice; and
          (b) the extent to which the lessor has been prejudiced by
          the breach or breaches relied on in the breach notice; and
          (c) the conduct of the lessor and the lessee, whether
          before or after the giving of the breach notice; and
          (d) the rights relating to the lease of persons other than
          the lessor and the lessee, including, for example, a
          designated person for the lease.
     (3) The court may make any order that the nature of the case
     requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
          (a) an order that the lessor renew the lease;
          (b) an order that the lessor sell the reversion of the
          lease;
          (c) an order imposing a condition on the lessor, lessee or
          designated person for the lease.
     (4) If the lease ends before the court makes an order under this
     section, the lease is taken to continue on the same terms that were
     in effect immediately before the application was made until the court
     makes an order under this section.
Apportionment in respect of time
*** 168 Apportionment in respect of time ***
     (1) This section applies to a payment of rent under a lease in
     relation to a fixed or ascertainable period, whether or not the
     payment is reserved or made payable under a document.
     (2) The payment—
          (a) is to be regarded as accruing from day to day; and
          (b) is apportionable in respect of time in relation to both
          the liability to make, and the right to receive, the
          payment.
     (3) This section is subject to any agreement to the contrary.
Payment and recovery of apportioned part of rent
*** 169 Payment and recovery of apportioned part of rent ***
     (1) An apportioned part of rent is payable and recoverable—
          (a) for a continuing right to payment—only when the
          entire payment becomes payable and recoverable; or
          (b) for a right to payment the continuing right to which
          has stopped for a reason, including, for example, the death
          of a person or the re-entry of land—only when the entire
          payment would have become payable and recoverable had the
          continuing right not stopped.
     (2) A person entitled to an apportioned part of rent—
          (a) has, when the entire payment becomes payable, the same
          rights and remedies for recovering the apportioned part as
          would have been available in relation to the entire
          payment; and
          (b) must bear a proportionate part of any allowance which
          would have been given in relation to the entire payment.
Definitions for division
*** 170 Definitions for division ***
In this division—
"lease terminable at will" see section 172.
"party", to a lease, means a lessor or lessee under the lease.
"termination notice" see section 173.
Contracting out permitted
*** 171 Contracting out permitted ***
This division applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.
Meaning of lease terminable at will
*** 172 Meaning of lease terminable at will ***
A lease of land is a
"lease terminable at will" if—
     (a) the lessee is in possession of the land, although the lessor and
     the lessee have not agreed, expressly or impliedly, to the duration
     of the term of the lease; or
     (b) the lessee remains in possession of the land with the lessor’s
     consent, although the term of the lease has ended, and the lessor and
     the lessee have not agreed, expressly or impliedly, that the lessee
     may continue in possession for another period.
What is a termination notice
*** 173 What is a termination notice ***
     (1) A
     "termination notice", in relation to a lease, is a notice given by a
     party to the lease that—
          (a) identifies the land subject to the lease; and
          (b) states that the party is terminating the lease on a
          stated day; and
          (c) is signed by the party.
     (2) The notice may, but need not, be in the approved form.
     (3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that this section does not
     limit or otherwise affect the ability of a party to sign by an agent.
Termination of lease terminable at will
*** 174 Termination of lease terminable at will ***
A party to a lease terminable at will may terminate the lease on a stated day
(the
"termination day") by giving a termination notice to the other party at least
Section 20 business days before the termination day.
Termination of periodic tenancy
*** 175 Termination of periodic tenancy ***
     (1) A party to a periodic tenancy may terminate the tenancy, on a
     stated day that is the last day of a period of the tenancy (the
     "termination day"), by giving a termination notice to the other
     party—
          (a) for a weekly tenancy—at least 1 week before the
          termination day; or
          (b) for a monthly tenancy—at least 1 month before the
          termination day; or
          (c) for a yearly tenancy—at least 6 months before the
          termination day; or
          (d) for a tenancy for a period other than a week, a month
          or a year—at least the required period for the tenancy
          before the termination day.
     (2) For subsection (1) (d), subject to any contrary agreement, the
     period of the tenancy is taken to start on the day on which rent
     under the tenancy is payable.
     (3) In this section—
     "required period", for a tenancy, means the lesser of the following
     periods—
          (a) the period of the tenancy;
          (b) 6 months.
Termination of other tenancies
*** 176 Termination of other tenancies ***
     (1) This section applies to a tenancy other than—
          (a) a periodic tenancy; or
          (b) a tenancy for a fixed term if the fixed term has not
          expired; or
          (c) a tenancy for which a period of notice has expressly or
          impliedly been agreed to by the parties.
     (2) A party to the tenancy may terminate the tenancy on a stated day
     (the
     "termination day") by giving a termination notice to the other party
     a reasonable period before the termination day.
     (3) For subsection (2), whether a period is reasonable depends on all
     of the circumstances, including, for example—
          (a) the nature of the tenancy; and
          (b) the circumstances surrounding the creation of the
          tenancy; and
          (c) the terms of the tenancy; and
          (d) any implications arising from the agreement of the
          parties.
Effect of waiver
*** 177 Effect of waiver ***
     (1) A waiver by a lessor of the benefit of a term of the lease—
          (a) extends only to the instance or breach to which the
          waiver particularly relates; and
          (b) is not to be taken as a general waiver.
     (2) This section applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.
Limitation on award of damages for breach of obligation to repair
*** 178 Limitation on award of damages for breach of obligation to repair ***
     (1) This section applies if a lessor brings a proceeding against the
     lessee claiming damages for breach of an obligation to keep or put
     premises in good repair during the term of the lease or when the
     lease ends.
     (2) In making an award of damages for breach of the obligation, the
     court may not award more than the lesser of the following amounts—
          (a) the amount, if any, by which the value of the reversion
          is diminished by the breach;
          (b) the amount of the actual cost of remedying the breach.
     (3) Also, the court may not award damages for breach of the
     obligation if the lessee proves that on or after the termination of
     the lease—
          (a) the premises have been, or will be, demolished; or
          (b) structural alterations have been, or will be, made to
          the premises that would result in the cost of remedying the
          breach being of no value or of insufficient value to
          justify the cost.
Duty of care in relation to support for land
*** 179 Duty of care in relation to support for land ***
     (1) For the common law of negligence—
          (a) the owner of supporting land owes a duty of care to the
          owner of supported land not to do or omit to do anything
          that adversely affects the support provided by the
          supporting land to the supported land; and
          (b) the owner of supported land owes a duty of care to the
          owner of supporting land not to do or omit to do anything
          that adversely affects the support provided by the
          supporting land to the supported land.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies—
          (a) whether or not the supporting land and supported land
          share a common boundary; and
          (b) to any support, whether from structures anywhere on the
          land or on a common boundary.
     (3) The duty of care may be excluded or modified by express agreement
     between a person on whom the duty lies and a person to whom the duty
     is owed.
     (4) If an agreement under subsection (3) is embodied in an easement
     registered under the Land Title Act 1994, the agreement binds the
     parties to the agreement and each of their successors in title.
     (5) The right at common law, if any, to bring a proceeding in
     nuisance in relation to acts or omissions that adversely affect the
     support provided by supporting land to supported land is abolished.
     (6) In this section—
     "adversely affect", support provided by supporting land to supported
     land, includes reduce or remove support.
     "owner", of supporting land or supported land, includes a mortgagee
     or receiver in possession of the land if the mortgagee or receiver
     has exclusive management and control of the land.
     "supported land" means land, including a structure on the land, that
     is provided with support by supporting land.
     "supporting land" means land, including each of the following aspects
     of the land, that provides support to supported land—
          (a) the natural surface of the land;
          (b) the subsoil of the land;
          (c) the water, if any, on or beneath the land;
          (d) a part of the land, if any, that has been reclaimed;
          (e) a structure on the land.
Power of court to impose statutory right of use
*** 180 Power of court to impose statutory right of use ***
     (1) A person having an interest in land (the
     "benefited land") may apply to the court for an order imposing a
     statutory right of use over other land (the
     "burdened land") if the statutory right of use is reasonably
     necessary for the effective use and development of the benefited
     land.
     (2) Also, a person having an interest in land (also the
     "benefited land") may apply to the court for an order imposing a
     statutory right of use over other land (the
     "burdened land"), relating to a utility, in favour of the public
     utility provider providing the utility, if the statutory right of use
     is reasonably necessary for the effective use and development of the
     benefited land.
     (3) A statutory right of use imposed under subsection (1) may take
     any form, including, for example an easement or licence.
     (4) A statutory right of use imposed under subsection (2) must take
     the form of an easement in gross.
     (5) The court may make the order if the court is satisfied that—
          (a) the statutory right of use is reasonably necessary for
          the effective use and development of the benefited land;
          and
          (b) the statutory right of use is consistent with the
          operation of the Planning Act 2016, including, for example,
          the planning scheme under that Act that applies to the land
          affected by the statutory right of use; and
          (c) the use or development of the benefited land is
          consistent with the public interest; and
          (d) each person having an interest in the burdened land can
          be adequately compensated for any loss or disadvantage
          arising from the imposition of the statutory right of use;
          and
          (e) the person applying to the court has made reasonable
          attempts to obtain the easement, or other statutory right
          of use, by agreement; and
          (f) the attempts mentioned in paragraph (e) have been
          unsuccessful because—
               (i) a person has refused to agree to the
               statutory right of use and the refusal is
               unreasonable in all the circumstances; or
               (ii) a person who has capacity to agree to the
               statutory right of use can not be located.
     (6) Also, for a statutory right of use imposed under subsection (2),
     the court may make the order only if the court is satisfied—
          (a) the statutory right of use is able to be registered;
          and
          (b) the public utility provider has agreed to the terms of
          the statutory right of use; and
          (c) the local government in whose area the statutory right
          of use is located has agreed to the terms of the statutory
          right of use.
     (7) If the court makes the order, the court must state in the
     order—
          (a) the nature of the statutory right of use, and its
          terms; and
          (b) the land to be benefited, and the land to be burdened,
          by the statutory right of use.
     (8) However, for subsection (7) (b), the court is not required to
     state the land to be benefited if the statutory right of use is
     imposed under subsection (2).
     (9) Also, if the court makes the order, and is satisfied that a
     person having an interest in the burdened land will suffer loss or
     disadvantage arising from the imposition of the statutory right of
     use, the court must make an order that the applicant pay an amount to
     the person, considered by the court to be just in the circumstances,
     by way of compensation.
     (10) The court may make any order that the nature of the case
     requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
          (a) an order requiring a plan of survey, designating the
          area of the burdened land subject to the statutory right of
          use, to be prepared;
          (b) an order imposing a condition on the applicant or a
          person having an interest in the burdened land.
     (11) If the court makes an order that creates an interest that may be
     registered—
          (a) the interest must be registered; and
          (b) unless otherwise ordered by the court, the applicant
          must register the interest.
     (12) If an interest is registered under subsection (11), the order
     creating the interest binds all persons, including, for example, the
     parties to the proceeding and each of their successors in title.
     (13) The costs of a proceeding under this section are payable by the
     applicant unless special circumstances exist.
     (14) Despite section 3, this section does not bind the State, other
     than to the extent a public utility provider is bound to comply with
     a statutory right of use in the form of an easement in gross in
     favour of the public utility provider.
     (15) In this section—
     "public utility provider" means a public utility provider under the
     Land Act 1994, schedule 6 or the Land Title Act 1994, section 81A.
     "statutory right of use", over land, includes—
          (a) a right of way over land; and
          (b) a right to access, enter or cross over land; and
          (c) a right to carry and place a utility on, over or under
          land.
     "utility" includes—
          (a) electricity, gas, power, telecommunication, water,
          drainage, sewerage and other service pipes or lines; and
          (b) facilities and structures reasonably incidental to the
          service pipes or lines mentioned in paragraph (a).
Power of court to modify or extinguish easement or covenant
*** 181 Power of court to modify or extinguish easement or covenant ***
     (1) This section applies if land (the
     "burdened land") is subject to the burden of—
          (a) an easement or covenant benefiting other land (the
          "benefited land"); or
          (b) an easement in gross.
     (2) A person having an interest in the burdened land may apply to the
     court for an order modifying or extinguishing the easement or
     covenant.
     (3) The court may make the order if the court is satisfied—
          (a) the easement or covenant is obsolete because of—
               (i) a change in the use of the benefited land; or
               (ii) a change in the character of the area in the
               vicinity of the benefited land; or
               (iii) other circumstances the court considers
               material; or
          (b) the continued existence of the easement or covenant—
               (i) would impede a reasonable use of the burdened
               land; or
               (ii) would not provide a practical benefit of
               substantial value, utility or advantage to any
               person entitled to the benefit of the easement or
               covenant; or
               (iii) would be contrary to the public interest;
               or
          (c) for an easement or covenant under a building management
          statement—the modification or extinguishment of the
          easement or covenant—
               (i) can not be obtained by an amendment of the
               statement under the Land Act 1994, section 294F
               or the Land Title Act 1994, section 54E because
               the signature of all persons required for the
               amendment can not be obtained; and
               (ii) is just and equitable in the circumstances;
               and
               (iii) is reasonably necessary in the
               circumstances; or
          (d) each person entitled to the benefit of the easement or
          covenant can reasonably be considered to have abandoned, by
          an act or omission, the easement or covenant; or
          (e) each person entitled to the benefit of the easement or
          covenant has agreed to, or would not be substantially
          injured by, the modification or extinguishment of the
          easement or covenant.
     (4) However, the court may make an order under subsection (3) (c)
     only if the court is satisfied that each person who will suffer loss
     or other disadvantage from the modification or extinguishment of the
     easement or covenant can be paid an amount as adequate compensation
     for the loss or disadvantage.
     (5) In deciding whether to make an order under subsection (3) (a) or
     (b), the court—
          (a) must take into account the operation of the Planning
          Act 2016, including, for example, the planning scheme under
          that Act that applies to the benefited land and the
          burdened land; and
          (b) may take into account any other matter the court
          considers appropriate.
     (6) The court may make any order that the nature of the case
     requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
          (a) an order requiring the payment of an amount to a person
          mentioned in subsection (4);
          (b) an order requiring the amendment of a document creating
          the easement or covenant to include a term relating to the
          use, repair or maintenance of the burdened land;
          (c) an order requiring the registration of a document
          necessary to give effect to an amendment mentioned in
          paragraph (b).
               Note—
                    See the Land Act 1994, sections 294F
                    and 294I and the Land Title Act 1994,
                    sections 54E and 54H for the
                    requirement to register an instrument
                    of amendment or extinguishment of a
                    building management statement.
     (7) In this section—
     "building management statement" means a building management statement
     under the Land Act 1994, section 294B (2) or the Land Title Act 1994,
     section 54A (2).
     "covenant" includes—
          (a) a covenant registered under the Land Act 1994 or the
          Land Title Act 1994 or arising under a contract or other
          arrangement; and
          (b) a covenant imposed under a building management
          statement.
     "easement" includes—
          (a) a right of access, support or shelter, or other right
          in the nature of an easement, under a building management
          statement; and
          (b) an easement in gross.
     "extinguish" means wholly or partially extinguish.
No interest created by prescription
*** 182 No interest created by prescription ***
No interest under the Land Act 1994 or the Land Title Act 1994 can be created
by prescription or through the doctrine of lost modern grant.
Definitions for division
*** 183 Definitions for division ***
In this division—
"affected owner" see section 185 (2).
"building" —
     (a) means a substantial structure of a permanent character; and
     (b) includes a part of a structure mentioned in paragraph (a),
     including, for example, a wall.
"encroaching owner" see section 185 (1).
"encroachment" means an encroachment by a building on to land and includes—
     (a) encroachment by overhang of the building on to the land; and
     (b) encroachment by intrusion of the building on or into, or under
     the soil of, the land.
Relationship with other Acts
*** 184 Relationship with other Acts ***
This division applies despite any other Act.
Proceedings for relief
*** 185 Proceedings for relief ***
     (1) A person who has an interest in land from which an encroachment
     extends on to other land (an
     "encroaching owner") may apply to the court for relief in relation to
     the encroachment.
     (2) A person who has an interest in land on to which an encroachment
     extends from other land (an
     "affected owner") may apply to the court for relief in relation to
     the encroachment.
     (3) The court may make an order granting or refusing to grant the
     relief.
     (4) In deciding whether to make an order under subsection (3), the
     court may take into account the following matters—
          (a) whether the application is made by an encroaching owner
          or an affected owner;
          (b) the circumstances in which the encroachment was made;
          (c) the nature and extent of the encroachment;
          (d) the purposes for which the encroachment may be used;
          (e) the situation and value of the land affected by the
          encroachment;
          (f) the operation of the Planning Act 2016, including, for
          example, the planning scheme under that Act that applies to
          the land affected by the encroachment;
          (g) the loss or damage, if any, that has been or will be
          incurred by the affected owner because of the encroachment;
          (h) the loss or damage, if any, that would be incurred by
          the encroaching owner if the court required the
          encroachment to be removed;
          (i) any other circumstance the court considers relevant.
     (5) The court may make any order that the nature of the case
     requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
          (a) an order that an affected owner transfer, lease, or
          grant an easement or another interest in, the land affected
          by the encroachment, to an encroaching owner;
          (b) an order in relation to land reasonably required as
          curtilage and for access to the encroachment;
          (c) an order requiring a plan of survey, designating the
          boundary of land affected by the encroachment and any land
          mentioned in paragraph (b), to be prepared;
          (d) an order that an encroaching owner pay an amount to an
          affected owner as compensation for loss or other damage
          arising from the encroachment;
          (e) an order that the encroachment be modified or removed.
Minimum compensation
*** 186 Minimum compensation ***
     (1) If the court makes an order under section 185 (5) (d), the amount
     of compensation must be at least—
          (a) if the encroaching owner satisfies the court that the
          encroachment was not intentional and did not arise from
          negligence—the market value of the interest in the land
          affected by the encroachment; or
          (b) otherwise—3 times the market value of the interest in
          the land affected by the encroachment.
     (2) In deciding whether to make an order under section 185 (5) (d)
     that is more than the minimum amount of compensation under subsection
     (1), the court must take into account—
          (a) the value of the interest in the land affected by the
          encroachment; and
          (b) the loss or damage, if any, that has been or will be
          incurred by the affected owner because of the encroachment
          and any order proposed to be made by the court in favour of
          the encroaching owner; and
          (c) the circumstances in which the encroachment was made.
Relationship with other Acts
*** 187 Relationship with other Acts ***
This division applies despite any other Act.
Proceedings for relief
*** 188 Proceedings for relief ***
     (1) This section applies to each of the following persons—
          (a) a person (the
          "first person") who makes a lasting improvement on land
          owned by someone else in the genuine but mistaken belief
          that the first person owns the land;
          (b) a person who, on behalf of another person (the
          "second person"), makes a lasting improvement on land owned
          by someone else in the genuine but mistaken belief that the
          second person owns the land;
          (c) a person who has an interest in land, or a lasting
          improvement, mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);
          (d) a local government within whose area any part of land,
          or a lasting improvement, mentioned in paragraph (a) or
          (b), is located.
     (2) The person may apply to the court for relief in relation to the
     lasting improvement.
     (3) The court may make an order granting or refusing to grant the
     relief.
     (4) In deciding whether to make an order under subsection (3), the
     court may take into account the following matters—
          (a) whether the application is made by a person who held a
          mistaken belief about the ownership of the land on which
          the lasting improvement was made, or a person who has an
          interest in the land or lasting improvement;
          (b) the circumstances in which the lasting improvement was
          made;
          (c) the nature and extent of the lasting improvement;
          (d) the purposes for which the lasting improvement may be
          used;
          (e) the situation and value of the land affected by the
          lasting improvement;
          (f) the operation of the Planning Act 2016, including, for
          example, the planning scheme under that Act that applies to
          the land affected by the lasting improvement;
          (g) the loss or damage, if any, that has been or will be
          incurred by a person because of the lasting improvement;
          (h) the loss or damage, if any, that would be incurred by a
          person if the court required the lasting improvement to be
          removed;
          (i) any other circumstance the court considers relevant.
     (5) Without limiting subsection (3), the court may make any of the
     following orders—
          (a) an order that a person transfer, lease, or grant an
          easement or another interest in, the land or any part of
          the land affected by the lasting improvement, to another
          person;
          (b) an order declaring that an interest in the land or any
          part of the land affected by the lasting improvement is
          free from a mortgage, lease, easement or other interest
          affecting the land;
          (c) an order varying, to the extent necessary in the
          circumstances, a mortgage, lease, easement, contract or
          other document affecting or relating to the land affected
          by the lasting improvement;
          (d) an order in relation to land reasonably required as
          curtilage and for access to the lasting improvement;
          (e) an order that a person pay an amount to another person
          as compensation for loss of the land, or other loss or
          damage arising from the lasting improvement;
          (f) an order that the lasting improvement be modified or
          removed;
          (g) an order requiring a plan of survey, designating the
          boundary of land affected by the lasting improvement and
          any land mentioned in paragraph (d), to be prepared.
     (6) In this section—
     "fence" has the meaning given by the Neighbourhood Disputes (Dividing
     Fences and Trees) Act 2011.
     "lasting improvement" does not include a fence.
Definitions for division
*** 189 Definitions for division ***
In this division—
"absolute", in relation to an assignment, means—
     (a) not conditional; and
     (b) not by way of charge only.
"debt" includes part of a debt.
"debtor" means a person, including, for example, a trustee, who is under an
obligation to discharge a debt.
"thing in action" includes part of a thing in action.
Assignment of debt or legal thing in action
*** 190 Assignment of debt or legal thing in action ***
     (1) The absolute assignment in writing of a debt or legal thing in
     action, signed by the assignor, passes to the assignee—
          (a) all the rights of the assignor in relation to the debt
          or thing in action; and
          (b) all the remedies of the assignor in relation to the
          debt or thing in action; and
          (c) a power to give a good discharge to the debtor, trustee
          or other person liable for the debt or thing in action
          without the agreement of the assignor.
     (2) However, subsection (1) applies only if the debtor, trustee or
     other person liable for the debt or thing in action is given actual
     notice of the assignment.
     (3) Also, an assignment under subsection (1) is subject to equities
     in relation to the debt or thing in action that—
          (a) arose before the debtor, trustee or other person liable
          for the debt or thing in action was given notice of the
          assignment; and
          (b) would, but for the assignment, have had priority over
          the rights of the assignor.
Discharge of debt or legal thing in action when no actual notice of assignment
*** 191 Discharge of debt or legal thing in action when no actual notice of
assignment ***
     (1) This section applies if a debt or legal thing in action is
     assigned under section 190 or in equity.
     (2) If the debtor, trustee or other person liable for the debt or
     thing in action has actual notice of the assignment, the debt or
     legal thing in action is payable to the assignee.
     (3) If the debtor, trustee or other person liable for the debt or
     thing in action does not have actual notice of the assignment, and
     that person pays all or part of the debt or legal thing in action to
     the assignor, the payment discharges that person to the extent of the
     payment.
     (6) A debtor, trustee or other person liable for a debt or thing in
     action may interplead in any proceeding brought against that person
     for the payment of the debt or legal thing in action, or may apply to
     a court for an order determining the entitlement to any right in
     relation to the debt or thing in action, if that person has actual
     notice—
          (a) that an assignment of the debt or thing in action is
          disputed by the assignee or anyone claiming under the
          assignor; or
          (b) that there are other opposing or conflicting claims in
          relation to the debt or thing in action.
Assignment in equity
*** 192 Assignment in equity ***
     (1) A voluntary assignment of property is taken to have been assigned
     in equity, whether the assignment is oral or in writing, if the
     assignment is complete.
     (2) For subsection (1), an assignment is complete when the assignor
     has done everything that needs to be done by the assignor to transfer
     to the assignee, whether absolutely, conditionally, or by way of
     charge, the rights of the assignor in relation to the property.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies even if a thing remains to be done,
     without the intervention or assistance of the assignor, to transfer
     to the assignee the rights of the assignor in relation to the
     property.
     (4) This section applies—
          (a) despite any rule of equity to the contrary; and
          (b) subject to sections 7 and 8.
Disposition with intent to defraud creditor voidable
*** 193 Disposition with intent to defraud creditor voidable ***
     (1) A disposition of property by a person (the
     "transferor") is voidable against the transferor, by a person
     prejudiced by the disposition, if the transferor made the disposition
     with intent to defraud the transferor’s creditors.
     (2) A disposition is not voidable against the transferor under
     subsection (1) if the disposition was made to a person who—
          (a) became a party to the disposition in good faith; and
          (b) at the time when the person became a party, had no
          notice of the transferor’s intent to defraud the
          transferor’s creditors; and
          (c) provided valuable consideration.
     (3) A person whose interests are affected by a disposition of
     property voidable under subsection (1) may apply to the court for
     relief against the disposition.
     (4) The court may hear and decide the application and make the orders
     it considers appropriate.
When exercise of power of appointment valid
*** 194 When exercise of power of appointment valid ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a document, other than a will, gives a person a power
          of appointment over property; and
          (b) the power of appointment is exercised under—
               (i) a deed; or
               (ii) a document under the Land Act 1994; or
               (iii) an instrument under the Land Title Act
               1994.
     (2) The deed, document or instrument is validly executed for the
     purpose of the power of appointment if—
          (a) for a deed—the deed is executed under part 6; or
          (b) for a document under the Land Act 1994 —the document
          is executed under the Land Act 1994; or
          (c) for an instrument under the Land Title Act 1994 —the
          instrument is executed under the Land Title Act 1994.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies even if the document giving the person the
     power of appointment requires the deed, instrument or document to be
     executed in another way.
     (4) Subsection (2) does not affect either of the following
     requirements in a document, other than a will, giving a person a
     power of appointment over property—
          (a) a requirement that the consent of another person be
          obtained for the power of appointment to be validly
          exercised;
          (b) a requirement that an act, not related to the way in
          which a deed or other document is executed, be performed
          for the power of appointment to be validly exercised.
     (5) Also, subsection (2) does not prevent a person from executing a
     document in writing in a way allowed under the power of appointment.
Appointment among 2 or more objects
*** 195 Appointment among 2 or more objects ***
     (1) This section applies if a document gives a person a power of
     appointment over property among 2 or more objects.
     (2) An appointment of property made in exercise of the power is valid
     even if—
          (a) 1 or more of the objects is excluded from the
          appointment; or
          (b) 1 or more of the objects is appointed a nominal or
          illusory share in the property.
     (3) This section does not affect a term of the document that states
     the amount of a share of the property from which an object is not to
     be excluded.
Protection of buyer if invalid appointment
*** 196 Protection of buyer if invalid appointment ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a document gives a person (the
          "appointor") a power of appointment over property; and
          (b) the appointor invalidly appoints property to another
          person (the
          "appointee") in purported exercise of the power; and
          (c) another person (the
          "buyer") purchases the invalidly appointed property from
          the appointee.
     (2) The buyer has a valid title to the property if—
          (a) the appointee is at least 25 years; and
          (b) the appointee is a person, or member of a class of
          persons, entitled to the property in default of exercise of
          the power of appointment; and
          (c) the buyer did not know, and could not reasonably be
          expected to have known, that the appointment of the
          property to the appointee was invalid; and
          (d) the buyer gave valuable consideration for the purchase.
     (3) However, if the amount or value of the invalidly appointed
     property is more than the value of the appointee’s entitlement to
     the property immediately before the purported exercise of the power
     of appointment, the buyer has a valid title to the property only to
     the extent of the appointee’s entitlement to the property at that
     time.
     (4) For subsection (3), the appointee’s entitlement to the property
     immediately before the purported exercise of the power of appointment
     must be calculated taking into account—
          (a) any advance made to the appointee; and
          (b) any hotchpot provision in the power of appointment.
     (5) In this section—
     "hotchpot provision", in a power of appointment, means a provision
     providing for the appointment of property to an object after taking
     into account advances of property already made to the object under
     the provision.
Release and disclaimer of power
*** 197 Release and disclaimer of power ***
     (1) This section—
          (a) applies to a power to dispose of property whether or
          not the person who can exercise the power has an interest
          in the property; and
          (b) does not apply to a power to dispose of property if the
          power is in the nature of a trust.
     (2) The person who can exercise the power may—
          (a) release the power under a deed or contract; or
          (b) disclaim the power under a deed.
     (3) The release of the power extinguishes the power.
     (4) If the power is disclaimed—
          (a) the person who disclaimed the power may not exercise or
          join in the exercise of the power; but
          (b) any other person who can exercise the power, and who
          has not disclaimed it, may continue to exercise the power.
     (5) Subsection (4) (b) applies subject to the terms of the document
     creating the power.
Definitions for part
*** 198 Definitions for part ***
In this part—
"disposition" includes the conferring or exercise of—
     (a) a power of appointment; and
     (b) any other power to dispose of an interest in property.
"perpetuity period", for a disposition of property under a trust, see section
201.
When disposition in will made
*** 199 When disposition in will made ***
For the purpose of this part, a disposition in a will is made at the death of
the testator.
Abolition of rule against perpetuities
*** 200 Abolition of rule against perpetuities ***
The common law rule known as the rule against perpetuities is abolished.
What is the perpetuity period
*** 201 What is the perpetuity period ***
The
"perpetuity period", for a disposition of property under a trust, is—
     (a) 125 years starting on the day on which the disposition is made;
     or
     (b) if the terms of the trust state or imply a shorter period to be
     the perpetuity period for the disposition, including, for example, by
     stating a mechanism for determining the day on which the trust
     property will vest—the shorter period.
Vesting of trust property
*** 202 Vesting of trust property ***
     (1) This section applies to a disposition of property under a trust
     to a person.
     (2) The disposition is valid only if the property vests in the person
     before the end of the perpetuity period for the disposition.
Wait and see rule
*** 203 Wait and see rule ***
A disposition of property under a trust to a person is not invalid under
section 202 merely because the property may vest in the person after the end of
the perpetuity period for the disposition provided it is possible the property
may vest in the person before the end of the perpetuity period.
Reduction of age to ensure disposition within perpetuity period
*** 204 Reduction of age to ensure disposition within perpetuity period ***
     (1) This section applies to a disposition of property under a trust
     if—
          (a) the terms of the trust state or imply a mechanism for
          determining the day on which the property will vest in a
          person by reference to the person attaining a stated age of
          at least 18 years; and
          (b) the reference to the stated age would cause the
          disposition to be invalid under section 202; and
          (c) the disposition would be valid under section 202 if the
          stated age were 18 years.
     (2) The stated age is taken to be reduced to an age not less than 18
     years to the extent necessary to cause the disposition to be valid
     under section 202.
Exclusion of class members to ensure disposition within perpetuity period
*** 205 Exclusion of class members to ensure disposition within perpetuity
period ***
     (1) This section applies to a disposition of property under a trust
     if—
          (a) the terms of the trust state or imply a mechanism for
          determining the day on which the trust property will vest
          in a class of persons; and
          (b) the inclusion of potential members of the class or of
          unborn persons who at birth would become members or
          potential members of the class (both
          "non-qualifying members") would cause the disposition to be
          invalid under section 202; and
          (c) the application of section 204 would not cause the
          disposition to be valid under section 202.
     (2) The non-qualifying members are taken to be excluded from the
     class to the extent necessary to cause the disposition to be valid
     under section 202.
     (3) However, a non-qualifying member is not excluded under subsection
     (2) if the member’s exclusion would exhaust the class.
     (4) This section does not affect the validity of anything done in
     relation to the trust property before the disposition, including, for
     example, by way of advancement or application of intermediate income.
     (5) In this section—
     "member", of a class, means a person who satisfies all the conditions
     for being a member of the class.
     "potential member", of a class, means a person who—
          (a) satisfies 1 or more of the conditions for being a
          member of the class; and
          (b) may in time satisfy all the conditions for being a
          member of the class.
Acceleration of prior disposition to ensure subsequent disposition within
perpetuity period
*** 206 Acceleration of prior disposition to ensure subsequent disposition
within perpetuity period ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a disposition of property
     under the terms of a trust (a
     "prior disposition") if the prior disposition is invalid under Section 202.
     (2) A disposition of property under the terms of the trust that is
     ulterior to and dependent on the prior disposition (a
     "subsequent disposition") may be accelerated so the subsequent
     disposition is valid under section 202.
Non-charitable purpose trust
*** 207 Non-charitable purpose trust ***
     (1) If a document creates a non-charitable purpose trust, or a trust
     for the benefit of a corporation that is not a charity, and the trust
     is not otherwise invalid, the property must be applied for the
     purposes of the trust before the end of the perpetuity period for the
     disposition of property under the trust.
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that division 2 applies to a
     trust mentioned in subsection (1).
Powers of appointment
*** 208 Powers of appointment ***
     (1) If a document creates a general power of appointment relating to
     property, the property must vest before the end of the perpetuity
     period.
     (2) For subsection (1), the perpetuity period starts when the
     property is appointed by the donee of the power.
     (3) If a document creates a special power of appointment relating to
     property, both of the following must happen before the end of the
     perpetuity period—
          (a) the exercise of the power;
          (b) the vesting of the property.
     (4) For subsection (3), the perpetuity period starts when the power
     is created.
     (5) In this section—
     "general power of appointment" means—
          (a) a power of appointment exercisable under a document
          other than a will under which the person given the power—
               (i) is the only person capable of exercising the
               power; and
               (ii) may appoint the whole of the property to any
               person including the person’s self without
               complying with any other condition; or
          (b) a power of appointment exercisable under a will under
          which the person given the power—
               (i) is the only person capable of exercising the
               power; and
               (ii) may appoint the whole of the property to any
               person including the person’s personal
               representative without complying with any other
               condition.
     "special power of appointment" means a power of appointment other
     than a general power of appointment.
Conditions precedent and conditions subsequent
*** 209 Conditions precedent and conditions subsequent ***
     (1) If a document limits property in trust so as to create an
     interest in property subject to a condition precedent, the property
     must vest before the end of the perpetuity period for the disposition
     of the property.
     (2) If a document limits property in trust so as to create an
     interest in property subject to a condition subsequent—
          (a) if the property is land—a right of re-entry
          exercisable if the condition subsequent is broken must be
          exercised before the end of the perpetuity period for the
          disposition of the property; or
          (b) for property other than land—a right equivalent to a
          right of re-entry exercisable if the condition subsequent
          is broken may only be exercised before the end of the
          perpetuity period for the disposition of the property.
     (3) If a right mentioned in subsection (2) is not exercised before
     the end of the perpetuity period for the disposition of the property,
     the interest in the property is no longer subject to the condition
     subsequent.
Determinable interests
*** 210 Determinable interests ***
     (1) This section applies if the terms of a trust allow the
     disposition of property under—
          (a) a right of reverter on the determination of a
          determinable fee simple; or
          (b) a resulting trust on the determination of a
          determinable interest in property.
     (2) If the property does not vest before the end of the perpetuity
     period for the disposition of the property—
          (a) for subsection (1) (a) —the determinable fee simple
          becomes absolute; and
          (b) for subsection (1) (b) —the determinable interest
          becomes absolute.
     (3) In this section—
     "determinable", interest in property, means an interest created under
     the terms of a disposition that, under the terms, is determinable on
     a contingency.
Accumulation of income
*** 211 Accumulation of income ***
     (1) This section applies if property is held on trust the terms of
     which confer a power or impose a duty on the trustee to accumulate
     income of the property.
     (2) The power or duty is valid only to the extent the disposition of
     the accumulated income is valid under this part.
     (3) This section does not limit or otherwise affect—
          (a) a power of a person to terminate an accumulation of
          income from property that is for the person’s benefit; or
          (b) a power of a court or trustee relating to an
          accumulation of income mentioned in paragraph (a).
Particular trusts, powers and funds
*** 212 Particular trusts, powers and funds ***
The perpetuity period does not apply in relation to any of the following
matters—
     (a) a charitable trust;
     (b) the trusts of a superannuation fund or scheme;
     (c) the trusts of a pension fund or scheme;
     (d) a trust that is created under, or is subject to, another Act that
     allows the trust to continue indefinitely;
     (e) a trust that may continue indefinitely under common law or
     equity;
     (f) a trust or power to sell property, if a trust of the proceeds of
     sale is valid;
     (g) a trust or power to lease or exchange property, if the lease or
     exchange directed or authorised by the trust or power is ancillary to
     the carrying out of a valid trust;
     (h) a power that is ancillary to the carrying out of a valid trust or
     the giving effect to a valid disposition of property;
     (i) a provision for the remuneration of trustees.
Commercial arrangements
*** 213 Commercial arrangements ***
The perpetuity period does not apply in relation to any of the following
dispositions of property—
     (a) an option to renew a lease of property;
     (b) an option to acquire the reversion of a lease of property;
     (c) an option to acquire an interest in property given for valuable
     consideration or in a will in relation to property;
     (d) a right of pre-emption given for valuable consideration or in a
     will in relation to property.
Gift over from charity to charity
*** 214 Gift over from charity to charity ***
The perpetuity period does not apply in relation to a gift over from 1 charity
to another charity.
Particular matters relating to land
*** 215 Particular matters relating to land ***
To remove any doubt, it is declared that the perpetuity period does not apply
in relation to any of the following matters—
     (a) a power to take possession of land or the income of the land
     given by way of indemnity against a rent, whether or not the rent is
     payable in relation to the land;
     (b) the grant, or exercise of, a right, power or privilege in
     relation to land, including, for example, a right of entry or an
     easement relating to—
          (i) mining; or
          (ii) the removal of timber; or
          (iii) the construction or repair of buildings; or
          (iv) the construction or maintenance of infrastructure.
Variation of trust to opt in to 125-year perpetuity period if trustee has power
of variation
*** 216 Variation of trust to opt in to 125-year perpetuity period if trustee
has power of variation ***
     (1) This section applies if a trustee has power, under the terms of
     the trust, to vary the vesting date of a disposition of property
     under the trust.
     (2) The trustee may vary the vesting date to a date not later than
     the last day of the period of 125 years starting on the day of the
     disposition of the property under the trust.
Variation of trust to opt in to 125-year perpetuity period if trustee does not
have power of variation
*** 217 Variation of trust to opt in to 125-year perpetuity period if trustee
does not have power of variation ***
     (1) This section applies if a trustee does not have power, under the
     terms of the trust, to vary the vesting date of a disposition of
     property under the trust.
     (2) If all of the beneficiaries under the trust are adults and of
     full capacity, the beneficiaries may execute a deed to vary the
     vesting date to a date not later than the last day of the period of
     125 years starting on the day of the disposition of the property
     under the trust.
Application to court for declaration of validity
*** 218 Application to court for declaration of validity ***
     (1) A person interested in a disposition of property may apply to the
     court for a declaration about the validity of the disposition under
     this part.
     (2) The court may hear and decide the application and make the orders
     it considers appropriate.
Application to court to opt in to 125-year perpetuity period
*** 219 Application to court to opt in to 125-year perpetuity period ***
     (1) A person interested in a disposition of property under the terms
     of a trust, settled before the commencement, may apply to the court
     for an order that the property vest within 125 years after the
     creation of the trust.
     (2) The court may hear and decide the application and make the orders
     it considers appropriate.
     (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the court may make an order
     about the disposition of property that, under the terms of the trust,
     may have vested more than 125 years after the creation of the trust.
Perpetual succession of corporation sole
*** 220 Perpetual succession of corporation sole ***
A corporation sole—
     (a) is taken to be a body corporate with perpetual succession; and
     (b) may sue and be sued in its corporate name.
Constitution of corporation sole
*** 221 Constitution of corporation sole ***
A corporation sole is constituted by the person who holds the appointment to
the office of the corporation sole.
Effect of transaction if temporary vacancy in particular bodies corporate
*** 222 Effect of transaction if temporary vacancy in particular bodies
corporate ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) either—
               (i) the office of a corporation sole is vacant;
               or
               (ii) the office of the head of a corporation
               aggregate is vacant; and
          (b) before a successor to the office is appointed, the
          corporation sole or corporation aggregate purports to enter
          into a contract or other transaction, acquire an interest
          in property, or is appointed as a trustee.
     (2) The contract or other transaction, or acquisition of property, or
     appointment as trustee, takes effect as if the successor had already
     been appointed.
     (3) However, the successor may disclaim the contract or other
     transaction or acquisition of property, or renounce the appointment
     as trustee.
Powers of particular corporations
*** 223 Powers of particular corporations ***
     (1) This section applies to a corporation other than—
          (a) a corporation under the Corporations Act; or
          (b) a corporation incorporated under another Act if the Act
          expressly provides for the way in which the corporation may
          do each of the things mentioned in subsection (2) (a) to
          (c).
     (2) The corporation has all the powers of an individual and may, for
     example—
          (a) enter into contracts; and
          (b) acquire, hold, dispose of, and deal with, property; and
          (c) appoint agents and attorneys.
     (3) If a contract made by an individual is valid only if in writing
     signed by the individual, the contract may be made by the corporation
     in writing signed by a person acting under the express or implied
     authority of the corporation.
     (4) If a contract made by an individual is valid even if made by
     parol, the contract may be made by parol by the corporation by a
     person acting under the express or implied authority of the
     corporation.
     (5) In this section—
     "contract" includes transaction.
Appointment of administrator if particular corporations incapable of acting
*** 224 Appointment of administrator if particular corporations incapable of
acting ***
     (1) This section applies to a corporation, including, for example, a
     corporation incorporated under the Associations Incorporation Act
     1981, the Corporations Act or another Act.
     (2) If the corporation is incapable of acting for any reason,
     including, for example, the death or incapacity of an officer or
     member of the corporation, a designated person for the corporation
     may apply to the court for the appointment of an administrator.
     (3) The court may order the appointment of an administrator if the
     court considers the appointment is necessary or desirable.
     (4) The court may make any order that the nature of the case
     requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
          (a) an order that the appointment be for an indefinite
          period, a fixed period or until the happening of a stated
          event;
          (b) an order imposing conditions;
          (c) an order that the remuneration of the administrator is
          to be paid from the assets of the corporation.
     (5) Subject to an order of the court, the administrator may—
          (a) to the exclusion of the corporation and any officer or
          member of the corporation, exercise all the powers of the
          corporation; and
          (b) delegate any of the powers exercisable by the
          administrator.
     (6) The court may, on the application of an administrator appointed
     under subsection (3), or a designated person for the corporation—
          (a) give to the administrator directions relating to the
          powers of the administrator or the affairs of the
          corporation; or
          (b) remove or replace the administrator.
     (7) If the court makes an order for the appointment, removal or
     replacement of an administrator in relation to a corporation
     incorporated under the Corporations Act, the order does not take
     effect until the order is lodged with ASIC.
     (8) The order mentioned in subsection (7) must be lodged with ASIC—
          (a) within 7 days after the order is made; or
          (b) if the court allows a longer period—within the longer
          period.
     (9) For subsection (2), a corporation is incapable of acting whether
     the corporation is incapable of acting—
          (a) generally, or in relation to a particular transaction;
          or
          (b) temporarily, or for an indefinite or other period.
     (10) In this section—
     "designated person", for a corporation, means—
          (a) an officer or member of the corporation; or
          (b) the personal representative of a person mentioned in
          paragraph (a); or
          (c) a creditor or another person claiming against the
          corporation.
Registrar must give public notice if request to register unregistered land
*** 225 Registrar must give public notice if request to register unregistered
land ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a person asks the registrar to register an instrument
          relating to land; and
          (b) the registrar believes the land is not included in the
          land registry.
     (2) The registrar must give public notice of the request.
     (3) The registrar may decide—
          (a) what is to be included in the public notice; and
          (b) how many times the public notice is to be published;
          and
          (c) how and when the public notice is to be published.
     (4) The public notice must include an invitation to any person who
     claims an interest in the land to give notice of the person’s claim
     to the registrar within 2 months after the public notice is
     published.
Registrar must give public notice if registrar believes land unregistered
*** 226 Registrar must give public notice if registrar believes land
unregistered ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the registrar believes land is not included in the land
          registry; and
          (b) a request in relation to the land has not been made
          under section 225.
     (2) The registrar must give public notice of the registrar’s
     intention to include the land in the land registry.
     (3) The registrar may decide—
          (a) what is to be included in the public notice; and
          (b) how many times the public notice is to be published;
          and
          (c) how and when the public notice is to be published.
     (4) The public notice must include an invitation to any person who
     claims an interest in the land to give notice of the person’s claim
     to the registrar within 2 months after the public notice is
     published.
Registrar may hold inquiry
*** 227 Registrar may hold inquiry ***
     (1) If an issue arises in relation to land mentioned in section 225
     or 226, the registrar may hold an inquiry under the Land Title Act
     1994, part 2, division 4 to consider the issue.
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the Land Title Act 1994,
     part 2, division 5 applies in relation to the inquiry.
Obligations of registrar
*** 228 Obligations of registrar ***
     (1) This section applies—
          (a) when the 2-month period provided for in a public notice
          under section 225 or 226 ends; or
          (b) if an inquiry is held under the Land Title Act 1994,
          part 2, division 4 —when the inquiry is finally ended.
     (2) The registrar must consider the following information—
          (a) a request, if any, under section 225 (1) (a);
          (b) information, if any, provided by a person claiming an
          interest under section 225 (4) or 226 (4);
          (c) information, if any, obtained under section 227;
          (d) any other information the registrar considers
          appropriate.
     (3) After considering the information mentioned in subsection (2),
     the registrar must decide to record in the land registry the
     particulars relating to the land the registrar considers appropriate.
     (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the registrar may decide to—
          (a) record the land as unallocated State land or freehold
          land; or
          (b) record information, if any, provided by a person
          claiming an interest under section 225 (4) or 226 (4),
          including, for example, information relating to the use and
          possession of the land.
     (5) The registrar must give the applicant, and any person claiming an
     interest under section 225 (4) or 226 (4), notice of the decision.
Application of division
*** 229 Application of division ***
This division applies if this Act, or an agreement or another document relating
to property, authorises or requires a document to be served on a person.
Relationship of division with other matters
*** 230 Relationship of division with other matters ***
     (1) If this division is inconsistent with the Acts Interpretation Act
     1954, part 10 or the Electronic Transactions (Queensland) Act 2001,
     this division prevails to the extent of the inconsistency.
     (2) This division is subject to this Act or an agreement to the
     contrary.
     (3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that this division does not
     limit or otherwise affect a power of a court relating to service of a
     document.
General requirements for service
*** 231 General requirements for service ***
     (1) The document may be served on the person—
          (a) if the person is an individual—
               (i) by delivering the document to the person
               personally; or
               (ii) by leaving the document at, or by sending
               the document by post to, the address of the place
               of residence or place of business of the person
               last known to the person serving the document; or
               (iii) by electronic communication to an
               electronic address under section 233; or
          (b) if the person is a body corporate—
               (i) by leaving the document at, or sending the
               document by post to, the body corporate’s—
                    (A) registered office; or
                    (B) principal office; or
                    (C) principal place of business in the
                    State; or
               (ii) by electronic communication to an electronic
               address under section 233.
     (2) If the document is sent by post, the document is taken to be
     served 7 business days after the document was sent unless the actual
     time the document was served by post is proven.
     (3) Despite subsection (1), the court may—
          (a) order that a document be served in a particular way; or
          (b) dispense with the requirement to serve a document.
     (4) In this section—
     "place of business" see the Electronic Transactions (Queensland) Act
     2001, schedule 2.
Individual absent from State or deceased
*** 232 Individual absent from State or deceased ***
     (1) This section applies if the person is an individual who is absent
     from the State or deceased.
     (2) The document may be served on the person’s agent or personal
     representative in a way mentioned in section 231 (1) (a).
     (3) If the person’s agent or personal representative is not known,
     the document may be served under an order of a court.
Electronic communication
*** 233 Electronic communication ***
     (1) This section applies if the person has designated an electronic
     address for receiving the document.
     (2) The document may be served on the person by an electronic
     communication to the electronic address.
     (3) The electronic communication must—
          (a) attach the document in the form required by the Act,
          agreement or other document relating to property; or
          (b) include the content of the document, as required by the
          Act, agreement or other document relating to property; or
          (c) include an electronic link that allows the person to
          view and obtain a copy of the document mentioned in
          paragraph (a), or the content mentioned in paragraph (b),
          for a reasonable period.
     (4) The time of receipt of the electronic communication is taken to
     be—
          (a) if the communication is sent before 5p.m. on a business
          day—the business day; or
          (b) if the communication is sent after 5p.m. on a business
          day—9a.m. on the next business day; or
          (c) if the communication is sent on a day other than a
          business day—9a.m. on the next business day.
     (5) However, subsection (4) —
          (a) is subject to any agreement to the contrary; and
          (b) does not apply if the actual time the electronic
          communication became capable of being retrieved by the
          person at the electronic address designated by the person
          is proven.
     (6) To remove any doubt, it is declared that subsection (3) (c) is
     satisfied whether or not the person is required to take another step,
     including, for example, accepting terms and conditions of the
     electronic link, to access, and obtain a copy of, the document
     mentioned in subsection (3) (a), or the content mentioned in
     subsection (3) (b).
Approved forms
*** 234 Approved forms ***
The chief executive may approve forms for use under this Act.
Regulation-making power
*** 235 Regulation-making power ***
     (1) The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
     (2) A regulation may—
          (a) prescribe fees payable under the Act; and
          (b) provide for a maximum penalty of 20 penalty units for a
          contravention of a regulation.
Transitional regulation-making power
*** 236 Transitional regulation-making power ***
     (1) A regulation (a
     "transitional regulation") may make provision of a saving or
     transitional nature about any matter—
          (a) for which it is necessary to make provision to allow or
          facilitate the doing of anything to achieve the transition
          from the repealed Property Law Act 1974 to this Act; and
          (b) for which this Act or a regulation does not make
          provision or sufficient provision.
     (2) A transitional regulation may have retrospective operation to a
     day that is not earlier than the day this section commences.
     (3) A transitional regulation must declare it is a transitional
     regulation.
     (4) This section and any transitional regulation expire 2 years after
     this section commences.
Repeal of Property Law Act 1974
*** 237 Repeal of Property Law Act 1974 ***
The Property Law Act 1974, No. 76 is repealed.
Application of Acts Interpretation Act 1954
*** 238 Application of Acts Interpretation Act 1954 ***
This part does not limit or otherwise affect the Acts Interpretation Act 1954,
section 20 or 20A.
Definitions for part
*** 239 Definitions for part ***
In this part—
"corresponding provision", for a repealed provision, means a provision of this
Act that is equivalent to, or substantially the same as, the repealed
provision.
"repealed Act" means the repealed Property Law Act 1974.
"repealed provision" means a provision of the repealed Act as in force
immediately before the commencement.
Express references to general law of agency
*** 239A Express references to general law of agency ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a repealed provision contained an express reference to
          the signing of a document by a lawfully authorised agent of
          a person; and
          (b) a corresponding provision for the repealed provision
          omits the express reference mentioned in paragraph (a).
          Note—
               See sections 7, 8 and 9 and the repealed Act,
               sections 11, 12 and 59.
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the omission of the
     express reference mentioned in subsection (1)(a) does not limit or
     otherwise affect the application of the general law of agency in
     relation to the corresponding provision.
Saving of abolition or modification of common law provided for in repealed Act
*** 240 Saving of abolition or modification of common law provided for in
repealed Act ***
     (1) This section applies if a repealed provision provided for the
     abolition or modification of a common law rule about a matter.
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that, whether or not there is
     a corresponding provision for the repealed provision, this Act does
     not affect the abolition or modification of the common law rule
     effected by the repealed provision.
     (3) Without limiting subsection (2), it is declared that—
          (a) if a document taking effect after the commencement of
          the repealed Act contains words that would have created an
          estate tail, the document is taken to create an estate in
          fee simple; and
               Note—
                    See section 14 and the repealed Act, Section 22.
     (b) if a tenure is created by the State on granting an estate in fee
     simple after the commencement of the repealed Act, the tenure is in
     free and common socage without any incident of tenure for the benefit
     of the State; and
          Note—
               See section 15 and the repealed Act, section 20.
     (c) if quit rent, or the residue of quit rent, issues to the State
     out of land after the commencement of the repealed Act, the land is
     released from quit rent; and
          Note—
               See section 16 and the repealed Act, section 20.
     (d) if a corporation is dissolved, or otherwise ceases to exist,
     after the commencement of the repealed Act, subject to the
     Corporations Act, the State is entitled to take as bona vacantia any
     of the corporation’s property that would have been liable to
     escheat if escheat had not been abolished; and
          Note—
               See section 17 and the repealed Act, section 20.
     (e) if a life tenant commits, after the commencement of the repealed
     Act, voluntary or equitable waste that is not permitted under the
     document creating the life estate, the life tenant is liable in
     damages to the person entitled, immediately after the life estate
     ends, to the fee simple interest in remainder in the land; and
          Note—
               See section 19 and the repealed Act, sections 24
               and 25.
     (f) if 2 or more persons acquire land after the commencement of the
     repealed Act in circumstances in which they would have acquired the
     land as coparceners, the persons acquire the land as tenants in
     common and not as coparceners; and
          Note—
               See section 25 and the repealed Act, section 33.
     (g) if a receipt for consideration is in the body of a deed or other
     document executed on or after the commencement of the repealed Act,
     the receipt is a sufficient discharge for the consideration to the
     person giving the consideration without any further receipt for the
     consideration being endorsed on the deed or document; and
          Note—
               See section 57 and the repealed Act, section 51.
     (h) if a seller can not perform a contract for the sale or other
     disposition of land, after the commencement of the repealed Act,
     because of a defect in the seller’s title, the court may award
     damages for loss of bargain against the seller; and
          Note—
               See section 83 and the repealed Act, section 68.
     (i) for a mortgage entered into before or after the commencement of
     the repealed Act, other than in regard to the making of further
     advances as mentioned in the repealed Act, section 82(1), the right
     to tack is abolished; and
          Note—
               See section 126 and the repealed Act, section 82.
     (j) a lease of land for a term of years entered into before or after
     the commencement of the repealed Act is capable of taking effect at
     law or in equity from the start of the term, without entry into
     possession of the land; and
          Note—
               See section 138 and the repealed Act, section
               102.
     (k) no interest under the Land Act 1994 or the Land Title Act 1994
     can be created, after the commencement of the repealed Act, by
     prescription or through the doctrine of lost modern grant.
          Note—
               See section 182 and the repealed Act, section
               198A.
Saving of abolition of common law rule that alien can not take, give, buy or
sell property
*** 241 Saving of abolition of common law rule that alien can not take, give,
buy or sell property ***
To remove any doubt, it is declared that the repeal of the repealed Act,
section 15A does not affect the abolition of the common law rule that an alien
can not take, give, buy or sell property.
Particular provisions do not apply in relation to matters that happened before
Section 1 December 1975
*** 242 Particular provisions do not apply in relation to matters that happened
before 1 December 1975 ***
     (1) This section applies if a repealed provision provided that the
     provision applied only in relation to a matter that happened after
     the commencement of the repealed Act.
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a corresponding
     provision for the repealed provision does not apply in relation to a
     matter for which the corresponding provision provides that happened
     before the commencement of the repealed Act.
     (3) Without limiting subsection (2), it is declared that a
     corresponding provision for the repealed provision does not apply in
     relation to the following matters that happened before the
     commencement of the repealed Act—
          (a) the creation of a future interest in land;
               Note—
                    See section 22 and the repealed Act, Section 30.
     (b) the making of a document containing an executory limitation on a
     gift over to another person;
          Note—
               See section 24 and the repealed Act, section 32.
     (c) the acquisition or holding of property as a joint tenant by a
     body corporate;
          Note—
               See section 26 and the repealed Act, section 34.
     (d) the disposition of an equitable interest in property to 2 or more
     persons together beneficially;
          Note—
               See section 28 and the repealed Act, section 35.
     (e) the making of a promise by 2 or more persons;
          Note—
               See section 67 and the repealed Act, section 54.
     (f) the making of a contract containing a promise to do or refrain
     from doing an act for the benefit of a third party;
          Note—
               See section 68 and the repealed Act, section 55.
     (g) the making of a contract or other document providing that a
     certificate of a person is conclusive evidence of a fact;
          Note—
               See section 70 and the repealed Act, section 57.
     (h) the creation of either of the following mortgages—
          (i) a mortgage under which an amount is expressed to be
          advanced by 2 or more persons out of money belonging to
          them on a joint account;
          (ii) a mortgage to 2 or more persons jointly;
          Note—
               See section 111 and the repealed Act, section 93.
     (i) the discharge of a mortgage.
          Note—
               See section 133 and the repealed Act, section 98.
Waiver of State’s rights to property by escheat on death intestate of person
before commencement
*** 243 Waiver of State’s rights to property by escheat on death intestate of
person before commencement ***
A person may apply under section 18 for the waiver of the State’s rights to
property by escheat, devolution or bona vacantia on the death intestate of a
person whether the death happens before or after the commencement.
Liability of co-owner of property to account for interest in property arising
before commencement
*** 244 Liability of co-owner of property to account for interest in property
arising before commencement ***
A co-owner of property is liable to account under section 27 to each other co-
owner of the property whether the interest in the property of the co-owners
arises before or after the commencement.
Abolition of rule in Pigot’s case
*** 245 Abolition of rule in Pigot’s case ***
     (1) Section 60 applies in relation to a material alteration of a deed
     whether the alteration is made before or after the commencement.
     (2) However, section 60 does not apply in relation to a proceeding
     started before the commencement.
Covenant or agreement made by person with self and others before commencement
*** 246 Covenant or agreement made by person with self and others before
commencement ***
     (1) Section 63 applies in relation to a covenant or agreement entered
     into by a person with the person’s self and 1 or more other
     persons, whether the covenant or agreement is entered into before or
     after the commencement.
     (2) However, section 63 does not apply in relation to an order of the
     court made before the commencement.
Particular covenants in registered easements created before commencement
*** 247 Particular covenants in registered easements created before
commencement ***
Section 65 applies in relation to a covenant contained in a registered easement
over land for the benefit of other land whether the easement is created or
registered before or after the commencement.
Effect of inoperative computers in office of the land registry on day of
settlement on contract entered into before commencement
*** 248 Effect of inoperative computers in office of the land registry on day
of settlement on contract entered into before commencement ***
Section 79 applies in relation to a contract for the sale of land whether the
contract is entered into before or after the commencement.
Effect of inoperative computers in particular entities on day of settlement on
contract entered into before commencement
*** 249 Effect of inoperative computers in particular entities on day of
settlement on contract entered into before commencement ***
Section 80 applies in relation to a contract for the sale of land whether the
contract is entered into before or after the commencement.
Effect of adverse event on day of settlement on contract entered into before
commencement
*** 250 Effect of adverse event on day of settlement on contract entered into
before commencement ***
Section 81 applies in relation to a contract for the sale of land whether the
contract is entered into before or after the commencement.
Seller disclosure for sales of lots
*** 251 Seller disclosure for sales of lots ***
     (1) Part 7, division 4 applies in relation to a contract for the sale
     of a lot only if the contract is entered into after the commencement.
     (2) If a contract for the sale of a lot arises from the exercise of
     an option, part 7, division 4 applies in relation to the contract
     only if the option is granted after the commencement.
Mortgagee’s power of sale in relation to disclaimed property mortgaged before
commencement
*** 252 Mortgagee’s power of sale in relation to disclaimed property
mortgaged before commencement ***
A mortgagee may sell under section 115 land subject to a registered mortgage
that has been disclaimed by a trustee in bankruptcy or a liquidator whether the
registered mortgage is entered into, or the disclaimer happens, before or after
the commencement.
Court may order sale of mortgaged property in proceeding for redemption or
foreclosure started before commencement
*** 253 Court may order sale of mortgaged property in proceeding for redemption
or foreclosure started before commencement ***
The court may order in a proceeding a sale of mortgaged property under section
Section 134 whether the proceeding is started before or after the commencement.
Realisation of equitable mortgage in proceeding started before commencement
*** 254 Realisation of equitable mortgage in proceeding started before
commencement ***
The court may make an order under section 135 in a proceeding brought in
relation to an equitable mortgage whether the proceeding is brought before or
after the commencement.
Dealings with leases entered into before commencement
*** 255 Dealings with leases entered into before commencement ***
     (1) Subject to subsection (2), part 9, division 4 applies in relation
     to a dealing with a lease if the dealing happens after the
     commencement, whether the lease is entered into before or after the
     commencement.
     (2) Section 144 applies only if the lease is entered into after the
     commencement.
Relief in relation to leases entered into before commencement
*** 256 Relief in relation to leases entered into before commencement ***
Part 9, division 5 applies in relation to a lease as mentioned in section 150
whether the lease is entered into before or after the commencement.
No interest created by prescription before commencement
*** 257 No interest created by prescription before commencement ***
Section 182 applies whether the interest is alleged to have been created before
or after the commencement.
Disposition with intent to defraud creditor before commencement
*** 258 Disposition with intent to defraud creditor before commencement ***
Section 193 applies in relation to the disposition of property whether the
disposition happens before or after the commencement.
Powers of appointment over property created before commencement
*** 259 Powers of appointment over property created before commencement ***
Part 12 applies in relation to a document giving a person a power of
appointment over property, including, for example, an appointment, or purported
appointment, of property under the document, whether the document, or the
appointment or purported appointment, is made before or after the commencement.
- SCHEDULE 1
*** SCHEDULE 1 - Standard terms ***
*** 1 Payment of rent ***
The lessee must pay the rent payable under the lease when it is due.
*** 2 Payment of taxes, rates and other assessments ***
The lessee must pay all taxes, rates and assessments of any kind that are
charged or chargeable on the land or the lessor, in relation to the leased
premises for the term of the lease in the proportion that the area of the
leased premises bears to the land subject to the assessment.
*** 3 Maintain and leave the premises in good repair ***
     (1) The lessee must at all times during the term of the lease—
          (a) keep the leased premises, including any improvements
          made to the leased premises by the lessee with the consent
          of the lessor, and excluding any structural elements of the
          leased premises, in good condition; and
          (b) at the end of the lease, whether by expiration of the
          lease term or otherwise, surrender and yield up the leased
          premises to the lessor in at least the same repair and
          condition in which the premises were in at the start of the
          lease.
     (2) However, the lessee is not bound to repair any damage to the
     leased premises caused by—
          (a) reasonable wear and tear; or
          (b) any of the following—
               (i) fire, flood, or explosion, whether or not the
               fire, flood, or explosion is caused or
               contributed to by the lessee’s negligence;
               (ii) lightning, storm or earthquake;
               (iii) any other cause the risk for which the
               lessor has insured the premises.
     (3) Despite subclause (2)(b), the lessee is not excused from
     liability to repair any damage caused by any of the events mentioned
     in that subclause if, and to the extent that, any insurance moneys
     that would otherwise have been payable to the lessor for the
     destruction of or damage to the leased premises can not be recovered
     because of an act or omission of—
          (a) the lessee; or
          (b) the lessee’s agent, contractor or invitee; or
          (c) any other person under the lessee’s direction or
          control.
*** 4 Abatement of rent if premises are destroyed or damaged ***
     (1) If the leased premises or any part of them are destroyed or
     damaged by a relevant cause to the extent that they become unfit for
     occupation and use by the lessee, the rent and any contribution
     payable by the lessee to the outgoings on those premises abates, in
     fair and just proportion to the destruction or damage, until the
     premises or part of them—
          (a) have been repaired and reinstated; and
          (b) are again fit for occupation and use by the lessee.
     (2) Despite subclause (1), the lessee is not entitled to the
     abatement referred to in that subclause if, and to the extent that,
     any insurance moneys that would otherwise have been payable to the
     lessor for the destruction of or damage to the leased premises can
     not be recovered because of an act or omission of—
          (a) the lessee; or
          (b) the lessee’s agent, contractor or invitee; or
          (c) any other person under the lessee’s direction or
          control.
     (3) In this clause—
     "relevant cause" means—
          (a) fire, flood, or explosion, whether or not the fire,
          flood or other inundation of water, or explosion is caused
          or contributed to by the lessee’s negligence; or
          (b) lightning, storm or earthquake; or
          (c) any other cause the risk for which the lessor has
          insured the premises.
*** 5 Assignment of the lease ***
     (1) The lessee must not assign the lease without first obtaining the
     lessor’s written consent.
     (2) The lessor’s written consent must not be unreasonably withheld.
*** 6 Noxious or offensive acts or things ***
     (1) The lessee must not do, or permit to be done, on the leased
     premises a prohibited thing to—
          (a) the lessor; or
          (b) the other lessees of the lessor; or
          (c) the owners or occupiers of neighbouring properties.
     (2) Subclause (1) does not apply to a prohibited thing contemplated
     under the lease.
     (3) In this clause—
     "prohibited thing" means—
          (a) any noxious or offensive act or thing; or
          (b) any act or thing that is, or is likely to be, a
          nuisance or that causes, or is likely to cause, any
          nuisance, damage, or disturbance.
*** 7 Commission of waste ***
The lessee must not commit, or permit any of the lessee’s agents,
contractors, or invitees to commit, voluntary waste in relation to the leased
premises.
*** 8 Lessee entitled to quiet enjoyment ***
     (1) The lessee and all persons claiming under the lessee must be able
     quietly to enjoy the leased premises without disturbance by—
          (a) the lessor; or
          (b) the lessor’s agent, contractor or invitee; or
          (c) any other person under the lessor’s direction or
          control.
     (2) The lessor must not derogate from the lease.
*** 9 Change of use ***
     (1) The lessee must not use the premises for any purpose other than
     the purpose permitted under the lease unless the lessor consents to
     the change of use.
     (2) The lessor must not unreasonably withhold consent to a request
     from the lessee for a change in use of the premises.
*** 10 Power to inspect premises ***
     (1) The lessor may at all reasonable times, either personally or by
     the lessor’s agent, enter the leased premises for the purpose of—
          (a) inspecting their state of repair; or
          (b) carrying out repairs; or
          (c) complying with the requirements of—
               (i) any Act or other law; or
               (ii) any notice given by a competent authority.
     (2) The lessor must not unreasonably interfere with the lessee’s
     occupation and use of the leased premises in the exercise of the
     power conferred by subclause (1).
*** 11 Power to terminate lease for non-payment of rent or other breach ***
     (1) The lessor may terminate the lease if—
          (a) any rent is unpaid for 1 month after the due date for
          payment, whether or not a demand for payment has been made
          to the lessee by written notice signed by the lessor or the
          lessor’s agent; or
          (b) the lessee has failed, for a period of 2 months, to
          observe or perform any other covenant, condition, or
          stipulation on the part of the lessee expressed or implied
          in the lease.
     (2) The lessee is not released from liability for the payment of any
     unpaid rent or for the breach or non-observance of any other
     covenant, condition, or stipulation mentioned in subclause (1) if the
     lessor terminates the lease.
     (3) Subclause (1) is subject to part 9, division 5, subdivision 2.
*** 12 Lessee must remove lessee’s fixtures ***
     (1) Before or at the end of the lease, whether by expiration of the
     lease term or otherwise, the lessee must remove and take away from
     the leased premises all fixtures, fittings, plant, machinery,
     utensils, shelving, counters, safes and other items owned by the
     lessee.
     (2) The lessee must repair any damage caused to the leased premises
     by the removal of the items mentioned in subclause (1).
     (3) If the lessee does not comply with subclause (1) or (2) within 1
     month after the end of the lease term then the items mentioned in
     subclause (1) are taken to be abandoned items and the lessor is
     entitled to remove, sell or otherwise dispose of the abandoned items
     and to repair any damage caused to the leased premises by the removal
     of the items.
     (4) The lessor may recover from the lessee any loss or damages
     incurred in exercising its rights under subclause (3).
- SCHEDULE 2
*** SCHEDULE 2 - Dictionary ***
"absolute", in relation to an assignment, for part 11, division 1, see section
189.
"accepted method", for electronically signing a document, means a method
that—
     (a) identifies the signatory for the document and the signatory’s
     intention in relation to the content of the document; and
     (b) is either—
          (i) as reliable as appropriate for the purposes for which
          the document is made or signed, having regard to all the
          circumstances, including any relevant agreement; or
          (ii) proven in fact to have fulfilled the functions
          mentioned in paragraph (a), by itself or together with
          further evidence; and
     (c) is consented to by each other signatory to the document.
"affected owner", for part 10, division 3, see section 185 (2).
"approved form" means a form approved under section 234.
"boundary" means the boundary line between contiguous parcels of land.
"breach", of a term of a lease, for part 9, division 5, subdivision 2, see Section 152.
"breach notice", for part 9, division 5, subdivision 3, see section 164 (2)
(a).
"building", for part 10, division 3, see section 183.
"buyer" —
     (a) means a buyer for valuable consideration, and includes a lessee,
     mortgagee, and other person who for valuable consideration acquires
     an interest in property; or
     (b) in relation to an instalment contract, for part 7, division 3,
     see section 87; or
     (c) under a contract for the sale of a lot, for part 7, division 4,
     see section 95.
"call option", for the sale of a lot, for part 7, division 4, see section 95.
"community titles scheme" means a community titles scheme under the Body
Corporate and Community Management Act 1997, section 10.
"computer", for part 7, division 2, see section 74.
"consent", to a method by a signatory to a document under the definition
"accepted method", paragraph (c) —
     (a) includes consent that can reasonably be inferred from the conduct
     of the signatory; and
     (b) does not include consent given subject to conditions unless the
     signatory complies with the conditions.
"contract" —
     (a) for the sale of land, for part 7, division 3, see section 87; or
     (b) for the sale of a lot, for part 7, division 4, see section 95.
"conveyancing transaction", for part 7, division 2, see section 74.
"co-owner", of property, means a person who has an interest in the property
with 1 or more other persons as—
     (a) joint tenants, whether at law or in equity; or
     (b) tenants in common, whether at law or in equity.
"copy", of an electronic document, for part 6, division 1, see section 44.
"counterpart", for a document, for part 6, division 1, see section 45.
"court" means the Supreme Court.
"debt", for part 11, division 1, see section 189.
"debtor", for part 11, division 1, see section 189.
"deed" means a document that has under this Act or another Act the effect of a
deed.
"deposit", in relation to a contract for the sale of land, for part 7, division
3, see section 87.
"designated person" —
     (a) for a lease of land, for part 9, division 5, subdivision 2, see
     section 152; or
     (b) for a lease of land, for part 9, division 5, subdivision 3, see Section 163.
"director", of a corporation, for part 6, division 1, see section 44.
"discharge", a mortgage, includes redeem and release the mortgage.
"disclosure documents", for a lot, for part 7, division 4, see section 95.
"disclosure statement", for a lot, for part 7, division 4, see section 99 (1)
(a).
"disposition" —
     (a) of property—
          (i) includes the following—
               (A) a sale of property;
               (B) a mortgage of property;
               (C) a transfer of property;
               (D) a grant of property;
               (E) a partition of property;
               (F) an exchange of property;
               (G) a lease of property;
               (H) an assignment of property;
               (I) an instrument that vests property;
               (J) a declaration of a trust of property;
               (K) a surrender, disclaimer or release of
               property;
               (L) the creation of an interest in property,
               including, for example, an easement or profit a
               prendre;
               (M) the assurance of an interest in property by a
               document; and
          (ii) does not include the following—
               (A) a will;
               (B) a devise of property;
               (C) a bequest of property;
               (D) an appointment by will in relation to
               property; and
     (b) for part 13, see section 198.
"document", for part 6, see section 44.
"e-conveyance", for part 7, division 2, see section 74.
"e-conveyancing", for part 7, division 2, see section 74.
"electronic address" includes an email address, internet protocol address,
digital mailbox address and mobile telephone number.
"electronically sign", a document, means sign the document using an accepted
method.
"electronic communication" see the Electronic Transactions (Queensland) Act
2001, schedule 2.
"electronic document" means a record of information that is—
     (a) a thing from which sounds, images or writings can be reproduced
     with or without the aid of anything else; or
     (b) a record of information reproduced from a thing mentioned in
     paragraph (a); or
     (c) a record of information that exists in digital form and is
     capable of being reproduced, transmitted, stored or duplicated by
     electronic means.
"electronic link" includes a link to—
     (a) a website; and
     (b) a file hosting service; and
     (c) a digital repository, including, for example, a drop box cloud
     storage platform; and
     (d) another electronic medium.
"electronic workspace", for an e-conveyance, for part 7, division 2, see Section 74.
"ELN", for part 7, division 2, see section 74.
"encroaching owner", for part 10, division 3, see section 185 (1).
"encroachment", for part 9, division 3, see section 183.
"financial settlement", of an e-conveyance, for part 7, division 2, see section
74.
"income", in relation to land, includes rents and profits from the land.
"information", for part 6, see section 44.
"instalment", for part 7, division 3, see section 87.
"instalment contract", for part 7, division 3, see section 89.
"intestate" see the Succession Act 1981, section 5.
"land registry" means the land register under the Land Act 1994, section 275.
"land titles legislation", for part 7, division 2, see section 74.
"lease", for part 9, division 5, see section 149.
"lease terminable at will", for part 9, division 7, see section 172.
"listed corporation", for part 7, division 4, see section 95.
"lot", for part 7, division 4, see section 95.
"mortgagee", for a mortgage, includes a person who derives title to the
mortgage from another person who was a mortgagee for the mortgage.
"mortgage money" means money or money’s worth secured by a mortgage.
"mortgagor", for a mortgage, includes a person who derives title to the
mortgage from another person who was a mortgagor for the mortgage.
"National Law", for part 7, division 2, see section 74.
"notice" means written notice.
"notice to remedy breach", for part 9, division 5, subdivision 2, see section
Section 153 (1) (a).
"office of the land registry" has the meaning given by the Land Title Act 1994.
     Note—
          See also the Land Title Act 1994, section 9 (4).
"option", for the sale of a lot, for part 7, division 4, see section 95.
"option fee", relating to land, for part 7, division 3, see section 87.
"participating subscriber", to an e-conveyance, for part 7, division 2, see Section 74.
"party", to a lease, for part 9, division 7, see section 170.
"perpetuity period", for a disposition of property under a trust, for part 13,
see section 201.
"physical document" means a record of information that is—
     (a) a thing on which there is writing; or
     (b) a thing on which there are marks, symbols or perforations having
     a meaning for persons qualified to interpret them.
"possession", in relation to land, includes the receipt of income from the
land.
"power of appointment", over property, means a discretionary power to create or
transfer a beneficial interest in the property without the provision of
valuable consideration.
"prescribed certificate", applicable to a lot, for part 7, division 4, see
section 99 (1) (b).
"prescribed percentage", of the purchase price of land, for part 7, division 3,
see section 87.
"property", for part 5, division 2, see section 30.
"proposed lot" means—
     (a) a proposed lot within the meaning of the Land Sales Act 1984; or
     (b) a proposed lot within the meaning of the Body Corporate and
     Community Management Act 1997; or
     (c) land that will be shown as a lot on a building units plan or
     group titles plan registered under the Building Units and Group
     Titles Act 1980; or
          Note—
               There is limited scope for the registration of
               new building units plans and group titles plans
               under the Building Units and Group Titles Act
               1980 —see section 5A of that Act.
     (d) a proposed lot within the meaning of the South Bank Corporation
     Act 1989, section 97B.
"put and call option", for the sale of a lot, for part 7, division 4, see Section 95.
"put option", for the sale of a lot, for part 7, division 4, see section 95.
"reasonable compensation", for a breach of a term of a lease, for part 9,
division 5, subdivision 2, see section 152.
"register", a document, an interest, land or another thing, means record the
particulars of the thing in the appropriate register in the land registry.
"registrar" means the registrar of titles under the Land Title Act 1994, Section 6.
"related", for a buyer of a lot and a seller of a lot, for part 7, division 4,
see section 96.
"rent" includes rent payable in advance.
"Resource Act" see the Mineral and Energy Resources (Common Provisions) Act
2014, section 9.
"sale" —
     (a) means a transfer for valuable consideration; or
     (b) of land, for part 7, division 2, see section 74.
"seal", of a corporation, for part 6, division 1, see section 44.
"secretary", of a corporation, for part 6, division 1, see section 44.
"security interest", for part 5, division 2, see section 30.
"seller" —
     (a) in relation to an instalment contract, for part 7, division 3,
     see section 87; or
     (b) under a contract for the sale of a lot, for part 7, division 4,
     see section 95.
"short lease" means—
     (a) a lease for a term of not more than 3 years, including, for
     example, a lease created by parol taking effect in possession; or
     (b) a tenancy from year to year or a shorter period.
"sign", a document, for part 6, division 1, see section 44.
"standard terms", of a lease, see section 139.
"statutory body", for part 7, division 4, see section 95.
"subscriber", for part 7, division 2, see section 74.
"successor" includes a personal representative and an assign.
"term" —
     (a) for part 8, see section 108; or
     (b) for part 9, see section 137.
"termination notice", for part 9, division 7, see section 173.
"thing in action", for part 11, division 1, see section 189.
"time", of settlement of a contract, means the time provided for under the
contract.
"unregistered land" means land that has been granted in fee simple and is not
land under the provisions of the Land Title Act 1994 or land granted in trust
under the Land Act 1994.
"valuable consideration" does not include a nominal consideration in money.
