Taxation Administration Act 1953
Jurisdiction: commonwealth
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/cth/consol_act/taa1953269/
Register: https://www.legislation.gov.au/C1953A00001/latest/text
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/cth/consol_act/taa1953269.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-31T12:50:52.711841Z

TAXATION ADMINISTRATION ACT 1953
- TABLE OF PROVISIONS
PART I--PRELIMINARY
Section 1. Short title
Section 2. Interpretation
Section 2A. Application of the Criminal Code
Section 2B. Act binds the Crown
Section 3. Application
Section 3AA. Schedule 1
PART IA--ADMINISTRATION
Section 3A. General administration of Act
Section 3B. Annual report
Section 3C. Reporting of information about corporate tax entity with reported total income of $100 million or more
Section 3CA. Reporting of information by corporate country by country reporting entities
Section 3D. Publication of information by certain country by country reporting entities
Section 3DA. Publication of information by certain country by country reporting entities--information to be published
Section 3DB. Publication of information by certain country by country reporting entities--corrections and exemptions etc.
Section 3E. Reporting of information about entity with PRRT payable
Section 3F. Reporting of information about junior minerals exploration incentive offset
Section 3G. Electronic invoicing
Section 3H. Reporting of information about research and development tax offset
Section 3J. Functions relating to digital ID systems
Section 3K. Reporting of information about CMPTI tax offset
PART II--COMMISSIONER--OF TAXATION, SECOND COMMISSIONER OF TAXATION AND DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF TAXATION
Section 4. Commissioner and Second Commissioners of Taxation
Section 4A. Statutory Agency etc. for purposes of Public Service Act
Section 5. Tenure of Commissioner and Second Commissioners
Section 5A. Remuneration and allowances of Commissioner and Second Commissioners
Section 6. Leave of absence
Section 6A. Resignation
Section 6B. Acting appointments
Section 6C. Suspension and removal from office of Commissioner or Second Commissioner
Section 6D. Powers of Second Commissioner
Section 7. Deputy Commissioners of Taxation
Section 8. Delegation
PART IIA--THE--GENERAL INTEREST CHARGE
Section 8AAA. Overview
Section 8AAB. When the general interest charge applies
Section 8AAC. Amount of the general interest charge
Section 8AAD. What is the general interest charge rate?
Section 8AAE. When the charge is due and payable
Section 8AAF. Notification by Commissioner
Section 8AAG. Remission of the charge
Section 8AAGA. Rounding of the charge
Section 8AAH. Judgment for payment of an unpaid amount
PART IIB--RUNNING--BALANCE ACCOUNTS, APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS AND CREDITS, AND RELATED MATTERS
Division 1--Preliminary
Section 8AAZA. Definitions
Section 8AAZAA. Amounts relating to Coronavirus economic response payments
Section 8AAZB. Trustee to be treated as separate entity for each capacity
Division 2--Running Balance Accounts (or RBAs)
Section 8AAZC. Establishment of RBAs
Section 8AAZD. Allocation of tax debts to RBAs
Section 8AAZF. General interest charge on RBA deficit debt
Section 8AAZG. RBA statements
Section 8AAZH. Liability for RBA deficit debt
Section 8AAZI. RBA statement to be evidence
Section 8AAZJ. Evidentiary certificate about RBA transactions etc.
Division 3--Treatment of payments, credits and RBA surpluses
Section 8AAZL. Amounts covered by this Division
Section 8AAZLA. Method 1--allocating the amount first to an RBA
Section 8AAZLB. Method 2--applying the amount first against a non - RBA tax debt
Section 8AAZLC. RBA surplus and related credits must remain equivalent if one or the other is applied
Section 8AAZLD. Special priority credits
Section 8AAZLE. Instructions to Commissioner not binding
Division 3A--Refunds of RBA surpluses and credits
Section 8AAZLF. Commissioner must refund RBA surpluses and credits
Section 8AAZLG. Retaining refunds until information or notification given
Section 8AAZLGA. Retaining refunds while Commissioner verifies information
Section 8AAZLGB. Retaining refunds until notification under Division 389 or ascertainment of liability
Section 8AAZLGC. Retaining refunds while Commissioner obtains financial institution details
Section 8AAZLH. How refunds are made
Division 4--Miscellaneous provisions about tax debts
Section 8AAZM. When payments are treated as received
Section 8AAZMA. Electronic payment of tax debts
Section 8AAZMB. Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays
Section 8AAZN. Overpayments made by the Commissioner under taxation laws
PART III--PROSECUTIONS--AND OFFENCES
Division 1--Preliminary
Section 8A. Interpretation
Section 8AC. Application of Part to the Tax Agent Services Act 2009
Division 2--Offences
Subdivision A--Failure to comply with taxation requirements
Section 8B. Interpretation
Section 8C. Failure to comply with requirements under taxation law
Section 8D. Failure to answer questions when attending before the Commissioner etc.
Section 8E. Penalties for failure to comply with requirements under taxation law
Section 8F. Election to treat offence otherwise than as prescribed taxation offence
Section 8G. Order to comply with requirement
Section 8H. Penalty for failure to comply with order to comply
Section 8HA. Court may order payment of amount in addition to penalty
Subdivision B--Offences relating to statements, records and certain other Acts
Section 8J. Interpretation
Section 8K. False or misleading statements
Section 8L. Incorrectly keeping records etc.
Section 8M. Penalties for offences against subsections 8K(1) and (1B) and 8L(1) and (1A)
Section 8N. Recklessly making false or misleading statements
Section 8Q. Recklessly incorrectly keeping records etc.
Section 8R. Penalties for offences against sections 8N and 8Q
Section 8S. Election to treat offence otherwise than as prescribed taxation offence
Section 8T. Incorrectly keeping records with intention of deceiving or misleading etc.
Section 8U. Falsifying or concealing identity with intention of deceiving or misleading etc.
Section 8V. Penalties for offences against sections 8T and 8U
Section 8W. Court may order payment of amount in addition to penalty
Subdivision BAA--Offences relating to electronic sales suppression tools
Section 8WAA. Object of this Subdivision
Section 8WAB. Interpretation
Section 8WAC. Producing or supplying electronic sales suppression tools
Section 8WAD. Possessing electronic sales suppression tools
Section 8WAE. Incorrectly keeping records using electronic sales suppression tools
Subdivision BA--Offences relating to tax file numbers
Section 8WA. Unauthorised requirement etc. that tax file number be quoted
Section 8WB. Unauthorised recording etc. of tax file number
Section 8WC. Conducting affairs so as to avoid tax file number requirements
Subdivision C--Miscellaneous
Section 8XA. Unauthorised access to taxation records
Section 8Y. Liability of officers etc. of corporations
Section 8Z. Evidentiary certificate relating to previous convictions
Division 3--Prosecution of taxation offences
Section 8ZA. Prosecution of taxation offences
Section 8ZB. Prosecution may be commenced at any time
Section 8ZC. Place where offence committed
Section 8ZD. Conduct by employees or agents of corporations
Section 8ZE. Civil penalty not payable if prosecution instituted
Section 8ZF. Penalties for corporations
Section 8ZG. Enforcement of orders for payment
Section 8ZH. Penalties not to relieve from tax
Division 4--Prescribed taxation offences
Section 8ZJ. Prosecution of prescribed taxation offences
Section 8ZK. Protection of witnesses
Section 8ZL. Averment
Section 8ZM. Evidence of authority to institute proceedings
Section 8ZN. Costs
Division 5--Service of summons for prescribed taxation offences
Section 9. Interpretation
Section 10. Service of summons by post
Section 11. Notice of conviction in absentia
Section 12. Notice of intention to issue warrant in default of payment
Section 13. Limitation of action to enforce payment of fine
Section 13A. Setting aside of conviction or order
Section 13B. Proof of service of summons or notice
Section 13C. Application of other laws
Division 6--Setting aside etc. of conviction or order on application of Commissioner
Section 13CA. Setting aside etc. of conviction or order on application of Commissioner
PART IIIA--CO---OPERATION BETWEEN COMMONWEALTH AND STATE TAXATION AUTHORITIES
Division 1--Interpretation
Section 13D. Interpretation
Division 2--Trans-border investigations
Section 13E. State taxation officers may refer matters to Commissioner for investigation
Section 13F. Access to documents etc.
Section 13G. Commissioner may obtain information and evidence
Division 4--Certification by State taxation officer of copies of, and extracts from, documents
Section 13K. Certification by State taxation officer of copies of, and extracts from, documents
Division 5--Australian Taxation Office may perform functions under State/Territory debits tax laws
Section 13L. Australian Taxation Office may perform functions under State/Territory debits tax laws
PART IVA--DEPARTURE--FROM AUSTRALIA OF CERTAIN TAX DEBTORS
Division 1--Interpretation
Section 14Q. Interpretation
Division 2--Prohibition and authorisation of departure of certain tax debtors
Section 14R. Departure from Australia of certain tax debtors prohibited
Section 14S. Departure prohibition orders
Section 14T. Revocation and variation of departure prohibition orders
Section 14U. Departure authorisation certificates
Division 3--Appeals from, and review of, decisions of the Commissioner
Section 14V. Appeals to courts against making of departure prohibition orders
Section 14W. Jurisdiction of courts
Section 14X. Orders of court on appeal
Section 14Y. Applications for review of certain decisions
Division 4--Enforcement
Section 14Z. Powers of authorised officers
Section 14ZA. Certain tax debtors to produce authority to depart etc.
PART IVC--TAXATION--OBJECTIONS, REVIEWS AND APPEALS
Division 1--Introduction
Section 14ZL. Part applies to taxation objections
Section 14ZM. Division 2--Interpretive
Section 14ZN. Division 3--Taxation objections
Section 14ZO. Division 4--Tribunal review
Section 14ZP. Division 5--Federal Court appeals
Division 2--Interpretive provisions
Section 14ZQ. General interpretation provisions
Section 14ZR. Taxation decisions covered by single notice to be treated as single decision
Section 14ZS. Ineligible income tax remission decisions
Division 3--Taxation objections
Section 14ZU. How taxation objections are to be made
Section 14ZV. Limited objection rights in the case of certain amended taxation decisions
Section 14ZVA. Limited objection rights because of other objections
Section 14ZVB. Objections relating to excess concessional contributions
Section 14ZVC. Objections relating to non - concessional contributions
Section 14ZW. When taxation objections are to be made
Section 14ZX. Commissioner to consider applications for extension of time
Section 14ZY. Commissioner to decide taxation objections
Section 14ZYA. Person may require Commissioner to make an objection decision
Section 14ZYB. Requiring Commissioner to make a private ruling
Section 14ZZ. Person may seek review of, or appeal against, Commissioner&#39;s decision
Division 4--ART review of objection decisions and extension of time refusal decisions
Section 14ZZA. ART Act applies subject to this Division
Section 14ZZB. Special rules for reviewable objection decisions and extension of time refusal decisions
Section 14ZZC. When and how to apply to the ART
Section 14ZZD. Parties to proceedings for review
Section 14ZZE. Hearings before ART to be held in private if applicant so requests
Section 14ZZF. Giving documents to the ART
Section 14ZZH. Limitation on orders staying or affecting reviewable objection decisions relating to small business taxation assessment decisions
Section 14ZZJ. Publishing ART decisions
Section 14ZZK. Grounds of objection and burden of proof
Section 14ZZL. Implementation of ART decisions
Section 14ZZM. Pending review not to affect implementation of taxation decisions
Division 5--Court appeals against objection decisions
Section 14ZZN. Time limit for appeals
Section 14ZZO. Grounds of objection and burden of proof
Section 14ZZP. Order of court on objection decision
Section 14ZZQ. Implementation of court order in respect of objection decision
Section 14ZZR. Pending appeal not to affect implementation of taxation decisions
Section 14ZZS. Transfer of certain proceedings to Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 1)
PART IVD--PROTECTION--FOR WHISTLEBLOWERS
Section 14ZZT. Disclosures qualifying for protection under this Part
Section 14ZZTA. Information disclosed for the purpose of assisting the Tax Practitioners Board
Section 14ZZU. Eligible whistleblowers
Section 14ZZV. Eligible recipients
Section 14ZZW. Confidentiality of whistleblower&#39;s identity
Section 14ZZX. Disclosure that qualifies for protection not actionable etc.
Section 14ZZXA. Claims for protection
Section 14ZZY. Victimisation prohibited
Section 14ZZZ. Compensation and other remedies--circumstances in which an order may be made
Section 14ZZZAA. Detriment
Section 14ZZZA. Compensation and other remedies--orders that may be made
Section 14ZZZB. Identifying information not to be disclosed etc. to courts or tribunals
Section 14ZZZC. Costs only if proceedings instituted vexatiously etc.
Section 14ZZZD. Interaction between civil proceedings and criminal offences
Section 14ZZZE. Compensation for acquisition of property
PART V--MISCELLANEOUS
Section 15. Appearance by Commissioner etc.
Section 15A. Certification by Commissioner of copies of, and extracts from, documents
Section 15B. Recoverable advances
Section 15C. Recoverable payments
Section 15D. Reports about recoverable advances and recoverable payments
Section 16. Payments out of Consolidated Revenue Fund
Section 16A. Regulations may provide for methods of payment of tax liabilities etc.
Section 16B. Certain liabilities to be reduced to nearest multiple of 5 cents
Section 17. Powers of taxation officers in relation to references to currency etc.
Section 17A. Powers of Federal Court and Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 2) in respect of taxation matters
Section 18. Regulations
SCHEDULE 1 Collection and recovery of income tax and other liabilities
An Act to provide for the administration of certain Acts relating to Taxation, and for other purposes
- LONG TITLE
An Act to provide for the administration of certain Acts relating to Taxation, and for other purposes
Section 1 Short title
  This Act may be cited as the Taxation Administration Act 1953.
Section 2 Interpretation
 (1) In this Act (except Schedule  1), unless the contrary intention appears:
"approved form" has the meaning given by Schedule 1.
"ASIO" means the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation.
"assessable amount" has the meaning given by subsection 155-5(2) in Schedule  1.
"Australia", when used in a geographical sense, has the same meaning as in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Taxation.
"Deputy Commissioner" means any Deputy Commissioner of Taxation.
"Director-General of Security" means the Director -General of Security holding office under the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act 1979.
"eligible recipient" has the meaning given by section 14ZZV.
"eligible whistleblower" has the meaning given by section 14ZZU.
"engage in conduct" means:
 (a) do an act; or
 (b) omit to perform an act.
"excess concessional contributions determination" has the same meaning as in subsection 995-1(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
"excise law" has the meaning given by the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
"exempt Australian government agency" has the meaning given by subsection 995-1(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
"failure to notify penalty" means the penalty worked out under Division 2 of Part IIA.
"fuel tax law" has the meaning given by the Fuel Tax Act 2006.
"general interest charge" means the charge worked out under Part IIA.
"Immigration Department" has the meaning given by the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
"Immigration Secretary" has the meaning given by the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
"indirect tax law" has the meaning given by the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
"ineligible income tax remission decision" has the meaning given by section 14ZS.
"Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy" has the same meaning as in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
"late reconciliation statement penalty" means the penalty worked out under Division 3 of Part IIA.
"migration officer" means:
 (a) the Immigration Secretary; or
 (b) an employee of the Immigration Department.
"objection decision" has the meaning given by subsection 14ZY(2).
"officer" means a person appointed or engaged under the Public Service Act 1999.
"private indirect tax ruling" means a private ruling, to the extent that it relates to an indirect tax law (other than the fuel tax law).
"private ruling" has the meaning given by section 359-5 in Schedule 1.
"registered tax agent or BAS agent" has the same meaning as in the Tax Agent Services Act 2009.
"Second Commissioner" means a Second Commissioner of Taxation.
"taxation law" has the meaning given by the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Note: See also subsection (2).
"tax liability" means a liability to the Commonwealth arising under, or by virtue of, a taxation law.
"Tax Practitioners Board" means the Tax Practitioners Board established by section 60-5 of the Tax Agent Services Act 2009.
"Tribunal" means the Administrative Review Tribunal.
 (2) Despite the definition of taxation law in subsection (1), an Excise Act (as defined in subsection 4(1) of the Excise Act 1901 ) is not a taxation law for the purposes of Part III of this Act.
Section 2A Application of the Criminal Code
  Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code applies to all offences against this Act.
Note: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of criminal responsibility.
Section 2B Act binds the Crown
  This Act binds the Crown in each of its capacities. However, it does not make the Crown liable to a pecuniary penalty or to be prosecuted for an offence.
Section 3 Application
  This Act extends to every external Territory referred to in the definition of Australia.
Section 3AA Schedule 1
 (1) Schedule 1 has effect.
Definitions in Schedule 1 do not apply to rest of Act
 (1A) So far as a provision in Schedule  1 gives an expression a particular meaning, the provision does not also have effect for the purposes of this Act (other than Schedule  1), except as provided in this Act (other than Schedule 1).
Application of interpretation provisions of Income Tax Assessment Act 1997
 (2) An expression has the same meaning in Schedule  1 as in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (3) Division 950 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (which contains rules for interpreting that Act) applies to Schedule  1 to this Act as if the provisions in that Schedule were provisions of that Act.
Section 3A General administration of Act
  The Commissioner has the general administration of this Act.
Note: An effect of this provision is that people who acquire information under this Act are subject to the confidentiality obligations and exceptions in Division  355 in Schedule 1.
Section 3B Annual report
 (1) The Commissioner shall, as soon as practicable after 30  June in each year, prepare and furnish to the Minister a report on the working of this Act.
 (1AA) A report under subsection  (1) in relation to a year ending on 30 June shall:
 (b) set out:
 (i) the number of occasions (if any) during the year on which a request was made to disclose information under subsection  355-55(1) in Schedule 1 (about disclosures to Ministers); and
 (ii) the number of occasions (if any) during the year on which information was disclosed under that subsection; and
 (iii) the Ministers to whom the information was disclosed; and
 (c) set out:
 (i) the number of occasions (if any) during the year on which a request was made to disclose information under subsection  355-70(1) in Schedule 1 (about disclosures for law enforcement and related purposes); and
 (ii) the number of occasions (if any) during the year on which information was disclosed under that subsection; and
 (iii) the types of entities and the names of the courts and tribunals to which the information was disclosed; and
 (iv) if the information was disclosed under table item  1 or 6 in subsection 355-70(1)--the general categories of offences in relation to which the information was disclosed; and
 (d) set out the number (if any) of taxation officers (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) found guilty of the offence in section 355-25 in Schedule  1 (about disclosure of protected information); and
 (e) set out information on the exercise during the year of the Commissioner&#39;s powers under Subdivision  370-A in Schedule 1 (Commissioner&#39;s remedial power).
 (1C) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to Part  III and sections 15 and 15A insofar as that Part and those sections apply in relation to the Tax Agent Services Act 2009 .
 (2) The Minister shall cause a copy of a report furnished under subsection  (1) to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after the day on which the Minister receives the report.
 (3) For the purposes of section  34C of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901, a report that is required by subsection (1) to be furnished as soon as practicable after 30  June in a year shall be taken to be a periodic report relating to the working of this Act during the year ending on that 30 June.
 (4) In this section:
"this Act" does not include Part IVC.
Section 3C Reporting of information about corporate tax entity with reported total income of $100 million or more
 (1) This section applies to an entity for an income year if:
 (a) the entity is a corporate tax entity; and
 (b) the entity has total income equal to or exceeding $100  million for the income year, according to information reported to the Commissioner in the entity&#39;s income tax return for the income year.
An expression used in this subsection that is also used in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 has the same meaning as in that Act.
 (2) The Commissioner must, as soon as practicable after the end of the income year, make publicly available the information mentioned in subsection  (3).
 (3) The information is as follows:
 (a) the entity&#39;s ABN (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) and name;
 (b) the entity&#39;s total income for the income year, according to information reported to the Commissioner in the entity&#39;s income tax return (within the meaning of that Act) for the income year;
 (c) the entity&#39;s taxable income or net income (if any) for the income year, according to information reported to the Commissioner in that income tax return;
 (d) the entity&#39;s income tax payable (if any) for the financial year corresponding to the income year, according to information reported to the Commissioner in that income tax return.
 (4) Subsection (5) applies if:
 (a) the entity gives the Commissioner a notice in writing that the return mentioned in paragraph  (3)(b) contains an error; and
 (b) the notice contains information that corrects the error.
 (5) The Commissioner may at any time make the information mentioned in paragraph  (4)(b) publicly available, in accordance with subsection (2), in order to correct the error.
 (6) To avoid doubt, if the Commissioner considers that information made publicly available under subsection  (2) fails to reflect all of the information required to be made publicly available under that subsection, the Commissioner may at any time make publicly available other information in order to remedy the failure.
Section 3CA Reporting of information by corporate country by country reporting entities
 (1) This section applies to a corporate tax entity for an income year if:
 (a) the entity is a country by country reporting entity for the income year; and
 (b) at the end of the income year, the entity is:
 (i) an Australian resident; or
 (ii) a foreign resident who operates an Australian permanent establishment (within the meaning of Part  IVA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936); and
 (c) the entity does not lodge a general purpose financial statement for the financial year most closely corresponding to the income year:
 (i) with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission; and
 (ii) within the time provided under subsection  319(3) of the Corporations Act 2001 for lodgement of a report for that financial year.
 (1A) However, this section does not apply to a corporate tax entity for an income year if:
 (a) the entity is a government related entity (within the meaning of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999); and
 (b) the Commissioner has given notice to the entity for the income year under subsection  (1B).
 (1B) For the purposes of paragraph  (1A)(b), the Commissioner may give notice in writing to a government related entity (within the meaning of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 ) for one or more specified income years if the Commissioner considers that it is appropriate to do so.
 (2) A corporate tax entity to which this section applies for an income year must, on or before the day by which the entity is required to lodge its income tax return for the income year with the Commissioner, give to the Commissioner in the approved form a general purpose financial statement for the financial year most closely corresponding to the income year.
Note: Section 286-75 in Schedule 1 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
 (3) The Commissioner must give a copy of the statement to the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.
 (4) The giving of the copy to the Australian Securities and Investments Commission under subsection  (3) is taken, for the purposes of the Corporations Act 2001, to be lodgement of the document with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.
Note: Under section 1274 of the Corporations Act 2001 , a person may inspect, and require to be given a copy or extract of, any document lodged with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.
 (5) For the purposes of this section, a general purpose financial statement in relation to an entity:
 (a) must be prepared in accordance with:
 (i) the accounting principles; or
 (ii) if accounting principles do not apply in relation to the entity--commercially accepted principles relating to accounting; and
 (b) if the entity is a member of a group of entities that are consolidated for accounting purposes as a single group--must relate to:
 (i) the entity; or
 (ii) the entity and some or all of the other members of the group.
 (6) An expression used in this section that is also used in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 has the same meaning as in that Act.
Section 3D Publication of information by certain country by country reporting entities
 (1) This section applies to an entity for a period mentioned in subsection  (2) (the reporting period) if:
 (a) the entity is:
 (i) a constitutional corporation; or
 (ii) a partnership in which each of the partners is a constitutional corporation; or
 (iii) a trust of which each of the trustees is a constitutional corporation; and
 (b) the entity was a country by country reporting parent for a period that includes the whole or a part of the period mentioned in subsection  (2) that preceded the reporting period; and
 (c) the entity is a member of a country by country reporting group at any time during the reporting period; and
 (d) at any time during the reporting period, the entity or another member of the country by country reporting group is:
 (i) an Australian resident; or
 (ii) a foreign resident who operates an Australian permanent establishment (within the meaning of Part  IVA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936); and
 (e) assuming that the reporting period were an income year, both of the following apply:
 (i) the entity&#39;s aggregated turnover for the income year includes one or more amounts of income from an Australian source;
 (ii) the sum of those amounts is $10 million or more; and
 (f) the entity is not included in a class of entities:
 (i) prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this subparagraph; or
 (ii) specified in a legislative instrument under subsection  3DB(4); and
 (g) the entity and the reporting period are not specified in an exemption under subsection  3DB(5).
 (2) For the purposes of subsection  (1), the period is:
 (a) if paragraph (b) of this subsection does not apply--each period for which audited consolidated financial statements for the entity for the period are prepared; or
 (b) if the entity does not prepare audited consolidated financial statements--each period for which the entity would be, on the assumption that the entity were a listed company (within the meaning of section  26BC of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ), required to prepare such statements.
Publication of information
 (3) An entity to which this section applies for a reporting period must, within 12 months after the end of the reporting period:
 (a) publish the information set out in subsection  3DA(1), except to the extent the entity, the information and the reporting period are specified in an exemption under subsection 3DB(6); and
  (b) do so by giving a document containing the information to the Commissioner in the approved form.
Note: Subsection 288-140(1) in Schedule 1 provides for an administrative penalty for failing to comply with this subsection on time.
 (4) The Commissioner must, as soon as practicable after receiving the document given in accordance with paragraph  (3)(b), make the information in the document available on an Australian government website.
Government related entities
 (5) This section does not apply to a corporate tax entity for a period mentioned in subsection  (2) if:
 (a) the entity is a government related entity (within the meaning of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999); and
 (b) the Commissioner has given notice to the entity for the period under subsection  (6).
 (6) For the purposes of paragraph  (5)(b), the Commissioner may give notice in writing to a government related entity (within the meaning of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999) for one or more specified periods if the Commissioner considers that it is appropriate to do so.
Interpretation
 (7) An expression used in this section or section  3DA or 3DB that is also used in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 has the same meaning as in that Act.
Section 3DA Publication of information by certain country by country reporting entities--information to be published
 (1) For the purposes of paragraph  3D(3)(a), the information the entity must publish is as follows:
 (a) the name of the entity;
 (b) the names of each other entity that, at that time, was a member of the country by country reporting group;
 (c) a description of the country by country reporting group&#39;s approach to tax;
 (d) the matters listed in subsection  (3) of this section for the reporting period in respect of each of the following jurisdictions:
 (i) Australia;
 (ii) a jurisdiction specified in a determination under subsection  (4), if the country by country reporting group operates in that jurisdiction;
 (e) in respect of the jurisdictions in which the country by country reporting group operates that are not mentioned in paragraph  (d) of this subsection:
  (i) a description of the country by country reporting group&#39;s main business activities for the reporting period in the area consisting of those jurisdictions;
 (ii) for each matter listed in subsection  (5), the amounts for the reporting period for that matter in respect of each jurisdiction in the area, published as a sum of those amounts for that matter;
 (iii) the currency used in calculating and presenting the information mentioned in subparagraph  (ii);
 (f) if regulations for the purposes of this paragraph prescribe information--that information.
 (2) However, for the purposes of this section and sections  3D and 3DB, the entity is taken to have published the information set out in paragraph (1)(e) of this section if it publishes the matters listed in subsection  (3) for the reporting period in respect of each jurisdiction in which the country by country reporting group operates.
 (3) For the purposes of paragraph  (1)(d) and subsection (2), the following matters are listed:
 (a) the name of the jurisdiction;
 (b) a description of main business activities;
 (c) the number of employees (on a full -time equivalent basis) as at the end of the reporting period;
 (d) revenue from unrelated parties;
 (e) revenue from related parties that are not tax residents of the jurisdiction;
 (f) profit or loss before income tax;
 (g) the book value at the end of the reporting period of tangible assets, other than cash and cash equivalents;
 (h) income tax paid (on a cash basis);
 (i) income tax accrued (current year);
 (j) the reasons for the difference between:
 (i) the amount mentioned in paragraph  (i) of this subsection; and
 (ii) the amount of income tax due if the income tax rate applicable in the jurisdiction were applied to the amount mentioned in paragraph  (f) of this subsection;
 (k) the currency used in calculating and presenting the information mentioned in paragraphs  (d) to (j) of this subsection.
 (4) For the purposes of subparagraph  (1)(d)(ii), the Minister may, by legislative instrument, make a determination specifying jurisdictions.
 (5) For the purposes of subparagraph  (1)(e)(ii), the following matters are listed:
 (a) the number of employees (on a full -time equivalent basis) as at the end of the reporting period;
 (b) revenue from unrelated parties;
 (c) revenue from related parties that are not tax residents of the jurisdiction;
 (d) profit or loss before income tax;
 (e) the book value at the end of the reporting period of tangible assets, other than cash and cash equivalents;
 (f) income tax paid (on a cash basis);
 (g) income tax accrued (current year).
 (6) The amounts published by the entity for the matters listed in paragraphs  (3)(c) to (i) and subsection (5) must be based on:
 (a) if paragraph (b) of this subsection does not apply--amounts as shown in the audited consolidated financial statements for the entity for the reporting period; or
 (b) if audited consolidated financial statements for the entity for the reporting period have not been prepared--amounts that would be, on the assumptions that the entity were a listed company (within the meaning of section  26BC of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ) and such statements were prepared, shown in those statements.
Interpretation
 (7) For the purposes of determining the effect that paragraph  (1)(c), subsections (3) and (5) and any regulations made for the purposes of paragraph (1)(f) have in relation to an entity, identify information mentioned in those provisions:
 (a) so as best to achieve consistency with Disclosures 207 -1 and 207-4 of GRI 207:Tax 2019 of the Global Reporting Initiative&#39;s Sustainability Reporting Standards; and
 (b) having regard to the following documents, to the extent they are relevant:
 (i) the Transfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and Tax Administrations, as approved by the Council of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and last amended on 7  January 2022;
 (ii) Guidance on the Implementation of Country -by-Country Reporting: BEPS Action 13 (2022) of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development;
 (iii) a document, or part of a document, prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this subparagraph.
Note 1: The document in paragraph (a) could in 2024 be viewed on the Global Reporting Initiative&#39;s website (https://www.globalreporting.org).
Note 2: The documents in subparagraphs (b)(i) and (ii) could in 2024 be viewed on the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development&#39;s website (https://www.oecd.org).
Section 3DB Publication of information by certain country by country reporting entities--corrections and exemptions etc.
Corrections
 (1) If an entity becomes aware that a document it has given to the Commissioner under paragraph  3D(3)(b) contains an error, it:
 (a) if the error is a material error--must; or
 (b) otherwise--may;
publish information that corrects the error by giving a document containing the information to the Commissioner in the approved form.
 (2) If paragraph (1)(a) applies, the entity must publish the information by giving the document containing the information to the Commissioner no later than 28 days after the entity becomes aware of the error.
Note: Subsection 288-140(1) in Schedule 1 provides for an administrative penalty for failing to comply with paragraph  (1)(a) of this section on time.
 (3) The Commissioner must, as soon as practicable after receiving the document given in accordance with subsection  (1), make the information available on an Australian government website.
Exemptions
 (4) For the purposes of subparagraph  3D(1)(f)(ii), the Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, specify a class of entity to which subsection 3D(3) does not apply.
 (5) For the purposes of paragraph  3D(1)(g), the Commissioner may, by notice in writing, specify:
 (a) an entity that is exempt from publishing information under subsection  3D(3); and
 (b) the reporting period for which the exemption applies.
 (6) For the purposes of paragraph  3D(3)(a), the Commissioner may, by notice in writing, specify:
 (a) an entity that is exempt from publishing information of a particular kind; and
 (b) the particular kind of information that the entity is exempt from publishing; and
 (c) the reporting period for which the exemption applies.
 (7) A notice under subsection  (5) or (6) must only specify a single reporting period.
 (8) A notice under subsection  (5) or (6) is not a legislative instrument.
Section 3E Reporting of information about entity with PRRT payable
 (1) This section applies to an entity if the entity has an amount of PRRT payable for a year of tax, according to information reported to the Commissioner in the entity&#39;s PRRT return for the year of tax.
 (2) The Commissioner must, as soon as practicable after the end of the year of tax, make publicly available the information mentioned in subsection  (3).
 (3) The information is as follows:
 (a) the entity&#39;s ABN (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) and name;
 (b) the PRRT payable by the entity in respect of the year of tax, according to information reported to the Commissioner in the entity&#39;s PRRT return for the year of tax.
 (4) Subsection (5) applies if:
 (a) the entity gives the Commissioner a notice in writing that the return mentioned in paragraph  (3)(b) contains an error; and
 (b) the notice contains information that corrects the error.
 (5) The Commissioner may at any time make the information mentioned in paragraph  (4)(b) publicly available, in accordance with subsection (2), in order to correct the error.
 (6) To avoid doubt, if the Commissioner considers that information made publicly available under subsection  (2) fails to reflect all of the information required to be made publicly available under that subsection, the Commissioner may at any time make publicly available other information in order to remedy the failure.
 (7) In this section:
"PRRT return" means a return under section 59 or 60 of the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 1987 .
"year of tax" has the meaning given by the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 1987.
Section 3F Reporting of information about junior minerals exploration incentive offset
 (1) This section applies if the Commissioner makes a determination under section  418-101 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 allocating exploration credits to an entity for an income year.
 (2) The Commissioner must, as soon as practicable after making the determination, make publicly available:
 (a) the ABN and name of the entity; and
 (b) the amount of the entity&#39;s exploration credits allocation for the income year.
 (3) An expression used in this section that is also used in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 has the same meaning as in that Act.
Section 3G Electronic invoicing
 (1) The Commissioner&#39;s functions include the function of developing and/or administering a framework or system for electronic invoicing.
 (2) Without limiting subsection  (1), the Commissioner may develop the framework or system by adopting (with appropriate modifications) a framework or system for electronic invoicing operating outside Australia.
 (3) The Commissioner has power to do all things that are necessary or convenient to be done for or in connection with the performance of the Commissioner&#39;s functions under this section.
 (4) Without limiting subsection  (3), the Commissioner&#39;s powers under that subsection include:
 (a) entering into agreements for integrating the framework or system for electronic invoicing mentioned in subsection  (1) with frameworks or systems for electronic invoicing that operate outside Australia; and
 (b) entering into agreements for accessing the framework or system for electronic invoicing mentioned in subsection  (1); and
 (c) liaising with:
 (i) foreign countries; and
 (ii) agencies, and other entities, of foreign countries;
  to develop common approaches to electronic invoices between countries.
 (5) This section does not limit any functions or powers the Commissioner has apart from this section.
Section 3H Reporting of information about research and development tax offset
 (1) This section applies to an R&D entity in relation to an income year if, according to information the entity gave the Commissioner, the entity is entitled under Division  355 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 to a tax offset for amounts it can deduct under that Division for the income year.
 (2) The Commissioner must, as soon as practicable after the second 30  June after the financial year corresponding to the income year, make publicly available the information mentioned in subsection (3).
 (3) The information is as follows:
 (a) the entity&#39;s name;
 (b) the entity&#39;s ABN or, if the first information the entity gave the Commissioner indicating the entity&#39;s entitlement to the tax offset does not include the entity&#39;s ABN but does include the entity&#39;s ACN (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001), the entity&#39;s ACN;
 (c) if, according to the first information the entity gave the Commissioner indicating the entity&#39;s entitlement to the tax offset, the total described in paragraph  (4)(a) exceeds the total described in paragraph (4)(b)--the excess.
 (4) For the purposes of paragraph  (3)(c), the totals are as follows:
 (a) the total of what the entity can deduct for the income year as described in subsection  (1) of this section;
 (b) the total of the amounts the entity has under section  355-445 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for the income year.
 (5) Subsection (6) applies if:
 (a) the entity gives the Commissioner a notice in writing that the information mentioned in paragraph  (3)(c) contains an error; and
 (b) the notice contains information that corrects the error.
 (6) The Commissioner may at any time make the information mentioned in paragraph  (5)(b) publicly available, in accordance with subsection (2), in order to correct the error.
 (7) To avoid doubt, if the Commissioner considers that information made publicly available under subsection  (2) fails to reflect all of the information required to be made publicly available under that subsection, the Commissioner may at any time make publicly available other information in order to remedy the failure.
 (8) An expression used in this section and in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 has the same meaning in this section as in that Act.
Section 3J Functions relating to digital ID systems
 (1) The Commissioner&#39;s functions include providing services, or access to services, within digital ID systems.
 (2) Without limiting subsection  (1), the Commissioner may participate within the Australian Government Digital ID System as one or more kinds of accredited entities.
 (3) The Commissioner has power to do all things that are necessary or convenient to be done for or in connection with the performance of the Commissioner&#39;s functions under this section.
 (4) This section does not limit any functions or powers the Commissioner has apart from this section.
 (5) To avoid doubt:
 (a) the Digital ID Act 2024 is not a taxation law; and
 (b) the functions referred to in subsection  (1) are not performed under, or for the purposes of, a taxation law.
 (6) In this section:
"accredited entity" has the same meaning as in the Digital ID Act 2024.
"Australian Government Digital ID System" has the same meaning as in the Digital ID Act 2024.
"digital ID system" has the same meaning as in the Digital ID Act 2024.
Section 3K Reporting of information about CMPTI tax offset
 (1) This section applies to a company in relation to an income year if, according to information the entity gave the Commissioner, the company is entitled to the CMPTI tax offset for the income year.
 (2) The Commissioner must, as soon as practicable after the second 30  June after the financial year corresponding to the income year, make publicly available the information mentioned in subsection (3).
 (3) The information is as follows:
 (a) the company&#39;s name;
 (b) the company&#39;s ABN;
 (c) the amount of the company&#39;s CMPTI tax offset for the income year.
 (4) Subsection (5) applies if:
 (a) the entity gives the Commissioner a notice in writing that the information mentioned in paragraph  (3)(c) contains an error; and
 (b) the notice contains information that corrects the error.
 (5) The Commissioner may at any time make the information mentioned in paragraph  (4)(b) publicly available, in accordance with subsection (2), in order to correct the error.
 (6) To avoid doubt, if the Commissioner considers that information made publicly available under subsection  (2) fails to reflect all of the information required to be made publicly available under that subsection, the Commissioner may at any time make publicly available other information in order to remedy the failure.
 (7) An expression used in this section and in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 has the same meaning in this section as in that Act.
Section 4 Commissioner and Second Commissioners of Taxation
  There shall be a Commissioner of Taxation and 3 Second Commissioners of Taxation, who shall be appointed by the Governor -General.
Section 4A Statutory Agency etc. for purposes of Public Service Act
 (1) The staff necessary to assist the Commissioner are to be persons engaged under the Public Service Act 1999.
 (2) For the purposes of the Public Service Act 1999:
 (a) the Commissioner and the APS employees assisting the Commissioner together constitute a Statutory Agency; and
 (b) the Commissioner is the Head of that Statutory Agency.
Section 5 Tenure of Commissioner and Second Commissioners
 (1) The Commissioner of Taxation and each Second Commissioner of Taxation shall be appointed for terms of 7 years respectively and shall be eligible for re -appointment.
 (3) The Commissioner of Taxation and the Second Commissioners of Taxation are not subject to the Public Service Act 1999.
Section 5A Remuneration and allowances of Commissioner and Second Commissioners
 (1) The Commissioner of Taxation and the Second Commissioners of Taxation shall be paid such remuneration as is determined by the Remuneration Tribunal but, if no determination of that remuneration by the Tribunal is in operation, they shall be paid remuneration at the respective rates that were applicable immediately before the commencement of this section.
 (2) The Commissioner of Taxation and the Second Commissioners of Taxation shall be paid such allowances as are prescribed.
 (3) This section has effect subject to the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.
Section 6 Leave of absence
 (1) The Commissioner and a Second Commissioner have such recreation leave entitlements as are determined by the Remuneration Tribunal.
 (2) The Minister may grant the Commissioner and a Second Commissioner leave of absence, other than recreation leave, on such terms and conditions as to remuneration or otherwise as the Minister determines.
Section 6A Resignation
  The Commissioner or a Second Commissioner may resign his or her office by writing signed by the Commissioner or Second Commissioner, as the case may be, and delivered to the Governor -General.
Section 6B Acting appointments
 (1) The Minister may appoint a person to act in the office of Commissioner of Taxation:
 (a) during a vacancy in that office; or
 (b) during any period, or during all periods, when the person holding that office is absent from duty or from Australia or is, for any other reason, unable to perform the functions of that office.
Note: For rules that apply to acting appointments, see section 33A of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901.
 (2) The Minister may appoint a person to act in an office of Second Commissioner of Taxation:
 (a) during a vacancy in that office; or
 (b) during any period, or during all periods, when the person holding the office of Second Commissioner of Taxation is absent from duty or from Australia, is acting in the office of Commissioner of Taxation or is, for any other reason, unable to perform the functions of the office of Second Commissioner of Taxation.
Note: For rules that apply to acting appointments, see section 33A of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901.
 (6) While a person is acting in the office of Commissioner of Taxation, the person has and may exercise all the powers, and shall perform all the functions, of the Commissioner under this Act or any other law.
 (6A) For the purposes of subsection  (6), the Commissioner&#39;s powers and functions include powers and functions given to the Commissioner in his or her capacity as Registrar of the Australian Business Register.
 (7) While a person is acting in an office of Second Commissioner of Taxation, the person has and may exercise all the powers, and shall perform all the functions, of the Second Commissioner under this Act or any other law.
Section 6C Suspension and removal from office of Commissioner or Second Commissioner
 (1) The Governor-General may remove the Commissioner or a Second Commissioner from office on an address praying for the removal of the Commissioner or the Second Commissioner, as the case may be, on the ground of proved misbehaviour or physical or mental incapacity being presented to the Governor -General by each House of the Parliament in the same session of the Parliament.
 (2) The Governor-General may suspend the Commissioner or a Second Commissioner from office on the ground of misbehaviour or physical or mental incapacity.
 (3) Where the Governor -General suspends the Commissioner or a Second Commissioner, the Minister shall cause a statement of the grounds of the suspension to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 7 sitting days of that House after the suspension.
 (4) If, at the expiration of 15 sitting days of a House of the Parliament after the day on which the statement was laid before that House, an address under subsection  (1) has not been presented to the Governor-General by each House of the Parliament, the suspension terminates.
 (5) The suspension of the Commissioner or a Second Commissioner from office under this section does not affect any entitlement of the Commissioner or Second Commissioner, as the case may be, to be paid remuneration and allowances.
 (6) If:
 (a) the Commissioner or a Second Commissioner becomes bankrupt, applies to take the benefit of any law for the relief of bankrupt or insolvent debtors, compounds with his or her creditors or makes an assignment of his or her remuneration for their benefit;
 (b) the Commissioner or a Second Commissioner engages, except with the approval of the Minister, in paid employment outside the duties of the office of Commissioner or Second Commissioner, as the case may be; or
 (c) the Commissioner or a Second Commissioner is absent from duty, except on leave of absence, for 14 consecutive days or 28 days in any 12 months;
the Governor-General shall remove the Commissioner or Second Commissioner, as the case may be, from office.
 (7) The Governor-General may, with the consent of the Commissioner or a Second Commissioner, retire the Commissioner or Second Commissioner, as the case may be, from office on the ground of physical or mental incapacity.
 (8) The Commissioner or a Second Commissioner shall not be suspended, removed or retired from office except as provided by this section.
Section 6D Powers of Second Commissioner
 (1) Subject to subsection  (2) and to the regulations, a Second Commissioner has all the powers, and may perform all the functions, of the Commissioner under a taxation law.
 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to:
 (a) section 8 of this Act; or
 (b) a provision of a taxation law that:
 (i) provides that the Commissioner has the general administration of the taxation law; or
 (ii) requires the Commissioner to furnish to the Minister a report on the working of the taxation law during any period.
 (3) When a power or function of the Commissioner under a taxation law is exercised or performed by a Second Commissioner, the power or function shall, for the purposes of the taxation law, be deemed to have been exercised or performed by the Commissioner.
 (4) The exercise of a power, or the performance of a function, of the Commissioner under a taxation law by a Second Commissioner does not prevent the exercise of the power, or the performance of the function, by the Commissioner.
Section 7 Deputy Commissioners of Taxation
  There shall be such Deputy Commissioners of Taxation as are required.
Section 8 Delegation
 (1) The Commissioner may, either generally or as otherwise provided by the instrument of delegation, by writing signed by the Commissioner, delegate to a Deputy Commissioner or any other person all or any of the Commissioner&#39;s powers or functions under a taxation law or any other law of the Commonwealth or a Territory, other than this power of delegation.
 (1A) For the purposes of this section, the Commissioner&#39;s powers and functions include powers and functions given to the Commissioner in his or her capacity as Registrar of the Australian Business Register.
 (2) Subject to subsection  (5), a power or function so delegated, when exercised or performed by the delegate, shall, for the purposes of the taxation law or the other law, as the case may be, be deemed to have been exercised or performed by the Commissioner.
 (4) A delegation under this section does not prevent the exercise of a power or the performance of a function by the Commissioner.
 (5) A delegation under this section may be made subject to a power of review and alteration by the Commissioner, within a period specified in the instrument of delegation, of acts done in pursuance of the delegation.
 (6) A delegation under this section continues in force notwithstanding a change in the occupancy of, or a vacancy in, the office of Commissioner, but, for the purposes of the application of subsection  33(3) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 to a delegation under this section, nothing in any law shall be taken to preclude the revocation or variation of the delegation by the same or a subsequent holder of that office.
Section 8AAA Overview
This Part explains how to work out the general interest charge on an amount.Usually, a person is liable to pay the charge if an amount that the person must pay to the Commissioner is not paid on time. But there are also other circumstances in which a person can be liable.A person is only liable to pay the charge if a provision of an Act makes the person liable.
Section 8AAB When the general interest charge applies
 (1) There are certain provisions of this Act and other Acts that make persons liable to pay the general interest charge. Subsection  (4) lists the provisions.
 (2) A person is only liable to pay the charge on an amount if a provision specifies that the person is liable to pay the charge on the amount.
 (3) The charge does not apply to the Commonwealth or an authority of the Commonwealth.
 (4) The following table is an index of the laws that deal with liability to the charge.
Liability to general interest chargeItemColumn 1SectionColumn 2ActColumn 3Topic1162-100A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999payment of GST instalments2168-10A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999supplies later found to be GST-free supplies325-10A New Tax System (Wine Equalisation Tax) Act 1999purchases later found to be GST free supplies3A175-65Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission Act 2012payment of administrative penalty3B67Excise Act 1901payment of excise duty for tobacco goods593Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986payment of fringe benefits tax6112BFringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986Liability to general interest chargeItemColumn 1SectionColumn 2ActColumn 3Topic1162-100A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999payment of GST instalments2168-10A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999supplies later found to be GST-free supplies325-10A New Tax System (Wine Equalisation Tax) Act 1999purchases later found to be GST free supplies3A175-65Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission Act 2012payment of administrative penalty3B67Excise Act 1901payment of excise duty for tobacco goods593Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986payment of fringe benefits tax6112BFringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986payment of fringe benefits tax instalments7102UPIncome Tax Assessment Act 1936payment of trustee beneficiary non-disclosure tax8128CIncome Tax Assessment Act 1936payment of withholding tax9former section163AAIncome Tax Assessment Act 1936returns by instalment taxpayers10former section 163BIncome Tax Assessment Act 1936returns by persons other than instalment taxpayers10A172AIncome Tax Assessment Act 1936repayments of excessive tax offset refunds or shortfall interest charge11271-80 in Schedule 2FIncome Tax Assessment Act 1936payment of family trust distribution tax125-15Income Tax Assessment Act 1997unpaid income tax or shortfall interest charge12A44-50Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of assessed build to rent development misuse tax13197-75payment of fringe benefits tax instalments7102UPIncome Tax Assessment Act 1936payment of trustee beneficiary non-disclosure tax8128CIncome Tax Assessment Act 1936payment of withholding tax9former section163AAIncome Tax Assessment Act 1936returns by instalment taxpayers10former section 163BIncome Tax Assessment Act 1936returns by persons other than instalment taxpayers10A172AIncome Tax Assessment Act 1936repayments of excessive tax offset refunds or shortfall interest charge11271-80 in Schedule 2FIncome Tax Assessment Act 1936payment of family trust distribution tax125-15Income Tax Assessment Act 1997unpaid income tax or shortfall interest charge12A44-50Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of assessed build to rent development misuse tax13197-75Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of untainting tax14214-155Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of franking tax by a corporate tax entity15292-390Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of excess non-concessional contributions tax or shortfall interest charge15A293-75Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of Division 293 tax or shortfall interest charge15B294-250Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of excess transfer balance tax16A418-170Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of excess exploration credit tax or shortfall interest charge17721-30Income Tax Assessment Act 1997liability of members of consolidated groups18840-810Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of managed investment trust withholding tax18A840-910Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of labour mobility program withholding tax19Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of untainting tax14214-155Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of franking tax by a corporate tax entity15292-390Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of excess non-concessional contributions tax or shortfall interest charge15A293-75Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of Division 293 tax or shortfall interest charge15B294-250Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of excess transfer balance tax16A418-170Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of excess exploration credit tax or shortfall interest charge17721-30Income Tax Assessment Act 1997liability of members of consolidated groups18840-810Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of managed investment trust withholding tax18A840-910Income Tax Assessment Act 1997payment of labour mobility program withholding tax19214-105Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997payment of franking deficit tax19A10Boosting Cash Flow for Employers (Coronavirus Economic Response Package) Act 2020wrong payment or overpayment of a cash flow boost19B10Coronavirus Economic Response Package (Payments and Benefits) Act 2020wrong payment or overpayment of a Coronavirus economic response payment2085Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 1987payment of petroleum resource rent tax, shortfall interest charge or instalment transfer interest charge20A282-19Private Health Insurance Act 2007repayment of private health insurance premium reduction or refund2135Product Grants and Benefits Administration Act 2000payment of a designated scheme debt2221Superannuation Contributions Tax (Assessment and Collection) Act 1997increase in liability to pay superannuation contributions surcharge because of amendment of assessment2322Superannuation Contributions Tax (Assessment and Collection) Act 1997liability to pay superannuation contributions surcharge because of new assessment2425Superannuation Contributions Tax (Assessment and Collection) Act 1997payment of superannuation contributions surcharge or advance instalment2518Superannuation Contributions Tax (Members of Constitutionally Protected Superannuation Funds) Assessment and Collection Act 1997increase in liability to pay superannuation contributions surcharge because of amendment of assessment2621Superannuation Contributions Tax (Members of Constitutionally Protected Superannuation Funds) Assessment and Collection Act 1997payment of superannuation contributions surcharge2725Superannuation (Government Co-contribution for Low Income Earners) Act 2003repayments or underpayments of Government co-contributions that cannot be credited to an account27A115QPaid Parental Leave Act 2010repayments of PPL superannuation contributions or underpaid amounts that cannot be credited to an account2849Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992payment of superannuation guarantee charge2915DCSuperannuation (Self Managed Superannuation Funds) Taxation Act 1987payment of superannuation (self managed superannuation funds) supervisory levy3017ASuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999payment of unclaimed money3118CSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment that cannot be credited to an account2518Superannuation Contributions Tax (Members of Constitutionally Protected Superannuation Funds) Assessment and Collection Act 1997increase in liability to pay superannuation contributions surcharge because of amendment of assessment2621Superannuation Contributions Tax (Members of Constitutionally Protected Superannuation Funds) Assessment and Collection Act 1997payment of superannuation contributions surcharge2725Superannuation (Government Co-contribution for Low Income Earners) Act 2003repayments or underpayments of Government co-contributions that cannot be credited to an account27A115QPaid Parental Leave Act 2010repayments of PPL superannuation contributions or underpaid amounts that cannot be credited to an account2849Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992payment of superannuation guarantee charge2915DCSuperannuation (Self Managed Superannuation Funds) Taxation Act 1987payment of superannuation (self managed superannuation funds) supervisory levy3017ASuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999payment of unclaimed money3118CSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment that cannot be credited to an account3220FSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999payment of unclaimed superannuation of former temporary residents3320MSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment for former temporary resident that cannot be credited to an account33A20QESuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999payment in respect of inactive low-balance accounts33B20QLSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment in respect of inactive low-balance accounts that cannot be credited to an account33C21DSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999payment in respect of eligible rollover fund accounts33D21HSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment in respect of eligible rollover fund accounts that cannot be credited to an account33E22FSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment in respect of payments that cannot be credited to an account3424FSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999payment in respect of lost member accounts353220FSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999payment of unclaimed superannuation of former temporary residents3320MSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment for former temporary resident that cannot be credited to an account33A20QESuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999payment in respect of inactive low-balance accounts33B20QLSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment in respect of inactive low-balance accounts that cannot be credited to an account33C21DSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999payment in respect of eligible rollover fund accounts33D21HSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment in respect of eligible rollover fund accounts that cannot be credited to an account33E22FSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment in respect of payments that cannot be credited to an account3424FSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999payment in respect of lost member accounts3524LSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment for former lost member that cannot be credited to an account35A24NBSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment for inactive low-balance accounts that cannot be credited to an active account368AAZFTaxation Administration Act 1953RBA deficit debts378AAZNTaxation Administration Act 1953overpayments made by the Commissioner3816-80 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of PAYG withholding amounts38A18-150 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953PAYG withholding non-compliance tax3945-80 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of PAYG instalments4045-230 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953shortfall in quarterly PAYG instalments worked out on the basis of a varied rate4145-232 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953shortfall in quarterly PAYG instalments worked out on the basis of estimated benchmark tax4245-235 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953shortfall in annual PAYG instalments4345-600 and 45-620 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953tax benefits relating to PAYG instalments4445-870 and 45-875 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953head company&#39;s liability on shortfall in quarterly PAYG instalments45105-80 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of a net fuel amount or an amount of indirect tax45A115-10 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of major bank levy45B125-10 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy or shortfall interest charge45BA127-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of Australian IIR/UTPR tax or shortfall interest charge45BB127-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953shortfall in quarterly PAYG instalments worked out on the basis of estimated benchmark tax4245-235 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953shortfall in annual PAYG instalments4345-600 and 45-620 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953tax benefits relating to PAYG instalments4445-870 and 45-875 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953head company&#39;s liability on shortfall in quarterly PAYG instalments45105-80 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of a net fuel amount or an amount of indirect tax45A115-10 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of major bank levy45B125-10 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy or shortfall interest charge45BA127-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of Australian IIR/UTPR tax or shortfall interest charge45BB127-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of Australian DMT tax or shortfall interest charge45C133-115 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of debt account discharge liability46263-30 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of a foreign revenue claim47268-75 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953late payment of estimate48298-25 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953payment of administrative penalty
Section 8AAC Amount of the general interest charge
 (1) The general interest charge for a day is worked out in accordance with this section.
 (2) If the charge is payable under section  8AAZF on the RBA deficit at the end of that day, then the charge is worked out by multiplying the general interest charge rate for that day by the RBA deficit at the end of that day.
 (3) If the charge is not payable under section  8AAZF, but applies to an amount that remains unpaid (the original unpaid amount), then the charge is worked out by multiplying the general interest charge rate for that day by the sum of so much of the following amounts as remains unpaid:
 (a) the charge from previous days;
 (b) the original unpaid amount.
 (4) If the charge applies to an amount that is specified in the provision that imposes the charge, but neither subsection  (2) nor (3) applies, then the charge is worked out by multiplying the general interest charge rate for that day by the sum of the following amounts:
 (a) so much of the charge from previous days as remains unpaid;
 (b) the specified amount.
Section 8AAD What is the general interest charge rate?
 (1) The general interest charge rate for a day is the rate worked out by adding 7 percentage points to the base interest rate for that day, and dividing that total by the number of days in the calendar year.
 (2) The base interest rate for a day depends on which quarter of the year the day is in. For each day in a quarter in the second column of the table, it is the monthly average yield of 90 -day Bank Accepted Bills published by the Reserve Bank of Australia for the month in the third column of the table.
Base interest rateItemFor days in this quarter...the monthly average yield of 90-day Bank Accepted Bills for this month applies...11 January to 31 Marchthe preceding November21 April to 30 Junethe preceding February31 July to 30 Septemberthe preceding May41 October to 31 Decemberthe preceding August
 (3) If the monthly average yield of 90 -day Bank Accepted Bills for a particular month in the third column of the table in subsection (2) is not published by the Reserve Bank of Australia before the beginning of the relevant quarter, assume that it is the same as the last monthly average yield of 90 -day Bank Accepted Bills published by the Reserve Bank of Australia before that month.
 (4) The base interest rate must be rounded to the second decimal place (rounding .005 upwards).
Section 8AAE When the charge is due and payable
  The general interest charge for a day is due and payable to the Commissioner at the end of that day.
Note: For provisions about collection and recovery of the charge, see Part 4-15 in Schedule  1.
Section 8AAF Notification by Commissioner
 (1) The Commissioner may give notice to a person liable to pay the charge of the amount of the charge for a particular day or days.
 (4) A notice given to a person by the Commissioner under this section is prima facie evidence of the matters stated in the notice.
Section 8AAG Remission of the charge
 (1) The Commissioner may remit all or a part of the charge payable by a person.
 (2) However, if a person is liable to pay the charge because an amount remains unpaid after the time by which it is due to be paid, the Commissioner may only remit all or a part of the charge in the circumstances set out in subsection  (3), (4) or (5).
 (3) The Commissioner may remit all or a part of the charge referred to in subsection  (2) if the Commissioner is satisfied that:
 (a) the circumstances that contributed to the delay in payment were not due to, or caused directly or indirectly by, an act or omission of the person; and
 (b) the person has taken reasonable action to mitigate, or mitigate the effects of, those circumstances.
 (4) The Commissioner may remit all or a part of the charge referred to in subsection (2) if the Commissioner is satisfied that:
 (a) the circumstances that contributed to the delay in payment were due to, or caused directly or indirectly by, an act or omission of the person; and
 (b) the person has taken reasonable action to mitigate, or mitigate the effects of, those circumstances; and
 (c) having regard to the nature of those circumstances, it would be fair and reasonable to remit all or a part of the charge.
 (5) The Commissioner may remit all or a part of the charge referred to in subsection  (2) if the Commissioner is satisfied that:
 (a) there are special circumstances because of which it would be fair and reasonable to remit all or a part of the charge; or
 (b) it is otherwise appropriate to do so.
Section 8AAGA Rounding of the charge
  If the amount of the charge payable for any period is not a multiple of 5 cents, the Commissioner may round it down to the nearest multiple of 5 cents.
Section 8AAH Judgment for payment of an unpaid amount
 (1) This section applies if judgment is given by, or entered in, a court for the payment of:
 (a) all or a part of an amount in respect of which a person is, or was, liable to pay the charge because the amount remains unpaid after the time by which it is due to be paid; or
 (b) an amount that includes all or a part of the unpaid amount.
 (2) The consequences of judgment being given or entered are:
 (a) the unpaid amount is not taken, for the purposes of a provision that makes, or would make, the person liable to pay the charge on the unpaid amount, to have ceased to be due and payable by reason only of the giving or entering of the judgment; and
 (b) if the judgment debt carries interest, the amount of the charge that the person would, if not for this paragraph, be liable to pay on the unpaid amount is reduced by:
 (i) in a case to which paragraph  (1)(a) applies--the amount of the interest; or
 (ii) in a case to which paragraph  (1)(b) applies--the amount worked out using the formula:
Section 8AAZA Definitions
  In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears:
"company" includes any body or association (whether or not it is incorporated), but does not include a partnership or a non-entity joint venture.
"compulsory AASL repayment amount" has the same meaning as in the Australian Apprenticeship Support Loans Act 2014 .
"compulsory ABSTUDY SSL repayment amount" has the same meaning as in the Student Assistance Act 1973.
"compulsory repayment amount" has the same meaning as in the Higher Education Support Act 2003.
"compulsory SSL repayment amount" has the same meaning as in Chapter 2AA of the Social Security Act 1991 .
"compulsory VETSL repayment amount" has the same meaning as in the VET Student Loans Act 2016.
"credit" includes:
 (a) an amount that the Commissioner must pay to a taxpayer under a taxation law, whether or not described as a credit, other than the following amounts:
 (i) an amount paid under the Product Grants and Benefits Administration Act 2000;
 (ii) an amount paid under Division  18 (refunds) of the A New Tax System (Luxury Car Tax) Act 1999;
 (iii) an amount paid under the Coronavirus Economic Response Package (Payments and Benefits) Act 2020 to an entity, unless a determination of the Commissioner under section 8AAZAA specifies that the amount is a credit for the purposes of this subparagraph; and
 (b) an amount received by the Commissioner in respect of a taxpayer as a result of the Commissioner having made a claim that is similar in nature to a foreign revenue claim (as defined in section  263-10 in Schedule  1).
"entity" means any of the following:
 (a) a company;
 (b) a partnership;
 (c) a person in a particular capacity of trustee;
 (d) a body politic;
 (e) a corporation sole;
 (f) any other person.
"excess non-RBA credit" means a credit that arises under section  8AAZLA or 8AAZLB.
"FS assessment debt" means an FS assessment debt under:
 (a) subsection 19AB(2) of the Social Security Act 1991; or
 (b) the Student Assistance Act 1973 as in force at a time on or after 1 July 1998.
"non-entity joint venture" has the meaning given by subsection  995-1(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
"non-RBA tax debt" means a tax debt other than an RBA deficit debt.
"primary tax debt" means any amount due to the Commonwealth directly under a taxation law (other than, except in Division 4, the Product Grants and Benefits Administration Act 2000), including any such amount that is not yet payable.
"RBA" means a running balance account established under section 8AAZC.
"RBA deficit debt", in relation to an RBA of an entity, means a balance in favour of the Commissioner, based on:
 (a) primary tax debts that have been allocated to the RBA and that are currently payable; and
 (b) payments made in respect of current or anticipated primary tax debts of the entity, and credits to which the entity is entitled under a taxation law, that have been allocated to the RBA.
"RBA group" means a GST group under Division 48 of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 .
"RBA statement" means a statement prepared by the Commissioner under section 8AAZG.
"RBA surplus", in relation to an RBA of an entity, means a balance in favour of the entity, based on:
 (a) primary tax debts that have been allocated to the RBA; and
 (b) payments made in respect of current or anticipated primary tax debts of the entity, and credits to which the entity is entitled under a taxation law, that have been allocated to the RBA.
"secondary tax debt" means an amount that is not a primary tax debt, but is due to the Commonwealth in connection with a primary tax debt.
Note: An example of a secondary tax debt is an amount due to the Commonwealth under an order of a court made in a proceeding for recovery of a primary tax debt.
"tax debt" means a primary tax debt or a secondary tax debt.
"tax debtor" means:
 (a) in relation to a tax debt--the person or persons who are liable for the tax debt; and
 (b) in relation to an RBA--the person or persons who are liable for the tax debts that are allocated to the RBA.
Section 8AAZAA Amounts relating to Coronavirus economic response payments
 (1) The Commissioner may make a written determination that specifies that an amount paid under the Coronavirus Economic Response Package (Payments and Benefits) Act 2020 to an entity is a credit for the purposes of subparagraph  (a)(iii) of the definition of credit in section 8AAZA.
 (2) A determination under subsection  (1) is not a legislative instrument.
Section 8AAZB Trustee to be treated as separate entity for each capacity
  For the purposes of this Part, a person who is a trustee in more than one capacity is to be treated as a separate entity in relation to each of those capacities.
Section 8AAZC Establishment of RBAs
 (1) The Commissioner may establish one or more systems of accounts for primary tax debts.
Note: This section does not prevent the Commissioner from establishing other accounts that are not RBAs.
 (2) Each account is to be known as a Running Balance Account (or RBA).
 (3) An RBA may be established for any entity.
Note: The same person might be part of different entities. For example, a person might have a trustee capacity and also be a partner in a partnership. The person would then be a tax debtor in relation to each of the separate RBAs established for the trustee capacity and the partnership.
 (4) RBAs for entities may be established on any basis that the Commissioner determines.
 (4A) Without limiting subsection  (4), separate RBAs may be established for different types of primary tax debts.
 (5) Without limiting subsection  (4), separate RBAs may be established for:
 (a) different businesses or undertakings conducted by the same entity; or
 (b) different parts of the same business or undertaking; or
 (c) different periods.
Section 8AAZD Allocation of tax debts to RBAs
 (1) The Commissioner may allocate a primary tax debt to an RBA that has been established for that type of tax debt.
Note: General interest charge on an RBA deficit debt is not allocated to the RBA: it accrues automatically under section  8AAZF.
Separate RBAs for one entity
 (1A) If 2 or more RBAs for an entity have been established for that kind of tax debt, the Commissioner may allocate the debt to any one of those RBAs, or between any 2 or more of those RBAs, in the manner the Commissioner determines.
Note: Separate RBAs may be established for different businesses or undertakings conducted by the same entity, for different parts of the same business or undertaking or for different periods: see subsection  8AAZC(5).
Definition
 (2) In this section:
"primary tax debt" does not include:
 (a) general interest charge; or
 (b) an RBA deficit debt.
Section 8AAZF General interest charge on RBA deficit debt
 (1) If there is an RBA deficit debt at the end of a day, then general interest charge is payable by the tax debtor on that RBA deficit debt for that day.
 (2) The balance of the RBA is altered in the Commissioner&#39;s favour by the amount of the general interest charge payable.
Section 8AAZG RBA statements
  The Commissioner may at any time prepare a statement for an RBA, containing such particulars as the Commissioner determines.
Section 8AAZH Liability for RBA deficit debt
 (1) If there is an RBA deficit debt on an RBA at the end of a day, the tax debtor is liable to pay to the Commonwealth the amount of the debt. The amount is due and payable at the end of that day.
Note: For provisions about collection and recovery of the amount, see Part 4-15 in Schedule  1.
 (2) If there are several tax debtors, their liability for the debt is of the same kind as their liability for the tax debts that were allocated to the RBA.
Example: If the tax debtors are jointly and severally liable for the tax debts that were allocated to the RBA, they will also be jointly and severally liable for the RBA deficit debt.
Section 8AAZI RBA statement to be evidence
 (1) The production of an RBA statement:
 (a) is prima facie evidence that the RBA was duly kept; and
 (b) is prima facie evidence that the amounts and particulars in the statement are correct.
 (2) In this section:
"RBA statement" includes a document that purports to be a copy of an RBA statement and is signed by the Commissioner or a delegate of the Commissioner or by a Second Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner.
Section 8AAZJ Evidentiary certificate about RBA transactions etc.
 (1) In proceedings for recovery of an RBA deficit debt, a Commissioner&#39;s certificate stating any of the following matters in respect of a specified RBA is prima facie evidence of those matters:
 (a) that no tax debts (other than general interest charge on the RBA deficit debt) were allocated to the RBA after the balance date shown on a specified RBA statement for the RBA;
 (b) that general interest charge is payable on the RBA deficit debt, as specified in the certificate;
 (c) that payments and credits were allocated to the RBA, as specified in the certificate;
 (d) that a specified amount was the RBA deficit debt on the date of the certificate.
 (2) In this section:
"Commissioner&#39;s certificate" means a certificate signed by the Commissioner or a delegate of the Commissioner, or by a Second Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner.
Section 8AAZL Amounts covered by this Division
 (1) This Division sets out how the Commissioner must treat the following kinds of amount:
 (a) a payment the Commissioner receives in respect of a current or anticipated tax debt or tax debts of an entity;
 (b) a credit (including an excess non -RBA credit) that an entity is entitled to under a taxation law;
 (c) an RBA surplus of an entity.
 (2) The Commissioner must treat each such amount using the method set out in section  8AAZLA or 8AAZLB (but not both).
Note: In either case, section 8AAZLC has some additional rules that apply to RBA surpluses and to certain excess non -RBA credits.
 (3) However, the Commissioner does not have to treat an amount using either of those methods if doing so would require the Commissioner to apply the amount against a tax debt:
 (a) that is due but not yet payable; or
 (b) in respect of which the taxpayer has complied with an arrangement under section  255-15 to pay the debt by instalments; or
 (c) in respect of which the Commissioner has agreed to defer recovery under section  255-5.
 (4) Furthermore, the Commissioner does not have to treat an amount using either of those methods if:
 (a) doing so would require the Commissioner to apply the amount against a tax debt; and
 (b) the tax debt is a penalty that is due and payable under section  269-20 in Schedule 1 (penalties for directors of non-complying companies).
Section 8AAZLA Method 1--allocating the amount first to an RBA
 (1) The Commissioner may, in the manner he or she determines, allocate the amount to an RBA of the entity or, if the entity is a member of an RBA group, to an RBA of another member of the group.
 (2) The Commissioner must then also apply the amount against the following kinds of debts (if there are any):
 (a) tax debts that have been allocated to that RBA;
 (b) general interest charge on such tax debts.
 (3) To the extent that the amount is not applied under subsection  (2), it gives rise to an excess non-RBA credit in favour of the entity that:
 (a) is equal to the part of the amount that is not applied; and
 (b) relates to the RBA to which the amount was allocated.
Section 8AAZLB Method 2--applying the amount first against a non - RBA tax debt
 (1) The Commissioner may, in the manner he or she determines, apply the amount against a non -RBA tax debt of the entity or, if the entity is a member of an RBA group, against a non-RBA tax debt of another member of the group.
 (2) If the non-RBA tax debt is:
 (a) a tax debt that has been allocated to an RBA; or
 (b) general interest charge on such a tax debt;
the Commissioner must then also allocate the amount to that RBA.
 (3) To the extent that the amount is not applied under subsection  (1), it gives rise to an excess non-RBA credit in favour of the entity that is equal to the part of the amount that is not applied.
 (4) The excess non-RBA credit relates to the RBA (if any) that the Commissioner determines and the balance of that RBA is adjusted in the entity&#39;s favour by the amount of that credit.
Separate RBAs for one entity
 (5) If the non-RBA tax debt mentioned in subsection  (1) has been allocated to 2 or more RBAs, the Commissioner must allocate the amount applied between those RBAs in the proportions in which the tax debt was allocated.
Note: Separate RBAs may be established for different businesses or undertakings conducted by the same entity, for different parts of the same business or undertaking or for different periods: see subsection  8AAZC(5).
Section 8AAZLC RBA surplus and related credits must remain equivalent if one or the other is applied
RBA surpluses
 (1) If an RBA surplus is allocated or applied under this Division, the Commissioner must reduce by the same amount excess non -RBA credits that relate to the RBA.
Excess non-RBA credits
 (2) If, under this Division, an excess non -RBA credit that relates to an RBA (the related RBA) is:
 (a) allocated to an RBA; or
 (b) applied against a non-RBA tax debt;
the related RBA is adjusted in the Commissioner&#39;s favour by the same amount.
Section 8AAZLD Special priority credits
  If, under this Division, the Commissioner is to apply a credit that arises under Schedule  1 to this Act (the PAYG system), the Commissioner must apply it, whether under section 8AAZLA or 8AAZLB:
 (aa) first, against any compulsory repayment amount of the entity; and
 (aaa) then against any compulsory VETSL repayment amount of the entity; and
 (ab) then against any compulsory SSL repayment amount of the entity; and
 (ac) then against any compulsory ABSTUDY SSL repayment amount of the entity; and
 (ad) then against any compulsory AASL repayment amount of the entity; and
 (b) then against any FS assessment debt of the entity;
before applying it against other non-RBA tax debts of the entity.
Section 8AAZLE Instructions to Commissioner not binding
  In doing anything under this Division, the Commissioner is not required to take account of any instructions of any entity.
Section 8AAZLF Commissioner must refund RBA surpluses and credits
 (1) The Commissioner must refund to an entity so much of:
 (a) an RBA surplus of the entity; or
 (b) a credit (including an excess non -RBA credit) in the entity&#39;s favour;
as the Commissioner does not allocate or apply under Division 3.
Voluntary payments only to be refunded on request
 (2) However, the Commissioner is not required to refund an RBA surplus or excess non -RBA credit that arises because a payment is made in respect of an anticipated tax debt of an entity unless the entity later requests, in the approved manner, that the Commissioner do so.
 (3) On receiving such a request, the Commissioner must refund so much of the amount as the Commissioner does not allocate or apply under Division  3.
Effect of refunding RBA surplus
 (4) If the Commissioner refunds an RBA surplus under this section, the Commissioner must reduce by the same amount excess non -RBA credits that relate to the RBA.
Effect of refunding credit that relates to an RBA
 (5) If, under this section, the Commissioner refunds an excess non -RBA credit that relates to an RBA, the RBA is adjusted in the Commissioner&#39;s favour by the same amount.
Section 8AAZLG Retaining refunds until information or notification given
 (1) The Commissioner may retain an amount that he or she otherwise would have to refund to an entity under section 8AAZLF, if the entity has not given the Commissioner a notification:
 (a) that affects or may affect the amount that the Commissioner refunds to the entity; and
 (b) that the entity is required to give the Commissioner under:
 (i) any of the BAS provisions (as defined in subsection  995-1(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997); or
 (ii) any of the petroleum resource rent tax provisions (as defined in that subsection); or
 (iii) any provision of a taxation law (other than a provision mentioned in subparagraph  (i) or (ii)).
 (2) The Commissioner may retain the amount until the entity has given the Commissioner that notification or the Commissioner makes or amends an assessment of the amount, whichever happens first.
Note: Interest is payable under the Taxation (Interest on Overpayments and Early Payments) Act 1983 if the Commissioner is late in making the payment under subsection (2).
Section 8AAZLGA Retaining refunds while Commissioner verifies information
Commissioner may retain an amount
 (1) The Commissioner may retain an amount that he or she otherwise would have to refund to an entity under section  8AAZLF, if the entity has given the Commissioner a notification that affects or may affect the amount that the Commissioner refunds to the entity, and:
 (a) it would be reasonable to require verification of information (the notified information) that:
 (i) is contained in the notification; and
 (ii) relates to the amount that the Commissioner would have to refund; or
 (b) the entity has requested the Commissioner to retain the amount for verification of the notified information, and the request has not been withdrawn.
 (2) In deciding whether to retain the amount under this section, the Commissioner must, as far as the information available to the Commissioner at the time of making the decision reasonably allows, have regard to the following:
 (a) the likely accuracy of the notified information;
 (b) the likelihood that the notified information was affected by:
 (i) fraud or evasion; or
 (ii) intentional disregard of a taxation law; or
 (iii) recklessness as to the operation of a taxation law;
 (c) the impact of retaining the amount on the entity&#39;s financial position;
 (d) whether retaining the amount is necessary for the protection of the revenue, including the likelihood that the Commissioner could recover any of the amount if the notified information were found to be incorrect after the amount had been refunded;
 (e) any complexity that would be involved in verifying the notified information;
 (f) the time for which the Commissioner has already retained the amount;
 (g) what the Commissioner has already done to verify the notified information;
 (h) whether the Commissioner has enough information to make an assessment relating to the amount (including information obtained from making further requests for information);
 (i) the extent to which the notified information is consistent with information that the entity previously provided;
 (j) any other relevant matter.
Informing the entity of the retention of the amount
 (3) The Commissioner must inform the entity (by serving a document on the entity or by other means) that he or she has retained the amount under this section. He or she must do so by the end of:
 (a) in a case to which paragraph  8AAZLF(1)(a) applies:
 (i) if the whole or part of the RBA surplus of the entity arises because of a credit that arises directly under the BAS provisions (as defined in subsection  995-1(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 )--the 16th day to occur after the RBA interest day (within the meaning of section 12AF of the Taxation (Interest on Overpayments and Early Payments) Act 1983 ) for the RBA surplus; or
 (ii) otherwise--the RBA interest day for the RBA surplus of the entity; or
 (b) in any other case--the 30th day after the entity gives to the Commissioner the notification mentioned in subsection  (1) of this section.
 (3A) For the purposes of subparagraph  (3)(a)(i), the whole or part of the RBA surplus is taken to arise because of a credit if the whole or part of the RBA surplus would not arise but for the credit being allocated to the RBA.
 (4) In informing the entity that the amount is retained, the Commissioner may request information that he or she is aware will be required for the purposes of verifying the notified information.
How long the amount may be retained
 (5) The Commissioner may retain the amount under this section only until:
 (a) if paragraph (1)(a) applies--it would no longer be reasonable to require verification of the information; or
 (b) if the Commissioner fails to inform the entity, in accordance with subsection  (3), that he or she has retained the amount under this section--the end of the day after the time by which, under that subsection, the Commissioner is required to inform the entity; or
 (c) in any case--there is a change to how much the Commissioner is required to refund, as a result of:
 (i) the Commissioner amending an assessment relating to the amount; or
 (ii) the Commissioner making or amending an assessment, under Division  105 in Schedule 1, relating to the amount;
whichever happens first.
Objecting to the decision to retain the amount
 (6) The entity may object to a decision of the Commissioner to retain the amount under this section in the manner set out in Part  IVC, if the entity is dissatisfied with the decision.
Note: Interest on the amount may be payable under the Taxation (Interest on Overpayments and Early Payments) Act 1983 .
 (7) Before the end of the 7 days after the start of the period during which, under section  14ZW, the entity may object to the decision, the Commissioner must notify the entity, in writing, that the entity may object to the decision.
Note: For the start of the period for objecting to the decision, see paragraph 14ZW(1)(aad) and subsection  14ZW(4).
 (8) A failure to comply with subsection  (7) does not affect the validity of the decision.
Section 8AAZLGB Retaining refunds until notification under Division 389 or ascertainment of liability
Commissioner may retain an amount
 (1) The Commissioner may retain an amount that he or she otherwise would have to refund to an entity under section  8AAZLF, if:
 (a) the Commissioner reasonably believes that the entity has made a payment as a result of which the entity is, or will be, required to notify the Commissioner under section  389-5 in Schedule 1; and
 (b) the entity has not notified the Commissioner of the amount under that section; and
 (c) the notification affects or may affect the amount that the Commissioner refunds to the entity.
 (2) The Commissioner must inform the entity that he or she has retained the amount under this section. He or she must do so within 14 days after the day on which the relevant RBA surplus or credit arose.
How long the amount may be retained
 (3) The Commissioner may retain the amount until:
 (a) the entity has given the Commissioner that notification (including notification of a nil amount); or
 (b) the Commissioner becomes reasonably satisfied that the entity is not required to give that notification; or
 (c) the Commissioner becomes reasonably satisfied that the entity does not have a liability (a PAYGW liability) to pay to the Commissioner an amount of a kind referred to in item 1 of the table in subsection  389-5(1) in Schedule 1; or
 (d) the Commissioner ascertains (including as a result of making an estimate) the total amount of the entity&#39;s outstanding PAYGW liabilities;
whichever happens first.
Note: Interest is payable under the Taxation (Interest on Overpayments and Early Payments) Act 1983 if the Commissioner is late in making the payment under subsection (3).
Objecting to the decision to retain the amount
 (4) The entity may object to a decision of the Commissioner to retain the amount under this section in the manner set out in Part  IVC, if the entity is dissatisfied with the decision.
Note: For the start of the period for objecting to the decision, see paragraph 14ZW(1)(aae).
 (5) Before the end of the 7 days after the start of the period during which, under section  14ZW, the entity may object to the decision, the Commissioner must notify the entity, in writing, that the entity may object to the decision.
 (6) A failure to comply with subsection  (5) does not affect the validity of the decision.
Section 8AAZLGC Retaining refunds while Commissioner obtains financial institution details
Commissioner may retain an amount
 (1) The Commissioner may retain an amount that the Commissioner otherwise would have to refund to an entity under section  8AAZLF, if the entity has not nominated in the approved form a financial institution account that is:
 (a) maintained at a branch or office of the institution that is in Australia; and
 (b) held by:
 (i) the entity, or the entity and some other entity; or
 (ii) the entity&#39;s registered tax agent or BAS agent; or
 (iii) a legal practitioner as trustee or executor for the entity.
 (2) However, the Commissioner may not retain under this section an amount of a refund of an RBA surplus, or excess non -RBA credit that relates to an RBA, if primary tax debts arising under:
 (a) any of the BAS provisions (as defined in subsection  995-1(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997); or
 (b) any of the petroleum resource rent tax provisions (as defined in that subsection);
have been allocated to that RBA.
Note: For refunds covered by this subsection, see instead section 8AAZLH.
Informing the entity of the retention of the amount
 (3) The Commissioner must inform the entity (by serving a document on the entity or by other means) that the Commissioner has retained the amount under this section.
 (4) In informing the entity that the amount is retained, the Commissioner must also notify the entity that:
 (a) the entity may nominate in the approved form a financial institution account for the purposes of this section; and
 (b) a failure to nominate such an account may delay payment of the amount.
 (5) A failure to comply with subsection  (3) or (4) does not affect the validity of the decision to retain the amount.
How long the amount may be retained
 (6) The Commissioner may retain the amount until the earlier of:
 (a) the end of the day after the entity gives to the Commissioner a nomination in the approved form of a financial institution account for the purposes of this section; and
 (b) the end of the period of 90 days from when the Commissioner otherwise would have to refund the amount to the entity.
Section 8AAZLH How refunds are made
 (1) This section applies to refunds payable to an entity of RBA surpluses, or excess non -RBA credits that relate to an RBA, if primary tax debts arising under:
 (a) any of the BAS provisions (as defined in subsection  995-1(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997); or
 (b) any of the petroleum resource rent tax provisions (as defined in that subsection);
have been allocated to that RBA.
 (2) The Commissioner must pay those refunds to the credit of a financial institution account nominated in the approved form by the entity. The account nominated must be maintained at a branch or office of the institution that is in Australia.
 (2A) The account must be one held by:
 (a) the entity, or the entity and some other entity; or
 (b) the entity&#39;s registered tax agent or BAS agent; or
 (c) a legal practitioner as trustee or executor for the entity.
 (3) However, the Commissioner may direct that any such refunds be paid to the entity in a different way.
 (4) If an entity has not nominated a financial institution account for the purposes of this section and the Commissioner has not directed that any such refunds be paid in a different way, the Commissioner is not obliged to refund any amount to the entity until the entity does so.
 (5) If the Commissioner pays a refund to the credit of an account nominated by an entity, the Commissioner is taken to have paid the refund to the entity.
Section 8AAZM When payments are treated as received
  For the purposes of taxation laws, a payment in respect of a tax debt is taken not to have been made until it is received by:
 (a) the Commissioner; or
 (b) a person acting on behalf of the Commissioner.
Section 8AAZMA Electronic payment of tax debts
 (1) An entity that, under subsection  33-10(2) of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999, is required to pay an assessed net amount for a tax period electronically must also electronically pay the Commissioner all of its other tax debts that are due to be paid during that period.
 (2) A large withholder that, under subsection  16-85(1) in Schedule 1, is required to pay an amount electronically in a particular month must also electronically pay the Commissioner all of its other tax debts that are due to be paid during that month.
Section 8AAZMB Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays
 (1) Where, apart from this section, an amount in respect of a tax debt is due and payable by, or on, a day (the payment day) that is not a business day, the payment is due and payable on the first business day after the payment day.
 (2) In this section:
"business day" means a day other than:
 (a) a Saturday or a Sunday; or
 (b) a day which is a public holiday for the whole of:
 (i) any State; or
 (ii) the Australian Capital Territory; or
 (iii) the Northern Territory.
"tax debt" does not include general interest charge.
Section 8AAZN Overpayments made by the Commissioner under taxation laws
 (1) An administrative overpayment (the overpaid amount):
 (a) is a debt due to the Commonwealth by the person to whom the overpayment was made (the recipient); and
 (b) is payable to the Commissioner; and
 (c) may be recovered in a court of competent jurisdiction by the Commissioner, or by a Deputy Commissioner, suing in his or her official name.
 (2) If:
 (a) the Commissioner has given a notice to the recipient in respect of the overpaid amount, specifying a due date for payment that is at least 30 days after the notice is given; and
 (b) any of the overpaid amount remains unpaid at the end of that due date;
then the recipient is liable to pay the general interest charge on the unpaid amount for each day in the period that:
 (c) started at the beginning of that due date; and
 (d) finishes at the end of the last day on which, at the end of the day, any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the overpaid amount;
 (ii) general interest charge on any of the overpaid amount.
 (3) In this section:
"administrative overpayment" means an amount that the Commissioner has paid to a person by mistake, being an amount to which the person is not entitled.
Note: Subsection 2(2) specifies laws that are not taxation laws for the purposes of this Part.
Section 8A Interpretation
 (1) In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears:
"corporation" means any body corporate.
"director", in relation to a corporation, includes:
 (a) any person occupying or acting in the position of director of the corporation, by whatever name called and whether or not validly appointed to occupy, or duly authorized to act in, the position; and
 (b) any person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the directors of the corporation are accustomed to act.
"instrument" includes any document.
"prescribed offence" means:
 (a) an offence against section  8C, subsection 8D(1) or (2) or section 8N or 8Q, or against Division 136 or 137 of the Criminal Code in relation to a taxation law; or
 (b) an offence against section  11.1 of the Criminal Code that relates to an offence of a kind referred to in paragraph (a).
"prescribed taxation offence" means:
 (a) a taxation offence (other than a prescribed offence) that is committed by a natural person and punishable by a fine and not by imprisonment;
 (b) a prescribed offence (other than a prescribed offence that the Commissioner has elected under subsection  8F(1) or 8S(1) to treat otherwise than as a prescribed taxation offence) that is committed by a natural person; or
 (c) a taxation offence that is committed by a corporation.
"produce", in relation to a book, paper, record or other document, includes permit access to.
"taxation offence" means:
 (a) an offence against a taxation law; or
 (b) an offence against:
 (i) section 6 of the Crimes Act 1914; or
 (ii) section 11.1, 11.4 or 11.5 of the Criminal Code;
  being an offence that relates to an offence against a taxation law.
"tax file number" means a tax file number as defined in section 202A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 .
 (2) For the purposes of the definition of director in subsection (1), a person shall not be regarded as a person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the directors of a corporation are accustomed to act by reason only that the directors act on advice given by that person in the proper performance of the functions attaching to the person&#39;s professional capacity or to the person&#39;s business relationship with the directors.
Section 8AC Application of Part to the Tax Agent Services Act 2009
  This Part applies in relation to the Tax Agent Services Act 2009 as if references in this Part (other than paragraph 8C(1)(b) and sections 8HA, 8W, 8WC, 8ZE, 8ZG and 8ZH) to the Commissioner, or an office of the Commissioner, were references to the Tax Practitioners Board.
Section 8B Interpretation
 (1) A reference in this Subdivision to a relevant offence is a reference to:
 (a) an offence against section  8C, subsection 8D(1) or (2) or section 8H; or
 (b) an offence against:
 (i) section 6 of the Crimes Act 1914; or
 (ii) section 11.1, 11.4 or 11.5 of the Criminal Code;
  being an offence that relates to an offence of a kind referred to in paragraph  (a) of this subsection.
 (2) For the purposes of this Subdivision, a person who is convicted of an offence against section  8C or subsection 8D(1) or (2) (in this subsection referred to as the subsequent offence ) shall be treated as having been previously convicted of a relevant offence (in this subsection referred to as the earlier offence) if:
 (a) the person was convicted of the earlier offence on an occasion earlier than, but not more than 5 years earlier than, the person&#39;s conviction of the subsequent offence; or
 (b) the person is convicted of the earlier offence and the subsequent offence before the same court at the same sitting and the earlier offence was committed:
 (i) at a time or on a day earlier than, but not more than 5  years earlier than, the subsequent offence; or
 (ii) at the same time, or on the same day, as the subsequent offence.
 (3) A reference in subsection  8E(2) or (3) or 8F(1) or subsection (2) of this section to an offence against section 8C or subsection 8D(1) or (2) includes a reference to an offence against section  11.1 of the Criminal Code that relates to an offence against section 8C or subsection  8D(1) or (2), as the case may be.
 (4) Unless the contrary intention appears, a reference in paragraph  (2)(a) or (b) to a conviction of a person of an offence includes a reference to the making of an order under section 19B of the Crimes Act 1914 in relation to the person in respect of the offence.
Section 8C Failure to comply with requirements under taxation law
 (1) A person who refuses or fails, when and as required under or pursuant to a taxation law to do so:
 (a) to give any information or document to the Commissioner or another person; or
 (aa) to give information to the Commissioner in the manner in which it is required under a taxation law to be given; or
 (ab) to publish information in the manner in which it is required under a taxation law to be published; or
 (b) to lodge an instrument with the Commissioner or another person for assessment; or
 (d) to notify the Commissioner or another person of a matter or thing; or
 (e) to produce a book, paper, record or other document to the Commissioner or another person; or
 (f) to attend before the Commissioner or another person; or
 (fa) to comply with a superannuation guarantee education direction in accordance with subsection  384-17(1) in Schedule 1; or
 (g) to apply for registration or cancellation of registration under the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999; or
 (h) to comply with a requirement under subsection  45A(2) of the Product Grants and Benefits Administration Act 2000; or
 (i) to comply with subsection  82-10F(4) of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997;
commits an offence.
 (1A) An offence under subsection  (1) is an offence of absolute liability.
Note: For absolute liability, see section  6.2 of the Criminal Code.
 (1B) Subsection (1) does not apply to the extent that the person is not capable of complying with the relevant paragraph.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (1B), see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (2) For the purposes of paragraphs  (1)(a) and (d), a person shall not be taken to have refused or failed to furnish information to the Commissioner or another person, or to notify the Commissioner or another person of a matter or thing, merely because the person has refused or failed to quote the person&#39;s tax file number to the Commissioner or other person.
Section 8D Failure to answer questions when attending before the Commissioner etc.
 (1) A person who, when attending before the Commissioner or another person pursuant to a taxation law, refuses or fails, when and as required pursuant to a taxation law to do so:
 (a) to answer a question asked of the person; or
 (b) to produce a book, paper, record or other document;
commits an offence.
 (1A) An offence under subsection  (1) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section  6.1 of the Criminal Code.
 (1B) Subsection (1) does not apply to the extent that the person is not capable of complying with the relevant paragraph.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (1B), see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (2) A person who, when attending before the Commissioner or another person pursuant to a taxation law, refuses or fails, when and as required pursuant to a taxation law to do so, either to take an oath or make an affirmation commits an offence.
Section 8E Penalties for failure to comply with requirements under taxation law
 (1) Subject to subsections  (2) and (3), an offence against section 8C or subsection 8D(1) or (2) is punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding 20 penalty units.
 (2) Subject to subsection  (3), where:
 (a) a person is convicted of an offence against section  8C or subsection 8D(1) or (2); and
 (b) the court before which the person is convicted is satisfied that the person has previously been convicted of a relevant offence;
the penalty that the court may impose in respect of the first-mentioned offence is a fine not exceeding 40 penalty units.
 (3) Where:
 (a) a person is convicted of an offence against section  8C or subsection 8D(1) or (2);
 (b) in a case where the person is a natural person--the Commissioner has elected under subsection  8F(1) to treat the offence otherwise than as a prescribed taxation offence; and
 (c) the court before which the person is convicted is satisfied that the person has previously been convicted of 2 or more relevant offences;
the penalty that the court may impose in respect of the first-mentioned offence is a fine not exceeding 50 penalty units or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 12 months, or both.
Section 8F Election to treat offence otherwise than as prescribed taxation offence
 (1) The Commissioner may, before the institution of a prosecution of a natural person for an offence against section  8C or subsection 8D(1) or (2), elect, in writing, to treat the offence otherwise than as a prescribed taxation offence.
 (2) Where a prosecution is instituted for an offence in relation to which an election under subsection  (1) has been made, the Commissioner shall cause a copy of the election to be filed in the court in which the prosecution is instituted.
Section 8G Order to comply with requirement
 (1) Where:
 (a) a person is convicted before a court of an offence against section  8C or subsection 8D(1) or (2); or
 (b) a court makes an order under section  19B of the Crimes Act 1914 in relation to a person in respect of an offence against section 8C or subsection  8D(1) or (2);
in relation to the refusal or failure of the person to comply (whether in whole or in part) with a requirement made under or pursuant to a taxation law, the court may, in addition to imposing a penalty on the person or making such an order in relation to the person, as the case may be, and notwithstanding that the time for complying with the requirement or any other such requirement has passed, order the person to comply with:
 (c) the requirement; and
 (d) such other requirements made, or that could be made, in relation to the person under or pursuant to the taxation law as the court considers necessary to ensure the effectiveness of the first -mentioned requirement;
within a specified time or at a specified place and time.
 (2) Where an order under subsection  (1) is not given orally by the court to the person to whom the order is addressed, the proper officer of the court shall cause a copy of the order to be served on the person in the prescribed manner.
Section 8H Penalty for failure to comply with order to comply
 (1) A person who refuses or fails to comply with an order under subsection  8G(1) commits an offence punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding 50 penalty units or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 12 months, or both.
 (2) An offence under subsection  (1) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section  6.1 of the Criminal Code.
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to the extent that the person is not capable of complying with the relevant paragraph.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (3), see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 8HA Court may order payment of amount in addition to penalty
 (1) If:
 (a) a person (the convicted person) is convicted before a court of an offence against section  8C, 8D or 8H in relation to a refusal or failure to do a particular thing; and
 (b) the court is satisfied that the purpose of, or one of the purposes of, the refusal or failure was to facilitate the avoidance of an amount of a tax liability of the convicted person or another person;
the court may, in addition to imposing a penalty on the convicted person, order the convicted person to pay to the Commissioner an amount not exceeding:
 (c) if the offence is an offence to which subsection  8E(2) or (3) applies--3 times that amount; or
 (d) in any other case--2 times that amount.
 (2) A reference in this section to a conviction of a person for an offence includes a reference to the making of an order under section  19B of the Crimes Act 1914 in relation to the person in respect of the offence.
Section 8J Interpretation
 (1) In this Subdivision:
"accounting records" includes invoices, receipts, orders for the payment of money, bills of exchange, cheques, promissory notes, vouchers and other documents of prime entry and also includes:
 (a) such working papers and other documents as are necessary to explain the methods and calculations by which accounts are made up; and
 (b) such other documents (if any) as are prescribed.
"accounts" means ledgers, journals, profit and loss accounts and balance-sheets, and includes statements, reports and notes attached to, or intended to be read with, any of the foregoing.
"data processing device" means any article or material from which information is capable of being reproduced with or without the aid of any other article or device.
"taxation officer" means a person exercising powers or performing functions under, pursuant to or in relation to a taxation law.
 (2) A reference in this Subdivision to a statement made to a taxation officer is a reference to a statement made to a taxation officer orally, in writing, in a data processing device, by way of electronic transmission or in any other form and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, includes a statement:
 (a) made in an application, certificate, declaration, notification, objection, return, claim or other document made, prepared, given or furnished, or purporting to be made, prepared, given or furnished, under or pursuant to a taxation law; or
 (b) made in an instrument lodged for assessment under or pursuant to a taxation law; or
 (c) made in answer to a question asked of a person under or pursuant to a taxation law; or
 (d) made in any information furnished, or purporting to be furnished, under or pursuant to a taxation law; or
 (e) made in a document furnished to a taxation officer otherwise than under or pursuant to a taxation law;
but does not include a statement made in a document produced pursuant to:
 (kaa) subparagraph 451(2)(c)(ii) or paragraph 453(1)(e) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ;
 (p) paragraph 13G(1)(c) of this Act; or
 (pa) paragraph 353-10(1)(c) in Schedule 1 to this Act; or
 (q) paragraph 353-25(1)(b) or (c) in Schedule 1 to this Act.
 (2A) If a document is given on a data processing device, or by way of electronic transmission, by a registered tax agent or BAS agent on behalf of a taxpayer, then, for the purposes of this Subdivision, each statement in the document is taken to have been made by the taxpayer unless the taxpayer can show that the taxpayer did not authorise the statement.
 (3) A reference in this Subdivision to a relevant offence is a reference to:
 (a) an offence against:
 (i) subsection 8K(1) or (1B) or 8L(1) or (1A) or section  8N, 8Q, 8T or 8U; or
 (ii) the Crimes (Taxation Offences) Act 1980;
 (b) an offence against:
 (i) section 6 of the Crimes Act 1914; or
 (ii) section 11.1, 11.4 or 11.5 of the Criminal Code;
  being an offence that relates to an offence of a kind referred to in paragraph  (a) of this subsection; or
 (c) an offence against section  134.1, 134.2, 135.1, 135.2 or 135.4 of the Criminal Code, being an offence that relates to a tax liability.
 (4) For the purposes of this Subdivision, a person who is convicted of an offence against subsection  8K(1) or (1B) or 8L(1) or (1A) or section 8N, 8Q, 8T or 8U (in this subsection referred to as the subsequent offence) shall be treated as having been previously convicted of a relevant offence (in this subsection referred to as the earlier offence ) if:
 (a) the person was convicted of the earlier offence on an occasion earlier than, but not more than 10 years earlier than, the person&#39;s conviction of the subsequent offence; or
 (b) the person is convicted of the earlier offence and the subsequent offence before the same court at the same sitting and the earlier offence was committed:
 (i) at a time or on a day earlier than, but not more than 10  years earlier than, the subsequent offence; or
 (ii) at the same time, or on the same day, as the subsequent offence.
 (5) Unless the contrary intention appears, a reference in paragraph  (4)(a) or (b) to a conviction of a person for an offence includes a reference to the making of an order under section 19B of the Crimes Act 1914 in relation to the person in respect of the offence.
 (6) A reference in subsection  (4) of this section or subsection 8M(2) to an offence against subsection 8K(1) or (1B) or 8L(1) or (1A) includes a reference to an offence against section  11.1 of the Criminal Code that relates to an offence against subsection 8K(1) or (1B) or 8L(1) or (1A), as the case may be.
 (7) A reference in subsection  8R(2) or 8S(1) or subsection (4) of this section to an offence against section 8N or 8Q includes a reference to an offence against section  11.1 of the Criminal Code that relates to an offence against section 8N or 8Q, as the case may be.
 (8) A reference in subsection  8V(2) or subsection (4) of this section to an offence against section 8T or 8U includes a reference to an offence against section  11.1 of the Criminal Code that relates to an offence against section 8T or 8U, as the case may be.
 (9) A reference in this Subdivision to a statement made to a taxation officer includes a reference to a statement made to a person other than a taxation officer for a purpose in connection with the operation of a taxation law.
 (10) A reference in subsection  (9) to a statement made to a person other than a taxation officer for a purpose in connection with the operation of a taxation law is a reference to such a statement made orally, in writing, in a data processing device or in any other form and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, includes such a statement:
 (a) made in an application, certificate, declaration, notification or other document, made, given or furnished to the person; or
 (aa) made in:
 (i) a tax invoice (within the meaning of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999); or
 (ii) an adjustment note (within the meaning of that Act); or
 (iii) a third party adjustment note (within the meaning of that Act);
  given to the person; or
 (b) made in answer to a question asked by the person; or
 (c) made in any information furnished to the person.
 (11) Where a person omits from a return furnished under or pursuant to the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 or the regulations under that Act, being a return of income derived by the person, a partnership or a trust estate during a period, any assessable income derived by the person, partnership or the trust estate, as the case may be, during the period, the person shall, for the purposes of this Subdivision, be taken to have made a statement in the return to the effect that the person, the partnership or the trust estate, as the case requires, did not derive the assessable income during the period.
 (12) Where:
 (a) a person issues a notice to another person under section  265B of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936;
 (b) a person to whom a notice is issued under that section gives the notice to another person in connection with the transfer of a qualifying security to the other person; or
 (c) a person gives advice in writing to another person, in connection with the transfer of a qualifying security, of a variation or partial redemption of the qualifying security;
any statement in the notice when so issued or given, or in the advice when so given, to the other person shall, for the purposes of this Division, be taken to have been made by the issuer or person giving the notice or advice, as the case may be, to the other person for a purpose in connection with the operation of a taxation law.
 (13) Where:
 (a) the holder of a qualifying security transfers the security to another person;
 (b) by virtue of the application of section  128AA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, the holder is liable to pay withholding tax in relation to the transfer of the qualifying security;
 (c) before the security was transferred, the holder gave to the transferee, in connection with the transfer, a notice issued to the holder under section  265B of that Act identifying the security;
 (d) after the notice was issued to the holder, the security was varied or partially redeemed; and
 (e) the holder did not advise the transferee in writing of the variation or partial redemption;
the holder shall, for the purposes of this Division, be taken to have made for a purpose in connection with the operation of a taxation law a statement that the qualifying security was not so varied or partially redeemed.
 (14) Where:
 (a) the holder of a qualifying security who acquired the security on transfer (in this subsection referred to as the current acquisition transfer) transfers the security to another person;
 (b) by virtue of the application of section  128AA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, the holder is liable to pay withholding tax in relation to the transfer of the security;
 (c) before the security was transferred, the holder gave to the transferee, in connection with the transfer, a certificate issued to the holder under section  128AB of that Act identifying the security; and
 (d) the holder had acquired the security on transfer on any occasion before the current acquisition transfer;
the holder shall, for the purposes of this Division, be taken to have made for a purpose in connection with the operation of a taxation law a statement that the certificate relates to the current acquisition transfer.
 (15) Where:
 (a) a qualifying security is redeemed or partially redeemed from the holder;
 (b) the holder acquired the security on transfer (in this subsection referred to as the current acquisition transfer);
 (c) the holder is liable to pay withholding tax in relation to the redemption or partial redemption of the security;
 (d) before the security was redeemed or partially redeemed, the holder gave to the issuer, in connection with the redemption or partial redemption, a certificate issued to the holder under section  128AB of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 identifying the security; and
 (e) the holder had acquired the security on transfer on any occasion before the current acquisition transfer;
the holder shall, for the purposes of this Division, be taken to have made for a purpose in connection with the operation of a taxation law a statement that the certificate relates to the current acquisition transfer.
 (16) Subject to subsection  (17), for the purposes of subsections (12) to (15) (inclusive):
 (a) expressions used in those subsections that are also used in Division  16E of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 have the same respective meanings as in that Division; and
 (b) sections 159GV (other than subsection  159GV(2)) and 159GZ of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 apply as if references in those sections to &quot;this Division&quot; were references to &quot;section  8J of the Taxation Administration Act 1953&quot;.
 (17) Subsection (16) applies as if paragraph  (c) of the definition of qualifying security in subsection 159GP(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 were omitted.
Section 8K False or misleading statements
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person makes a statement to a taxation officer; and
 (b) the statement is false or misleading in a material particular.
 (1A) In subsection (1), absolute liability applies to the circumstance, that the statement is false or misleading in a material particular.
Note: For absolute liability, see section  6.2 of the Criminal Code.
 (1B) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person makes a statement to a taxation officer; and
 (b) the person omits any matter or thing from the statement; and
 (c) the statement is misleading in a material particular because of the omission.
 (1C) In subsection (1B), absolute liability applies to:
 (a) the conduct, that the person omits a matter or thing; and
 (b) the circumstance, that the statement is misleading in a material particular.
Note: For absolute liability, see section  6.2 of the Criminal Code.
 (2) In a prosecution of a person for an offence against subsection  (1) or (1B), it is a defence if the person proves that the person:
 (a) did not know; and
 (b) could not reasonably be expected to have known;
that the statement to which the prosecution relates was false or misleading.
Note: The defendant bears a legal burden in relation to the matter in subsection (2), see section  13.4 of the Criminal Code.
 (2A) Subsection (1) or (1B) does not apply if:
 (a) the statement (the original statement) was made under section 389-5 in Schedule 1 notifying an amount under item  1, 2 or 2A of the table in subsection 389-5(1) in that Schedule (and no other item in that table); and
 (b) the original statement related to the financial year in which it was made; and
 (c) the person who made the original statement makes a further statement to a taxation officer that corrects the original statement in each of the respects in which it is false or misleading in a material particular; and
 (d) the further statement:
 (i) is in the approved form; and
 (ii) if subsection  389-25(1) in that Schedule provides for a period for correcting the original statement--is made within that period; and
 (iii) without limiting subparagraph  (ii), is made within 14 days after the end of the financial year in which the original statement was made.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (2A), see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (2B) Subsection (1) or (1B) does not apply if:
 (a) the statement (the original statement) was made under section 390-5 in Schedule 1; and
 (b) the person who made the original statement makes a further statement to a taxation officer that corrects the original statement in each of the respects in which it is false or misleading in a material particular; and
 (c) subsection 390-7(1) in Schedule 1 provides for a period for correcting the original statement; and
 (d) the further statement:
 (i) is in the approved form; and
 (ii) is made within the period referred to in paragraph  (c) of this subsection.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (2B): see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (1B), a person shall not be taken to have omitted a matter or thing from a statement made to a taxation officer merely because the person has, in making the statement, failed to quote the person&#39;s tax file number.
Section 8L Incorrectly keeping records etc.
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person is required under, or pursuant to, a taxation law to keep any accounts, accounting records or other records; and
 (b) the person keeps the accounts or records; and
 (c) the accounts or records do not correctly record and explain the matters, transactions, acts or operations to which they relate.
 (1A) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person is required under, or pursuant to, a taxation law to make a record of any matter, transaction, act or operation; and
 (b) the person makes the record; and
 (c) the record does not correctly record the matter, transaction, act or operation.
 (1B) An offence under subsection  (1) or (1A) is an offence of absolute liability.
Note: For absolute liability, see section  6.2 of the Criminal Code.
 (2) In a prosecution of a person for an offence against subsection  (1) or (1A), it is a defence if the person proves that the person:
 (a) did not know; and
 (b) could not reasonably be expected to have known;
that:
 (c) in the case of a prosecution for an offence against subsection  (1)--the accounts, accounting records or other records to which the prosecution relates did not correctly record and explain the matters, transactions, acts or operations to which they relate; or
 (d) in the case of a prosecution for an offence against subsection  (1A)--the record to which the prosecution relates did not correctly record the matter, transaction, act or operation to which the record relates.
Note: The defendant bears a legal burden in relation to the matter in subsection (2), see section  13.4 of the Criminal Code.
Section 8M Penalties for offences against subsections 8K(1) and (1B) and 8L(1) and (1A)
 (1) Subject to subsection  (2), an offence against subsection 8K(1) or (1B) or 8L(1) or (1A) is punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding 20 penalty units.
 (2) Where:
 (a) a person is convicted of an offence against subsection  8K(1) or (1B) or 8L(1) or (1A); and
 (b) the court before which the person is convicted is satisfied that the person has previously been convicted of a relevant offence;
the penalty that the court may impose in respect of the first-mentioned offence is a fine not exceeding 40 penalty units.
Section 8N Recklessly making false or misleading statements
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person makes a statement (whether orally, in a document or in any other way) to a taxation officer; and
 (b) the statement:
 (i) is false or misleading in a material particular; or
 (ii) omits any matter or thing without which the statement is misleading in a material particular; and
 (c) the person is reckless as to whether the statement:
 (i) is false or misleading in a material particular; or
 (ii) omits any matter or thing without which the statement is misleading in a material particular.
 (2) This section does not apply if:
 (a) the statement (the original statement) was made under section 389-5 in Schedule 1 notifying an amount under item  1, 2 or 2A of the table in subsection 389-5(1) in that Schedule (and no other item in that table); and
 (b) the original statement related to the financial year in which it was made; and
 (c) the person who made the original statement makes a further statement to a taxation officer that corrects the original statement in each of the respects in which it is false or misleading in a material particular; and
 (d) the further statement:
 (i) is in the approved form; and
 (ii) if subsection  389-25(1) in that Schedule provides for a period for correcting the original statement--is made within that period; and
 (iii) without limiting subparagraph  (ii), is made within 14 days after the end of the financial year in which the original statement was made.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (2), see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (3) This section does not apply if:
 (a) the statement (the original statement) was made under section 390-5 in Schedule 1; and
 (b) the person who made the original statement makes a further statement to a taxation officer that corrects the original statement in each of the respects in which it is false or misleading in a material particular; and
 (c) subsection 390-7(1) in Schedule 1 provides for a period for correcting the original statement; and
 (d) the further statement:
 (i) is in the approved form; and
 (ii) is made within the period referred to in paragraph  (c) of this subsection.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (3): see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 8Q Recklessly incorrectly keeping records etc.
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person is required under, or pursuant to, a taxation law to keep any accounts, accounting records or other records; and
 (b) the person keeps the accounts or records; and
 (ba) the accounts or records do not correctly record and explain the matters, transactions, acts or operations to which they relate; and
 (c) the person is reckless as to whether the accounts or records correctly record and explain the matters, transactions, acts or operations to which they relate.
 (2) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person is required under, or pursuant to, a taxation law to make a record of any matter, transaction, act or operation; and
 (b) the person makes the record; and
 (ba) the record does not correctly record the matter, transaction, act or operation; and
 (c) the person is reckless as to whether the record correctly records the matter, transaction, act or operation.
 (3) In subsections (1) and (2), strict liability applies to the circumstance, that the person is required under, or pursuant to, a taxation law to keep the accounts, accounting records or other records.
Note: For strict liability, see section  6.1 of the Criminal Code.
Section 8R Penalties for offences against sections 8N and 8Q
 (1) Subject to subsection (2), an offence against section 8N or 8Q is punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding 30 penalty units.
 (2) Where:
 (a) a person is convicted of an offence against section  8N or 8Q;
 (b) in a case where the person is a natural person--the Commissioner has elected under subsection  8S(1) to treat the offence otherwise than as a prescribed taxation offence; and
 (c) the court before which the person is convicted is satisfied that the person has previously been convicted of a relevant offence;
the penalty that the court may impose in respect of the first-mentioned offence is a fine not exceeding 50 penalty units or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 12 months, or both.
Section 8S Election to treat offence otherwise than as prescribed taxation offence
 (1) The Commissioner may, before the institution of a prosecution of a natural person for an offence against section  8N, or 8Q, or against Division 136 or 137 of the Criminal Code in relation to a taxation law, elect, in writing, to treat the offence otherwise than as a prescribed taxation offence.
 (2) Where a prosecution is instituted for an offence in relation to which an election under subsection  (1) has been made, the Commissioner shall cause a copy of the election to be filed in the court in which the prosecution is instituted.
Section 8T Incorrectly keeping records with intention of deceiving or misleading etc.
  A person who:
 (a) keeps any accounts, accounting records or other records in such a way that they:
 (i) do not correctly record and explain the matters, transactions, acts or operations to which they relate; or
 (ii) are (whether in whole or in part) illegible, indecipherable, incapable of identification or, if they are kept in the form of a data processing device, incapable of being used to reproduce information;
 (b) makes a record of any matter, transaction, act or operation in such a way that it does not correctly record the matter, transaction, act or operation;
 (c) engages in conduct that results in the alteration, defacing, mutilation, falsification, damage, removal, concealing or destruction of any accounts, accounting records or other records (whether in whole or in part); or
 (d) does or omits to do any other act or thing to any accounts, accounting records or other records;
with any of the following intentions, namely:
 (e) deceiving or misleading the Commissioner or a particular taxation officer;
 (f) hindering or obstructing the Commissioner or a particular taxation officer (otherwise than in the investigation of a taxation offence);
 (g) hindering or obstructing the investigation of a taxation offence;
 (h) hindering, obstructing or defeating the administration, execution or enforcement of a taxation law; or
 (j) defeating the purposes of a taxation law;
(whether or not the person had any other intention) commits an offence.
Section 8U Falsifying or concealing identity with intention of deceiving or misleading etc.
  A person who:
 (a) engages in conduct that results in the falsification or concealing of the identity of, or the address or location of a place of residence or business of, the person or another person; or
 (b) does or omits to do any act or thing the doing or omission of which facilitates the falsification or concealment of the identity of, or the address or location of a place of residence or business of, the person or another person;
with any of the following intentions, namely:
 (c) deceiving or misleading the Commissioner or a particular taxation officer;
 (d) hindering or obstructing the Commissioner or a particular taxation officer (otherwise than in the investigation of a taxation offence);
 (e) hindering or obstructing the investigation of a taxation offence;
 (f) hindering, obstructing or defeating the administration, execution or enforcement of a taxation law; or
 (g) defeating the purposes of a taxation law;
(whether or not the person had any other intention) commits an offence.
Section 8V Penalties for offences against sections 8T and 8U
 (1) Subject to subsection  (2), an offence against section 8T or 8U is punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding 50 penalty units or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 12 months, or both.
 (2) Where:
 (a) a person is convicted of an offence against section  8T or 8U; and
 (b) the court before which the person is convicted is satisfied that the person has previously been convicted of a relevant offence;
the penalty that the court may impose in respect of the first-mentioned offence is a fine not exceeding 100 penalty units or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 2 years, or both.
Section 8W Court may order payment of amount in addition to penalty
 (1) Where:
 (a) a person (in this subsection referred to as the convicted person) is convicted before a court of:
 (i) an offence against subsection  8K(1) or (1B) or section 8N, or against Division 136 or 137 of the Criminal Code in relation to a taxation law, in relation to a statement made to a taxation officer; or
 (ii) an offence against subsection  8L(1) or (1A) or section 8Q in relation to the keeping of any accounts, accounting records or other records (in paragraph (b) referred to as the relevant accounts) or the making of a record; and
 (b) the court is satisfied that the proper amount of a tax liability of the convicted person or another person exceeds the amount that would have been the amount of the tax liability if it were assessed or determined, as the case requires, on the basis that the statement were not false or misleading, on the basis of the relevant accounts as they were kept or on the basis that the record were correct, as the case may be;
the court may, in addition to imposing a penalty on the convicted person, order the convicted person to pay to the Commissioner an amount not exceeding:
 (c) in a case where the offence is an offence to which subsection  8R(2) applies or that is against Division 136 or 137 of the Criminal Code in relation to a taxation law--3 times the amount of the excess; or
 (d) in any other case--double the amount of the excess.
 (1C) If the conditions in section  705-315 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 are satisfied, then for the purposes of any application of subsection  (1) of this section in relation to the errors mentioned in that section that were made in a statement that was made before the Commissioner became aware of the errors, the references in paragraphs  (1)(c) and (d) of this section to the excess are taken instead to be references to the amount worked out using the formula:
where:
"adjusted reset cost base asset setting amount" means:
 (a) the tax cost setting amount, worked out under Division  705 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, for all assets of a kind referred to in section 705-35 of that Act as reset cost base assets that the head company of the relevant group held continuously from the time when the subsidiary member referred to in subsection  705-315(2) of that Act joined the group until the start of the head company&#39;s income year in which the Commissioner became aware of the errors mentioned in section  705-315 of that Act;
less:
 (b) the head company&#39;s deductions under Division  40 (except under Subdivision 40-F, 40-G, 40-H or 40-I) or Subdivision  328-D of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for those assets for all income years before the earliest income year for which the Commissioner could amend the head company&#39;s assessment to correct any of the errors.
"original reset cost base asset setting amount" means the tax cost setting amount, worked out under Division 705 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, for all reset cost base assets that the subsidiary member held at the time it joined the group, other than assets that the head company no longer held at the start of the earliest income year for which the Commissioner could amend the head company&#39;s assessment to correct any of the errors.
"tax on capital gain" means the product of:
 (a) the capital gain (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) that the head company makes as a result of CGT event L6 happening as mentioned in section 104-525 of that Act; and
 (b) the corporate tax rate (within the meaning of that Act) in respect of taxable income for the income year in which that CGT event happens.
 (2) Where:
 (a) a person (in this subsection referred to as the convicted person) is convicted before a court of an offence against section 8T or 8U in relation to an act or omission; and
 (b) the court is satisfied that the purpose of, or one of the purposes of, the act or omission was to facilitate the avoidance of an amount of a tax liability of the convicted person or another person;
the court may, in addition to imposing a penalty on the convicted person, order the convicted person to pay to the Commissioner an amount not exceeding:
 (c) in a case where the offence is an offence to which subsection  8V(2) applies--3 times that amount; or
 (d) in any other case--double that amount.
 (2A) If:
 (a) a person (the convicted person) is convicted before a court of:
 (i) an offence against subsection  8K(1) or (1B) or section 8N, or against Division 136 or 137 of the Criminal Code in relation to a taxation law, in relation to a statement made to a taxation officer; or
 (ii) an offence against subsection  8L(1) or (1A) or section 8Q in relation to the keeping of any records; and
 (b) the offence relates to the Product Grants and Benefits Administration Act 2000; and
 (c) the court is satisfied that the amount that would have been the amount of a product grant or benefit payable to the convicted person or another person, determined on the basis that:
 (i) the statement were not false or misleading; or
 (ii) on the basis of those records as they were kept;
  as the case may be, exceeds the proper amount of the product grant or benefit payable to the convicted person or the other person;
the court may, in addition to imposing a penalty on the convicted person, order the convicted person to pay to the Commissioner an amount not exceeding:
 (d) in a case where the offence is an offence to which subsection  8R(2) applies, or that is against Division 136 or 137 of the Criminal Code in relation to a taxation law--3 times the amount of the excess; or
 (e) in any other case--double the amount of the excess.
 (3) A reference in this section to a conviction of a person for an offence includes a reference to the making of an order under section  19B of the Crimes Act 1914 in relation to the person in respect of the offence.
 (4) In this section:
"CGT event" has the same meaning as in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
"head company" has the same meaning as in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
"product grant or benefit" means a grant or benefit payable under the Product Grants and Benefits Administration Act 2000 .
"subsidiary member" has the same meaning as in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
"tax cost setting amount" has the same meaning as in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Section 8WAA Object of this Subdivision
  The object of this Subdivision is to deter the production, use and distribution of tools to manipulate or falsify electronic point of sale records to facilitate tax evasion.
Section 8WAB Interpretation
  In this Subdivision:
"electronic sales suppression tool" means a device, software program or other thing, a part of any such thing, or a combination of any such things or parts, that meets the following conditions:
 (a) it is capable of falsifying, manipulating, hiding, obfuscating, destroying, or preventing the creation of, a record that:
 (i) an entity is required by a taxation law to keep or make; and
 (ii) is, or would be, created by a system that is or includes an electronic point of sale system;
 (b) a reasonable person would conclude that one of its principal functions is to falsify, manipulate, hide, obfuscate, destroy, or prevent the creation of, such records.
"right to use" includes right to possess.
"supply" has the meaning given by section 9-10 of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 .
Section 8WAC Producing or supplying electronic sales suppression tools
 (1) A person commits an offence if the person manufactures, develops or publishes an electronic sales suppression tool.
Penalty: 5,000 penalty units.
 (2) A person commits an offence if the person:
 (a) makes a supply of, or makes available for use, an electronic sales suppression tool or a right to use an electronic sales suppression tool; or
 (b) provides a service to an entity that involves the use of an electronic sales suppression tool.
Penalty: 5,000 penalty units.
 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to conduct undertaken by the person for the purpose of preventing or deterring tax evasion or enforcing a taxation law.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (3) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (4) An offence against subsection  (1) or (2) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code .
 (5) Section 15.4 (extended geographical jurisdiction--category D) of the Criminal Code applies to an offence against subsection (1) if the electronic sales suppression tool is, at any time, used to modify records that a taxation law requires an entity to keep or make.
 (6) Section 15.4 (extended geographical jurisdiction--category D) of the Criminal Code applies to an offence against subsection (2) if the person makes a supply of, or makes available for use, the electronic sales suppression tool or the right to use the tool to an entity that is required by a taxation law to keep or make any record.
Section 8WAD Possessing electronic sales suppression tools
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person is required under, or pursuant to, a taxation law to keep or make a record; and
 (b) the person acquires, or has possession or control of, an electronic sales suppression tool or a right to use an electronic sales suppression tool.
Penalty: 500 penalty units.
 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to conduct undertaken by a person for the purpose of preventing or deterring tax evasion or enforcing a taxation law.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (2) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (3) An offence against subsection  (1) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code .
Section 8WAE Incorrectly keeping records using electronic sales suppression tools
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person is required under, or pursuant to, a taxation law to keep or make a record; and
 (b) the record is kept, made or altered with the use of an electronic sales suppression tool, or is prevented by the use of an electronic sales suppression tool from being kept, made or altered; and
 (c) as a result of the use:
 (i) the record does not correctly record and explain the matter, transaction, act or operation to which it relates; or
 (ii) the person does not keep or make the record in accordance with the taxation law.
Penalty: 1,000 penalty units.
 (2) An offence against subsection  (1) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code .
Section 8WA Unauthorised requirement etc. that tax file number be quoted
 (1) A person must not require or request another person to quote the other person&#39;s tax file number.
Penalty: 100 penalty units or imprisonment for 2 years, or both.
 (1AA) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) provision is made by or under a taxation law or legislation described in paragraph  202(e) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 for the person to quote the number; or
 (b) the first-mentioned person requires or requests the number to be quoted in connection with that person exercising powers or performing functions under, or in relation to, or complying with an obligation imposed by, a taxation law or a law of the Commonwealth of the kind referred to in paragraph  202(c), (d), (g), (ga), (gaa), (h), (hab), (hac), (ha), (hb), (hc), (i), (ia), (j), (kb), (la), (m), (r), (s), (sa), (t) or (u) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; or
 (c) the first-mentioned person requires or requests the number to be quoted in connection with the first -mentioned person acting on the other person&#39;s behalf in the conduct of the other person&#39;s affairs.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (1AA), see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (1A) A person does not contravene subsection  (1) by asking another person to quote the other person&#39;s tax file number if the request is made so that the number can be included in an application for the registration of an entity under the A New Tax System (Australian Business Number) Act 1999.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (1A), see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (2) Nothing in subsection  (1) shall be read as prohibiting a person from requesting the production of a document, or a copy of a document, on which another person&#39;s tax file number is recorded if the other person is not prevented from removing the tax file number from the document.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (2), see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (3) For the purposes of this section, a person who makes to another person a statement that the other person could reasonably understand to mean that the other person is required or requested to quote the other person&#39;s tax file number shall be taken to require or request the other person to quote the number.
 (4) Nothing in this section shall be read as imposing on a person an obligation to require another person to quote a tax file number.
Section 8WB Unauthorised recording etc. of tax file number
 (1) A person must not:
 (a) record another person&#39;s tax file number or maintain such a record; or
 (b) use another person&#39;s tax file number in a manner connecting it with the other person&#39;s identity; or
 (c) divulge or communicate another person&#39;s tax file number to a third person.
Penalty: 100 penalty units or imprisonment for 2 years, or both.
 (1A) Subsection (1) does not apply:
 (a) to the extent required or permitted by, or reasonably necessary in order to comply with an obligation imposed by, a taxation law or a law of the Commonwealth of a kind referred to in paragraph  202(c), (d), (e), (g), (ga), (gaa), (h), (hab), (hac), (ha), (hb), (hc), (i), (ia), (j), (ka), (kb), (la), (m), (o), (q), (r), (s), (sa), (t) or (u) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; or
 (b) in connection with the first -mentioned person exercising powers or performing functions under, or in relation to, a taxation law or a law of the Commonwealth of a kind referred to in paragraph 202(c), (d), (e), (g), (ga), (gaa), (h), (hab), (hac), (ha), (hb), (hc), (i), (ia), (j), (ka), (kb), (la), (m), (o), (q), (r), (s), (sa), (t) or (u) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; or
 (ba) in connection with the first -mentioned person exercising powers or performing functions of a registrar specified in subsection 355-67(2) in Schedule 1; or
 (c) in connection with the first -mentioned person acting on the other person&#39;s behalf in the conduct of the other person&#39;s affairs.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (1A), see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (2) Without affecting any obligation imposed by or under a law of the Commonwealth other than this section, nothing in subsection  (1A) shall be read as imposing on a person an obligation to do an act referred to in paragraph (1)(a), (b), (ba) or (c).
Section 8WC Conducting affairs so as to avoid tax file number requirements
 (1) Where:
 (a) a person is an investor in relation to 2 or more investments of a similar kind; and
 (b) having regard to:
 (i) the manner in which the person became an investor in relation to the investments; and
 (ii) any explanation made by the person as to becoming such an investor in that manner;
  it would be reasonable to conclude that the person became such an investor in that manner for the sole or dominant purpose of ensuring, or attempting to ensure that:
 (iii) although the person has not, under Part  VA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, quoted the person&#39;s tax file number in connection with those investments (in this subparagraph called the non-TFN investments):
 (A) amounts would not be deducted under Division  3B of that Act, or withheld under section 12-140 or 12-145 in Schedule 1 to this Act, from income in respect of one or more of the non -TFN investments; and
 (B) amounts would not be paid to the Commissioner under section  14-5 in Schedule 1 to this Act, in relation to income in respect of one or more of the non-TFN investments; and
 (C) TFN withholding tax would not be payable under section  14-55 in Schedule 1 to this Act in respect of one or more of the non-TFN investments; or
 (iv) the investments are not referred to in a report under the regulations made under that Act;
the person commits an offence.
Penalty: 100 penalty units or imprisonment for 2 years, or both.
 (2) In this section:
"investment" means an investment of a kind mentioned in section 202D of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 .
"investor" means an investor within the meaning of that section.
Section 8XA Unauthorised access to taxation records
  A person must not take action with the intention of obtaining information about another person&#39;s affairs that:
 (a) is contained in records in the possession of the Commissioner; and
 (b) is held or was obtained by the Commissioner under or for the purposes of a taxation law;
unless the person takes the action:
 (c) under the Freedom of Information Act 1982; or
 (d) in accordance with the processes of a court or the Tribunal; or
 (e) in the course of exercising powers or performing functions under or in relation to a taxation law.
Penalty: 100 penalty units or imprisonment for 2 years, or both.
Section 8Y Liability of officers etc. of corporations
 (1) Where a corporation does or omits to do an act or thing the doing or omission of which constitutes a taxation offence, a person (by whatever name called and whether or not the person is an officer of the corporation) who is concerned in, or takes part  in, the management of the corporation shall be deemed to have committed the taxation offence and is punishable accordingly.
 (2) In a prosecution of a person for a taxation offence by virtue of subsection  (1), it is a defence if the person proves that the person:
 (a) did not aid, abet, counsel or procure the act or omission of the corporation concerned; and
 (b) was not in any way, by act or omission, directly or indirectly, knowingly concerned in, or party to, the act or omission of the corporation.
Note 1: A defendant bears a legal burden in relation to the matters in subsection (2), see section  13.4 of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to a prosecution under Part  2.4 of the Criminal Code.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (1), an officer of a corporation shall be presumed, unless the contrary is proved, to be concerned in, and to take part in, the management of the corporation.
 (4) In this section, officer, in relation to a corporation, means:
 (a) a director or secretary of the corporation;
 (b) a receiver and manager of property of the corporation;
 (ba) an administrator, within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001, of the corporation;
 (bb) an administrator of a deed of company arrangement executed by the corporation under Part  5.3A of that Act;
 (d) a liquidator of the corporation appointed in a voluntary winding up of the corporation; or
 (e) a trustee or other person administering a compromise or arrangement made between the corporation and another person or other persons.
Section 8Z Evidentiary certificate relating to previous convictions
 (1) The Commissioner may, for the purposes of subsection  8E(2) or (3), 8M(2), 8R(2) or 8V(2), issue a certificate setting out such facts as the Commissioner considers relevant with respect to:
 (a) the conviction of a person of an offence against a provision of Subdivision A or B or against Division  136 or 137 of the Criminal Code in relation to a taxation law; or
 (b) the conviction of a person of an offence against the Crimes (Taxation Offences) Act 1980; or
 (c) the conviction of a person of an offence against:
 (i) section 6 of the Crimes Act 1914; or
 (ii) section 11.1, 11.4 or 11.5 of the Criminal Code;
  being an offence that relates to an offence of a kind referred to in paragraph  (a) or (b) of this subsection; or
 (d) the conviction of a person of an offence against section  134.1, 134.2, 135.1, 135.2 or 135.4 of the Criminal Code, being an offence that relates to a tax liability; or
 (e) the making of an order under section  19B of the Crimes Act 1914 in relation to a person in respect of an offence of a kind referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this subsection; or
 (f) the conviction of a person of an offence against Division  136 or 137 of the Criminal Code, being an offence that relates to a taxation law.
 (2) A document purporting to be a certificate issued under subsection  (1) shall be received in evidence in a court without further proof and is, for those purposes, prima facie evidence of the facts stated in it.
 (3) The provisions of this section are in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other law of the Commonwealth or any law of a State or Territory.
Section 8ZA Prosecution of taxation offences
 (1) A taxation offence that is punishable by imprisonment for a period exceeding 12 months is, when committed by a natural person, an indictable offence.
 (2) A taxation offence that is punishable by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 12 months is, when committed by a natural person, punishable on summary conviction.
 (3) A prescribed taxation offence, when committed by a natural person, is punishable on summary conviction.
 (4) A taxation offence, when committed by a corporation, is punishable on summary conviction.
 (5) In spite of anything in the preceding provisions of this section, if:
 (a) a person is convicted of 2 or more offences against section  8T or 8U, or both, before the same court at the same sitting; and
 (b) assuming that the person had only been convicted of one of those offences, that offence would have been punishable on summary conviction;
all those offences are punishable on summary conviction.
 (6) A reference in subsection  (5) to a conviction of a person for an offence includes a reference to the making of an order under section 19B of the Crimes Act 1914 in relation to the person in respect of the offence.
 (7) A reference in subsection  (5) to an offence against section 8T or 8U includes a reference to an offence against section 11.1 of the Criminal Code that relates to an offence against section 8T or 8U, as the case may be.
Section 8ZB Prosecution may be commenced at any time
 (1) A prosecution for a taxation offence may be commenced at any time.
 (2) Subsection (1) has effect notwithstanding anything contained in section  15B of the Crimes Act 1914.
Section 8ZC Place where offence committed
 (1) Where a person commits a taxation offence by doing an act, the taxation offence may be taken to have been committed at:
 (a) the place where the act was done;
 (b) if the person is a natural person--the usual place of residence or business of the person or the place of residence or business of the person last known to the Commissioner; or
 (c) if the person is a corporation--the head office, a registered office or a principal office of the corporation;
and the person may be charged with, and convicted of, the taxation offence as if it had been committed at any of those places.
 (2) Where a person commits a taxation offence by omitting to do an act, the taxation offence may be taken to have been committed at:
 (a) the place where the act should have been done;
 (b) if the person is a natural person--the usual place of residence or business of the person or the place of residence or business of the person last known to the Commissioner; or
 (c) if the person is a corporation--the head office, a registered office or a principal office of the corporation;
and the person may be charged with, and convicted of, the taxation offence as if it had been committed at any of those places.
 (3) This section has effect subject to section  80 of the Constitution.
Note: This section does not apply as an averment. For averments, see section 8ZL of this Act and section  13.6 of the Criminal Code.
Section 8ZD Conduct by employees or agents of corporations
 (1) Where, in a prosecution for a taxation offence constituted by an act done, or omitted to be done, by a corporation, it is necessary to establish the intention of the corporation, it is sufficient to show that an employee or agent of the corporation by whom the act was done or omitted to be done, as the case may be, had the intention.
 (2) In a prosecution for a taxation offence, any act done, or omitted to be done, on behalf of a corporation by:
 (a) a director, employee or agent of the corporation; or
 (b) any other person:
 (i) at the direction; or
 (ii) with the consent or agreement (whether express or implied);
  of a director, employee or agent of the corporation;
shall be deemed to have been done, or omitted to have been done, as the case may be, also by the corporation.
 (3) Part 2.5 of the Criminal Code does not apply to taxation offences.
Section 8ZE Civil penalty not payable if prosecution instituted
  If:
 (a) a person is liable to pay by way of penalty (other than for an offence) an amount under a taxation law because of an act or omission of the person; and
 (b) a prosecution is instituted against the person for a taxation offence constituted by the act or omission;
then (whether or not the prosecution is withdrawn):
 (c) the person is not liable to pay the amount; and
 (d) any amount paid, or applied by the Commissioner, in total or partial discharge of that liability is to be refunded to the person, or applied by the Commissioner in total or partial discharge of another tax liability of the person.
Note: An example of a penalty referred to in paragraph (a) is a penalty payable under section  284-75 in Schedule 1.
Section 8ZF Penalties for corporations
  Where a corporation is convicted of:
 (a) a taxation offence (other than a prescribed offence) that, if committed by a natural person, is punishable by imprisonment; or
 (b) a prescribed offence to which subsection  8E(3) or 8R(2) applies;
the penalty that the court before which the corporation is convicted may impose is a fine not exceeding 5 times the maximum fine that, but for this section, the court could impose as a penalty for the taxation offence.
Section 8ZG Enforcement of orders for payment
 (1) Where:
 (a) upon the conviction of a person for a taxation offence, the court before which the person is convicted, in addition to imposing a penalty on the person, orders the person to pay an amount to the Commissioner; and
 (b) the court has civil jurisdiction to the extent of the amount;
the order is enforceable in all respects as a final judgment of the court in favour of the Commissioner.
 (2) Where:
 (a) upon conviction of a person for a taxation offence, the court before which the person is convicted, in addition to imposing a penalty on the person, orders the person to pay an amount to the Commissioner; and
 (b) the court:
 (i) does not have civil jurisdiction; or
 (ii) has civil jurisdiction, but does not have civil jurisdiction to the extent of the amount;
the proper officer of the court shall issue to the Commissioner a certificate in the prescribed form containing the prescribed particulars.
 (3) The certificate may, in the prescribed manner and subject to the prescribed conditions (if any), be registered in a court having civil jurisdiction to the extent of the amount ordered to be paid to the Commissioner.
 (4) Upon registration under subsection  (3), the certificate is enforceable in all respects as a final judgment of the court in favour of the Commissioner.
 (5) The costs of registration of the certificate and other proceedings under this section shall, subject to the prescribed conditions (if any), be deemed to be payable under the certificate.
Section 8ZH Penalties not to relieve from tax
  The adjudgment or payment of:
 (a) a penalty in respect of a taxation offence; or
 (b) an amount ordered by a court, upon the conviction of a person for a taxation offence, to be paid by the person to the Commissioner;
does not relieve any person from liability to assessment or payment of any amount (whether by way of tax, duty, charge or otherwise) for which the person would otherwise be liable.
Section 8ZJ Prosecution of prescribed taxation offences
 (1) A prosecution for a prescribed taxation offence shall take the form of a proceeding by the Commonwealth for the recovery of a pecuniary penalty.
 (2) A prosecution for a prescribed taxation offence may be instituted by a person authorized under subsection  (8) on behalf of, and in the official name of, the Commissioner by information or complaint in a court of summary jurisdiction.
 (3) A prosecution of a person for a prescribed taxation offence that is punishable by a fine exceeding the prescribed amount in relation to the person may be instituted by a person authorized under subsection  (8) on behalf of, and in the official name of, the Commissioner by action in the Supreme Court of a State or Territory.
 (4) Where a court of summary jurisdiction convicts a person of a prescribed taxation offence, the penalty that the court may impose is a fine not exceeding the prescribed amount in relation to the person.
 (5) Where:
 (a) a prosecution of a person for a prescribed taxation offence that is punishable by a fine exceeding the prescribed amount in relation to the person is instituted in accordance with subsection  (2); and
 (b) before the expiration of the period of 14 days after service of process on the person in respect of the prescribed taxation offence, the person elects, in the prescribed manner, to have the case tried in the Supreme Court of the State or Territory in which the prosecution was instituted;
the prosecution shall, by force of this subsection and without any order of the Supreme Court, be removed to the Supreme Court.
 (6) Where a prosecution for a prescribed taxation offence is instituted in the Supreme Court of a State or Territory in accordance with subsection  (3) or is removed to the Supreme Court of a State or Territory by force of subsection (5), the prosecution may be conducted in accordance with:
 (a) the usual practice and procedure of the Supreme Court in civil cases; or
 (b) the directions of the Supreme Court or a Justice or Judge of the Supreme Court.
 (7) The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory under this section shall be exercised by a single Justice or Judge of the Supreme Court.
 (8) The Commissioner may, by writing, authorize a person to institute a prosecution for:
 (a) a specified prescribed taxation offence;
 (b) a prescribed taxation offence included in a specified class of prescribed taxation offences; or
 (c) any prescribed taxation offence.
 (9) A reference in this section to the prescribed amount in relation to a person is a reference to:
 (a) if the person is a natural person--$5,000; or
 (b) if the person is a corporation--$25,000.
Section 8ZK Protection of witnesses
  A witness called on behalf of the Commissioner in any prosecution for a prescribed taxation offence shall not be compelled:
 (a) to disclose:
 (i) the fact that the witness received any information;
 (ii) the nature of any information received by the witness; or
 (iii) the name of any person from whom the witness received any information; or
 (b) if the witness is an officer, to produce any reports:
 (i) made or received by the witness confidentially in the witness&#39; official capacity; or
 (ii) containing confidential information.
Section 8ZL Averment
 (1) In a prosecution for a prescribed taxation offence, a statement or averment contained in the information, claim or complaint is prima facie evidence of the matter so stated or averred.
 (2) This section applies in relation to any matter so stated or averred although:
 (a) evidence in support or rebuttal of the matter stated or averred, or of any other matter, is given; or
 (b) the matter averred is a mixed question of law and fact, but, in that case, the statement or averment is prima facie evidence of the fact only.
 (3) Any evidence given in support or rebuttal of a matter so stated or averred shall be considered on its merits, and the credibility and probative value of such evidence shall be neither increased nor diminished by reason of this section.
 (4) This section:
 (a) does not apply to any fault element of an offence; and
 (aa) does not apply in relation to any offence for which imprisonment is a penalty; and
 (b) does not lessen or affect any onus of proof otherwise falling on a defendant.
Section 8ZM Evidence of authority to institute proceedings
 (1) Where a prosecution for a prescribed taxation offence is instituted by a person in the official name of the Commissioner, the prosecution shall be presumed, unless the contrary is proved, to have been instituted with the authority of the Commissioner.
 (2) In a prosecution for a prescribed taxation offence, the mere production of an instrument, telegram or copy of a telex message purporting to have been issued or sent by the Commissioner, a Second Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner and purporting to notify a person that the person is authorized by the Commissioner to institute the prosecution, to institute prosecutions for a class of prescribed taxation offences in which the prescribed taxation offence is included or to institute prosecutions for any prescribed taxation offence is conclusive evidence of the authority of the person to institute the prosecution on behalf of, and in the official name of, the Commissioner.
Section 8ZN Costs
  In a prosecution for a prescribed taxation offence, the court may award costs against any party.
Section 9 Interpretation
  In this Division, unless the contrary intention appears:
"defendant", in relation to a prescribed taxation offence, means a person to whom a summons has been sent in the manner permitted by subsection  10(1) in relation to the prescribed taxation offence (whether or not the summons has been delivered to, or received by, the person).
"summons", in relation to a person, means a writ or process notifying or directing the person to appear on a designated day before a specified court.
Section 10 Service of summons by post
 (1) A summons for the appearance before a court of summary jurisdiction of a person charged with having committed a prescribed taxation offence may be served upon the person to whom it is directed by sending a copy of the summons, not less than 21 days before the day on which the person is required by the summons to appear before the court, by ordinary prepaid post addressed to the person at the person&#39;s last known place of residence or last known place of business.
 (1A) Subsection (1) has effect without prejudice to any other method of service provided for under any other law of the Commonwealth or under a law of a State or Territory.
 (2) Where a summons is served in the manner permitted by subsection  (1), the court may require the summons to be re-served if the court has reasonable cause to believe that the summons has not come to the notice of the person to whom it is directed.
Section 11 Notice of conviction in absentia
 (1) Where a defendant who has not entered a plea in relation to a prescribed taxation offence is, in the defendant&#39;s absence, convicted of the prescribed taxation offence, the proper officer of the court concerned shall cause to be served on the defendant notice in writing of:
 (a) the conviction;
 (b) the order of the court;
 (c) where the order of the court includes the imposition of a fine--the time allowed by the court for payment of the fine; and
 (d) the right of the defendant to make an application under section  13A for an order setting aside the conviction.
 (2) Without prejudice to any other method of service provided for under any other law of the Commonwealth or under a law of a State or Territory, a notice under subsection  (1) may be served on the defendant by sending the notice to the defendant by ordinary prepaid post addressed to the defendant at the defendant&#39;s last known place of residence or last known place of business.
Section 12 Notice of intention to issue warrant in default of payment
  Where:
 (a) a defendant, not being a body corporate, has been served with a notice under subsection  11(1), being a notice that includes notice of a fine imposed on him or her in consequence of a conviction;
 (b) the fine is not paid in full within the time allowed by the court for payment of the fine; and
 (c) a period of not less than 21 days has elapsed after the date of service of the notice;
the proper officer of the court concerned may cause to be served personally on the defendant a notice (in this section referred to as the personal notice) informing the defendant that unless:
 (d) the fine is paid in full before the expiration of 21 days after the date of service of the personal notice; or
 (e) an application in accordance with section  13A for the setting aside of the conviction is made before the expiration of 14 days after the date of service of the personal notice;
a warrant for his or her commitment to prison may be issued.
Section 13 Limitation of action to enforce payment of fine
  Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law of the Commonwealth or in a law of a State or Territory, where a defendant who has not entered a plea in relation to a prescribed taxation offence is, in the defendant&#39;s absence, convicted of the prescribed taxation offence and the order of the court includes the imposition of a fine:
 (a) a warrant for commitment of the defendant to prison for failure to pay the fine shall not be issued unless:
 (i) a notice has been served on the defendant under section  12 in relation to the fine; and
 (ii) a period of not less than 21 days has elapsed after the date of service of the notice; and
 (b) no other action for enforcement of payment of the fine shall be taken unless:
 (i) a notice has been served on the defendant in relation to the conviction under subsection  11(1); and
 (ii) a period of not less than 21 days has elapsed after the date of service of the notice.
Section 13A Setting aside of conviction or order
 (1) Where a defendant has been served with a notice under section  11 in relation to a conviction or order of a court, the defendant may:
 (a) where a fine was imposed by the court--before the expiration of:
 (i) the period allowed by the court for payment of the fine; or
 (ii) a period of 21 days after the date of service of the notice;
  whichever is the longer; or
 (b) where no fine was imposed by the court--within 21 days after the date of service of the notice;
make an application in writing to the court, or to another court of summary jurisdiction that would have had jurisdiction to make the conviction or order, for an order setting aside the conviction or order.
 (2) Where a defendant has been served with a notice under section 12 in relation to a conviction or order of a court, the defendant may, within 14 days after the date of service of the notice, make an application in writing to the court, or to another court of summary jurisdiction that would have had jurisdiction to make the conviction or order, for an order setting aside the conviction or order.
 (3) Any person who was a party to the proceedings in which the conviction or order to which an application under subsection  (1) or (2) relates was made shall be a party to proceedings in respect of the application.
 (4) Where a court is satisfied, on an application made by a defendant in accordance with subsection  (1) or (2) in relation to a conviction or order, that:
 (a) in the case of an application under subsection  (1):
 (i) the defendant did not receive notice of the proceedings in which the conviction or order was made, or did not receive such notice in sufficient time to enable the defendant to attend the proceedings; or
 (ii) the defendant failed to attend the proceedings in which the conviction or order was made for reasons that, in the opinion of the court, render it desirable, in the interests of justice, that the conviction or order be set aside and the matter re -heard; or
 (b) in the case of an application under subsection  (2):
 (i) the defendant:
 (A) did not receive notice of the proceedings in which the conviction or order was made, or did not receive such notice in sufficient time to enable the defendant to attend the proceedings; and
 (B) did not receive notice of the conviction or order, or did not receive such notice in sufficient time to enable the defendant to apply, within the time specified in paragraph  (1)(a), for an order setting aside the conviction or order; or
 (ii) the defendant failed to attend the proceedings in which the conviction or order was made, and failed to make an application in accordance with subsection  (1) in relation to the notice served on the defendant under section 11 in relation to the conviction or order, for reasons that, in the opinion of the court, render it desirable, in the interests of justice, that the conviction or order be set aside and the matter re -heard;
the court shall set aside the conviction or order and shall:
 (c) proceed forthwith to re -hear and determine the matter; or
 (d) adjourn the proceedings for re -hearing the matter to such time and place as the court thinks fit.
 (5) Where an application is made to a court (in this subsection referred to as the relevant court) under this section for the setting aside of a conviction or order of a court, the proper officer of the relevant court shall forthwith:
 (a) cause notice of the making of the application to be given to each party to the application other than the defendant; and
 (b) where the conviction or order was made by a court other than the relevant court--cause notice of the making of the application to be given to that other court.
 (6) Where, under subsection  (4), a court sets aside a conviction or order of another court, the proper officer of the first-mentioned court shall forthwith cause notice of the setting aside of that conviction or order to be given to the other court.
Section 13B Proof of service of summons or notice
  Service of a summons in accordance with section  10 or of a notice in accordance with section 11 or 12 may be proved by the oath of the person who served it or by affidavit or otherwise.
Section 13C Application of other laws
 (1) The provisions of this Division have effect in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other law of the Commonwealth or a State or Territory that makes provision for, or in relation to, the service of summonses.
 (2) Without limiting the generality of section  79 of the Judiciary Act 1903, the laws (if any) of a State or Territory relating to any procedure whereby a person may, without appearing in court in obedience to a summons, enter a plea in relation to a charge of having committed an offence apply in like manner, mutatis mutandis, to a defendant charged with having committed a prescribed taxation offence.
Section 13CA Setting aside etc. of conviction or order on application of Commissioner
 (1) Where a person has been convicted in his or her absence of a prescribed taxation offence (whether before or after the commencement of this section), the Commissioner may apply to a court (in this section called the quashing court) for:
 (a) an order setting aside the conviction or setting aside the order of the convicting court in respect of the conviction; or
 (b) an order varying the order of the convicting court in respect of the conviction so as to reduce its severity.
 (2) The application shall be made in writing:
 (a) to the convicting court; or
 (b) to any other court of summary jurisdiction that would have had jurisdiction to make the conviction or order.
 (3) The proper officer of the quashing court shall, without delay, cause notice of the making of the application to be given to each party to the application (other than the Commissioner).
 (4) Any person who was a party to the proceedings in which the defendant was convicted shall be made a party to the proceedings in respect of the application.
 (5) If the quashing court is satisfied that:
 (a) the conviction or order was made in circumstances that, in the opinion of the court, make it desirable, in the interests of justice, that:
 (i) the conviction or order be set aside; or
 (ii) the order be varied by reducing its severity; or
 (b) because of other special circumstances (whether or not existing at the time the conviction or order was made) it is desirable, in the interests of justice, or in order to avoid undue hardship, that:
 (i) the order be set aside; or
 (ii) the order be varied so as to reduce its severity;
the court may set aside the conviction, or set aside or vary the order, as the case may be, on such terms as to costs or otherwise as the court thinks just.
 (6) If the court sets aside the conviction, or sets aside or varies the order in respect of the conviction, the court shall also set aside any warrant issued in consequence of the conviction.
 (7) If the quashing court:
 (a) is not the convicting court; and
 (b) sets aside the conviction, or sets aside or varies the order, of the convicting court;
the proper officer of the quashing court shall without delay cause notice of the setting aside or variation to be given to the convicting court.
 (8) A reference in this section to a conviction includes a reference to the making of an order under section  19B of the Crimes Act 1914.
 (9) The setting aside of a conviction or order under this section is a bar to any further legal proceeding against the defendant for the same matter in any court (other than on appeal).
 (10) This section is in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other law of the Commonwealth or any law of a State or Territory.
Section 13D Interpretation
 (1) In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears:
"Australian Capital Territory" includes the Jervis Bay Territory.
"officer" means:
 (a) a person appointed or engaged under the Public Service Act 1999; or
 (b) a State taxation officer.
"State" includes the Northern Territory.
"State Minister" means:
 (a) in relation to a State other than the Northern Territory--a Minister of the Crown of the State; or
 (b) in relation to the Northern Territory--a Minister of the Northern Territory.
"State taxation officer" means:
 (a) a person or authority, not being a State Minister, who or which is for the time being authorised under a law of a State to perform the functions of a State taxation officer under this Part; or
 (b) a person, not being a State Minister, authorised by writing signed by a person or authority referred to in paragraph  (a) to act under this Part.
"State tax law" means a law of a State relating to taxation.
"Territory" means the Australian Capital Territory.
"Territory taxation officer" means:
 (a) a person or authority, not being a Minister of State of the Commonwealth, who or which is for the time being authorised under a law of the Territory to perform the functions of a Territory taxation officer under this Part; or
 (b) a person, not being a Minister of State of the Commonwealth, authorised by writing signed by a person or authority referred to in paragraph  (a) to act under this Part.
"Territory tax law" means a law of the Territory relating to taxation.
 (2) A reference in Division  3 or 4 to a State tax law includes a reference to a Territory tax law.
 (3) A reference in Division  3 or 4 to a State taxation officer includes a reference to a Territory taxation officer.
Section 13E State taxation officers may refer matters to Commissioner for investigation
  A State taxation officer may, by writing signed by the officer, refer a matter arising under a State tax law to the Commissioner for investigation in the Territory.
Section 13F Access to documents etc.
 (1) Where, under section  13E, a matter is referred to the Commissioner for investigation, the Commissioner may, by writing signed by the Commissioner, authorise an officer to conduct an investigation into that matter.
 (2) For the purposes of conducting an investigation into a matter referred to the Commissioner under section  13E, an officer authorised under subsection (1) of this section to conduct the investigation:
 (a) may, at all reasonable times, enter upon any land in the Territory;
 (b) shall have full and free access at all reasonable times to all documents in the Territory; and
 (c) may take extracts from, and make copies of, any documents in the Territory.
 (3) An officer who enters upon land pursuant to subsection  (2) is not authorised to remain on the land if, on request by the occupier of the land, the officer does not produce a certificate issued by the Commissioner stating that he or she is an officer authorised under subsection  (1) to conduct an investigation into a matter specified in the certificate.
 (4) The occupier of land entered or proposed to be entered by an officer under subsection  (2) shall provide the officer with all reasonable facilities and assistance for the effective exercise of powers under this section.
Penalty for a contravention of this subsection: 10 penalty units.
Section 13G Commissioner may obtain information and evidence
 (1) Where, under section  13E, a matter is referred to the Commissioner for investigation, the Commissioner may, for the purposes of conducting the investigation in the Territory, by notice in writing, require any person, including any officer employed in or in connection with any department of a government or by any public authority:
 (a) to furnish the Commissioner with such information as the Commissioner requires;
 (b) to attend before the Commissioner, or before an officer authorised by the Commissioner for the purpose, at a time and place specified in the notice and there answer questions; and
 (c) to produce to the Commissioner, or to an officer authorised by the Commissioner for the purpose, any documents in the custody or under the control of the person.
 (2) The Commissioner may require the information or answers to be verified or furnished, as the case may be, on oath or affirmation and either orally or in writing, and for that purpose the Commissioner or an officer authorised by the Commissioner may administer an oath or affirmation.
 (3) The oath or affirmation to be taken or made by a person for the purposes of this section is an oath or affirmation that the information is or the answers will be true.
 (4) The Commissioner may cause copies to be made of, or extracts to be taken from, any documents that are produced pursuant to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) A person required pursuant to paragraph  (1)(b) to attend before the Commissioner or an officer authorised by the Commissioner is entitled to payment of an allowance in respect of his or her expenses of an amount determined by the Commissioner in accordance with the regulations.
Section 13K Certification by State taxation officer of copies of, and extracts from, documents
 (1) Where a document is obtained pursuant to a State tax law, a State taxation officer may certify a copy of the document to be a true copy.
 (2) Where, pursuant to a State tax law, a copy is made of a document, a State taxation officer may certify the copy to be a true copy.
 (3) Where a document is obtained pursuant to a State tax law, a State taxation officer may certify an extract taken from the document to be a true extract.
 (4) Where, pursuant to a State tax law, an extract is taken from a document, a State taxation officer may certify the extract to be a true extract.
 (5) Subject to subsection  (6), a document purporting to be a copy or extract certified under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) shall be received in all courts and tribunals in proceedings arising out of a taxation law as evidence as if it were the original.
 (6) Subsection (5) does not apply in relation to a document if:
 (a) in the case of proceedings for an offence--evidence is adduced that the document is not a true copy or a true extract; or
 (b) in any other case--it is proved that the document is not a true copy or a true extract.
 (7) Where:
 (a) pursuant to a State tax law, a copy (in this section referred to as the primary copy) is made of, or an extract (in this section referred to as the primary extract) is taken from, a document (in this section referred to as the original document); and
 (b) pursuant to subsection  (2) or (4), a State taxation officer has certified the primary copy to be a true copy of, or the primary extract to be a true extract taken from, the original document;
a State taxation officer may:
 (c) certify a copy of the primary copy or primary extract to be a true copy; or
 (d) certify an extract taken from the primary copy or primary extract to be a true extract.
 (8) Subject to subsection  (9), a document purporting to be:
 (a) a copy, certified under subsection  (7), of a primary copy of, or a primary extract taken from, an original document; or
 (b) an extract, certified under subsection  (7), taken from a primary copy of, or a primary extract taken from, an original document;
shall be received in all courts and tribunals in proceedings arising out of a taxation law as evidence as if it were the original document.
 (9) Subsection (8) does not apply in relation to a document if:
 (a) in the case of proceedings for an offence, evidence is adduced that:
 (i) the document is not a true copy of, or a true extract taken from, the primary copy or primary extract; or
 (ii) the primary copy is not a true copy of, or the primary extract is not a true extract taken from, the original document; or
 (b) in any other case, it is proved that:
 (i) the document is not a true copy of, or a true extract taken from, the primary copy or primary extract; or
 (ii) the primary copy is not a true copy of, or the primary extract is not a true extract taken from, the original document.
Section 13L Australian Taxation Office may perform functions under State/Territory debits tax laws
 (1) In this section:
"accounts", in relation to a financial institution, includes accounts kept by way of withdrawable share capital in, or money deposited with, the financial institution.
"co-operative housing society" means a society registered or incorporated as a co -operative housing society or similar society under a law of a State or Territory.
"financial institution" includes:
 (a) a body corporate that is an ADI (authorised deposit -taking institution) for the purposes of the Banking Act 1959; and
 (b) a co-operative housing society; and
 (c) a registered entity under the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001.
"State/Territory debits tax law" means:
 (a) a State tax law; or
 (b) a Territory tax law;
relating to the taxation of debits made to accounts kept with financial institutions.
 (2) The Commissioner may make an arrangement with an appropriate officer or authority of a State or the Territory about any matter in connection with the administration of a State/Territory debits tax law.
 (3) In particular, an arrangement may provide:
 (a) for the Commissioner or the Second Commissioners to perform functions, or exercise powers, conferred on them by a State/Territory debits tax law; or
 (b) for the services of officers or employees under the control of the Commissioner to be made available to the State or the Territory or to an authority of the State or of the Territory for the purposes of matters relating to the administration of a State/Territory debits tax law.
Section 14Q Interpretation
 (1) In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears:
"authorized officer" means a person who is:
 (a) an officer for the purposes of the Customs Act 1901; or
 (b) a member of the Australian Federal Police.
"departure authorization certificate" means a certificate under subsection 14U(1).
"departure prohibition order" means an order under subsection 14S(1).
 (2) A reference in this Part to the departure of a person from Australia for a foreign country is a reference to the departure of the person from Australia for a foreign country, whether or not the person intends to return to Australia.
Section 14R Departure from Australia of certain tax debtors prohibited
 (1) A person in respect of whom a departure prohibition order is in force, and who knows that such an order is in force in respect of him or her, shall not depart from Australia for a foreign country.
Penalty: 50 penalty units or imprisonment for 12 months, or both.
 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the departure is authorised by a departure authorization certificate.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (2), see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 14S Departure prohibition orders
 (1) Where:
 (a) a person is subject to a tax liability; and
 (b) the Commissioner believes on reasonable grounds that it is desirable to do so for the purpose of ensuring that the person does not depart from Australia for a foreign country without:
 (i) wholly discharging the tax liability; or
 (ii) making arrangements satisfactory to the Commissioner for the tax liability to be wholly discharged;
the Commissioner may, by order in accordance with the prescribed form, prohibit the departure of the person from Australia for a foreign country.
 (2) Subject to subsection  (3), a departure prohibition order remains in force unless and until revoked under section 14T or set aside by a court.
 (3) A departure prohibition order made in respect of a person shall be taken, by virtue of this subsection, not to be in force in respect of the person during any period during which an order is in force under the Migration Act 1958 for the deportation of the person.
 (4) Where a departure prohibition order is made in respect of a person, the Commissioner shall forthwith:
 (a) cause the person to be informed, as prescribed, of the making of the order; and
 (b) subject to subsection  (5), cause a copy of the order, and such information as the Commissioner considers is likely to facilitate the identification of the person, to be given to:
 (i) the Immigration Secretary; and
 (ii) such other persons as the Commissioner considers appropriate, being persons prescribed, or included in a class of persons prescribed, for the purposes of this paragraph.
 (5) Where a departure prohibition order is made in respect of a person whom the Commissioner is satisfied is an Australian citizen, the Commissioner shall not cause a copy of the order, or any information likely to facilitate the identification of the person, to be given to the Immigration Secretary unless the Commissioner is of the opinion that it is desirable to do so.
Section 14T Revocation and variation of departure prohibition orders
 (1) Where a departure prohibition order is in force in respect of a person and:
 (a) the tax liabilities to which the person is subject have been wholly discharged and the Commissioner is satisfied that it is likely that the tax liabilities to which the person may become subject in respect of, or arising out of, matters that have occurred will be:
 (i) wholly discharged; or
 (ii) completely irrecoverable; or
 (b) the Commissioner is satisfied that the tax liabilities to which the person is subject are completely irrecoverable;
the Commissioner shall, on application being made to the Commissioner by the person to do so or on the Commissioner&#39;s own motion, revoke the departure prohibition order.
 (2) Where a departure prohibition order is in force in respect of a person, the Commissioner may, in the Commissioner&#39;s discretion and on application being made to the Commissioner to do so or on the Commissioner&#39;s own motion, revoke or vary the departure prohibition order.
 (3) A reference in paragraph  (1)(a) to tax liabilities having been wholly discharged includes a reference to arrangements satisfactory to the Commissioner having been made for those tax liabilities to be wholly discharged and a reference in that paragraph to the Commissioner being satisfied that it is likely that tax liabilities to which a person may become subject will be wholly discharged includes a reference to the Commissioner being satisfied that it is likely that arrangements satisfactory to the Commissioner will be made for those tax liabilities to be wholly discharged.
 (4) As soon as practicable after a departure prohibition order made in respect of a person is revoked or varied under this section, the Commissioner shall:
 (a) cause to be served, as prescribed, on the person; and
 (b) cause to be given to each person to whom a copy of the departure prohibition order was given;
notification of the revocation or variation of the departure prohibition order.
 (5) As soon as practicable after a decision is made under subsection  (1) or (2) refusing to revoke a departure prohibition order made in respect of a person, the Commissioner shall cause to be served, as prescribed, on the person notification of the decision.
Section 14U Departure authorisation certificates
 (1) Where, on application made by a person in respect of whom a departure prohibition order is in force:
 (a) the Commissioner is satisfied:
 (i) that, if a departure authorization certificate is issued in respect of the person, it is likely that:
 (A) the person will depart from Australia and will return to Australia within such period as the Commissioner considers to be appropriate in relation to the person; and
 (B) circumstances of the kind referred to in paragraph  14T(1)(a) will come into existence within such period as the Commissioner considers to be appropriate in relation to the person; and
 (ii) that it is not necessary or desirable for the person to give security under subsection  (2) for the person&#39;s return to Australia; or
 (b) in a case where the Commissioner is not satisfied with respect to the matters referred to in paragraph  (a):
 (i) the person has given security under subsection  (2) to the satisfaction of the Commissioner for the person&#39;s return to Australia; or
 (ii) if the person is unable to give such security, the Commissioner is satisfied that:
 (A) a departure authorization certificate should be issued in respect of the person on humanitarian grounds; or
 (B) a refusal to issue a departure authorization certificate in respect of the person would be detrimental to the interests of Australia;
the Commissioner shall issue a certificate authorizing the person to depart from Australia for a foreign country on or before the seventh day after a day (being a day later than, but not more than 7  days later than, the day on which the certificate is issued) specified in the certificate.
 (2) For the purposes of this section:
 (a) a person may give security, by bond, deposit or any other means, for the person&#39;s return to Australia by such day as is agreed between the person and the Commissioner;
 (b) the Commissioner may, in the Commissioner&#39;s discretion and on application by the person or on the Commissioner&#39;s own motion, substitute a later day for the day so agreed (including a day substituted by virtue of a previous application of this paragraph); and
 (c) the Commissioner may refuse to substitute such a later day unless the person:
 (i) increases, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, the value of the security given by the person under this subsection; or
 (ii) gives a further security, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, by bond, deposit or any other means, for the person&#39;s return to Australia by that later day.
 (3) As soon as practicable after a departure authorization certificate is issued in respect of a person, the Commissioner shall:
 (a) cause a copy of the departure authorization certificate to be served, as prescribed, on the person; and
 (b) cause a copy of the departure authorization certificate to be given to each person to whom a copy of the departure prohibition order made in respect of the person was given.
 (4) As soon as practicable after a decision is made under subsection  (1) refusing to issue a departure authorization certificate in respect of a person or a decision is made under subsection (2) refusing to substitute a later day in relation to the return of a person to Australia, the Commissioner shall cause to be served, as prescribed, on the person notification of the decision.
Section 14V Appeals to courts against making of departure prohibition orders
 (1) A person aggrieved by the making of a departure prohibition order may appeal to the Federal Court of Australia or the Supreme Court of a State or Territory against the making of the departure prohibition order.
 (2) This section has effect:
 (a) subject to chapter III of the Constitution; and
 (b) notwithstanding anything contained in section  9 of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977.
Section 14W Jurisdiction of courts
 (1) The jurisdiction of a court under section  14V shall be exercised by a single Judge or Justice.
 (2) An appeal lies to the Federal Court of Australia from a judgment or order of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory exercising jurisdiction under section  14V.
 (3) An appeal lies to the High Court, with special leave of the High Court, from a judgment or order referred to in subsection  (2).
 (4) Except as provided in subsection  (2) or (3), no appeal lies from a judgment or order referred to in subsection (2).
Section 14X Orders of court on appeal
  A court hearing an appeal under section  14V against the making of a departure prohibition order may, in its discretion:
 (a) make an order setting aside the departure prohibition order; or
 (b) dismiss the appeal.
Section 14Y Applications for review of certain decisions
 (1) Applications may be made to the Tribunal for review of decisions of the Commissioner under section  14T or 14U.
 (2) In subsection  (1), decision has the same meaning as in the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024 .
Section 14Z Powers of authorised officers
 (1) Where an authorized officer believes on reasonable grounds that:
 (a) a person is about to depart from Australia for a foreign country;
 (b) a departure prohibition order is in force in respect of the person; and
 (c) the departure is not authorized by a departure authorization certificate;
the authorized officer may:
 (d) take such steps as are reasonably necessary to prevent the departure of the person, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, steps to prevent the person going on board, or steps to remove the person from, a vessel or aircraft in which the authorized officer believes on reasonable grounds the departure will take place; and
 (e) require the person to answer questions or produce documents to the authorized officer, or both, for the purposes of ascertaining whether:
 (i) a departure prohibition order is in force in respect of the person; and
 (ii) if a departure prohibition order is in force in respect of the person--the departure of the person from Australia for a foreign country is authorized by a departure authorization certificate.
 (2) A person who refuses or fails, when and as required to do so pursuant to subsection  (1), to answer a question or produce a document, commits an offence punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding 10 penalty units.
 (2A) Subsection (2) does not apply to the extent that the person has a reasonable excuse.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (2A), see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (4) Section 8C does not apply in relation to a requirement made pursuant to subsection  (1) of this section.
 (5) Subsection 8K(1) and (1B) and section  8N do not apply in relation to an answer given to a question asked, or a document produced, pursuant to subsection (1).
Section 14ZA Certain tax debtors to produce authority to depart etc.
 (1) Where:
 (a) a person in respect of whom a departure prohibition order is in force is about to depart from Australia for a foreign country; and
 (b) the departure is authorized by a departure authorization certificate;
the person shall, if required to do so pursuant to this subsection by an authorized officer, produce a copy of the departure authorization certificate for inspection by the authorized officer.
Penalty: 5 penalty units.
 (1A) An offence under subsection  (1) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section  6.1 of the Criminal Code.
 (2) Section 8C does not apply in relation to a requirement made pursuant to subsection  (1) of this section.
Section 14ZL Part applies to taxation objections
 (1) This Part applies if a provision of an Act or a legislative instrument (including the provision as applied by another Act) provides that a person who is dissatisfied with an assessment, determination, notice or decision, or with a failure to make a private ruling, may object against it in the manner set out in this Part.
 (2) Such an objection is in this Part  called a taxation objection.
Section 14ZM Division 2--Interpretive
  Division 2 contains interpretive provisions necessary for this Part.
Section 14ZN Division 3--Taxation objections
  Division 3 describes how taxation objections are to be made and how they are to be dealt with by the Commissioner.
Section 14ZO Division 4--Tribunal review
  Division 4 contains provisions about applications to the Tribunal for review of decisions by the Commissioner in relation to certain taxation objections and requests for extension of time.
Section 14ZP Division 5--Federal Court appeals
  Division 5 contains provisions about appeals to the Federal Court against decisions by the Commissioner in relation to certain taxation objections.
Section 14ZQ General interpretation provisions
  In this Part:
"ART" means the Administrative Review Tribunal.
"ART Act" means the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024.
"ART extension application" means an application under section 19 of the ART Act to extend the period during which an application may be made to the ART for review of a reviewable objection decision or an extension of time refusal decision.
"delayed administration (beneficiary) objection" means a taxation objection made under:
 (b) subsection 220(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (including that subsection as applied by any other Act); or
 (g) subsection 260-145(5) in Schedule 1 (because of paragraph (a) of that subsection).
"delayed administration (trustee) objection" means a taxation objection made under:
 (a) subsection 220(7) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (including that subsection as applied by any other Act); or
 (b) subsection 260-145(5) in Schedule 1 (because of paragraph (b) of that subsection).
"extension of time refusal decision" means a decision of the Commissioner under subsection 14ZX(1) to refuse a request by a person.
"Federal Court" means the Federal Court of Australia.
"guidance and appeals panel" has the same meaning as in the ART Act.
"reviewable objection decision" means an objection decision that is not an ineligible income tax remission decision.
"small business taxation assessment decision" means a taxation decision that is:
 (a) an assessment of tax -related liabilities (as defined in section 255-1 in Schedule 1) relating in whole or in part to carrying on a business; and
 (b) made in relation to a small business entity (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997).
"taxation decision" means the assessment, determination, notice or decision against which a taxation objection may be, or has been, made.
"taxation objection" has the meaning given by section 14ZL.
Section 14ZR Taxation decisions covered by single notice to be treated as single decision
 (1) If:
 (a) a provision of an Act (including a provision as applied by another Act) provides that a person who is dissatisfied with a taxation decision may object against it in the manner set out in this Part; and
 (b) a notice incorporates notice of 2 or more such taxation decisions;
then, for the purposes of the provision and of this Part, the taxation decisions are taken to be one taxation decision.
 (2) If:
 (a) under subsection (1), 2 or more taxation decisions are taken to be a single taxation decision (in this subsection called the deemed single taxation decision); and
 (b) the Commissioner makes an objection decision in relation to the deemed single taxation decision; and
 (c) the objection decision is to any extent an ineligible income tax remission decision;
then, this Part has effect, in relation to any review or appeal, as if so much of the objection decision as consists of one or more ineligible income tax remission decisions were taken to be a separate objection decision.
Section 14ZS Ineligible income tax remission decisions
 (1) An objection decision is an ineligible income tax remission decision if it relates to the remission of additional tax payable by a taxpayer under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (other than Division 11 of former Part IIIAA), except where the additional tax is payable under former section 163B, 224, 225, 226, 226G, 226H, 226J, 226K, 226L or 226M of that Act, whatever its amount, or is payable under a provision of former Part  VII of that Act other than any of the preceding sections and its amount, after the decision is made, exceeds:
 (a) in the case of additional tax payable under former section  222 of that Act because of the refusal or failure to furnish a return, or any information, relating to a year of income--the amount calculated, in respect of the period commencing on the last day allowed for furnishing the return or information and ending on:
 (i) the day on which the return or information is furnished; or
 (ii) the day on which the assessment of the additional tax is made;
  whichever first happens, at the rate of 20% per year of the tax properly payable by the taxpayer in respect of the year of income; or
 (d) if the amount calculated in accordance with paragraph  (a) is less than $20--$20.
 (2) A reference in this section to a provision of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 includes a reference to that provision as applied by any other Act.
Section 14ZU How taxation objections are to be made
  A person making a taxation objection must:
 (a) make it in the approved form; and
 (b) lodge it with the Commissioner within the period set out in section  14ZW; and
 (c) state in it, fully and in detail, the grounds that the person relies on.
Note: A person who objects against the Commissioner&#39;s failure to make a private ruling must lodge a draft private ruling with the objection: see subsection  359-50(4).
Section 14ZV Limited objection rights in the case of certain amended taxation decisions
  If the taxation objection is made against a taxation decision, being an assessment or determination that has been amended in any particular, then a person&#39;s right to object against the amended assessment or amended determination is limited to a right to object against alterations or additions in respect of, or matters relating to, that particular.
Section 14ZVA Limited objection rights because of other objections
  If there has been a taxation objection against:
 (a) a private ruling; or
 (aa) a determination under subsection  820-423D(2) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or
 (b) a determination under subsection  960-555(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or
 (c) a determination under subsection  136-10(1) in Schedule 1 to this Act (about excess transfer balance);
the right of objection under this Part against an assessment, or against a decision made under an indirect tax law or an excise law, relating to the matter ruled or determined is limited to a right to object on grounds that neither were, nor could have been, grounds for the taxation objection against the ruling or determination.
Section 14ZVB Objections relating to excess concessional contributions
Taxation decisions to which section applies
 (1) This section applies to the following taxation decisions:
 (a) an assessment against which a taxation objection may be made under section 175A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ;
 (b) an excess concessional contributions determination;
 (c) a determination under section  291-465 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997;
 (d) a decision not to make a determination under that section;
 (e) 2 or more taxation decisions that are taken to be a single taxation decision under subsection  (2).
Decisions treated as single decision for common objection ground
 (2) If:
 (a) a person makes a taxation objection at a particular time, on a particular ground, against a taxation decision to which this section applies; and
 (b) at that time, the person also objects, or could also object, on that ground, against another taxation decision to which this section applies;
then, for the purposes of this Part, those taxation decisions are taken to be one taxation decision.
Limited objection rights because of earlier objection
 (3) A person cannot object under this Part against a taxation decision to which this section applies on a particular ground if:
 (a) the ground was a ground for an objection the person has made against another decision to which this section applies; or
 (b) the ground could have been a ground for an objection the person has made against another decision to which this section applies.
Section 14ZVC Objections relating to non - concessional contributions
Taxation decisions to which section applies
 (1) This section applies to the following taxation decisions:
 (a) an assessment against which a taxation objection may be made under section  175A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936;
 (b) an excess non-concessional contributions determination (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997);
 (c) an assessment against which a taxation objection may be made under section  292-245 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997;
 (d) a determination under section  292-465 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, or a decision not to make a determination under that section;
 (e) a direction under section  292-467 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, or a decision not to make a direction under that section;
 (f) 2 or more taxation decisions that are taken to be a single taxation decision under subsection  (2).
Decisions treated as single decision for common objection ground
 (2) If:
 (a) a person makes a taxation objection at a particular time, on a particular ground, against a taxation decision to which this section applies; and
 (b) at that time, the person also objects, or could also object, on that ground, against another taxation decision to which this section applies;
then, for the purposes of this Part, those taxation decisions are taken to be a single taxation decision.
Limited objection rights because of earlier objection
 (3) A person cannot object under this Part against a taxation decision to which this section applies on a particular ground if:
 (a) the ground was a ground for an objection the person has made against another decision to which this section applies; or
 (b) the ground could have been a ground for an objection the person has made against another decision to which this section applies.
Section 14ZW When taxation objections are to be made
 (1) Subject to this section, the person must lodge the taxation objection with the Commissioner within:
 (aa) if the taxation objection is made under section  175A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936:
 (i) if item 1, 2, 3 or 3A of the table in subsection  170(1) of that Act applies to the assessment concerned--2 years after notice of the assessment is given to the person; or
 (ii) otherwise--4 years after notice of the assessment concerned is given to the person; or
 (aaa) if the taxation objection is made under section  78A of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986 or former section 160AL of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 --4 years after notice of the taxation decision to which it relates has been given to the person; or
 (aaaa) if the taxation objection is made under subsection  112-36(5) or 116-120(5) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997--60 days after the notice mentioned in paragraph  (b) of that subsection is given to the person; or
 (aab) if the taxation objection is made under section  292-245 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997--4 years after notice of the assessment concerned is given to the person; or
 (aac) if the taxation objection is made under section  97-10 in Schedule 1 on a particular ground--within the same period that the person:
 (i) must lodge a taxation objection on that ground under section  175A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; or
 (ii) would be required to lodge such a taxation objection, if, disregarding subsection  175A(2) of that Act, one could be made; or
 (aaca) if the taxation objection is made on a particular ground under any of the following provisions:
 (i) section 175A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936;
 (ii) section 97-35 in Schedule 1 to this Act;
 (iii) section 292-245, 292-465 or 292-467 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997;
  within the same period that the person must lodge a taxation objection on that ground under section  292-245 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or
 (aad) if the taxation objection is made under subsection  8AAZLGA(6) of this Act (retaining refunds while Commissioner verifies information)--the period:
 (i) starting at the end of the 60 day period after the end of the day before which, under subsection  8AAZLGA(3), the Commissioner is required to inform the entity mentioned in section 8AAZLGA that the Commissioner has retained an amount under that section; and
 (ii) ending on the day (if any) on which there is a change, of a kind mentioned in paragraph  8AAZLGA(5)(c), to how much the Commissioner is required to refund in relation to the amount; or
 (aae) if the taxation objection is made under subsection  8AAZLGB(4) of this Act (retaining refunds until notification under Division 389 or ascertainment of liability)--the period:
 (i) starting at the end of the 60 day period after the end of the day before which, under subsection  8AAZLGB(2), the Commissioner is required to inform the entity mentioned in section 8AAZLGB that the Commissioner has retained an amount under that section; and
 (ii) ending on the day (if any) on which, under subsection  8AAZLGB(3), the Commissioner ceases to be entitled to retain the amount; or
 (ab) if the taxation objection is a delayed administration (beneficiary) objection made under subsection  260-145(5) in Schedule 1 (because of paragraph (a) of that subsection) or subsection  220(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (not including that subsection as applied by any other Act)--4 years after notice of the taxation decision to which it relates has been first published; or
 (ac) if the taxation objection is a delayed administration (trustee) objection made under subsection  260-145(5) in Schedule 1 (because of paragraph (b) of that subsection) or subsection  220(7) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (not including that subsection as applied by any other Act)--4 years after probate of the will, or letters of administration of the estate, of the deceased person concerned has been granted; or
 (a) if the taxation objection is a delayed administration (beneficiary) objection to which paragraph  (ab) does not apply--60 days after notice of the taxation decision to which it relates has been first published; or
 (b) if the taxation objection is a delayed administration (trustee) objection to which paragraph  (ac) does not apply--60 days after probate of the will, or letters of administration of the estate, of the deceased person concerned has been granted; or
 (ba) if the taxation objection is an objection under subsection  359-50(3) in Schedule 1 against the Commissioner&#39;s failure to make a private ruling--60 days after the end of the period of 30 days referred to in that subsection; or
 (bb) if the taxation objection is made under section  66 of the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 1987 to an assessment under that Act--4 years after notice of the assessment is given to the person; or
 (bd) if the taxation objection is made under section  20P of the Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999 against a notice given to a superannuation provider under section  20C of that Act and the person is not the superannuation provider--2 years after the notice was given to the superannuation provider; or
 (be) if the taxation objection is made under section  20P of the Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999 against a decision under Division 4 or 5 of Part  3A of that Act and the person is not a superannuation provider (as defined in that Act)--2 years after the person was given notice of the decision; or
 (bf) if the taxation objection is made under subsection  155-30(2) in Schedule 1 to this Act--60 days after the end of the period of 30 days mentioned in that subsection; or
 (bg) if the taxation objection is made under Subdivision  155-C in Schedule 1 to this Act and neither paragraph (bga) nor paragraph (bgb) applies to the objection--the period mentioned in paragraph  155-35(2)(a) in that Schedule in relation to the assessment concerned; or
 (bga) if the taxation objection is made under Subdivision  155-C in Schedule 1 to this Act in relation to an assessment of an amount of Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy--60 days after notice of the assessment has been given to the person; or
 (bgb) if the taxation objection is made under Subdivision  155-C in Schedule 1 to this Act in relation to an assessment of an amount of Australian IIR/UTPR tax or Australian DMT tax--60 days after notice of the assessment has been given to the person; or
 (bi) if the taxation objection is made under section  265-110 in Schedule 1 to this Act (about directions to pay superannuation guarantee charge)--the period specified for the purposes of paragraph  265-90(3)(c) in the direction given to the person (subject to subsection 265-115(2)); or
 (bj) if the taxation objection is made under section  384-40 in Schedule 1 to this Act (about education directions)--the period specified for the purposes of subsection  384-15(2) in the direction given to the person (subject to subsection 384-35(7)); or
 (c) in any other case--60 days after notice of the taxation decision to which it relates has been served on the person.
 (1AAC) The person cannot lodge a taxation objection against a private indirect tax ruling after the end of whichever of the following ends last:
 (a) 60 days after the ruling was made;
 (b) 4 years after the last day allowed to the person for lodging a return relating to the assessment of the assessable amount to which the ruling relates.
 (1A) The person cannot lodge a taxation objection against a private ruling (other than a private indirect tax ruling, or a ruling that relates to an excise law) that relates to a year of income after the end of whichever of the following ends last:
 (a) 60 days after the ruling was made;
 (b) whichever of the following is applicable:
 (i) if item 1, 2, 3 or 3A of the table in subsection  170(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 applies to the person&#39;s assessment for that income year--2 years after the last day allowed to the person for lodging a return in relation to the person&#39;s income for that year of income;
 (ii) otherwise--4 years after that day.
 (1AA) The person cannot lodge a taxation objection against a private ruling that relates to a year of tax and a petroleum project under the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 1987 after the end of whichever of the following ends last:
 (a) the 60 days after the ruling was made;
 (b) the 4 years after the last day allowed to the person for lodging a return in relation to the year of tax and the project.
 (1B) If:
 (a) section 14ZV applies to a taxation objection; and
 (b) apart from this subsection, subparagraph  (1)(aa)(ii) or paragraph (1)(aaa), (aab), (ab), (ac), (bb), (bf) or (bg) would apply to the taxation objection;
the person must lodge the taxation objection before the end of whichever of the following ends last:
 (c) the 4 years after notice of the assessment or determination that has been amended by the amended assessment or amended determination to which the taxation objection relates has been served on the person;
 (d) the 60 days after the notice of the amended assessment or amended determination to which the taxation objection relates has been served on the person.
 (1BA) If:
 (a) section 14ZV applies to a taxation objection; and
 (b) apart from this subsection, subparagraph (1)(aa)(i) would apply to the taxation objection;
the person must lodge the taxation objection before the end of whichever of the following ends last:
 (c) 2 years after notice of the assessment or determination that has been amended by the amended assessment or amended determination to which the taxation objection relates has been served on the person;
 (d) 60 days after the notice of the amended assessment to which the taxation objection relates has been served on the person.
 (1BB) If:
 (a) the taxation objection is against an assessment by the Commissioner of the amount of an administrative penalty under Division  284; and
 (b) that penalty relates to an assessment of the person; and
 (c) the person has longer than 60 days to lodge a taxation objection against the assessment referred to in paragraph  (b);
the person must lodge the taxation objection within that longer period.
 (1C) For the purposes of paragraph  (1B)(c), if an assessment or determination has been amended more than once, the notice is the notice of the first assessment or determination in relation to the year of income, franking year or year of tax, as the case requires.
 (2) If the period within which an objection by a person is required to be lodged has passed, the person may nevertheless lodge the objection with the Commissioner together with a written request asking the Commissioner to deal with the objection as if it had been lodged within that period.
 (3) The request must state fully and in detail the circumstances concerning, and the reasons for, the person&#39;s failure to lodge the objection with the Commissioner within the required period.
 (4) The 60 day period mentioned in subparagraph  (1)(aad)(i) (including the period as extended by a previous application of this subsection) is extended by the number of days during that period in relation to which the following paragraphs apply:
 (a) on or before the day, but during the period, the Commissioner requests information from the entity for the purposes of verifying the notified information mentioned in section  8AAZLGA;
 (b) the Commissioner does not receive the requested information before the day.
Section 14ZX Commissioner to consider applications for extension of time
 (1) After considering the request, the Commissioner must decide whether to agree to it or refuse it.
 (2) The Commissioner must give the person written notice of the Commissioner&#39;s decision.
 (3) If the Commissioner decides to agree to the request, then, for the purposes of this Part, the objection is taken to have been lodged with the Commissioner within the required period.
 (4) If the Commissioner decides to refuse the request, the person may apply to the Tribunal for review of the decision.
Section 14ZY Commissioner to decide taxation objections
 (1) Subject to subsection  (1A), if the taxation objection has been lodged with the Commissioner within the required period, the Commissioner must decide whether to:
 (a) allow it, wholly or in part; or
 (b) disallow it.
 (1A) If the taxation objection is an objection under subsection  359-50(3) in Schedule 1 against the Commissioner&#39;s failure to make a private ruling, the Commissioner must:
 (a) make a private ruling in the same terms as the draft ruling lodged with the objection; or
 (b) make a different private ruling.
 (1B) If the taxation objection is an objection under subsection  155-30(2) in Schedule 1 against the Commissioner&#39;s failure to make an assessment of an assessable amount, the Commissioner must decide to make an assessment of the assessable amount.
 (2) A decision of the Commissioner mentioned in subsection  (1), (1A) or (1B) is an objection decision.
 (3) The Commissioner must cause to be served on the person written notice of the Commissioner&#39;s objection decision.
Section 14ZYA Person may require Commissioner to make an objection decision
 (1) This section applies if the taxation objection (other than one under subsection  155-30(2) or 359-50(3) in Schedule 1) has been lodged with the Commissioner within the required period and the Commissioner has not made an objection decision by whichever is the later of the following times:
 (a) the end of the period (in this section called the original 60-day period) of 60 days after whichever is the later of the following days:
 (i) the day on which the taxation objection is lodged with the Commissioner;
 (ii) if the Commissioner decides under section  14ZX to agree to a request in relation to the taxation objection--the day on which the decision is made;
 (b) if the Commissioner, by written notice served on the person within the original 60 -day period, requires the person to give information relating to the taxation objection--the end of the period of 60 days after the Commissioner receives that information.
 (2) The person may give the Commissioner a written notice requiring the Commissioner to make an objection decision.
 (3) If the Commissioner has not made an objection decision by the end of the period of 60 days after being given the notice, then, at the end of that period, the Commissioner is taken to have made a decision under subsection  14ZY(1) to disallow the taxation objection.
Section 14ZYB Requiring Commissioner to make a private ruling
 (1) This section applies if the taxation objection is an objection under subsection  155-30(2) or 359-50(3) in Schedule 1 and the Commissioner has not made an objection decision by the end of 60 days after the later of these days:
 (a) the day on which the taxation objection was lodged with the Commissioner;
 (b) if the Commissioner decides under section  14ZX to agree to a request in relation to the taxation objection--the day on which the decision was made.
Note 1: Subsection 155-30(2) provides for objections against the Commissioner&#39;s failure to make an assessment of an assessable amount.
Note 2: Subsection 359-50(3) provides for objections against the Commissioner&#39;s failure to make a private ruling.
 (2) The Commissioner is taken, at the end of that 60 day period, to have disallowed the objection.
Section 14ZZ Person may seek review of, or appeal against, Commissioner&#39;s decision
 (1) If the person is dissatisfied with the Commissioner&#39;s objection decision (including a decision under paragraph  14ZY(1A)(b) to make a different private ruling), the person may:
 (a) if the decision is a reviewable objection decision--either:
 (i) apply to the Tribunal for review of the decision; or
 (ii) appeal to the Federal Court against the decision; or
 (b) otherwise--appeal to the Federal Court against the decision.
 (2) Treat a reference in subsection  (1) to appealing to the Federal Court as being a reference to appealing to a designated court (within the meaning of the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission Act 2012) if:
 (a) the person may appeal to the designated court against an objection decision under that Act (the ACNC objection decision); and
 (b) the objection decision mentioned in subsection  (1) (the taxation objection decision) and the ACNC objection decision are related, or it would be efficient for the designated court to consider the decisions together.
Note: In the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission Act 2012, designated court means the Federal Court of Australia or a Supreme Court of a State or Territory that has jurisdiction in relation to matters arising under that Act.
 (3) An appeal to the designated court against the taxation objection decision must be made together with the appeal against the ACNC objection decision as mentioned in section  170-30 of the Australian Charities and Not -for-profits Commission Act 2012, if the designated court is not the Federal Court.
Section 14ZZA ART Act applies subject to this Division
 (1) The ART Act applies in relation to:
 (a) the review of reviewable objection decisions; and
 (b) the review of extension of time refusal decisions; and
 (c) ART extension applications;
subject to this Division.
 (2) Subsection (3) applies if the ART President refers to the guidance and appeals panel under section  128 of the ART Act a decision made by the ART to affirm, vary or set aside either of the following decisions (each of which is an original decision):
 (a) a reviewable objection decision;
 (b) an extension of time refusal decision.
 (3) The ART Act, as modified by this Division (other than by the provisions mentioned in subsection  (4)), applies in relation to:
 (a) the application for review that is taken to be made under subsection  130(2) of that Act; and
 (b) the review of the decision made by the ART;
in the same way as it applies to the review of, and the application for review of, the original decision.
 (4) The provisions are:
 (a) subsections 14ZZB(1) to (4); and
 (b) section 14ZZC; and
 (c) subsections 14ZZF(1) and (2).
Section 14ZZB Special rules for reviewable objection decisions and extension of time refusal decisions
 (1) Section 268 (requesting reasons for reviewable decision from decision -maker) of the ART Act does not apply in relation to a reviewable objection decision that has been taken to have been made under subsection  14ZYA(3) or 14ZYB(2) of this Act.
 (2) Sections 17 (who can apply) and  18 (when to apply--general rule) of the ART Act do not apply in relation to:
 (a) a reviewable objection decision; or
 (b) an extension of time refusal decision.
 (3) The President of the ART may allow a longer period to make an application to refer a decision of the ART on the review of a reviewable objection decision or an extension of time refusal decision to the guidance and appeals panel under section  125 (when to apply to refer Tribunal decision) of the ART Act only if the request for a longer period is made before the period for making the application has expired.
 (4) If the President of the ART decides to allow a longer period under section  125 of the ART Act (as modified by subsection (4) of this section), the President of the ART must notify the Commissioner as soon as practicable after making the decision.
 (5) Section 32 (reviewable decision continues to operate unless Tribunal orders otherwise) of the ART Act does not apply in relation to:
 (a) a reviewable objection decision; or
 (b) an extension of time refusal decision.
 (6) However, despite subsection  (5), section 32 (reviewable decision continues to operate unless Tribunal orders otherwise) of the ART Act applies in relation to a reviewable objection decision that relates to a small business taxation assessment decision, subject to the modifications set out in section  14ZZH of this Act.
 (7) Section 127 (Tribunal decision continues to operate unless Tribunal orders otherwise) of the ART Act does not apply in relation to a reviewable objection decision or an extension of time refusal decision.
 (7A) However, despite subsection  (7), section 127 (Tribunal decision continues to operate unless Tribunal orders otherwise) of the ART Act applies in relation to a reviewable objection decision that relates to a small business taxation assessment decision, subject to the modifications set out in section  14ZZH of this Act.
 (8) Section 178 (operation and implementation of Tribunal&#39;s decision) of the ART Act does not apply in relation to a reviewable objection decision.
Section 14ZZC When and how to apply to the ART
 (1) Despite section 18 (when to apply--general rule) of the ART Act, an application to the ART for review of a reviewable objection decision must be made within 60 days after the person making the application is served with notice of the decision.
Note: A person may, under section 19 of the ART Act, apply to the ART to extend the period.
 (2) Despite subsection  34(1) of the ART Act, an application to the ART for a review of a decision must be in writing.
 (3) An application to the ART for a review of a decision must set out a statement of the reasons for the application.
 (4) Subsection (3) of this section applies in addition to subsection  34(2) of the ART Act.
Note: Subsection 34(2) of the ART Act requires applications to include the information specified for the application in practice directions made by the President of the ART.
 (5) A failure to comply with subsection  (3) does not affect the validity of the application.
Section 14ZZD Parties to proceedings for review
  Despite paragraph 22(1)(c) of the ART Act:
 (a) a person (the affected person) whose interests are affected by a reviewable objection decision or an extension of time refusal decision may apply to become a party to a proceeding for review of the decision; and
 (b) the ART may make the affected person a party to the proceeding only if the ART is satisfied that the applicant for review of the decision consents.
Section 14ZZE Hearings before ART to be held in private if applicant so requests
  Despite section 69 (hearings to be in public unless practice directions or Tribunal order requires otherwise) of the ART Act, the hearing of a proceeding before the ART for:
 (a) a review of a reviewable objection decision; or
 (b) a review of an extension of time refusal decision; or
 (c) an ART extension application;
is to be in private if the party who made the application requests that it be in private.
Section 14ZZF Giving documents to the ART
 (1) Section 23 (decision -maker must give Tribunal reasons and documents--general rule) of the ART Act does not apply in relation to an application for review of a reviewable objection decision.
 (2) Instead, the decision -maker of a reviewable objection decision must give the ART the following documents within 28 days after the ART notifies the decision-maker of the application for review of the decision:
 (a) a statement giving the reasons for the decision;
 (b) the notice of the taxation decision concerned;
 (c) the taxation objection concerned;
 (d) the notice of the objection decision;
 (e) every other document that is:
 (i) in the Commissioner&#39;s possession or under the Commissioner&#39;s control; and
 (ii) considered by the Commissioner to be necessary to the review of the objection decision concerned;
 (f) a list of the documents (if any) being given under paragraph  (e).
 (3) Section 25 (decision -maker must give Tribunal additional documents within 28 days--general rule) of the ART Act does not apply in relation to the ART&#39;s review of a reviewable objection decision.
 (4) Instead, if:
 (a) at any time during the ART&#39;s review of a reviewable objection decision a document that is necessary to the review comes into the possession or under the control of the decision -maker; and
 (b) the document has not been given to the ART for the purposes of the review;
the decision-maker must give a copy of the document to the ART within 28 days after the day on which the document came into the possession or under the control of the decision -maker.
 (5) In addition to subsection  (4), if, at any time during the ART&#39;s review of a reviewable objection decision, the ART is satisfied that documents that may be relevant to the review are in the possession or under the control of the decision -maker of the reviewable objection decision, the Tribunal may require the decision-maker to give a list of those documents to the Tribunal within a specified period.
 (6) To avoid doubt, the ART&#39;s power in subsection  (5) of this section is in addition to the ART&#39;s power in section 26 (decision-maker must give Tribunal additional documents on request--general rule) of the ART Act.
 (7) For the purposes of the ART Act:
 (a) the requirement to give a statement giving the reasons for the decision under paragraph  (2)(a) of this section is taken to be the requirement to give a statement of reasons for the decision under paragraph 23(a) of that Act; and
 (b) the requirement to give other documents under subsection  (2), (4) or (5) of this section is taken to be the requirement to give other documents under Subdivision B of Division 4 of Part 3 of that Act; and
 (c) a statement giving the reasons for a decision, given under subsection  (2) of this section, is taken to have been given under paragraph 23(a) of that Act; and
 (d) any other document, given under subsection  (2), (4) or (5) of this section, is taken to have been given under Subdivision B of Division 4 of Part 3 of that Act.
Note: As a result of this subsection, the decision-maker must, under section 27 of the ART Act, give a copy of the statement or documents to each other party to the proceedings within the relevant period. Also, exceptions under sections  28 and 29 of that Act in relation to giving documents might apply, and under section  24 of that Act the ART may order the decision-maker to give the ART further information.
Section 14ZZH Limitation on orders staying or affecting reviewable objection decisions relating to small business taxation assessment decisions
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) a party to a proceeding for review of a reviewable objection decision that relates to a small business taxation assessment decision applies for:
 (i) an order staying or otherwise affecting the operation or implementation of the decision; or
 (ii) an order varying or revoking such an order; and
 (b) the party requesting the order is not the Commissioner of Taxation.
 (2) Despite the ART Act, the ART must not make the order unless the party satisfies the ART that, when considered in the context of both the particular circumstances of the decision under review and the overall taxation system, the application for review and the request for making the order are not frivolous, vexatious, misconceived, lacking in substance or otherwise intended to unduly impede, prejudice or restrict the proper administration or operation of a taxation law.
Note 1: The kind of orders that the ART may make include the following:
        (a) an order directing the Commissioner not to sue in a court to recover a specified amount relating to the reviewable objection decision (see subsection  255-5(2) of Schedule 1 to this Act);
        (b) an order directing the Commissioner to offer or accept payment of a liability relating to the reviewable objection decision by instalments under a specified arrangement (see section  255-15 of Schedule 1 to this Act);
        (c) an order directing the Commissioner not to issue one or more written notices to specified third parties who owe or may later owe money to the applicant as a means of recovering a liability relating to the reviewable objection decision (see section  260-5 of Schedule 1 to this Act).
Note 2: However, an order that would materially and permanently alter the decision under review would not be an order staying or otherwise affecting the operation or implementation of such a decision for the purpose of securing the effectiveness of the hearing and determination of the application for review. For example:
        (a) an order directing the Commissioner to defer the time at which a tax liability becomes due and payable; or
        (b) an order directing the Commissioner to remit the imposition of interest charges on unpaid liabilities that are due and payable.
Section 14ZZJ Publishing ART decisions
 (1) This section applies in relation to:
 (a) a review of a reviewable objection decision; and
 (b) a review of an extension of time refusal decision; and
 (c) an ART extension application.
 (2) If:
 (a) a hearing of a proceeding for the review of the decision or the application is not conducted in public; and
 (b) a notice of appeal has not been lodged with the Federal Court;
the ART must ensure, as far as practicable, that its decision and the reasons for it are framed so as not to be likely to enable the identification of the person who made the application.
Section 14ZZK Grounds of objection and burden of proof
  On an application for review of a reviewable objection decision:
 (a) the applicant is, unless the ART orders otherwise, limited to the grounds stated in the taxation objection to which the decision relates; and
 (b) the applicant has the burden of proving:
 (i) if the taxation decision concerned is an assessment--that the assessment is excessive or otherwise incorrect and what the assessment should have been; or
 (ii) in any other case--that the taxation decision concerned should not have been made or should have been made differently.
Section 14ZZL Implementation of ART decisions
 (1) When the decision of the ART on the review of a reviewable objection decision or an extension of time refusal decision becomes final, the Commissioner must, within 60 days, take such action, including amending any assessment or determination concerned, as is necessary to give effect to the decision.
 (2) For the purposes of subsection  (1), if:
 (a) no appeal is lodged against the ART&#39;s decision within the period for lodging an appeal; and
 (b) no application to refer a decision of the ART to the guidance and appeals panel is made within the period for making the application;
the decision becomes final at the end of the period.
 (3) For the purposes of paragraph  (2)(b), the period for making an application to refer a decision of the ART to the guidance and appeals panel includes any extension of that period under section 125 of the ART Act.
Section 14ZZM Pending review not to affect implementation of taxation decisions
 (1) The fact that a review is pending in relation to a taxation decision does not in the meantime interfere with, or affect, the decision and any tax, additional tax or other amount may be recovered as if no review were pending.
 (2) However, the application of subsection  (1) in relation to a small business taxation assessment decision is subject to any order made under subsection 32(2) of the ART Act.
Note: An order made under subsection 32(2) of the ART Act is subject to section  14ZZH (limitation on orders staying or affecting reviewable objection decisions relating to small business taxation assessment decisions) of this Act.
Section 14ZZN Time limit for appeals
  An appeal to the Federal Court against an objection decision must be lodged with the Court within 60 days after the person appealing is served with notice of the decision.
Section 14ZZO Grounds of objection and burden of proof
  In proceedings on an appeal under section  14ZZ to a court against an objection decision:
 (a) the appellant is, unless the court orders otherwise, limited to the grounds stated in the taxation objection to which the decision relates; and
 (b) the appellant has the burden of proving:
 (i) if the taxation decision concerned is an assessment--that the assessment is excessive or otherwise incorrect and what the assessment should have been; or
 (ii) in any other case--that the taxation decision should not have been made or should have been made differently.
Section 14ZZP Order of court on objection decision
  Where a court hears an appeal against an objection decision under section  14ZZ, the court may make such order in relation to the decision as it thinks fit, including an order confirming or varying the decision.
Section 14ZZQ Implementation of court order in respect of objection decision
 (1) When the order of the court in relation to the decision becomes final, the Commissioner must, within 60 days, take such action, including amending any assessment or determination concerned, as is necessary to give effect to the decision.
 (2) For the purposes of subsection  (1):
 (a) if the order is made by the court constituted by a single Judge and no appeal is lodged against the order within the period for lodging an appeal--the order becomes final at the end of the period; and
 (b) if the order is made by the court constituted other than as mentioned in paragraph  (a) and no application for special leave to appeal to the High Court against the order is made within the period of 30 days after the order is made--the order becomes final at the end of the period.
Section 14ZZR Pending appeal not to affect implementation of taxation decisions
  The fact that an appeal is pending in relation to a taxation decision does not in the meantime interfere with, or affect, the decision and any tax, additional tax or other amount may be recovered as if no appeal were pending.
Section 14ZZS Transfer of certain proceedings to Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 1)
 (1) If:
 (a) a proceeding is pending in the Federal Court on an appeal under section  14ZZ in relation to an objection decision; and
 (b) the taxation decision to which the objection decision relates was made under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936;
the Federal Court may, on the application of a party to the proceeding or on its own initiative, transfer the proceeding to the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  1).
 (2) Subject to subsection  (3), if the proceeding is transferred to the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 1):
 (a) the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  1) has jurisdiction to hear and determine the proceeding; and
 (b) the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  1) also has jurisdiction to hear and determine matters not otherwise within its jurisdiction (whether because of paragraph (a) or otherwise):
 (i) that are associated with matters arising in the proceeding; or
 (ii) that, apart from subsection  32(1) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976, the Federal Court would have had jurisdiction to hear and determine in the proceeding; and
 (c) the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  1) may, in and in relation to the proceeding:
 (i) grant such remedies; and
 (ii) make orders of such kinds; and
 (iii) issue, and direct the issue of, writs of such kinds;
  as the Federal Court could have granted, made, issued or directed the issue of, as the case may be, in and in relation to the proceeding; and
 (d) remedies, orders and writs granted, made or issued by the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  1) in and in relation to the proceeding have effect, and may be enforced by the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  1), as if they had been granted, made or issued by the Federal Court; and
 (e) appeals lie from judgments of the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  1) given in and in relation to the proceeding as if the judgments were judgments of the Federal Court constituted by a single Judge of that Court, and do not otherwise lie; and
 (f) subject to paragraphs  (a) to (e) (inclusive), this Act, the regulations, the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976, the Rules of the Court made under that Act, and other laws of the Commonwealth, apply in and in relation to the proceeding as if:
 (i) a reference to the Federal Court (other than in the expression &quot;the Court or a Judge&quot;) included a reference to the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  1); and
 (ii) a reference to a Judge of the Federal Court (other than in the expression &quot;the Court or a Judge&quot;) included a reference to a Judge of the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  1); and
 (iii) a reference to the expression &quot;the Court or a Judge&quot; when used in relation to the Federal Court included a reference to a  Judge of the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 1) sitting in Chambers; and
 (iv) a reference to a Registrar of the Federal Court included a reference to a Registrar of the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  1); and
 (v) any other necessary changes were made.
 (3) If any difficulty arises in the application of paragraphs  (2)(c), (d) and (f) in or in relation to a particular proceeding, the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 1) may, on the application of a party to the proceeding or on its own initiative, give such directions, and make such orders, as it considers appropriate to resolve the difficulty.
 (4) An appeal does not lie from a decision of the Federal Court in relation to the transfer of a proceeding under this Part to the  Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 1).
Section 14ZZT Disclosures qualifying for protection under this Part
 (1) A disclosure of information by an individual (the discloser) qualifies for protection under this Part if:
 (a) the discloser is an eligible whistleblower in relation to an entity (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997); and
 (b) the disclosure is made to the Commissioner; and
 (c) the discloser considers that the information may assist the Commissioner to perform his or her functions or duties under a taxation law in relation to the entity or an associate (within the meaning of section  318 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ) of the entity.
 (1A) A disclosure of information by an individual (the discloser) qualifies for protection under this Part if:
 (a) the discloser is an eligible whistleblower in relation to an entity (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997); and
 (b) the disclosure is made to:
 (i) the Tax Practitioners Board; or
 (ii) the Commissioner; and
 (c) the discloser considers that the information may assist the Tax Practitioners Board to perform its functions or duties under the Tax Agent Services Act 2009, or an instrument made under that Act, in relation to the entity or an associate (within the meaning of section  318 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) of the entity.
 (2) A disclosure of information by an individual (the discloser) qualifies for protection under this Part if:
 (a) the discloser is an eligible whistleblower in relation to an entity (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997); and
 (b) the disclosure is made to an eligible recipient in relation to the entity; and
 (c) the discloser has reasonable grounds to suspect that the information indicates misconduct, or an improper state of affairs or circumstances, in relation to the tax affairs of the entity or an associate (within the meaning of section  318 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) of the entity; and
 (d) the discloser considers that the information may assist the eligible recipient to perform functions or duties in relation to the tax affairs of the entity or an associate (within the meaning of section  318 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ) of the entity.
 (3) A disclosure of information by an individual qualifies for protection under this Part  if the disclosure is made to a legal practitioner for the purpose of obtaining legal advice or legal representation in relation to the operation of this Part.
 (3A) A disclosure of information by an individual (the discloser) qualifies for protection under this Part if the disclosure is made:
 (a) to an entity (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) that has one or more members, if:
 (i) the entity is prescribed by the regulations; and
 (ii) the discloser is a member of the entity; and
 (b) for the purpose of obtaining assistance in relation to the operation of this Part.
 (3B) A disclosure of information by an individual (the discloser) qualifies for protection under this Part if the disclosure is made to a medical practitioner or psychologist for the purpose of obtaining medical or psychiatric care, treatment or counselling (including psychological counselling).
 (4) In this section:
"medical practitioner" means a person registered or licensed as a medical practitioner under a law of a State or Territory that provides for the registration or licensing of medical practitioners.
"psychologist" means a person registered or licensed as a psychologist under a law of a State or Territory that provides for the registration or licensing of psychologists.
"tax affairs" means affairs relating to any tax imposed by or under, or assessed or collected under, a law administered by the Commissioner.
Note: There is no requirement for a discloser to identify himself or herself in order for a disclosure to qualify for protection under this Part.
Section 14ZZTA Information disclosed for the purpose of assisting the Tax Practitioners Board
 (1) If information is disclosed to the Commissioner in accordance with subsection  14ZZT(1A) then, for the purposes of the following provisions:
 (a) paragraph 355-30(1)(a) in Schedule 1;
 (b) paragraph (a) of the definition of official information in subsection 90-1(1) of the Tax Agent Services Act 2009 ;
the information is taken to have been disclosed or obtained under or for the purposes of this Act, and not the Tax Agent Services Act 2009.
 (2) If information is disclosed to the Tax Practitioners Board in accordance with subsection  14ZZT(1A) then, for the purposes of the following provisions:
 (a) paragraph 355-30(1)(a) in Schedule 1;
 (b) paragraph (a) of the definition of official information in subsection 90-1(1) of the Tax Agent Services Act 2009 ;
the information is taken to have been disclosed or obtained under or for the purposes of the Tax Agent Services Act 2009, and not this Act.
Section 14ZZU Eligible whistleblowers
  An individual is an eligible whistleblower in relation to an entity (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) if the individual is, or has been, any of the following:
 (a) an officer (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) of the entity;
 (b) an employee of the entity;
 (c) an individual who supplies services or goods to the entity (whether paid or unpaid);
 (d) an employee of a person that supplies services or goods to the entity (whether paid or unpaid);
 (e) an individual who is an associate (within the meaning of section  318 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) of the entity;
 (f) a spouse or child of an individual referred to in any of paragraphs  (a) to (e);
 (g) a dependant of an individual referred to in any of paragraphs  (a) to (e), or of such an individual&#39;s spouse;
 (h) an individual prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this paragraph in relation to the entity.
Section 14ZZV Eligible recipients
 (1) Each of the following is an eligible recipient in relation to an entity (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997):
 (a) an auditor, or a member of an audit team conducting an audit, of the entity;
 (b) a registered tax agent or BAS agent (within the meaning of the Tax Agent Services Act 2009) who provides tax agent services (within the meaning of that Act) or BAS services (within the meaning of that Act) to the entity;
 (c) a person authorised by the entity to receive disclosures that may qualify for protection under this Part;
 (d) a person or body prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph in relation to the entity.
 (2) If the entity is a body corporate, each of the following is an eligible recipient in relation to the entity:
 (a) a director, secretary or senior manager (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) of the body corporate;
 (b) any other employee or officer (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) of the body corporate who has functions or duties that relate to the tax affairs (within the meaning of section 14ZZT) of the body corporate.
 (3) If the entity is a trust, each of the following is an eligible recipient in relation to the entity:
 (a) a trustee of the trust;
 (b) a person authorised by a trustee of the trust to receive disclosures that may qualify for protection under this Part.
 (4) If the entity is a partnership, each of the following is an eligible recipient in relation to the entity:
 (a) a partner in the partnership;
 (b) a person authorised by a partner in the partnership to receive disclosures that may qualify for protection under this Part.
 (5) Subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) do not limit each other.
Section 14ZZW Confidentiality of whistleblower&#39;s identity
 (1) A person (the first person) commits an offence if:
 (a) another person (the discloser) makes a disclosure of information (the qualifying disclosure) that qualifies for protection under this Part; and
 (b) the first person discloses any of the following (the confidential information):
 (i) the identity of the discloser;
 (ii) information that is likely to lead to the identification of the discloser; and
 (c) the confidential information is information that the first person obtained directly or indirectly because of the qualifying disclosure; and
 (d) the disclosure referred to in paragraph  (b) is not authorised under subsection (2).
Penalty: Imprisonment for 6 months or 60 penalty units, or both.
 (2) A disclosure referred to in paragraph  (1)(b) is authorised under this subsection if it:
 (a) is made to the Commissioner; or
 (b) is made to a member of the Australian Federal Police (within the meaning of the Australian Federal Police Act 1979); or
 (c) is made to a legal practitioner for the purpose of obtaining legal advice or legal representation in relation to the operation of this Part; or
 (d) is made to a person or body prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this paragraph; or
 (e) is made with the consent of the discloser.
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the disclosure referred to in paragraph  (1)(b):
 (i) is not of the identity of the discloser; and
 (ii) is reasonably necessary for the purposes of investigating misconduct, or an improper state of affairs or circumstances, to which the qualifying disclosure relates; and
 (b) the first person takes all reasonable steps to reduce the risk that the discloser will be identified as a result of the disclosure referred to in paragraph  (1)(b).
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (3): see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 14ZZX Disclosure that qualifies for protection not actionable etc.
 (1) If a person makes a disclosure that qualifies for protection under this Part:
 (a) the person is not subject to any civil, criminal or administrative liability (including disciplinary action) for making the disclosure; and
 (b) no contractual or other remedy may be enforced, and no contractual or other right may be exercised, against the person on the basis of the disclosure; and
 (c) if the disclosure was a disclosure of information to the Commissioner or the Tax Practitioners Board--the information is not admissible in evidence against the person in criminal proceedings or in proceedings for the imposition of a penalty, other than proceedings in respect of the falsity of the information.
Note: Except as provided for by paragraph (c), this subsection does not prevent the person being subject to any civil, criminal or administrative liability for conduct of the person that is revealed by the disclosure.
 (2) Without limiting subsection  (1):
 (a) the person has qualified privilege in respect of the disclosure; and
 (b) a contract to which the person is a party may not be terminated on the basis that the disclosure constitutes a breach of the contract.
Section 14ZZXA Claims for protection
 (1) If, in civil or criminal proceedings (the primary proceedings) instituted against an individual in a court, the individual makes a claim (relevant to the proceedings) that, because of section 14ZZX, the individual is not subject to any civil, criminal or administrative liability for making a particular disclosure:
 (a) the individual bears the onus of adducing or pointing to evidence that suggests a reasonable possibility that the claim is made out; and
 (b) if the individual discharges that onus--the party instituting the primary proceedings against the individual bears the onus of proving that the claim is not made out; and
 (c) the court must deal with the claim in separate proceedings; and
 (d) the court must adjourn the primary proceedings until the claim has been dealt with; and
 (e) none of the following:
 (i) any admission made by the individual in the separate proceedings;
 (ii) any information given by the individual in the separate proceedings;
 (iii) any other evidence adduced by the individual in the separate proceedings;
  is admissible in evidence against the individual except in proceedings in respect of the falsity of the admission, information or evidence; and
 (f) if the individual or another person gives evidence in the separate proceedings in support of the claim--giving that evidence does not amount to a waiver of privilege for the purposes of the primary proceedings or any other proceedings.
 (2) To avoid doubt, a right under section  126K of the Evidence Act 1995 not to be compelled to give evidence is a privilege for the purposes of paragraph (1)(f) of this section.
Section 14ZZY Victimisation prohibited
Actually causing detriment to another person
 (1) A person (the first person) commits an offence if:
 (a) the first person engages in conduct; and
 (b) the first person&#39;s conduct causes any detriment to another person (the second person); and
 (c) when the first person engages in the conduct, the first person believes or suspects that the second person or any other person made, may have made, proposes to make or could make a disclosure that qualifies for protection under this Part; and
 (d) the belief or suspicion referred to in paragraph  (c) is the reason, or part of the reason, for the conduct.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 2 years or 240 penalty units, or both.
Threatening to cause detriment to another person
 (2) A person (the first person) commits an offence if:
 (a) the first person makes to another person (the second person) a threat to cause any detriment to the second person or to a third person; and
 (b) the first person:
 (i) intends the second person to fear that the threat will be carried out; or
 (ii) is reckless as to causing the second person to fear that the threat will be carried out; and
 (c) the first person makes the threat because a person:
 (i) makes a disclosure that qualifies for protection under this Part; or
 (ii) may make a disclosure that would qualify for protection under this Part.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 2 years or 240 penalty units, or both.
Threats
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), a threat may be:
 (a) express or implied; or
 (b) conditional or unconditional.
 (4) In a prosecution for an offence against subsection  (2), it is not necessary to prove that the person threatened actually feared that the threat would be carried out.
Section 14ZZZ Compensation and other remedies--circumstances in which an order may be made
 (1) A court may make an order under section  14ZZZA in relation to a person (the first person) if:
 (a) the first person engages in conduct ( detrimental conduct) that:
 (i) causes any detriment to another person (the second person); or
 (ii) constitutes the making of a threat to cause any such detriment to another person (the second person); and
 (b) when the first person engages in the detrimental conduct, the first person believes or suspects that the second person or any other person made, may have made, proposes to make or could make a disclosure that qualifies for protection under this Part; and
 (c) the belief or suspicion referred to in paragraph  (b) is the reason, or part of the reason, for the detrimental conduct.
 (2) A court may make an order under section  14ZZZA in relation to a person (the first person) if:
 (a) the first person is or was an officer (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) or employee of a body corporate; and
 (b) paragraphs (1)(a), (b) and (c) of this section apply to the body corporate because of detrimental conduct engaged in by the body corporate; and
 (c) the first person:
 (i) aided, abetted, counselled or procured the detrimental conduct; or
 (ii) induced, whether by threats or promises or otherwise, the detrimental conduct; or
 (iii) was in any way, by act or omission, directly or indirectly, knowingly concerned in, or party to, the detrimental conduct; or
 (iv) conspired with others to effect the detrimental conduct.
 (2A) A court may make an order under section  14ZZZA in relation to a person (the first person) that is a body corporate if:
 (a) another person (the third person) engages in conduct (detrimental conduct) that:
 (i) causes any detriment to a person (the second person) other than the first person or the third person; or
 (ii) constitutes the making of a threat to cause any such detriment to a person (the second person) other than the first person or the third person; and
 (b) when the third person engages in the detrimental conduct, the third person believes or suspects that the second person or any other person made, may have made, proposes to make or could make a disclosure that qualifies for protection under this Part; and
 (c) the belief or suspicion referred to in paragraph  (b) is the reason, or part of the reason, for the detrimental conduct; and
 (d) the first person is under a duty to prevent the third person engaging in the detrimental conduct, or a duty to take reasonable steps to ensure that the third person does not engage in the detrimental conduct; and
 (e) the first person fails in part or whole to fulfil that duty.
Burden of proof
 (2B) In proceedings where a person seeks an order under section  14ZZZA in relation to another person:
 (a) the person seeking the order bears the onus of adducing or pointing to evidence that suggests a reasonable possibility of the matters in:
 (i) if subsection (1) of this section applies--paragraph  (1)(a); or
 (ii) if subsection (2) of this section applies--paragraph  (1)(a), as mentioned in paragraph (2)(b); or
 (iii) if subsection  (2A) of this section applies--paragraphs (2A)(a) and (d); and
 (b) if that onus is discharged--the other person bears the onus of proving that the claim is not made out.
Threats
 (3) For the purposes of this section, a threat may be:
 (a) express or implied; or
 (b) conditional or unconditional.
 (4) In proceedings for the purposes of section  14ZZZA, it is not necessary to prove that the person threatened actually feared that the threat would be carried out.
Section 14ZZZAA Detriment
  In sections 14ZZY and 14ZZZ, detriment includes (without limitation) any of the following:
 (a) dismissal of an employee;
 (b) injury of an employee in his or her employment;
 (c) alteration of an employee&#39;s position or duties to his or her disadvantage;
 (d) discrimination between an employee and other employees of the same employer;
 (e) harassment or intimidation of a person;
 (f) harm or injury to a person, including psychological harm;
 (g) damage to a person&#39;s property;
 (h) damage to a person&#39;s reputation;
 (i) damage to a person&#39;s business or financial position;
 (j) any other damage to a person.
Section 14ZZZA Compensation and other remedies--orders that may be made
 (1) For the purposes of subsections  14ZZZ(1), (2) and (2A), a court may make any of the following orders:
 (a) an order requiring the first person to compensate the second person, or any other person, for loss, damage or injury suffered as a result of the detrimental conduct;
 (b) if the court is satisfied that the first person engaged in the detrimental conduct in connection with the first person&#39;s position as an employee:
 (i) an order requiring the first person to compensate the second person, or any other person, for a part of loss, damage or injury as a result of the detrimental conduct, and an order requiring the first person&#39;s employer to compensate the second person, or any other person, for a part of loss, damage or injury as a result of the detrimental conduct; or
 (ii) an order requiring the first person and the first person&#39;s employer jointly to compensate the second person, or any other person, for loss, damage or injury suffered as a result of the detrimental conduct; or
 (iii) an order requiring the first person&#39;s employer to compensate the second person, or any other person, for loss, damage or injury as a result of the detrimental conduct;
 (c) an order granting an injunction, on such terms as the court thinks appropriate, to prevent, stop or remedy the effects of the detrimental conduct;
 (d) an order requiring the first person to apologise to the second person, or any other person, for engaging in the detrimental conduct;
 (e) if the second person is or was employed in a particular position and the detrimental conduct wholly or partly consists, or consisted, of the termination, or purported termination, of the second person&#39;s employment--an order that the second person be reinstated in that position or a position at a comparable level;
 (f) if the court thinks it is appropriate--an order requiring the first person to pay exemplary damages to the second person, or any other person;
 (g) any other order the court thinks appropriate.
 (2) If the detrimental conduct wholly or partly consists, or consisted, of terminating or purporting to terminate a person&#39;s employment (including detrimental conduct that forces or forced the person to resign), the court must, in making an order mentioned in paragraph  (1)(a) or (b), consider the period, if any, the person is likely to be without employment as a result of the detrimental conduct. This subsection does not limit any other matter the court may consider.
 (3) In deciding whether to make an order under paragraph  (1)(b) in relation to the first person&#39;s employer, the court may have regard to the following:
 (a) whether the employer took reasonable precautions, and exercised due diligence, to avoid the detrimental conduct;
 (b) if the employer has a policy dealing with any or all of the matters referred to in subsection  1317AI(5) of the Corporations Act 2001 (whether or not section 1317AI of that Act requires the employer to have such a policy)--the extent to which the employer gave effect to that policy;
 (c) any duty that the employer was under to prevent the detrimental conduct, or to take reasonable steps to ensure that the detrimental conduct was not engaged in.
 (4) If the court makes an order under subparagraph  (1)(b)(ii), the first person and the first person&#39;s employer are jointly and severally liable to pay the compensation concerned.
Section 14ZZZB Identifying information not to be disclosed etc. to courts or tribunals
  If a person (the discloser) makes a disclosure of information that qualifies for protection under this Part, the discloser or any other person is not to be required:
 (a) to disclose to a court or tribunal:
 (i) the identity of the discloser; or
 (ii) information that is likely to lead to the identification of the discloser; or
 (b) to produce to a court or tribunal a document containing:
 (i) the identity of the discloser; or
 (ii) information that is likely to lead to the identification of the discloser;
except where:
 (c) it is necessary to do so for the purposes of giving effect to this Part; or
 (d) the court or tribunal thinks it necessary in the interests of justice to do so.
Note: A discloser may also be able to apply to the court or tribunal, in accordance with the rules of the court or tribunal, for an order protecting the discloser&#39;s identity.
Section 14ZZZC Costs only if proceedings instituted vexatiously etc.
 (1) This section applies to a proceeding (including an appeal) in a court in relation to a matter arising under section  14ZZZA in which a person (the claimant) is seeking an order under subsection  14ZZZA(1).
 (2) The claimant must not be ordered by the court to pay costs incurred by another party to the proceedings, except in accordance with subsection  (3) of this section.
 (3) The claimant may be ordered to pay the costs only if:
 (a) the court is satisfied that the claimant instituted the proceedings vexatiously or without reasonable cause; or
 (b) the court is satisfied that the claimant&#39;s unreasonable act or omission caused the other party to incur the costs.
Section 14ZZZD Interaction between civil proceedings and criminal offences
  To avoid doubt, a person may bring civil proceedings under section  14ZZZA in relation to conduct even if a prosecution for a criminal offence against section 14ZZY in relation to the conduct has not been brought, or cannot be brought.
Section 14ZZZE Compensation for acquisition of property
 (1) If the operation of this Part would result in an acquisition of property (within the meaning of paragraph  51(xxxi) of the Constitution) from a person otherwise than on just terms (within the meaning of that paragraph), the Commonwealth is liable to pay a reasonable amount of compensation to the person.
 (2) If the Commonwealth and the person do not agree on the amount of the compensation, the person may institute proceedings in the Federal Court of Australia or the Supreme Court of a State or Territory for the recovery from the Commonwealth of such reasonable amount of compensation as the court determines.
 (3) Payments under this section are to be made out of money appropriated by the Parliament by another Act.
 (4) To avoid doubt, section  16 does not apply to a payment under this section.
Section 15 Appearance by Commissioner etc.
 (1) In any action, prosecution or other proceeding under, or arising out of, a taxation law instituted by or on behalf of the Commissioner, a Second Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner, to which the Commissioner, a Second Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner is a party or in which the Commissioner, a Second Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner intervenes or seeks to intervene, the Commissioner, Second Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner, as the case may be, may appear personally or may be represented by:
 (a) a person enrolled as a barrister, solicitor, barrister and solicitor or legal practitioner of a federal court or of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory; or
 (b) a person authorized by the Commissioner, a Second Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner, by instrument in writing, to appear.
 (2) The appearance of a person, and the statement of the person that the person appears by authority of the Commissioner, a Second Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner, is prima facie evidence of that authority.
 (3) This section applies in relation to the Tax Agent Services Act 2009 as if:
 (a) references in this section to the Commissioner were references to the Tax Practitioners Board; and
 (b) references in this section to a Second Commissioner or to a Deputy Commissioner were omitted.
Section 15A Certification by Commissioner of copies of, and extracts from, documents
 (1) Where a document is obtained pursuant to a taxation law, the Commissioner may certify a copy of the document to be a true copy.
 (2) Where, pursuant to a taxation law, a copy is made of a document, the Commissioner may certify the copy to be a true copy.
 (3) Where a document is obtained pursuant to a taxation law, the Commissioner may certify an extract taken from the document to be a true extract.
 (4) Where, pursuant to a taxation law, an extract is taken from a document, the Commissioner may certify the extract to be a true extract.
 (5) Subject to subsection  (6), a document purporting to be a copy or extract certified under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) shall be received in all courts and tribunals in proceedings arising out of a taxation law as evidence as if it were the original.
 (6) Subsection (5) does not apply in relation to a document if:
 (a) in the case of proceedings for an offence--evidence is adduced that the document is not a true copy or a true extract; or
 (b) in any other case--it is proved that the document is not a true copy or a true extract.
 (7) Where:
 (a) pursuant to a taxation law, a copy (in this section referred to as the primary copy) is made of, or an extract (in this section referred to as the primary extract) is taken from, a document (in this section referred to as the original document); and
 (b) pursuant to subsection  (2) or (4), the Commissioner has certified the primary copy to be a true copy of, or the primary extract to be a true extract taken from, the original document;
the Commissioner may:
 (c) certify a copy of the primary copy or primary extract to be a true copy; or
 (d) certify an extract taken from the primary copy or primary extract to be a true extract.
 (8) Subject to subsection  (9), a document purporting to be:
 (a) a copy, certified under subsection  (7), of a primary copy of, or a primary extract taken from, an original document; or
 (b) an extract, certified under subsection  (7), taken from a primary copy of, or a primary extract taken from, an original document;
shall be received in all courts and tribunals in proceedings arising out of a taxation law as evidence as if it were the original document.
 (9) Subsection (8) does not apply in relation to a document if:
 (a) in the case of proceedings for an offence, evidence is adduced that:
 (i) the document is not a true copy of, or a true extract taken from, the primary copy or primary extract; or
 (ii) the primary copy is not a true copy of, or the primary extract is not a true extract taken from, the original document; or
 (b) in any other case, it is proved that:
 (i) the document is not a true copy of, or a true extract taken from, the primary copy or primary extract; or
 (ii) the primary copy is not a true copy of, or the primary extract is not a true extract taken from, the original document.
 (12) This section applies in relation to the Tax Agent Services Act 2009 as if references in this section to the Commissioner were references to the Chair of the Tax Practitioners Board.
Section 15B Recoverable advances
 (1) The Commissioner may make an advance to a person (the recipient) on account of an amount to which the recipient may become entitled under a taxation law.
 (2) The Commissioner must not make an advance under subsection  (1) unless:
 (a) if the advance is made in conjunction with other advances under that subsection--the Commissioner is satisfied that the total of the costs that would be likely to be incurred by:
 (i) the Commonwealth; and
 (ii) the recipients; and
 (iii) persons other than the Commonwealth or the recipients;
  if the advance and the other advances were not made is likely to exceed the total of the advance and the other advances; or
 (b) otherwise--the Commissioner is satisfied that the total of the costs that would be likely to be incurred by:
 (i) the Commonwealth; and
 (ii) the recipient; and
 (iii) persons other than the Commonwealth or the recipient;
  if the advance were not made is likely to exceed the amount of the advance.
 (3) An advance under subsection  (1) may:
 (a) be recovered under subsection  (4); or
 (b) be the subject of a determination under subsection  (5).
 (4) If an advance is made under subsection  (1) to a person (the recipient), the advance:
 (a) is a debt due to the Commonwealth by the recipient; and
 (b) is payable to the Commissioner; and
 (c) may be recovered in a court of competent jurisdiction by the Commissioner, or by a Deputy Commissioner, suing in his or her official name;
whether or not the recipient has become entitled to an amount under a taxation law.
Advance may discharge Commonwealth liability
 (5) If:
 (a) an advance is made to a person (the recipient) under subsection (1); and
 (b) the advance has not been fully recovered under subsection  (4); and
 (c) an amount is payable to the recipient by the Commonwealth under a taxation law (the Commonwealth liability);
the Commissioner may, by written notice given to the recipient, determine that the making of the advance is taken to have discharged so much of the Commonwealth liability as equals the whole, or a specified part, of the amount of the advance.
 (6) A part of an advance must not be specified in a determination under subsection  (5) if it has already been specified in a previous determination under subsection (5).
 (7) If the whole, or a part, of an advance is the subject of a determination under subsection  (5), the whole, or the part, as the case may be, of the advance is not recoverable under subsection (4).
 (8) Subsection (5) does not limit Part  IIB.
 (9) For the purposes of any rules made for the purposes of paragraph 103(c) of the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 , a determination under subsection (5) of this section is taken to be a method of debt recovery.
Section 15C Recoverable payments
 (1) If, apart from this subsection, the Commissioner does not have power under a taxation law to pay an amount (the relevant amount) to a person (the recipient) purportedly as an amount to which the recipient is entitled to under a taxation law, then the Commissioner may pay the relevant amount to the recipient.
Recovery
 (2) If a payment is made under subsection  (1) to the recipient, the relevant amount:
 (a) is a debt due to the Commonwealth by the recipient; and
 (b) is payable to the Commissioner; and
 (c) may be recovered in a court of competent jurisdiction by the Commissioner, or by a Deputy Commissioner, suing in his or her official name.
 (3) If:
 (a) a payment is made under subsection  (1) to the recipient; and
 (b) an amount is payable to the recipient by the Commonwealth under a taxation law (the Commonwealth liability);
then:
 (c) the relevant amount; or
 (d) such part of the relevant amount as the Commissioner determines;
may, if the Commissioner so directs, be recovered by deduction from the Commonwealth liability.
 (4) For the purposes of a designated recovery provision, in determining whether an amount is payable, disregard subsection  (1) of this section.
 (5) If the relevant amount is recovered under a designated recovery provision, the relevant amount cannot be recovered under subsection  (2) or (3) of this section.
 (6) If the relevant amount is recovered under subsection  (2) or (3) of this section, the relevant amount cannot be recovered under a designated recovery provision.
 (7) Except as provided by subsection  (6), subsection (3) does not limit Part IIB.
Designated recovery provisions
 (8) For the purposes of this section, each of the following provisions is a designated recovery provision:
 (a) section 8AAZN of this Act;
 (b) section 70 of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992;
 (d) section 24 of the Superannuation (Government Co-contribution for Low Income Earners) Act 2003;
 (e) a similar provision of a taxation law.
 (9) For the purposes of a designated recovery provision, in determining:
 (a) whether a person is entitled to an amount; or
 (b) whether an amount is payable;
disregard subsection (1).
Section 15D Reports about recoverable advances and recoverable payments
 (1) During the applicable publication period for a reporting period, the Commissioner must publish, in such manner as the Commissioner thinks fit, a report that sets out:
 (a) both:
 (i) the number of advances made under subsection  15B(1) during the reporting period; and
 (ii) the total amount of those advances; and
 (b) both:
 (i) the number of payments made under subsection  15C(1) during the reporting period; and
 (ii) the total amount of those payments.
 (2) However, a report is not required if:
 (a) the number mentioned in subparagraph  (1)(a)(i) is zero; and
 (b) the number mentioned in subparagraph  (1)(b)(i) is zero.
Deferred reporting
 (3) Paragraph (1)(b) of this section does not require a report to deal with a payment unless, before the preparation of the report, an Australian Taxation Office official was aware the payment was made under subsection  15C(1).
 (4) For the purposes of this section, if:
 (a) a payment was made under subsection  15C(1) in a reporting period; and
 (b) because of subsection  (3) of this section, paragraph (1)(b) of this section did not require a report to deal with the payment; and
 (c) during a later reporting period, an Australian Taxation Office official becomes aware that the payment was made under subsection  15C(1);
the payment is subject to a deferred reporting obligation in relation to the later reporting period.
 (5) If one or more payments made under subsection  15C(1) during a reporting period are subject to a deferred reporting obligation in relation to a later reporting period, the Commissioner must, during the applicable publication period for the later reporting period:
 (a) prepare a report that sets out:
 (i) the number of those payments; and
 (ii) the total amount of those payments; and
 (iii) the reporting period during which the payments were made; and
 (b) if a report is required under subsection  (1) in relation to the later reporting period--include the paragraph (a) report in the subsection (1) report; and
 (c) if paragraph (b) does not apply--publish, in such manner as the Commissioner thinks fit, the paragraph  (a) report.
Reporting period
 (6) For the purposes of this section, a reporting period is:
 (a) a financial year; or
 (b) if a shorter recurring period is specified in a legislative instrument made by the Minister--that period.
Applicable publication period
 (7) For the purposes of this section, the applicable publication period for a reporting period is the period of:
 (a) 4 months; or
 (b) if a lesser number of months is specified, in relation to the reporting period, in a legislative instrument made by the Minister--that number of months;
beginning immediately after the end of the reporting period.
Australian Taxation Office official
 (8) For the purposes of this section, Australian Taxation Office official means an official (within the meaning of the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 ) of the Australian Taxation Office.
Section 16 Payments out of Consolidated Revenue Fund
 (1) Where the Commissioner is required or permitted to pay an amount to a person by or under a provision of a taxation law other than:
 (a) a general administration provision; or
 (b) a provision prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph;
the amount is payable out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which is appropriated accordingly.
 (2) Where:
 (a) an amount is required or permitted to be paid to a person:
 (i) by or under a provision of a taxation law other than:
 (A) a general administration provision; or
 (B) a provision prescribed for the purposes of this sub -subparagraph; or
 (ii) by way of the repayment, whether in whole or in part, to the person of an amount paid to the Commonwealth;
 (b) except as mentioned in paragraph  (c), there is no provision of a taxation law by or under which the Commissioner is required or permitted to pay the amount; and
 (c) the Commissioner is required or permitted to pay the amount by or under a general administration provision;
the amount shall be taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to be an amount that the Commissioner is required or permitted to pay to the person by or under a provision of a taxation law of the kind referred to in that subsection.
 (3) In this section, general administration provision means a provision of a taxation law that provides that the Commissioner has the general administration of the taxation law.
Section 16A Regulations may provide for methods of payment of tax liabilities etc.
 (1) This section applies to a liability to or of the Commonwealth arising under, or by virtue of, any of the following laws:
 (a) this Act;
 (b) any other Act of which the Commissioner has the general administration;
 (c) regulations under an Act covered by paragraph  (a) or (b).
 (2) The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the methods by which the amount of the liability may be paid.
 (3) Without limiting subsection  (2), the regulations may make provision for and in relation to the making of payments using:
 (a) collection agents; or
 (b) electronic funds transfer systems; or
 (c) credit cards; or
 (d) debit cards.
Section 16B Certain liabilities to be reduced to nearest multiple of 5 cents
  If the amount of a tax-related liability that arises by way of penalty or because it is assessed by the Commissioner (other than an RBA deficit or a liability to pay the general interest charge) is not a multiple of 5 cents, the amount is decreased to the nearest multiple of 5 cents.
Section 17 Powers of taxation officers in relation to references to currency etc.
 (1) In this section:
"decimal currency" means the currency provided for by the Currency Act 1965.
"law of the Commonwealth" has the same meaning as in section 10 of the Currency Act 1965 .
"officer" includes the Commissioner and a Second Commissioner.
"taxation law" means any law of the Commonwealth of which the Commissioner has the general administration.
"the previous currency" means the currency provided for by the Coinage Act 1909.
 (2) An officer may, in the exercise of, or for the purpose of exercising, any power under a taxation law or in the performance of, or for the purpose of performing, any function under a taxation law:
 (a) treat:
 (i) a reference in a law of the Commonwealth;
 (ii) a reference in a bill of exchange, promissory note, security for money, contract or agreement (whether the contract or agreement is in writing or not), deed or other instrument; or
 (iii) a reference in any other manner;
  to an amount of money in the previous currency as a reference to a corresponding amount of money in decimal currency and treat such a reference to an amount of money in decimal currency as a reference to a corresponding amount of money in the previous currency;
 (b) treat an amount of money in the previous currency as a corresponding amount of money in decimal currency and treat an amount of money in decimal currency as a corresponding amount of money in the previous currency; and
 (c) express an amount of money in either decimal currency or the previous currency.
 (3) For the purposes of paragraphs  (2)(a), (b) and (c):
 (a) the amount of money in decimal currency that corresponds with an amount of money in the previous currency; and
 (b) the amount of money in the previous currency that corresponds with an amount of money in decimal currency;
shall be calculated on the basis of the equivalents specified in subsection 8(4) of the Currency Act 1965.
Section 17A Powers of Federal Court and Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 2) in respect of taxation matters
 (1) The Federal Court of Australia shall not, in relation to a review by the Court of a decision of the Tribunal in connection with proceedings under a taxation law, exercise a power conferred on it by section  15, or paragraph 16(1)(d), (2)(b) or (3)(c) or subsection  16(4), of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 so as to prevent or restrain the recovery, under that law, of tax or duty, further tax or further duty or additional tax or additional duty.
 (2) The Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  2) must not, in relation to a review by the Court of a decision of the Tribunal in connection with proceedings under a taxation law, exercise a power conferred on it by section 15A, or paragraph  16(1)(d), (2)(b) or (3)(c) or subsection 16(4), of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 so as to prevent or restrain the recovery, under that law, of:
 (a) tax or duty; or
 (b) further tax or further duty; or
 (c) additional tax or additional duty.
Section 18 Regulations
  The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters which by this Act are required or permitted to be prescribed, or which are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for giving effect to this Act, and, in particular, prescribing penalties not exceeding a fine of 5 penalty units for offences against the regulations.
TAXATION ADMINISTRATION ACT 1953
- SCHEDULE 1
Collection and recovery of income tax and other liabilities
Note: See section 3AA.
Chapter 2--Collection, recovery and administration of income tax
Part 2-1--Introduction to the Pay as you go (PAYG) system
Division 6--Guide to Parts 2-5 and 2-10
Section 6-1 What Parts  2-5 and 2-10 are about
To help taxpayers meet their annual income tax liability, they are required to pay amounts of their income at regular intervals as it is earned during the year. The system for collecting these amounts is called &quot;Pay as you go&quot;.Amounts collected under this system also go towards meeting liability for Medicare levy and liability to repay debts under certain income -contingent loan schemes.
Table of sections
Section 6-5 The Pay as you go (PAYG) system
Section 6-10 How the amounts collected are dealt with
Section 6-5 The Pay as you go (PAYG) system
 (1) Parts 2-5 and 2-10 establish the PAYG system, which has 2 components:
 &bull;  PAYG withholding (Part  2-5)
 &bull;  PAYG instalments (Part  2-10).
PAYG withholding
 (2) Under PAYG withholding, amounts are collected in respect of particular kinds of payments or transactions. Usually, someone who makes a payment to you is required to withhold an amount from the payment, and then to pay the amount to the Commissioner.
For a list of the payments and other transactions to whichPAYG withholding applies, see Division 10
PAYG instalments
 (3) You pay PAYG instalments directly to the Commissioner. These are usually based on your GDP -adjusted notional tax or your ordinary income for a past period, but excluding:
 &bull;  income subject to PAYG withholding (with certain exceptions)
 &bull;  exempt income, or income that is otherwise not assessable.
An instalment is usually paid after a quarter, but some taxpayers are eligible to pay an annual instalment after the end of the income year.
Section 6-10 How the amounts collected are dealt with
  You are entitled to credits for the amounts of your income that are collected under the PAYG system. The credits are applied under Division  3 of Part IIB against your tax debts, and any excess is refunded to you.
Part 2-5--Pay as you go (PAYG) withholding
Division 10--Guide to Part 2-5
Section 10-1 What this Part is about
Under PAYG withholding, amounts are collected in respect of particular kinds of payments or transactions. Usually, someone who makes a payment to you is required to withhold an amount from the payment, and then to pay the amount to the Commissioner. If the payment is personal services income that is included in the assessable income of someone else under Division  86 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, the payer must pay such an amount to the Commissioner at a later date.If a non-cash benefit is provided instead of a payment, the provider must first pay to the Commissioner the amount that would have been withheld from the payment.This Part also contains provisions about the obligations and rights of payers and recipients.
Section 10-5 Summary of withholding payments
 (1) The payments and other transactions covered by PAYG withholding are called withholding payments. They are summarised in the table.
Note: The obligation to pay an amount to the Commissioner is imposed on the entity making the withholding payment (except for items  17, 19, 22 and 27, and 26 (to the extent that it covers subsection 12-390(4))).
Summary of withholding paymentsItemWithholding paymentSection1A payment of salary etc. to an employee12-352A payment of remuneration to the director of a company12-403A payment of salary etc. to an office holder (e.g. a member of the Defence Force)12-453Aa payment to a *religious practitioner12-474A return to work payment to an individual12-505A payment that is covered by a voluntary agreement12-556A payment under a labour hire arrangement or a payment specified by regulations12-607A *superannuation income stream or an annuity12-808A *superannuation lump sum or a payment for termination of employment12-859An unused leave payment12-90Summary of withholding paymentsItemWithholding paymentSection1A payment of salary etc. to an employee12-352A payment of remuneration to the director of a company12-403A payment of salary etc. to an office holder (e.g. a member of the Defence Force)12-453Aa payment to a *religious practitioner12-474A return to work payment to an individual12-505A payment that is covered by a voluntary agreement12-556A payment under a labour hire arrangement or a payment specified by regulations12-607A *superannuation income stream or an annuity12-808A *superannuation lump sum or a payment for termination of employment12-859An unused leave payment12-9010A social security or similar payment (e.g. old age pension)12-11011A Commonwealth education or training payment12-11512A compensation, sickness or accident payment12-12013A payment arising from an investment where the recipient does not quote its tax file number, or in some cases, its ABN12-14014Investor becoming presently entitled to income of a unit trust12-14514AA trustee of a closely held trust distributing an amount from the trust income to a beneficiary, where the beneficiary does not quote its tax file number12-17514BA beneficiary of a closely held trust becoming presently entitled to income of the trust, where the beneficiary does not quote its tax file number12-18015A payment for a supply where the recipient of the payment does not quote its ABN12-19016A dividend payment to an overseas person12-21017A dividend payment received for a foreign resident12-21518An interest payment to an overseas person12-24519An interest payment received for a foreign resident10A social security or similar payment (e.g. old age pension)12-11011A Commonwealth education or training payment12-11512A compensation, sickness or accident payment12-12013A payment arising from an investment where the recipient does not quote its tax file number, or in some cases, its ABN12-14014Investor becoming presently entitled to income of a unit trust12-14514AA trustee of a closely held trust distributing an amount from the trust income to a beneficiary, where the beneficiary does not quote its tax file number12-17514BA beneficiary of a closely held trust becoming presently entitled to income of the trust, where the beneficiary does not quote its tax file number12-18015A payment for a supply where the recipient of the payment does not quote its ABN12-19016A dividend payment to an overseas person12-21017A dividend payment received for a foreign resident12-21518An interest payment to an overseas person12-24519An interest payment received for a foreign resident12-25020An interest payment derived by a lender in carrying on business through overseas permanent establishment12-25521A royalty payment to an overseas person12-28022A royalty payment received for a foreign resident12-28522AA departing Australia superannuation payment12-30522AAAn *excess untaxed roll-over amount12-31222BA payment (of a kind set out in the regulations) to a foreign resident12-31522CA payment (of a kind set out in the regulations) received for a foreign resident12-31722DA payment of salary, wages etc. to an employee under a labour mobility program12-319A23A mining payment12-32024A natural resource payment12-32525A payment by a withholding MIT12-3852612-25020An interest payment derived by a lender in carrying on business through overseas permanent establishment12-25521A royalty payment to an overseas person12-28022A royalty payment received for a foreign resident12-28522AA departing Australia superannuation payment12-30522AAAn *excess untaxed roll-over amount12-31222BA payment (of a kind set out in the regulations) to a foreign resident12-31522CA payment (of a kind set out in the regulations) received for a foreign resident12-31722DA payment of salary, wages etc. to an employee under a labour mobility program12-319A23A mining payment12-32024A natural resource payment12-32525A payment by a withholding MIT12-38526A payment by a *custodian or other entity12-39027A payment under the *first home super saver scheme12-460
 (2) These can also be treated as withholding payments:
 (aa) a payment that arises because of the operation of section  12A-205 (see Division 12A);
 (a) alienated personal services payments (see Division  13);
 (b) non-cash benefits, and capital proceeds involving foreign residents and certain kinds of taxable Australian property (see Division  14).
Note: The obligation to pay an amount to the Commissioner is imposed on the entity receiving the alienated personal services payment or providing the non -cash benefit or capital proceeds.
Division 11--Preliminary matters
Table of sections
Section 11-1 Object of this Part
Section 11-5 Constructive payment
Section 11-1 Object of this Part
  The object of this Part is to ensure the efficient collection of:
 (a) income tax; and
 (b) *Medicare levy; and
 (ca) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Chapter  4 of the Higher Education Support Act 2003; and
 (caa) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Part  3A of the VET Student Loans Act 2016; and
 (cb) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Chapter  2AA of the Social Security Act 1991; and
 (cc) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Part  2 of the Student Assistance Act 1973; and
 (cd) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Chapter  3 of the Australian Apprenticeship Support Loans Act 2014; and
 (da) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Part  2B.3 of the Social Security Act 1991; and
 (db) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Division  6 of Part 4A of the Student Assistance Act 1973; and
 (d) *withholding tax; and
 (e) *mining withholding tax; and
 (f) *TFN withholding tax; and
 (h) *petroleum resource rent tax.
Section 11-5 Constructive payment
 (1) In working out whether an entity has paid an amount to another entity, and when the payment is made, the amount is taken to have been paid to the other entity when the first entity applies or deals with the amount in any way on the other&#39;s behalf or as the other directs.
 (2) An amount is taken to be payable by an entity to another entity if the first entity is required to apply or deal with it in any way on the other&#39;s behalf or as the other directs.
Division 12--Payments from which amounts must be withheld
Table of Subdivisions
Section 12-A General rules
Section 12-B Payments for work and services
Section 12-C Payments for retirement or because of termination of employment
Section 12-D Benefit and compensation payments
Section 12-E Payments where TFN or ABN not quoted
Section 12-F Dividend, interest and royalty payments
Section 12-FA Departing Australia superannuation payments
Section 12-FAA Excess untaxed roll-over amount
Section 12-FB Payments to foreign residents etc.
Section 12-FC Labour mobility programs
Section 12-G Payments in respect of mining on Aboriginal land, and natural resources
Section 12-H Distributions of withholding MIT income
Section 12-J FHSS released amounts
Subdivision 12-A--General rules
Table of sections
Section 12-1 General exceptions
Section 12-5 What to do if more than one provision requires a withholding
Section 12-7 Division does not apply to alienated personal services payments
Section 12-10 Division does not apply to non-cash benefits
Section 12-20 Application of Division and regulations to non -share dividends
Section 12-1 General exceptions
Exempt income of recipient
 (1) An entity need not withhold an amount under section  12-35, 12-40, 12-45, 12-47, 12-50, 12-55, 12 -60, 12-80, 12-85, 12-90, 12-120 or 12-190 from a payment if the whole of the payment is *exempt income of the entity receiving the payment.
Non-assessable non-exempt income of recipient
 (1A) An entity need not withhold an amount under Subdivision  12-B, Subdivision 12-C or section 12-120 or 12 -190 from a payment if the whole of the payment is not assessable income and is not *exempt income of the entity receiving the payment.
Living-away-from-home allowance benefit
 (2) In working out how much to withhold under section  12-35, 12-40, 12-45, 12-47, 12-115, 12-120, 12 -315 or 12-317 from a payment, disregard so much of the payment as is a living-away-from-home allowance benefit as defined by section  136 of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986.
Expense payment benefit
 (3) In working out how much to withhold under section  12-35, 12-40, 12-45, 12-47, 12-115, 12-120, 12 -315 or 12-317 from a payment, disregard so much of the payment as:
 (a) is an expense payment benefit as defined by section  136 of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986; and
 (b) is not an exempt benefit under section  22 of that Act (about reimbursement of car expenses on the basis of distance travelled).
Capped defined benefit income stream
 (4) This section does not apply in relation to a payment if the whole of the payment is a *superannuation income stream benefit that is paid from a *capped defined benefit income stream.
Note: For withholding amounts from a superannuation income stream, see section  12-80.
Section 12-5 What to do if more than one provision requires a withholding
 (1) If more than one provision in this Division covers a payment, only one amount is to be withheld from the payment.
 (2) The provision to apply is the one that is most specific to the circumstances of the payment. However, this general rule is subject to the specific rules in the table, and the specific rule in subsection  (3).
Specific rules for determining priority among withholding provisionsItemApply:Which is about:In priority to:1AAsection 12-385 or 12-390distributions to foreign residents from *withholding MITseach other withholding provision1section 12-35, 12-40, 12-45, 12-47 or 12-50a payment for work or servicessection 12-60 (payment under a labour hire arrangement or specified by regulations); orsection 12-190 (payment for a supply where recipient does not quote its ABN)1Asection 12-35 or 12-45a payment for work or servicessection 12-47 (a payment to a *religious practitioner)2section 12-80, 12-85 or 12-90a *superannuation benefit, an annuity, a payment for termination of employment or an unused leave paymentsection 12-60 (payment under a labour hire arrangement or specified by regulations); orsection 12-190 (payment for a supply where recipient does not quote its ABN)3section 12-110, 12-115 or 12-120a payment of benefit or compensationsection 12-60 (payment under a labour hire arrangement or specified by regulations); orsection 12-190 (payment for a supply where recipient does not quote its ABN)4section 12-60Specific rules for determining priority among withholding provisionsItemApply:Which is about:In priority to:1AAsection 12-385 or 12-390distributions to foreign residents from *withholding MITseach other withholding provision1section 12-35, 12-40, 12-45, 12-47 or 12-50a payment for work or servicessection 12-60 (payment under a labour hire arrangement or specified by regulations); orsection 12-190 (payment for a supply where recipient does not quote its ABN)1Asection 12-35 or 12-45a payment for work or servicessection 12-47 (a payment to a *religious practitioner)2section 12-80, 12-85 or 12-90a *superannuation benefit, an annuity, a payment for termination of employment or an unused leave paymentsection 12-60 (payment under a labour hire arrangement or specified by regulations); orsection 12-190 (payment for a supply where recipient does not quote its ABN)3section 12-110, 12-115 or 12-120a payment of benefit or compensationsection 12-60 (payment under a labour hire arrangement or specified by regulations); orsection 12-190 (payment for a supply where recipient does not quote its ABN)4section 12-60a payment under a labour hire arrangement or specified by regulationssection 12-190 (payment for a supply where recipient does not quote its ABN)5section 12-140 or 12-145a payment arising from investment where the recipient does not quote tax file numbersection 12-175 or 12-180 (Payment of income of closely held trust where TFN not quoted) or section  12-210, 12-215, 12-245, 12-250 or 12-255 (payment of a dividend or interest)6section 12-280 or 12-285a payment of royaltysection 12-325 (natural resource payment)
 (3) Apply a provision in this Division (apart from a provision in Subdivision  12-FB) that covers a payment in priority to a provision in Subdivision 12-FB that also covers the payment.
Note: Some provisions of this Division clearly do not cover a payment covered by some other provisions. For example:
Section 12-55 (about voluntary agreements) covers a payment only if no other provision requires the payer to withhold an amount from the payment.
Section 12-7 Division does not apply to alienated personal services payments
 (1) This Division (other than the provisions mentioned in subsection  (2)) does not apply to a payment in so far as the payment:
 (a) is an *alienated personal services payment; or
 (b) was received, by the entity making the payment, as an *alienated personal services payment.
Note: An entity that receives an alienated personal services payment may be obliged to pay an amount to the Commissioner: see Division  13.
 (2) The provisions are:
 (a) Subdivision 12-FB; and
 (b) any other provisions in this Division to the extent that they apply in relation to that Subdivision.
Section 12-10 Division does not apply to non-cash benefits
  This Division does not apply to a payment in so far as it consists of providing a *non-cash benefit.
Note: If a non-cash benefit is provided in circumstances where a payment would give rise to a withholding obligation, the provider must pay an amount to the Commissioner: see Division  14.
Section 12-20 Application of Division and regulations to non -share dividends
  This Division and the regulations made for the purposes of this Division:
 (a) apply to a non-share equity interest in the same way as it applies to a share; and
 (b) apply to an equity holder in the same way as it applies to a shareholder; and
 (c) apply to a non-share dividend in the same way as it applies to a dividend.
Subdivision 12-B--Payments for work and services
Table of sections
Section 12-35 Payment to employee
Section 12-40 Payment to company director
Section 12-45 Payment to office holder
Section 12-47 Payment to religious practitioners
Section 12-50 Return to work payment
Section 12-55 Voluntary agreement to withhold
Section 12-60 Payment under labour hire arrangement, or specified by regulations
Section 12-35 Payment to employee
  An entity must withhold an amount from salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances it pays to an individual as an employee (whether of that or another entity).
For exceptions, see section 12-1.
Section 12-40 Payment to company director
  A company must withhold an amount from a payment of remuneration it makes to an individual:
 (a) if the company is incorporated--as a director of the company, or as a person who performs the duties of a director of the company; or
 (b) if the company is not incorporated--as a member of the committee of management of the company, or as a person who performs the duties of such a member.
For exceptions, see section 12-1.
Section 12-45 Payment to office holder
 (1) An entity must withhold an amount from salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances it pays to an individual as:
 (a) a member of an *Australian legislature; or
 (b) a person who holds, or performs the duties of, an appointment, office or position under the Constitution or an *Australian law; or
 (c) a member of the Defence Force, or of a police force of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory; or
 (d) a person who is otherwise in the service of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory; or
 (e) a member of a *local governing body where there is in effect, in accordance with section 446-5, a unanimous resolution by the body that the remuneration of members of the body be subject to withholding under this Part.
For exceptions, see section 12-1.
 (2) This section does not require an amount to be withheld from a payment to an individual as a member of a *local governing body unless it is one to which paragraph (1)(e) applies.
Section 12-47 Payment to religious practitioners
  An entity must withhold an amount from a payment it makes to a *religious practitioner for an activity, or a series of activities, if:
 (a) the activity, or series of activities, is done by the religious practitioner in pursuit of his or her vocation as a religious practitioner; and
 (b) the activity, or series of activities, is done by the religious practitioner as a member of a religious institution; and
 (c) the payment is made by the entity in the course or furtherance of an *enterprise that the entity *carries on.
Section 12-50 Return to work payment
  An entity must withhold an amount from a payment it makes to an individual if the payment is included in the individual&#39;s assessable income under section  15-3 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (return to work payments).
For exceptions, see section 12-1.
Section 12-55 Voluntary agreement to withhold
 (1) An entity must withhold an amount from a payment it makes to an individual if:
 (a) the payment is made under an *arrangement the performance of which, in whole or in part, involves the performance of work or services (whether or not by the individual); and
 (b) no other provision of this Division requires the entity to withhold an amount from the payment; and
 (c) the entity and the individual are parties to an agreement (the voluntary agreement) that is in the *approved form and states that this section covers payments under the arrangement mentioned in paragraph  (a), or under a series of such arrangements that includes that arrangement; and
 (d) the individual has an *ABN that is in force and is *quoted in that agreement.
For exceptions, see section 12-1.
 (2) Each party must keep a copy of the voluntary agreement from when it is made until 5 years after the making of the last payment covered by the agreement.
Penalty: 30 penalty units.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
 (2A) An offence under subsection  (2) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section  6.1 of the Criminal Code.
 (3) A party to the voluntary agreement may terminate it at any time by notifying the other party in writing.
Section 12-60 Payment under labour hire arrangement, or specified by regulations
 (1) An entity that *carries on an *enterprise must withhold an amount from a payment that it makes to an individual in the course or furtherance of the enterprise if:
 (a) the enterprise is a *business of arranging for persons to perform work or services directly for clients of the entity, or the enterprise includes a business of that kind that is not merely incidental to the main activities of the enterprise; and
 (b) the payment is made under an *arrangement the performance of which, in whole or in part, involves the performance of work or services by the individual directly for a client of the entity, or directly for a client of another entity.
For exceptions, see section 12-1.
Example 1: Staffprovider Ltd keeps a database of skilled persons who are willing for their services to be provided to third parties. Staffprovider arranges with Corporate Pty Ltd to provide to it the services of a computer programmer in return for payment. Staffprovider arranges with Jane for her to do computer programming for Corporate. Staffprovider must withhold amounts under this section from payments it makes to Jane under the arrangement with her.
Example 2: Ian is a solicitor who regularly briefs barristers to represent his clients. Briefing barristers is merely incidental to Ian&#39;s main activities as a solicitor, so he does not have to withhold amounts under this section from payments he makes to barristers.
 (2) An entity that carries on an *enterprise must withhold an amount from a payment that it makes to an individual in the course or furtherance of the enterprise if the payment is, in whole or in part, for work or services and is of a kind prescribed by the regulations.
For exceptions, see section 12-1.
Subdivision 12-C--Payments for retirement or because of termination of employment
Section 12-80 Superannuation income streams and annuities
  An entity must withhold an amount from any of the following payments it makes to an individual:
 (a) a *superannuation income stream;
 (b) an *annuity.
For exceptions, see section 12-1.
Section 12-85 Superannuation lump sums and payments for termination of employment
  An entity must withhold an amount from any of the following payments it makes to an individual:
 (a) a *superannuation lump sum;
 (b) a payment that is an *employment termination payment or would be one except that it is received more than 12 months after termination of employment.
For exceptions, see section 12-1.
Section 12-90 Unused leave payments
  An entity must withhold an amount from any of the following payments it makes to an individual:
 (a) an *unused annual leave payment;
 (b) an *unused long service leave payment, to the extent that the payment is included in the individual&#39;s assessable income.
For exceptions, see section 12-1.
Subdivision 12-D--Benefit and compensation payments
Table of sections
Section 12-110 Social Security or other benefit payment
Section 12-115 Commonwealth education or training payment
Section 12-120 Compensation, sickness or accident payment
Section 12-110 Social Security or other benefit payment
 (1) An entity must withhold an amount from a payment it makes to an individual if the payment is:
 (a) specified in an item of the table in section  52-10 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Social Security payments); or
 (b) specified in an item of the table in section  52-65 of that Act (Veterans&#39; Affairs payments); or
 (ba) specified in an item of the table in section  52-114 of that Act (Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act payments); or
 (c) specified in section  52-105, 53-10, 55-5 or 55-10 of that Act; or
Note: Payments specified in those provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 are made under various Commonwealth laws.
 (ca) *parental leave pay.
 (2) In working out the amount to be withheld, disregard so much of the payment as is *exempt income of the individual.
Section 12-115 Commonwealth education or training payment
 (1) An entity must withhold an amount from a *Commonwealth education or training payment it makes to an individual.
For exceptions, see subsection (2) and section 12-1.
 (2) In working out the amount to be withheld, disregard so much of the payment as is *exempt income of the individual.
Section 12-120 Compensation, sickness or accident payment
  An entity must withhold an amount from a payment of compensation, or of sickness or accident pay, it makes to an individual if the payment:
 (a) is made because of that or another individual&#39;s incapacity for work; and
 (b) is calculated at a periodical rate; and
 (c) is not a payment made under an insurance policy to the policy owner.
For exceptions, see section 12-1.
Subdivision 12-E--Payments where TFN or ABN not quoted
Table of sections
Payment in respect of investment
Section 12-140 Recipient does not quote tax file number
Section 12-145 Investor becoming presently entitled to income of a unit trust
Section 12-150 Limited application of section 12-140 to payment under financial arrangement
Section 12-152 Limited application of section 12-140 to payment covered by section  12A-205
Section 12-155 When investor may quote ABN as alternative
Section 12-160 Investment body unaware that exemption from quoting TFN has stopped applying
Section 12-165 Exception for fully franked dividend
Section 12-170 Exception for payments below thresholds set by regulations
Payment of income of closely held trust where TFN not quoted
Section 12-175 Trustee distributes income of closely held trust
Section 12-180 Beneficiary becomes presently entitled to income of closely held trust
Section 12-185 Exception for payments below thresholds set by regulations
Payment for a supply
Section 12-190 Recipient does not quote ABN
 Payment in respect of investment
Section 12-140 Recipient does not quote tax file number
 (1) An *investment body must withhold an amount from a payment it makes to another entity in respect of a *Part VA investment if:
 (a) all or some of the payment is *ordinary income or *statutory income of the other entity; and
 (b) if the investment is non -transferable--the other entity did not *quote its *tax file number in connection with the investment before the time when the payment became payable; and
 (c) if the investment is transferable--the other entity did not quote its tax file number in connection with the investment before the time when the other entity had to be registered with the investment body as the *investor to be entitled to the payment.
Note: If the investment body is an AMIT, under subsection 12A-205(2) amounts may be treated, for the purposes of this Part, as having been paid to the other entity by the investment body.
Payment in respect of units in a trust or investment-related betting chance
 (2) If a *Part VA investment consists of:
 (a) units in a unit trust (as defined in section  202A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936); or
 (b) an investment-related betting chance;
an entity (including the *investment body) must withhold an amount from a payment it makes to another entity in respect of the investment if the conditions in subsection  (1) of this section are met.
For exceptions to the rules in this section, see sections 12-150 to 12-170.
 (3) If:
 (a) because of subsection  12A-205(2), an entity is treated as having made a payment to another entity; and
 (b) under subsection (2) of this section, the entity has withheld an amount from that payment, and paid the amount to the Commissioner;
the entity may recover from the other entity, as a debt, the amount withheld.
 (4) The entity is entitled to set off an amount that the entity can recover from the other entity under subsection  (3) against debts due by the entity to the other entity.
Section 12-145 Investor becoming presently entitled to income of a unit trust
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) a *Part VA investment consists of units in a unit trust (as defined in section 202A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ); and
 (b) the *investor becomes presently entitled, for the purposes of Division 6 of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 , to a share of income of the trust at a time (the entitlement time) before any of that share is paid to the investor.
 (2) The entity (including the *investment body) that would have to pay that share to the *investor if the share were due and payable at the entitlement time must withhold from the share, at that time, the amount (if any) that subsection  12-140(2) would have required it to withhold if it had paid the share to the investor at that time.
For exceptions to the rules in this section, see sections 12-155 to 12-170.
 (3) This Part (except section  12-140 and this section) applies as if that entity had paid that share to the *investor at the entitlement time.
 (4) If that entity withholds an amount from that share as required by subsection  (2), subsection 12-140(2) does not require an amount to be withheld from a payment of all or part of that share to the *investor.
Section 12-150 Limited application of section  12-140 to payment under financial arrangement
 (1) This section limits the extent to which section  12-140 applies to a payment in respect of a *Part VA investment if the investment is a qualifying security (within the meaning of Division  16E of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (about gains accruing on securities)) and:
 (a) is of a kind mentioned in item  1 or 2 of the table in subsection 202D(1) of that Act; or
 (b) is of a kind mentioned in item  3 of that table and is non-transferable.
Note: Section 202D of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 lists the investments in connection with which tax file numbers are to be quoted.
 (2) Section 12-140 applies to the payment only to the extent that is covered by one or both of these paragraphs:
 (a) so much of the payment as consists of periodic interest (within the meaning of Division  16E of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936);
 (b) if the payment became payable at the end of the term (within the meaning of that Division) of the investment--so much of the payment as does not exceed what section 159GQ of that Act would include in the *investor&#39;s assessable income for the income year in which that term ended.
Note: This limitation ensures that an amount is not withheld from payment of an amount in respect of which TFN withholding tax is payable. See Subdivision  14-B.
 (3) The adoption (under section  18 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) of an accounting period ending on a day other than 30 June is disregarded for the purposes of:
 (a) paragraph (2)(b) of this section; and
 (b) the application of Division  16E of Part III of that Act for the purposes of that paragraph.
Section 12-152 Limited application of section  12-140 to payment covered by section 12A-205
 (1) If a payment is treated under section  12A-205 as having been made, section 12-140 does not apply to the payment to the extent that it covers a *pre-AMMA actual payment from which section 12-140 has required an amount to be withheld.
 (2) If a payment is a *post-AMMA actual payment, section 12-140 does not apply to the payment to the extent that it covers either or both of the following:
 (a) a *pre-AMMA actual payment from which section 12-140 has required an amount to be withheld;
 (b) a payment that is treated under section  12A-205 as having been made from which section 12-140 has required an amount to be withheld.
Section 12-155 When investor may quote ABN as alternative
  Section 12-140 or 12-145 does not require an amount to be withheld if:
 (a) the other entity made the investment in the course or furtherance of an *enterprise *carried on by it; and
 (b) the other entity has an *ABN, and has *quoted it to the investment body, by the time referred to in paragraph  12-140(1)(b) or (c).
Section 12-160 Investment body unaware that exemption from quoting TFN has stopped applying
  Section 12-140 or 12-145 does not require an amount to be withheld if:
 (a) a provision of Division  5 of Part VA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 has applied to the other entity in relation to the investment, but no longer applies when the payment is made; and
 (b) when the payment is made, the *investment body has not been informed of anything that resulted in the provision no longer applying.
Note: Division 5 of Part VA of that Act provides, in certain cases, that even though an entity has not quoted its tax file number it is taken to have done so.
Section 12-165 Exception for fully franked dividend
  Section 12-140 does not require an amount to be withheld if:
 (a) the investment consists of *shares in a public company (as defined in section 202A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936); and
 (b) the payment is a *distribution that has been franked in accordance with section 202-5 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; and
 (c) the *franking percentage for the distribution is 100%.
Section 12-170 Exception for payments below thresholds set by regulations
 (1) Section 12-140 or 12-145 does not require an amount to be withheld if the payment is less than the amount worked out under the regulations.
 (2) Regulations made for the purposes of this section may deal differently with different payments.
 Payment of income of closely held trust where TFN not quoted
Section 12-175 Trustee distributes income of closely held trust
Scope
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) the trustee of a trust makes a distribution to a beneficiary of the trust at a time (the distribution time) during an income year of the trust; and
 (b) some or all of the distribution is from the *ordinary income or *statutory income of the trust; and
 (c) the trust is:
 (i) a resident trust estate (within the meaning of subsection  95(2) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) in relation to the income year; and
 (ii) a closely held trust (within the meaning of section  102UC of that Act); and
 (iii) not prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this subparagraph; and
 (d) the beneficiary is:
 (i) an Australian resident; and
 (ii) not an *exempt entity; and
 (iii) not under a legal disability for the purposes of section  98 of that Act.
Trustee must withhold
 (2) The trustee must withhold an amount from the distribution, if:
 (a) the beneficiary did not *quote the beneficiary&#39;s *tax file number to the trustee before the distribution time; and
 (b) the trustee is not liable to pay tax under section  98 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 in connection with the distribution; and
 (c) the trustee is not required to make a correct TB statement under Division  6D of Part III of that Act (about trustee beneficiary non-disclosure tax) in connection with the distribution; and
 (d) family trust distribution tax is not payable under Schedule  2F to that Act in connection with the distribution.
Note 1: If the trust is a unit trust, the trustee may be required to withhold under section  12-140 in priority to this section: see section 12-5.
Note 2: The trustee commits an offence if the trustee fails to withhold an amount as required by this section: see section  16-25.
Application of rest of Part
 (3) If the distribution is not a payment, this Part applies as if the trustee paid the amount of the distribution to the beneficiary at the distribution time.
Trust income of earlier income years
 (4) Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to the distribution, to the extent that:
 (a) the beneficiary is presently entitled, for the purposes of Division  6 of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, to a share of the income of the trust of an earlier income year; and
 (b) the distribution is a distribution of some or all of that share.
Note: The trustee may have been required to withhold from that share under section  12-180.
Section 12-180 Beneficiary becomes presently entitled to income of closely held trust
Scope
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) at the end of an income year of a trust, a beneficiary of the trust is presently entitled, for the purposes of Division 6 of Part  III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, to a share of the income of the trust of that year; and
 (b) paragraph 12-175(1)(c) in this Schedule applies to the trustee of the trust; and
 (c) paragraph 12-175(1)(d) applies to the beneficiary.
Trustee must withhold
 (2) The trustee must withhold an amount from that share of the *net income of the trust, if:
 (a) the beneficiary did not *quote the beneficiary&#39;s *tax file number to the trustee before the end of the year; and
 (b) the trustee is not liable to pay tax in respect of that share under section  98 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; and
 (c) the trustee is not required to make a correct TB statement about that share under Division  6D of Part III of that Act (about trustee beneficiary non-disclosure tax); and
 (d) family trust distribution tax is not payable on that share of the income of the trust under Schedule  2F to that Act.
Note 1: If the trust is a unit trust, the trustee may be required to withhold under section  12-145 in priority to this section: see section 12-5.
Note 2: The trustee commits an offence if the trustee fails to withhold an amount as required by this section: see section  16-25.
Application of rest of Part
 (3) This Part (other than section  12-175) applies as if the trustee had paid that share of the *net income of the trust to the beneficiary at the end of the income year.
Entitlements already paid
 (4) Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to that share of the *net income of the trust to the extent that the trustee distributed any of that share to the beneficiary during the income year.
Note: The trustee may have been required to withhold from that distribution under section  12-175.
Trusts that end during the year
 (5) This section applies as if each reference to the end of an income year were a reference to the time occurring just before the trust ends, if the trust ends during the income year.
Section 12-185 Exception for payments below thresholds set by regulations
 (1) Section 12-175 or 12-180 does not require an amount to be withheld if the payment (including the payment mentioned in subsection  12-180(3)) is less than the amount worked out under the regulations.
 (2) Regulations made for the purposes of this section may deal differently with different payments.
 Payment for a supply
Section 12-190 Recipient does not quote ABN
 (1) An entity (the payer) must withhold an amount from a payment it makes to another entity if:
 (a) the payment is for a *supply that the other entity has made, or proposes to make, to the payer in the course or furtherance of an *enterprise *carried on in Australia by the other entity; and
 (b) none of the exceptions in this section applies.
ABN correctly quoted
 (2) The payer need not withhold an amount under this section if, when the payment is made:
 (a) the other entity has given the payer an *invoice that relates to the *supply and *quotes the other entity&#39;s *ABN; or
 (b) the payer has some other document relating to the supply on which the other entity&#39;s ABN is *quoted.
 (2A) The payer need not withhold an amount under this section if the other entity has made the *supply, or proposes to make the supply, through an agent and, when the payment is made:
 (a) the agent has given the payer an *invoice that relates to the supply and *quotes the agent&#39;s *ABN; or
 (b) the payer has some other document relating to the supply on which the agent&#39;s ABN is *quoted.
Payer has no reason to believe that ABN has been incorrectly quoted
 (3) The payer need not withhold an amount under this section if, when the payment is made:
 (a) the other entity has given the payer an *invoice that relates to the *supply and purports to *quote the other entity&#39;s *ABN, or the payer has some other document that relates to the supply and purports to *quote the other entity&#39;s ABN; and
 (b) the other entity does not have an ABN, or the invoice or other document does not in fact quote the other entity&#39;s ABN; and
 (c) the payer has no reasonable grounds to believe that the other entity does not have an ABN, or that the invoice or other document does not quote the other entity&#39;s ABN.
 (3A) The payer need not withhold an amount under this section if the other entity has made the *supply, or proposes to make the supply, through an agent and, when the payment is made:
 (a) the agent has given the payer an *invoice that relates to the supply and purports to *quote the agent&#39;s *ABN, or the payer has some other document that relates to the supply and purports to *quote the agent&#39;s ABN; and
 (b) the agent does not have an ABN, or the invoice or other document does not in fact quote the agent&#39;s ABN; and
 (c) the payer has no reasonable grounds to believe that the agent does not have an ABN, or that the invoice or other document does not quote the agent&#39;s ABN.
No need to quote ABN
 (4) The payer need not withhold an amount under this section if:
 (a) the payment is made otherwise than in the course or furtherance of an *enterprise *carried on in Australia by the payer; or
 (b) the payment (disregarding so much of it as relates to *GST payable on the *supply) or, if the payer has also made, or proposes to make, one or more other payments to the other entity for the supply, the total of all the payments (disregarding so much of them as relates to *GST payable on the supply) does not exceed $50 or such higher amount as is specified in regulations in force for the purposes of subsection  29-80(1) of the *GST Act; or
 (c) the supply is made in the course or furtherance of an activity, or series of activities, done as a member of a local governing body established by or under a *State law or *Territory law; or
 (d) the supply is wholly *input taxed.
 (5) The payer need not withhold an amount under this section if the payment:
 (a) is covered by section  12-140 or 12-145 (about not quoting *tax file number in respect of an investment in respect of which the payment is made); or
 (b) would be covered by section  12-140 or 12-145 if the other entity had not quoted as mentioned in subsection 12-140(1) or section  12-155; or
 (c) would be covered by section  12-140 or 12-145 apart from section 12-160, 12-165 or 12 -170 (which are exceptions to sections 12-140 and 12-145); or
 (d) is covered by section  12-175 or 12-180 (Payment of income of closely held trust where TFN not quoted); or
 (e) would be covered by section  12-175 or 12-180 if the other entity had not quoted as mentioned in paragraph 12-175(2)(a) or 12 -180(2)(a); or
 (f) would be covered by section  12-175 or 12-180 apart from section 12-185 (which is an exception to sections  12-175 and 12-180).
 (6) The payer need not withhold an amount under this section if, when the payment is made:
 (a) the other entity is an individual and has given the payer a written statement to the effect that:
 (i) the *supply is made in the course or furtherance of an activity, or series of activities, done as a private recreational pursuit or hobby; or
 (ii) the supply is, for the other entity, wholly of a private or domestic nature; and
 (b) the payer has no reasonable grounds to believe that the statement is false or misleading in a material particular.
 (7) In working out, for the purposes of this section, whether an enterprise is *carried on in Australia, ignore any part of Australia that is not in the indirect tax zone (within the meaning of the *GST Act).
Note: The effect of this subsection is to treat an enterprise as carried on in Australia only where it would be treated as carried on in the indirect tax zone under the A New Tax System (Australian Business Number) Act 1999.
Subdivision 12-F--Dividend, interest and royalty payments
Table of sections
Dividends
Section 12-210 Dividend payment to overseas person
Section 12-215 Dividend payment received for foreign resident
Section 12-220 Application to part of a dividend
Section 12-225 Application to distribution by a liquidator or other person
Interest
Section 12-245 Interest payment to overseas person
Section 12-250 Interest payment received for foreign resident
Section 12-255 Interest payment derived by lender in carrying on business through overseas permanent establishment
Section 12-260 Lender to notify borrower if interest derived through overseas permanent establishment
Royalties
Section 12-280 Royalty payment to overseas person
Section 12-285 Royalty payment received for foreign resident
General
Section 12-300 Limits on amount withheld under this Subdivision
 Dividends
Section 12-210 Dividend payment to overseas person
  A company that is an Australian resident must withhold an amount from a *dividend it pays if:
 (a) according to the register of the company&#39;s members, the entity, or any of the entities, holding the *shares on which the dividend is paid has an address outside Australia; or
 (b) that entity, or any of those entities, has authorised or directed the company to pay the dividend to an entity or entities at a place outside Australia.
For limits on the amount to be withheld, see section 12-300.
Section 12-215 Dividend payment received for foreign resident
 (1) An entity that receives a payment of a *dividend of a company that is an Australian resident must withhold an amount from the dividend if:
 (a) the entity is a person in Australia or an *Australian government agency; and
 (b) a foreign resident is or becomes entitled:
 (i) to receive the dividend or part of it from the entity, or to receive the amount of the dividend or of part of it from the entity; or
 (ii) to have the entity credit to the foreign resident, or otherwise deal with on the foreign resident&#39;s behalf or as the foreign resident directs, the dividend or part of it, or the amount of the dividend or of part of it.
For limits on the amount to be withheld, see section 12-300.
 (2) The entity must withhold the amount:
 (a) if the foreign resident is so entitled when the entity receives the payment--immediately after the entity receives the payment; or
 (b) if the foreign resident becomes so entitled after the entity receives the payment--immediately after the foreign resident becomes so entitled.
Section 12-220 Application to part of a dividend
  This Part applies to a part of a *dividend in the same way as to a dividend.
Section 12-225 Application to distribution by a liquidator or other person
  This Part applies to a distribution that section  47 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 treats as a *dividend paid by a company, in the same way as this Part applies to a dividend paid by the company, and as if the liquidator or other person making the distribution were the company.
 Interest
Section 12-245 Interest payment to overseas person
  An entity must withhold an amount from interest (within the meaning of Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) it pays to an entity, or to entities jointly, if:
 (a) the recipient or any of the recipients has an address outside Australia according to any record that is in the payer&#39;s possession, or is kept or maintained on the payer&#39;s behalf, about the transaction to which the interest relates; or
 (b) the payer is authorised to pay the interest at a place outside Australia (whether to the recipient or any of the recipients or to anyone else).
For limits on the amount to be withheld, see section 12-300.
Section 12-250 Interest payment received for foreign resident
 (1) An entity that receives a payment of interest (within the meaning of Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) must withhold an amount from the payment if:
 (a) the entity is a person in Australia or an *Australian government agency; and
 (b) a foreign resident is or becomes entitled:
 (i) to receive the interest or part of it from the entity, or to receive the amount of the interest or of part of it from the entity; or
 (ii) to have the entity credit to the foreign resident, or otherwise deal with on the foreign resident&#39;s behalf or as the foreign resident directs, the interest or part of it, or the amount of the interest or of part of it.
For limits on the amount to be withheld, see section 12-300.
 (2) The entity must withhold the amount:
 (a) if the foreign resident is so entitled when the entity receives the payment--immediately after the entity receives the payment; or
 (b) if the foreign resident becomes so entitled after the entity receives the payment--immediately after the foreign resident becomes so entitled.
Section 12-255 Interest payment derived by lender in carrying on business through overseas permanent establishment
  An entity must withhold an amount from interest (within the meaning of Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) it pays if it has been notified under section  12-260 of this Act that this section applies to the interest.
Note: For limits on the amount to be withheld, see section 12-300.
Section 12-260 Lender to notify borrower if interest derived through overseas permanent establishment
 (1) If:
 (a) interest (within the meaning of Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) is payable to:
 (i) an entity that is, or entities at least one of whom is, an Australian resident; or
 (ii) an *Australian government agency; and
 (b) the entity liable to pay the interest is authorised to pay it at a place in Australia (whether to any of those entities or the agency, or to anyone else); and
 (c) the interest is or will be *derived by any of those entities or the agency in carrying on business in a country outside Australia at or through a *permanent establishment it has in that country;
those entities, or the agency, must notify the entity liable to pay the interest that section 12-255 applies to the interest.
 (2) The notice must be given in writing, before the entities, or the agency, enter into the transaction in relation to which the interest is payable, or within one month afterwards.
 (3) Immediately after giving the notice, those entities, or the agency, must notify the Commissioner of:
 (a) the particulars of the transaction (including the dates on which interest is payable under it); and
 (b) the day when the notice was given to the entity liable to pay the interest.
Failure to comply with this section may contravene section 8C of this Act.
 Royalties
Section 12-280 Royalty payment to overseas person
  An entity must withhold an amount from a *royalty it pays to an entity, or to entities jointly, if:
 (a) the recipient or any of the recipients has an address outside Australia according to any record that is in the payer&#39;s possession, or is kept or maintained on the payer&#39;s behalf, about the transaction to which the royalty relates; or
 (b) the payer is authorised to pay the royalty at a place outside Australia (whether to the recipient or any of the recipients or to anyone else).
For limits on the amount to be withheld, see section 12-300.
Section 12-285 Royalty payment received for foreign resident
 (1) An entity that receives a payment of a *royalty must withhold an amount from the payment if:
 (a) the entity is a person in Australia or an *Australian government agency; and
 (b) a foreign resident is or becomes entitled:
 (i) to receive the royalty or part of it from the entity, or to receive the amount of the royalty or of part of it from the entity; or
 (ii) to have the entity credit to the foreign resident, or otherwise deal with on the foreign resident&#39;s behalf or as the foreign resident directs, the royalty or part of it, or the amount of the royalty or of part of it.
For limits on the amount to be withheld, see section 12-300.
 (2) The entity must withhold the amount:
 (a) if the foreign resident is so entitled when the entity receives the payment--immediately after the entity receives the payment; or
 (b) if the foreign resident becomes so entitled after the entity receives the payment--immediately after the foreign resident becomes so entitled.
 General
Section 12-300 Limits on amount withheld under this Subdivision
  This Subdivision does not require an entity:
 (a) to withhold an amount from a *dividend, from interest (within the meaning of Division 11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ) or from a *royalty if no *withholding tax is payable in respect of the dividend, interest or royalty; or
 (b) to withhold from a dividend, from interest (within the meaning of that Division) or from a royalty more than the withholding tax payable in respect of the dividend, interest or royalty (reduced by each amount already withheld from it under this Subdivision).
Note: Section 128B of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 deals with withholding tax liability.
Subdivision 12-FA--Departing Australia superannuation payments
Table of sections
Section 12-305 Departing Australia superannuation payment
Section 12-310 Limits on amount withheld under this Subdivision
Section 12-305 Departing Australia superannuation payment
  An entity must withhold an amount from a *departing Australia superannuation payment it pays to an entity.
Section 12-310 Limits on amount withheld under this Subdivision
  This Subdivision does not require an entity:
 (a) to withhold an amount from a *departing Australia superannuation payment if no *withholding tax is payable in respect of the payment; or
 (b) to withhold from a departing Australia superannuation payment more than the withholding tax payable in respect of the payment (reduced by each amount already withheld from it under this Subdivision).
Note: Section 301-175 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 deals with the withholding tax liability.
Subdivision 12-FAA--Excess untaxed roll-over amount
Table of sections
Section 12-312 Untaxed roll-over superannuation benefits
Section 12-313 Limits on amount withheld under this Subdivision
Section 12-312 Untaxed roll-over superannuation benefits
  An entity must withhold an amount from an *excess untaxed roll-over amount it pays to an entity.
Note: An excess untaxed roll-over amount is an amount that may form part of a roll -over superannuation benefit that includes an element untaxed in the fund: see section 306-15 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Section 12-313 Limits on amount withheld under this Subdivision
  This Subdivision does not require an entity:
 (a) to withhold an amount from an *excess untaxed roll-over amount if no *withholding tax is payable on the amount; or
 (b) to withhold from an excess untaxed roll -over amount more than the withholding tax payable on the amount (reduced by each amount already withheld from the excess untaxed roll-over amount under this Subdivision).
Note: Section 306-15 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 deals with liability to this form of withholding tax.
Subdivision 12-FB--Payments to foreign residents etc.
Table of sections
Section 12-315 Payment to foreign resident etc.
Section 12-317 Payment received for foreign resident etc.
Section 12-319 Exemptions from withholding obligations under this Subdivision
Section 12-315 Payment to foreign resident etc.
 (1) An entity (the payer) that *carries on an *enterprise must withhold an amount from a payment it makes to another entity, or to other entities jointly, in the course or furtherance of the enterprise if:
 (a) the entity receiving the payment, or any of the entities receiving the payment, is an entity covered by subsection  (2); and
 (b) the payment is of a kind set out in the regulations; and
 (c) the payment is not:
 (i) a *dividend of a company; or
 (ii) interest (within the meaning of Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936); or
 (iii) a *royalty; or
 (iv) a *departing Australia superannuation payment; or
 (v) a payment worked out wholly or partly by reference to the value or quantity of *natural resources produced or recovered in Australia; or
 (vi) a *mining payment; or
 (vii) an amount represented by or reasonably attributable to a *fund payment; and
 (d) the entity receiving the payment is not covered by an exemption in force under subsection  12-319(1), or at least one of the entities receiving the payment is not covered by an exemption in force under that subsection.
 (2) An entity is covered by this subsection if any of the following conditions is satisfied:
 (a) the entity is a foreign resident;
 (b) the payer believes, or has reasonable grounds to believe, that the entity is a foreign resident;
 (c) the payer has no reasonable grounds to believe that the entity is an Australian resident, and either:
 (i) the entity has an address outside Australia (according to any record that is in the payer&#39;s possession, or is kept or maintained on the payer&#39;s behalf, about the transaction to which the payment relates); or
 (ii) the payer is authorised to make the payment at a place outside Australia (whether to the entity or to anyone else);
 (d) the entity has a connection outside Australia of a kind set out in the regulations.
 (3) Before the Governor -General makes a regulation for the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), the Minister must be satisfied that each payment set out in the regulation is a payment of a kind that could reasonably be related to assessable income of foreign residents.
Section 12-317 Payment received for foreign resident etc.
 (1) An entity (the intermediary) that receives a payment meeting the requirements set out in paragraphs 12-315(1)(b) and (c) must withhold an amount from the payment if:
 (a) the intermediary is a person in Australia or an *Australian government agency; and
 (b) another entity (the likely foreign recipient) is or becomes entitled:
 (i) to receive the payment or part of it from the intermediary, or to receive the amount of the payment or of part of it from the intermediary; or
 (ii) to have the intermediary credit to the likely foreign recipient, or otherwise deal with on the likely foreign recipient&#39;s behalf or as the likely foreign recipient directs, the payment or part of it, or the amount of the payment or of part of it; and
 (c) the likely foreign recipient is covered by subsection  (3); and
 (d) the likely foreign recipient is not covered by an exemption in force under subsection  12-319(1).
 (2) The intermediary must withhold the amount:
 (a) if the likely foreign recipient is so entitled when the intermediary receives the payment--just after the intermediary receives the payment; or
 (b) if the likely foreign recipient becomes so entitled after the intermediary receives the payment--just after the likely foreign recipient becomes so entitled.
 (3) The likely foreign recipient is covered by this subsection if any of the following conditions is satisfied:
 (a) the likely foreign recipient is a foreign resident;
 (b) the intermediary believes, or has reasonable grounds to believe, that the likely foreign recipient is a foreign resident;
 (c) the intermediary has no reasonable grounds to believe that the likely foreign recipient is an Australian resident, and either:
 (i) the likely foreign recipient has an address outside Australia (according to any record that is in the intermediary&#39;s possession, or is kept or maintained on the intermediary&#39;s behalf); or
 (ii) the intermediary is authorised to forward the payment to a place outside Australia (whether to the likely foreign recipient or to anyone else);
 (d) the likely foreign recipient has a connection outside Australia of a kind set out in the regulations.
Section 12-319 Exemptions from withholding obligations under this Subdivision
 (1) The Commissioner may grant an entity an exemption in writing for the purposes of paragraphs 12 -315(1)(d) and 12-317(1)(d) if the Commissioner is satisfied that:
 (a) the entity has an established history of compliance with its obligations under *taxation laws; and
 (b) the entity is likely to continue to comply with those obligations in the future.
 (2) The exemption is in force during the period:
 (a) beginning when the Commissioner grants the exemption; and
 (b) ending at the time specified in the exemption.
 (3) Without limiting the matters to which the Commissioner may have regard in deciding whether to grant an entity an exemption, the Commissioner may have regard to the following:
 (a) whether the entity is or was liable to pay an instalment under Division  45 at any time in:
 (i) the income year in which the exemption is proposed to be granted; and
 (ii) the previous 2 income years;
 (b) the amount (if any) of the entity&#39;s *tax-related liabilities that are currently due and payable;
 (c) the extent to which the entity and its *associates (if any) have complied with their obligations under *taxation laws during:
 (i) the income year in which the exemption is proposed to be granted; and
 (ii) the previous 2 income years.
 (4) The Commissioner must give a copy of the exemption to the entity to which it relates.
 (5) A failure to comply with subsection  (4) does not affect the validity of the exemption.
Subdivision 12-FC--Labour mobility programs
Table of sections
Section 12-319A Payment to employee
  An entity must withhold an amount from salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances it pays to an individual:
 (a) as an employee of an Approved Employer (whether the entity or another entity) under a program covered by section 840-906 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about labour mobility programs); and
 (b) at a time when the employee is a foreign resident and:
 (i) the employee holds a Temporary Work (International Relations) Visa (subclass 403); or
 (ii) the employee holds a Temporary Activity Visa (subclass 408) having previously held a Temporary Work (International Relations) Visa (subclass 403); or
 (iii) the employee holds a visa of a kind prescribed by regulations made under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for the purposes of subparagraph 840-905(b)(iii) of that Act.
Subdivision 12-G--Payments in respect of mining on Aboriginal land, and natural resources
Table of sections
Mining on Aboriginal land
Section 12-320 Mining payment
Natural resources
Section 12-325 Natural resource payment
Section 12-330 Payer must ask Commissioner how much to withhold
Section 12-335 Commissioner may exempt from section  12-330, subject to conditions
 Mining on Aboriginal land
Section 12-320 Mining payment
 (1) An entity must withhold an amount from a *mining payment that:
 (a) it makes to another entity; or
 (b) it applies for the benefit of another entity.
 (2) Subsection (1) does not require the entity to withhold more than the *mining withholding tax payable in respect of the *mining payment.
Note: Section 128V of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 deals with mining withholding tax liability.
 Natural resources
Section 12-325 Natural resource payment
 (1) An entity must withhold an amount from a payment it makes to a foreign resident, or to 2 or more entities at least one of which is a foreign resident, if the payment is worked out wholly or partly by reference to the value or quantity of *natural resources produced or recovered in Australia.
 (2) The amount to be withheld is:
 (a) the amount notified by the Commissioner under section  12-330; or
 (b) the amount worked out under a certificate in force under section  12-335 that covers the payment;
as appropriate.
Exception
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the Commissioner has notified the entity under section  12-330 that the entity does not need to withhold an amount from the payment; or
 (b) a certificate in force under section  12-335 covers the payment and does not require the entity to withhold an amount from it.
Section 12-330 Payer must ask Commissioner how much to withhold
 (1) An entity must not intentionally make a payment from which section  12-325 requires it to withhold an amount, unless:
 (a) the entity has notified the Commissioner in writing of the amount of the proposed payment; and
 (b) the Commissioner has later notified the entity in writing of the amount (if any) that the entity must withhold from the payment in respect of tax or *petroleum resource rent tax that is or may become payable by a foreign resident to whom the payment is made;
or the payment is covered by a certificate in force under section 12-335.
Penalty: 20 penalty units.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Failure to notify not an offence against section 8C
 (2) An entity that fails to notify the Commissioner as required by subsection  (1) does not commit an offence against section 8C.
Section 12-335 Commissioner may exempt from section  12-330, subject to conditions
 (1) The Commissioner may give an entity a written certificate exempting the entity from complying with section  12-330 for specified payments.
 (2) A certificate is subject to:
 (a) a condition that the entity must withhold from a payment covered by the certificate the amount (if any) worked out in accordance with the certificate in respect of tax or *petroleum resource rent tax that is or may become payable by a foreign resident to whom the payment is made; and
 (b) such other conditions as the certificate specifies.
However, the entity does not contravene subsection 12-330(1) because it contravenes a condition.
 (3) The Commissioner may, by written notice given to the entity:
 (a) revoke a certificate, whether or not a condition of it has been contravened; or
 (b) vary a certificate by revoking, changing or adding to its conditions.
Note: A person who is dissatisfied with a decision under this section may object against the decision in the manner set out in Part  IVC.
Subdivision 12-H--Distributions of withholding MIT income
 Guide to Subdivision 12-H
Section 12-375 What this Subdivision is about
A withholding MIT may be required to withhold an amount from a payment of its Australian sourced net income (other than dividends, interest and royalties) if the payment is made to an entity whose address, or place for payment, is outside Australia. If the payment is made to another entity, the withholding MIT is required to make information available to the recipient outlining certain details in relation to the payment.If a custodian receives a payment that is covered by that information, it is required to withhold an amount from any related later payment to an entity whose address, or place for payment, is outside Australia. If the later payment is made to another entity, the custodian is required to make information available in relation to that later payment.If an entity that is not a custodian receives a payment that is covered by that information, it is required to withhold an amount from that payment if a foreign resident becomes entitled to that payment. If a resident becomes entitled to the payment, the entity must make information available in relation to that payment.Where there is an obligation to withhold, the applicable withholding rate is determined by the nature of the country or territory in which the recipient&#39;s address, place for payment or residency is located and whether the trust is a clean building managed investment trust.A managed investment trust is a clean building managed investment trust if it is a managed investment trust that holds one or more clean buildings and does not derive assessable income from any other taxable Australian property (other than certain assets that are reasonably incidental to a clean building).
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 12-383 Meaning of withholding MIT
Section 12-385 Withholding by withholding MITs
Section 12-390 Withholding by custodians and other entities
Section 12-395 Requirement to give notice or make information available
Section 12-405 Meaning of fund payment--general case
Section 12-410 Entity to whom payment is made
Section 12-415 Failure to give notice or make information available: administrative penalty
Section 12-420 Agency rules
Section 12-425 Meaning of clean building managed investment trust
Section 12-430 Meaning of clean building
Section 12-435 Meaning of non-concessional MIT income
Section 12-436 Meaning of asset entity, operating entity, cross staple arrangement and stapled entity
Section 12-437 Meaning of MIT cross staple arrangement income
Section 12-438 MIT cross staple arrangement income--de minimis exception
Section 12-439 MIT cross staple arrangement income--approved economic infrastructure facility exception
Section 12-440 Transitional--MIT cross staple arrangement income
Section 12-441 Integrity rule--concessional cross staple rent cap
Section 12-442 Meaning of excepted MIT CSA income
Section 12-443 Concessional cross staple rent cap--existing lease with specified rent or rent method
Section 12-444 Concessional cross staple rent cap--general
Section 12-445 Asset entity to allocate deductions first against rental income that is not MIT cross staple arrangement income
Section 12-446 Meaning of MIT trading trust income
Section 12-447 Transitional--MIT trading trust income
Section 12-448 Meaning of MIT agricultural income, Australian agricultural land for rent and Division 6C land
Section 12-449 Transitional--MIT agricultural income
Section 12-450 Meaning of MIT residential housing income
Section 12-451 Transitional--MIT residential housing income
Section 12-452 Meaning of residential dwelling asset
Section 12-453 MIT agricultural income and MIT residential housing income--capital gains in relation to membership interests
 Operative provisions
Section 12-383 Meaning of withholding MIT
 (1) A trust is a withholding MIT in relation to an income year if:
 (a) it is a *managed investment trust in relation to that income year because of paragraph 275-10(1)(a) or subsection  275-10(2) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; and
 (b) a substantial proportion of the investment management activities carried out in relation to the trust in respect of all of the following assets of the trust are carried out in Australia throughout the income year:
 (i) assets that are situated in Australia at any time in the income year;
 (ii) assets that are *taxable Australian property at any time in the income year;
 (iii) assets that are *shares, units or interests listed for quotation in the official list of an *approved stock exchange in Australia at any time in the income year.
 (2) For the purposes of ascertaining whether a trust is a *managed investment trust in relation to that income year for the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), treat as a *fund payment by the trustee of the trust any amount that, under subsection 12A-205(2), would be treated as a payment by the trustee if the trust were an *AMIT.
Note: The making of a fund payment is a requirement for the trust to be a managed investment trust under paragraph  275-10(1)(a) and subsection 275-10(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Section 12-385 Withholding by withholding MITs
 (1) A trustee of a trust that is a *withholding MIT in relation to an income year that makes a *fund payment in relation to that income year to an entity covered by section  12-410 must withhold an amount from the payment.
Note 1: An entity may be covered by section 12-410 if the entity has an address outside Australia or payment is authorised to be made to a place outside Australia.
Note 2: If the payment is made to a recipient not covered by section 12-410, the trustee is required to give a notice to the recipient or publish information on a website setting out certain details about the payment: see section  12-395.
 (2) The amount the trustee must withhold is:
 (3) The rate is:
 (a) if the address or place for payment of the recipient is in an *information exchange country:
 (i) 15% for *fund payments (except to the extent mentioned in subparagraph (ii) or (iii)); or
 (ii) 10% for fund payments, to the extent that they are, or are attributable to, fund payments from a *clean building managed investment trust (except to the extent mentioned in subparagraph (iii)); or
 (iii) 30% for fund payments, to the extent that they are attributable to *non-concessional MIT income (see section 12-435); or
 (b) otherwise--30%.
 (4) An information exchange country is a foreign country or foreign territory specified in the regulations for the purposes of this section.
 (5) This section does not apply to an amount paid by a *withholding MIT to the extent that no *managed investment trust withholding tax is payable in respect of the payment or an amount reasonably attributable to the payment.
Section 12-390 Withholding by custodians and other entities
Withholding by custodians
 (1) A *custodian must withhold an amount from a payment (the later payment) it makes if:
 (a) all or some of the later payment (the covered part) is reasonably attributable to the part of an earlier payment received by the custodian that was covered by a notice or information under section  12-395; and
 (b) the later payment is made to an entity covered by section  12-410.
Note 1: The covered part referred to in paragraph (1)(a) is attributable to a fund payment made by a withholding MIT, or 2 or more fund payments made by one or more withholding MITs. One or more of those withholding MITs may be AMITs.
Note 2: An entity may be covered by section 12-410 if the entity has an address outside Australia or payment is authorised to be made to a place outside Australia.
Note 3: If the payment is made to a recipient not covered by section 12-410, the custodian is required to give a notice to the recipient or publish information on a website setting out certain details about the payment: see section  12-395.
 (2) The amount the *custodian must withhold is:
 (3) The rate is:
 (a) if the address or place for payment of the recipient is in an *information exchange country:
 (i) 15% for *fund payments (except to the extent mentioned in subparagraph (ii) or (iii)); or
 (ii) 10% for fund payments, to the extent that they are, or are attributable to, fund payments from a *clean building managed investment trust (except to the extent mentioned in subparagraph (iii)); or
 (iii) 30% for fund payments, to the extent that they are attributable to *non-concessional MIT income (see section 12-435); or
 (b) otherwise--30%.
Withholding by other entities
 (4) An entity that is not a *withholding MIT or a *custodian must withhold an amount from a payment it receives if:
 (a) the payment or part of it (the covered part) was covered by a notice or information under section 12-395; and
 (b) a foreign resident (the recipient) is or becomes entitled:
 (i) to receive from the entity; or
 (ii) to have the entity credit to the recipient, or otherwise deal with on the recipient&#39;s behalf or as the recipient directs;
  an amount (the attributable amount) reasonably attributable to the covered part.
Note 1: The covered part referred to in paragraph (4)(a) is attributable to a fund payment made by a withholding MIT, or 2 or more fund payments made by one or more withholding MITs. One or more of those withholding MITs may be AMITs.
Note 2: If the recipient is not a foreign resident, the entity is required to give a notice to the recipient or publish information on a website setting out certain details about the payment: see section  12-395.
 (5) The amount the entity must withhold is:
 (6) The rate is:
 (a) if the recipient is a resident of an *information exchange country:
 (i) 15% for *fund payments (except to the extent mentioned in subparagraph (ii) or (iii)); or
 (ii) 10% for fund payments, to the extent that they are, or are attributable to, fund payments from a *clean building managed investment trust (except to the extent mentioned in subparagraph (iii)); or
 (iii) 30% for fund payments, to the extent that they are attributable to *non-concessional MIT income (see section 12-435); or
 (b) otherwise--30%.
 (7) An entity is a resident of an *information exchange country if:
 (a) the entity is a resident of that country for the purposes of the taxation laws of that country; or
 (b) if there are no taxation laws of that country applicable to the entity or the entity&#39;s residency status cannot be determined under those laws:
 (i) for an individual--the individual is ordinarily resident in that country; or
 (ii) for another entity--the entity is incorporated or formed in that country and is carrying on a business in that country.
 (8) An amount required to be withheld under subsection  (4) must be withheld:
 (a) if the recipient is so entitled when the entity receives the payment--immediately after receipt; or
 (b) if the recipient becomes so entitled at a later time--immediately after the later time.
Meaning of custodian
 (9) An entity is a custodian if:
 (a) the entity is *carrying on a *business that consists predominantly of providing a custodial or depository service (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) pursuant to an *Australian financial services licence; or
 (b) the entity is acting on behalf of an entity that is carrying on such a business pursuant to such a licence.
Exceptions
 (10) This section does not apply:
 (a) to a company unless the company would, apart from section  12-420, be acting in the capacity as *agent for the recipient; or
 (b) to an amount paid or received by an entity to the extent that no *managed investment trust withholding tax is payable in respect of the amount or an amount reasonably attributable to the amount.
Section 12-395 Requirement to give notice or make information available
Withholding MITs and custodians
 (1) An entity that is a *withholding MIT or a *custodian must comply with subsection (2) if:
 (a) the entity makes a payment to another entity (the recipient) from which an amount would have been required to be withheld under section 12-385 or subsection  12-390(1) if the payment had been made to an entity covered by section 12-410; and
 (b) an amount is not required to be withheld from the payment because the recipient is not an entity covered by section  12-410.
Note: An entity may be covered by section 12-410 if the entity has an address outside Australia or payment is authorised to be made to a place outside Australia.
 (2) The entity must:
 (a) give to the recipient a written notice containing the details specified in subsection  (3); or
 (b) make those details available on a website in a way that the details are readily accessible to the recipient for not less than 5 continuous years.
 (3) The notice must be given, or the details must be made available on a website, before or at the time when the payment is made and:
 (a) must specify the part of the payment from which an amount would have been so required to have been withheld; and
 (aa) must specify the extent (if any) to which the payment is, or is attributable to, a *fund payment from a *clean building managed investment trust; and
 (ab) must specify the extent (if any) to which the payment is, or is attributable to, *non-concessional MIT income (see section 12-435); and
 (ac) must specify the extent (if any) to which the payment is, or is attributable to, an amount that would be non -concessional MIT income if the following provisions were disregarded:
 (i) subsection 12-437(5);
 (ii) sections 12-440, 12-447, 12-449 and 12-451; and
 (ad) must specify the extent (if any) to which the payment is, or is attributable to, an amount that would be non -concessional MIT income only if subsection 12-450(5) were disregarded; and
 (b) must specify the income year of the *withholding MIT to which that part relates.
Note: Failure to give the notice or make the details available as required by this section incurs an administrative penalty: see section  12-415.
Other entities
 (4) An entity that is not a *withholding MIT or a *custodian must comply with subsection (5) if:
 (a) the entity receives a payment; and
 (b) another entity (also the recipient) is or becomes entitled:
 (i) to receive from the entity; or
 (ii) to have the entity credit to the recipient, or otherwise deal with on the recipient&#39;s behalf or as the recipient directs;
  an amount attributable to the payment; and
 (c) the entity would have been required to withhold an amount from the payment under subsection  12-390(4) if the recipient had been a foreign resident; and
 (d) an amount is not required to be withheld from the payment because the recipient is not a foreign resident.
 (5) The entity must:
 (a) give to the recipient a written notice containing the details specified in subsection  (6); or
 (b) make those details available on a website in a way that the details are readily accessible to the recipient for not less than 5 continuous years.
 (6) The notice must be given, or the details must be made available on a website, before or at the time when the amount is paid or credited to the recipient, or is dealt with on the recipient&#39;s behalf or as the recipient directs, and:
 (a) must specify the part of the payment referred to in paragraph  (4)(a) from which an amount would have been so required to have been withheld; and
 (aa) must specify the extent (if any) to which the payment is, or is attributable to, a *fund payment from a *clean building managed investment trust; and
 (ab) must specify the extent (if any) to which the payment is, or is attributable to, *non-concessional MIT income (see section 12-435); and
 (ac) must specify the extent (if any) to which the payment is, or is attributable to, an amount that would be non -concessional MIT income if the following provisions were disregarded:
 (i) subsection 12-437(5);
 (ii) sections 12-440, 12-447, 12-449 and 12-451; and
 (ad) must specify the extent (if any) to which the payment is, or is attributable to, an amount that would be non -concessional MIT income only if subsection 12-450(5) were disregarded; and
 (b) must specify the income year of the *withholding MIT to which that part relates.
Note: Failure to give the notice or make the details available as required by this section incurs an administrative penalty: see section  12-415.
Section 12-405 Meaning of fund payment --general case
 (1) The object of this section is to ensure that the total of the *fund payments that the trustee of a trust makes in relation to an income year equals, as nearly as practicable, the net income of the trust for the income year, disregarding these amounts ( excluded amounts):
 (a) a dividend (as defined in Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) that is subject to, or exempted from, a requirement to withhold under Subdivision  12-F;
 (b) interest (as so defined) that is subject to, or exempted from, such a requirement;
 (c) a *royalty that is subject to, or exempted from, such a requirement;
 (d) a *capital gain or *capital loss from a *CGT event that happens in relation to a *CGT asset that is not *taxable Australian property;
 (e) amounts that are not from an *Australian source;
and disregarding deductions relating to excluded amounts.
 (1A) This section applies to a trust that is not an *AMIT for an income year.
Note: For the definition of fund payment in respect of a trust that is an AMIT for an income year, see section  12A-110.
 (2) Work out as follows how much of a payment (the actual payment) made by the trustee of a trust in relation to an income year is a fund payment in relation to that year:
Method statementStep 1. Reduce the actual payment by so much of it that is attributable to excluded amounts, and increase it by any amounts to which subsection  (2A) or (2B) applies for the income year (except to the extent that capital gains against which those amounts are applied are included in the actual payment made in relation to the income year).Step 2. Work out what it is reasonable to expect will be the *net income of the trust for the income year:
 (aa) increasing the net income by any amounts to which subsection (2A) or (2B) applies for the income year; and (a) disregarding (except to the extent that they are amounts to which subsection (2A) or (2B) applies for the income year) excluded amounts, expected excluded amounts and deductions relating to those amounts; and (b) on the basis that a *capital gain from *taxable Australian property of the trust that was or would be reduced under step 3 of the method statement in subsection  102-5(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 were double the amount it actually is.
Step 3. The fund payment is so much of the step 2 amount as is reasonable having regard to:
 (a) the object of this section; and (b) the step 1 amount; and (c) the amounts of any earlier fund payments made by the trustee in relation to the income year; and (d) the expected amounts of any later fund payments the trustee expects to make in relation to the income year.
 (2A) If:
 (a) during an income year, a *capital loss from a *CGT event happens in relation to a *CGT asset that is not *taxable Australian property; and
 (b) in relation to that income year, some or all of the capital loss is applied against a *capital gain from a CGT event that happens in relation to a CGT asset that is taxable Australian property;
this subsection applies, for that income year, to the amount that is so applied.
 (2B) If:
 (a) the trust has a *net capital loss for an income year; and
 (b) one or more of the *capital losses the trust made during that income year were from *CGT events that happened in relation to *CGT assets that were not *taxable Australian property; and
 (c) in relation to a later income year, some or all of the net capital loss is applied against a *capital gain from a CGT event that happens in relation to a CGT asset that is taxable Australian property;
this subsection applies, for the later income year, to an amount equal to so much of the net capital loss that is so applied as related to capital losses mentioned in paragraph (b).
 (3) The expected *net income of the trust and the expected amounts of future *fund payments are to be worked out on the basis of the trustee&#39;s knowledge when the actual payment is made.
 (4) However, an amount is not a fund payment in relation to the income year unless it is paid:
 (a) during the income year; or
 (b) within 3 months after the end of the income year; or
 (c) within a longer period (starting at the end of the period referred to in paragraph  (b) and not exceeding 3 months) allowed by the Commissioner.
 (5) The Commissioner may allow a longer period as mentioned in paragraph  (4)(c) only if the Commissioner is of the opinion that the trustee was unable to make the payment during the income year, or within 3 months after the end of the income year, because of circumstances beyond the influence or control of the trustee.
Section 12-410 Entity to whom payment is made
 (1) An entity (the recipient) is covered by this section for a payment made to it by another entity (the payer) if:
 (a) according to any record that is in the payer&#39;s possession, or is kept or maintained on the payer&#39;s behalf, the recipient has an address outside Australia; or
 (b) the payer is authorised to make the payment to a place outside Australia.
 (2) However, a recipient is not covered by this section for a payment if, at the time the payment was made, a *business the recipient carries on is carried on at or through an *Australian permanent establishment and the payment is attributable to that establishment.
Section 12-415 Failure to give notice or make information available: administrative penalty
  An entity that:
 (a) is required to give a notice, or make details available on a website, under section  12-395 in relation to:
 (i) a payment made to another entity; or
 (ii) an amount paid or credited to, or dealt with on behalf of or as directed by, another entity; and
 (b) fails to comply with that section;
is liable to pay to the Commissioner a penalty equal to the amount that would have been required to be withheld under this Subdivision (disregarding subsection  12-385(5) and paragraph 12-390(10)(b)) in relation to amounts attributable to the payment or amount if the notice had been given or the details had been made available.
Note: Division 298 in this Schedule contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
Section 12-420 Agency rules
 (1) This section applies to:
 (a) a payment (the first payment) made to an entity (the first entity) in the capacity as *agent for another entity; and
 (b) another payment made by the first entity to the extent that it is reasonably attributable to the first payment.
 (2) This Subdivision has effect as if the first entity were not an *agent in relation to the payments.
Note: As a result of subsection (2), an agent may be required to withhold amounts under this Subdivision.
Section 12-425 Meaning of clean building managed investment trust
 (1) A trust is a clean building managed investment trust in relation to an income year if during the income year:
 (a) it is a *withholding MIT in relation to the income year; and
 (b) it holds one or more *clean buildings (including the land on which the buildings are situated); and
 (c) it does not derive assessable income from any *taxable Australian property (other than from the clean buildings or assets that are reasonably incidental to those buildings).
5% safe harbour for certain income reasonably incidental to a clean building
 (2) A trust is not a *clean building managed investment trust in relation to an income year if the assessable income of the trust that is derived from assets that are reasonably incidental to *clean buildings is greater than 5% of the assessable income of the trust that is derived from clean buildings.
 (3) The regulations may specify kinds of assets that are, or are not, reasonably incidental to *clean buildings for the purposes of this section.
Section 12-430 Meaning of clean building
 (1) A building is a clean building if:
 (a) the construction of the building commenced on or after 1  July 2012; and
 (b) it satisfies the requirements in subsections  (3) and (4).
 (2) For the purpose of subsection  (1):
 (a) the construction of the building is taken to have commenced at the time the works on the lowest level (including any basement level) of the building commence; and
 (b) the construction of the building is not taken to have commenced merely because works preparing the site for construction, or works undertaken below the lowest level of the building (including any basement level), have commenced.
 (3) A building satisfies the requirements in this subsection if:
 (a) the building is a commercial building that is any of the following (or is a combination of any of the following):
 (i) an office building;
 (ii) a hotel for use wholly or mainly to provide short -term accommodation for travellers;
 (iii) a shopping centre; or
 (b) the building satisfies the requirements prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this paragraph.
 (4) A building satisfies the requirements in this subsection if:
 (a) the building:
 (i) has, and continues to maintain at all times during the income year, at least a 5 Star Green Star rating as certified by the Green Building Council of Australia; or
 (ii) has, and continues to maintain at all times during the income year, at least a 5.5 star energy rating as accredited by the National Australian Built Environment Rating System ( NABERS); or
 (b) the building satisfies the requirements prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this paragraph.
 (5) For the purposes of subsection  (4), if:
 (a) a building has previously satisfied the requirements in that subsection; and
 (b) the building then fails to satisfy the requirements for a period (the non-compliance period); and
 (c) within 180 days after the first day of that failure, the building again satisfies the requirements;
treat the building as having satisfied the requirements during the non-compliance period.
Section 12-435 Meaning of non-concessional MIT income
  Non-concessional MIT income means any of the following:
 (a) *MIT cross staple arrangement income;
 (b) *MIT trading trust income;
 (c) *MIT agricultural income;
 (d) *MIT residential housing income.
Section 12-436 Meaning of asset entity , operating entity, cross staple arrangement and stapled entity
 (1) An asset entity in relation to an income year is a trust or partnership that is not covered by subsection  275-10(4) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 in relation to the income year.
 (2) An operating entity in relation to an income year is a trust, partnership or company that is covered by subsection 275-10(4) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 in relation to the income year.
 (3) For the purposes of this section, in determining whether a partnership or company is covered by subsection  275-10(4) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, treat the partnership or company as a trust.
 (4) A cross staple arrangement is an *arrangement that is entered into by 2 or more entities (the arrangement entities) if:
 (a) at least one of the arrangement entities is an *asset entity; and
 (b) at least one of the arrangement entities is an *operating entity; and
 (c) the following conditions are satisfied:
 (i) one or more other entities (the external entities) each hold a *total participation interest in each arrangement entity;
 (ii) the sum of the total participation interests held by the external entities in each arrangement entity is 80% or more.
 (5) For the purposes of subparagraph  (4)(c)(ii), in working out the sum of the *total participation interests held by the external entities in each arrangement entity, take into account:
 (a) a particular *direct participation interest; or
 (b) a particular *indirect participation interest;
held in the arrangement entity only once if it would otherwise be counted more than once.
 (6) Subsection (7) applies if:
 (a) an external entity holds *total participation interests in 2 or more arrangement entities; and
 (b) either:
 (i) the amount (the lowest participation interest amount) of one of those participation interests falls short of the amount of each of the other participation interests; or
 (ii) the amount (the lowest participation interest amount) of 2 or more of those participation interests is the same but falls short of the amount of each of the other participation interests.
 (7) For the purposes of paragraph  (4)(c), treat the amount of the *total participation interest held by the external entity in each of the arrangement entities as being equal to the lowest participation interest amount.
 (8) Each of the entities that entered into the *cross staple arrangement is a stapled entity in relation to the cross staple arrangement.
Section 12-437 Meaning of MIT cross staple arrangement income
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) an amount is included in the assessable income for an income year of a *managed investment trust in relation to the income year (worked out for the purposes of determining the trust&#39;s *net income, or in the case of an *AMIT, the trust&#39;s total assessable income, for the income year); and
 (b) the amount mentioned in paragraph  (a) is, or is attributable to, an amount derived, received or made from another entity (the second entity); and
 (c) the amount mentioned in paragraph  (a) is not an amount mentioned in paragraph 12-405(1)(a), (b), (c), (d) or (e).
 (2) The amount is MIT cross staple arrangement income of the *managed investment trust if:
 (a) either:
 (i) the *managed investment trust is an *asset entity in relation to the income year and is a *stapled entity in relation to a *cross staple arrangement; or
 (ii) the second entity is an asset entity in relation to the income year and is a stapled entity in relation to a cross staple arrangement; and
 (b) either:
 (i) if subparagraph  (a)(i) applies--the second entity is an *operating entity in relation to the income year and is a stapled entity in relation to the cross staple arrangement; or
 (ii) if subparagraph  (a)(ii) applies--another entity (the third entity) is an operating entity in relation to the income year and is a stapled entity in relation to the cross staple arrangement; and
 (c) either:
 (i) if subparagraph  (a)(i) applies--the amount is derived, received or made by the managed investment trust from the second entity; or
 (ii) if subparagraph  (a)(ii) applies--the amount is attributable to an amount derived, received or made by the second entity from the third entity.
 (3) The amount is not MIT cross staple arrangement income of the *managed investment trust under subsection  (2) to the extent that it is attributable to an amount that satisfies the following requirements:
 (a) the amount is derived, received or made by a *stapled entity in relation to the *cross staple arrangement from an entity that is not a stapled entity in relation to the cross staple arrangement;
 (b) the amount mentioned in paragraph  (a) is *rent from land investment.
 (4) The amount is not MIT cross staple arrangement income of the *managed investment trust under subsection  (2) to the extent that it is, or is attributable to, an amount covered by subsection 12-438(1).
Note: The managed investment trust may be an asset entity in relation to the cross staple arrangement. If so, it may have no MIT cross staple arrangement income for the income year as a result of the operation of this subsection.
 (5) The amount is not MIT cross staple arrangement income of the *managed investment trust under subsection  (2) to the extent that it is, or is attributable to, *rent from land investment that is:
 (a) attributable to a facility, or an improvement to a facility; and
 (b) referable to a time in the income year when the facility, or the improvement to the facility, is covered by section  12-439.
 (6) Subsection (7) applies if:
 (a) an *asset entity in relation to the income year mentioned in paragraph (1)(a) makes a *capital gain because an *operating entity in relation to the income year *acquires an asset from the asset entity; and
 (b) the asset entity and the operating entity are *stapled entities in relation to the *cross staple arrangement.
 (7) The amount is not MIT cross staple arrangement income of the *managed investment trust under subsection  (2) to the extent that it is attributable to the *capital gain.
Section 12-438 MIT cross staple arrangement income--de minimis exception
 (1) For the purposes of subsection  12-437(4), this subsection covers an amount if:
 (a) the amount is *MIT cross staple arrangement income for the income year of an *asset entity in relation to the *cross staple arrangement; and
 (b) the MIT cross staple arrangement income of the asset entity for the previous income year does not exceed 5% of the amount mentioned in subsection  (3).
 (2) For the purposes of subsection  (1), in working out the *MIT cross staple arrangement income of the *asset entity for the previous income year, disregard subsections  12-437(4) and (5).
 (3) The amount is:
 (a) if the *asset entity is not an *AMIT for the income year--the assessable income of the asset entity for the previous income year (worked out for the purposes of determining the *net income of the asset entity for the income year); or
 (b) if the asset entity is an AMIT for the income year--the total assessable income (as mentioned in subsection  276-265(2) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) of the asset entity for the previous income year.
 (4) For the purposes of subsection  (3), in working out the assessable income, or the total assessable income, of the *asset entity for the previous income year, disregard any *net capital gain of the asset entity for that year.
 (5) If the *asset entity did not exist in the previous income year:
 (a) treat references in this section to the previous income year as instead being references to the income year; and
 (b) treat references in this section to the *MIT cross staple arrangement income of the asset entity as instead being references to a reasonable estimate of the MIT cross staple arrangement income of the asset entity; and
 (c) treat references in this section to the assessable income of the asset entity as instead being references to a reasonable estimate of the assessable income of the asset entity; and
 (d) treat references in this section to the total assessable income of the asset entity as instead being references to a reasonable estimate of the total assessable income of the asset entity.
 (6) If the *asset entity exists in an income year, but is not a *managed investment trust in relation to that income year, for the purposes of this section, treat it as a managed investment trust in relation to that income year that is not an *AMIT for that income year.
Section 12-439 MIT cross staple arrangement income--approved economic infrastructure facility exception
 (1) This section covers a facility at a time if:
 (a) the facility is covered by an approval of the Treasurer under this section that is in force at that time; and
 (b) that time is no later than the end of the period of 15 years beginning on the day on which an asset that is part of the facility is first put to use.
 (2) This section covers an improvement to a facility at a time if:
 (a) the improvement to the facility is covered by an approval of the Treasurer under this section that is in force at that time; and
 (b) that time is no later than the end of the period of 15 years beginning on the day on which an asset that is part of the facility is first put to use after it has been improved under the improvement.
 (3) An *Australian government agency (other than the Commonwealth) may make an application to the Treasurer in respect of a facility, or an improvement to a facility, specified in the application.
 (4) The Treasurer may approve the facility, or the improvement to the facility, specified in the application under subsection  (3) if the Treasurer is satisfied that the following criteria are met:
 (a) the facility is an *economic infrastructure facility;
 (b) in the case of an application in respect of a facility:
 (i) the estimated capital expenditure on the facility is $500 million or more; and
 (ii) the facility is yet to be constructed; and
 (iii) the facility will significantly enhance the long -term productive capacity of the economy; and
 (iv) approving the facility is in the national interest;
 (c) in the case of an application in respect of an improvement to a facility:
 (i) the estimated capital expenditure on the improvement is $500 million or more; and
 (ii) the improvement is yet to be constructed; and
 (iii) the improvement will significantly enhance the long -term productive capacity of the economy; and
 (iv) approving the improvement is in the national interest.
 (5) An economic infrastructure facility is a facility that is any of the following:
 (a) transport infrastructure;
 (b) energy infrastructure;
 (c) communications infrastructure;
 (d) water infrastructure.
 (6) An approval under subsection  (4):
 (a) must be in writing; and
 (b) must specify the facility, or the improvement, that is approved; and
 (c) must specify the date on which the approval comes into force; and
 (d) may contain any other information that the Treasurer considers appropriate.
 (7) The Treasurer may publish an approval under subsection  (4) in any way that he or she considers appropriate.
 (8) If the Treasurer decides not to approve the facility, or the improvement to a facility, specified in the application under subsection  (3), the Treasurer must notify the applicant of the decision, in writing, as soon as practicable after making the decision.
Section 12-440 Transitional--MIT cross staple arrangement income
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) before 27 March 2018, an *Australian government agency:
 (i) decided to approve the *acquisition, creation or lease of a facility; and
 (ii) publicly announced that decision; and
 (iii) took significant preparatory steps to implement that decision; and
 (b) either:
 (i) a *cross staple arrangement was entered into in relation to the facility before 27 March 2018; or
 (ii) it was reasonable on 27  March 2018 to conclude that a cross staple arrangement will be entered into in relation to the facility; and
 (c) all the entities that are *stapled entities in relation to the cross staple arrangement already existed before 27 March 2018; and
 (d) each entity that is a stapled entity in relation to the cross staple arrangement has made a choice in accordance with subsection  (5).
 (2) This section also applies if:
 (a) any of the following applies:
 (i) an entity entered into a contract before 27  March 2018 for the *acquisition, creation or lease of a facility;
 (ii) an entity owns, or is the lessee of, a facility at a time before 27  March 2018; and
 (b) either:
 (i) a *cross staple arrangement was entered into in relation to the facility before 27 March 2018; or
 (ii) it was reasonable on 27  March 2018 to conclude that a cross staple arrangement will be entered into in relation to the facility; and
 (c) all the entities that are *stapled entities in relation to the cross staple arrangement already existed before 27 March 2018; and
 (d) each entity that is a stapled entity in relation to the cross staple arrangement has made a choice in accordance with subsection  (5).
 (3) An amount included in the assessable income for an income year of a *managed investment trust is not MIT cross staple arrangement income of the managed investment trust if:
 (a) the amount is, or is attributable to, an amount derived, received or made from another entity (the second entity); and
 (b) the amount relates to the facility; and
 (c) the second entity is a *stapled entity in relation to the *cross staple arrangement; and
 (d) either:
 (i) if subparagraph  12-437(2)(a)(i) applies--the amount is *rent from land investment paid from an *operating entity in relation to the cross staple arrangement to the managed investment trust; or
 (ii) if subparagraph  12-437(2)(a)(ii) applies--the amount is attributable to rent from land investment paid from an operating entity in relation to the cross staple arrangement to an *asset entity in relation to the cross staple arrangement; and
 (e) the time when the amount was derived, received or made by the managed investment trust meets the requirements in subsection  (4).
 (4) The time meets the requirements in this subsection if:
 (a) where the facility to which the *cross staple arrangement relates is not an *economic infrastructure facility--the time is before 1  July 2031 and before the later of:
 (i) 1 July 2026; and
 (ii) the end of the period of 7 years beginning on the earliest day on which an asset that is part of that facility is first put to use for the purpose of producing assessable income; or
 (b) where the facility to which the cross staple arrangement relates is an economic infrastructure facility--the time is before 1  July 2039 and before the later of:
 (i) 1 July 2034; and
 (ii) the end of the period of 15 years beginning on the earliest day on which an asset that is part of that facility is first put to use for the purpose of producing assessable income.
 (5) An entity makes a choice in accordance with this subsection if:
 (a) the entity makes the choice in the *approved form; and
 (b) the entity makes the choice no later than:
 (i) 30 June 2019; or
 (ii) a later time allowed by the Commissioner; and
 (c) the entity gives the choice to the Commissioner within 60 days after the entity makes the choice.
 (6) The choice cannot be revoked.
Section 12-441 Integrity rule--concessional cross staple rent cap
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) a *managed investment trust in relation to an income year derives, receives or makes an amount of *excepted MIT CSA income for the income year; and
 (b) if the amount is excepted MIT CSA income because of subsection  12-440(3)--paragraph 12-440(4)(b) applies (15 year concession); and
 (c) the amount of excepted MIT CSA income is, or is attributable to, *rent from land investment under a lease (the cross staple lease) entered into by:
 (i) the *asset entity mentioned in paragraph 12-437(2)(a) (the relevant asset entity); and
 (ii) the *operating entity mentioned in paragraph 12-437(2)(b) (the relevant operating entity ).
 (2) To the extent (if any) that the amount of the relevant asset entity&#39;s *excepted MIT CSA income exceeds its *concessional cross staple rent cap for the income year, the following provisions do not apply to the amount of the *managed investment trust&#39;s excepted MIT CSA income mentioned in paragraph (1)(a):
 (a) subsection 12-437(5);
 (b) subsection 12-440(3).
 (3) If the relevant asset entity is not a *managed investment trust in relation to the income year, for the purposes of subsection (2), treat it as a managed investment trust in relation to the income year.
Section 12-442 Meaning of excepted MIT CSA income
  An amount is excepted MIT CSA income of a *managed investment trust in relation to an income year if it would be *MIT cross staple arrangement income of the managed investment trust but for any of the following provisions:
 (a) subsection 12-437(5);
 (b) subsection 12-440(3).
Section 12-443 Concessional cross staple rent cap--existing lease with specified rent or rent method
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) the amount mentioned in subsection  12-441(1) is *excepted MIT CSA income because of subsection  12-440(3); and
 (b) the cross staple lease was entered into before 27  March 2018; and
 (c) the cross staple lease, or associated documents, specified any of the following before 27  March 2018:
 (i) the amount of annual rent under the lease for the first year of the lease that ends after 27  March 2018;
 (ii) an objective method for determining the amount of annual rent under the lease; and
 (d) if subparagraph  (c)(ii) applies--the method is set out in the cross staple lease, or the associated documents, before 27 March 2018.
 (2) If subparagraph  (1)(c)(ii) applies, the concessional cross staple rent cap for an income year of the *managed investment trust is the amount of annual rent determined for the income year under the method mentioned in that subparagraph.
 (3) If subparagraph  (1)(c)(ii) does not apply, the concessional cross staple rent cap for an income year of the *managed investment trust is:
 (a) for an income year where the lease, or the associated documents, specify the amount of annual rent for the corresponding year of the lease under subsection  (4)--that amount; or
 (b) for an income year where that amount is not so specified--the amount worked out under paragraph  (a) in relation to the most recent year of the lease for which an amount is so specified, indexed annually in accordance with Subdivision  960-M of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (4) An income year and a year of the lease correspond to each other under this subsection if both of those years end:
 (a) after a particular 27  March; and
 (b) on or before the next 27  March.
Section 12-444 Concessional cross staple rent cap--general
 (1) This section applies if section  12-443 does not apply.
 (2) The concessional cross staple rent cap for an income year of the *managed investment trust is worked out as follows:
 (a) first, work out a reasonable estimate of whichever of the following is applicable:
 (i) if the relevant asset entity is a trust that is not an *AMIT--the relevant asset entity&#39;s *net income, or *tax loss, for the income year;
 (ii) if the relevant asset entity is an AMIT--the sum of the relevant asset entity&#39;s *trust components with the character of assessable income, or the relevant asset entity&#39;s tax loss, for the income year;
 (iii) if the relevant asset entity is a partnership--the relevant asset entity&#39;s net income, or partnership loss (within the meaning of section  90 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936), for the income year;
 (b) next, work out a reasonable estimate of whichever of the following is applicable:
 (i) if the relevant operating entity is a trust that is not an AMIT--the operating asset entity&#39;s net income, or tax loss, for the income year;
 (ii) if the relevant operating entity is a partnership--the relevant operating entity&#39;s net income, or partnership loss (within the meaning of section  90 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936), for the income year;
 (iii) otherwise--the relevant operating entity&#39;s taxable income or tax loss for the income year;
 (c) next, add the results of paragraphs  (a) and (b);
 (d) next, multiply the result of paragraph  (c) by 0.8;
 (e) next, subtract the result of paragraph  (a) from the result of paragraph (d);
 (f) next, add the amount of *excepted MIT CSA income mentioned in subsection 12-441(1) to the result of paragraph (e).
If the result of paragraph (f) is a positive number, the concessional cross staple rent cap is that result. Otherwise, the concessional cross staple rent cap is nil.
 (3) For the purposes of paragraphs  (2)(a) and (b):
 (a) treat the amount of a *tax loss, or of a partnership loss (within the meaning of section 90 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936), as a negative number; and
 (b) disregard any *tax loss for a previous income year of the relevant asset entity or relevant operating entity.
Section 12-445 Asset entity to allocate deductions first against rental income that is not MIT cross staple arrangement income
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) an entity is an *asset entity in relation to an income year and is a *stapled entity in relation to a *cross staple arrangement; and
 (b) the entity is entitled to a deduction for the income year against its assessable income that arises from *rent from land investment that it derives or receives in the income year; and
 (c) the entity derives, receives or makes an amount of *excepted MIT CSA income in the income year (disregarding this section and subsection 12-441(2)); and
 (d) the amount of that excepted MIT CSA income exceeds the entity&#39;s *concessional cross staple rent cap for the income year.
 (2) The amount of the deduction can only be deducted against an amount of assessable income of the *asset entity as follows:
 (a) first, the amount can only be deducted against an amount of assessable income that is *excepted MIT CSA income, to the extent that the excepted MIT CSA income does not exceed the entity&#39;s *concessional cross staple rent cap for the income year;
 (b) next, if an amount of the deduction remains after applying the rule in paragraph  (a), the amount can only be deducted against an amount of assessable income that is *MIT cross staple arrangement income;
 (c) next, if an amount of the deduction remains after applying the rules in paragraphs  (a) and (b), the amount can be deducted against an amount of assessable income in accordance with other provisions of this Act.
 (3) If the *asset entity is not a *managed investment trust in relation to the income year, for the purposes of determining whether an amount of its assessable income for the income year is *MIT cross staple arrangement income, treat it as a managed investment trust in relation to the income year.
Section 12-446 Meaning of MIT trading trust income
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) an amount is included in the assessable income for an income year of a *managed investment trust in relation to the income year (worked out for the purposes of determining the trust&#39;s *net income, or in the case of an *AMIT, the trust&#39;s total assessable income, for the income year); and
 (b) the amount mentioned in paragraph  (a) is, or is attributable to, an amount derived, received or made from another entity (the second entity); and
 (c) the amount mentioned in paragraph  (a) is not an amount mentioned in paragraph 12-405(1)(a), (b), (c), (d) or (e).
 (2) The amount is MIT trading trust income of the *managed investment trust if:
 (a) the managed investment trust holds a *total participation interest in the second entity of greater than nil; and
 (b) the amount arises because of that total participation interest; and
 (c) the second entity:
 (i) is a trading trust for the purposes of Division  6C of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 in relation to the income year; or
 (ii) is a partnership or a trust that is not a unit trust, but would be such a trading trust in relation to the income year if it were a unit trust throughout the income year; and
 (d) the second entity is not a *public trading trust in relation to the income year.
 (3) The amount is not MIT trading trust income of the *managed investment trust under subsection  (2) to the extent that it is attributable to a *capital gain made from *CGT event E4 or *CGT event E10.
Section 12-447 Transitional--MIT trading trust income
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) an amount (the relevant amount) included in the assessable income for an income year of a *managed investment trust is *MIT trading trust income of the managed investment trust (disregarding this section); and
 (b) immediately before 27  March 2018, the managed investment trust held a *total participation interest (the pre-announcement TPI) of greater than nil in the second entity mentioned in subsection  12-446(1) (the second entity); and
 (c) the relevant amount was derived, received or made by the managed investment trust before 1  July 2026.
 (2) Treat part of the relevant amount as not being *MIT trading trust income of the *managed investment trust.
 (3) That part is equal to the relevant amount multiplied by the fraction worked out under subsections  (4) and (5).
 (4) If the *total participation interest (the post-announcement TPI) held by the *managed investment trust in the second entity at the end of the most recent income year ending before it derived, received or made the relevant amount exceeds the pre -announcement TPI, work out that fraction by dividing:
 (a) the pre-announcement TPI;
by:
 (b) the post-announcement TPI.
 (5) Otherwise, the fraction is 1.
Section 12-448 Meaning of MIT agricultural income , Australian agricultural land for rent and Division 6C land
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) an amount is included in the assessable income for an income year of a *managed investment trust in relation to the income year (worked out for the purposes of determining the trust&#39;s *net income, or in the case of an *AMIT, the trust&#39;s total assessable income, for the income year); and
 (b) the amount mentioned in paragraph  (a) is not an amount mentioned in paragraph 12-405(1)(a), (b), (c), (d) or (e).
 (2) The amount is MIT agricultural income of the *managed investment trust to the extent that it is attributable to an asset that is *Australian agricultural land for rent (whether or not held by the managed investment trust).
 (3) Australian agricultural land for rent is *Division 6C land situated in Australia that:
 (a) is used, or could reasonably be used, for carrying on a *primary production business; and
 (b) is held primarily for the purposes of deriving or receiving rent.
 (4) For the purposes of this section, if an *economic infrastructure facility is a fixture on *Australian agricultural land for rent:
 (a) treat the economic infrastructure facility as being separate from the Australian agricultural land for rent; and
 (b) treat the economic infrastructure facility as not being Australian agricultural land for rent.
 (5) Division 6C land is land (within the meaning of Division  6C of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936), and includes a thing if an investment in the thing would be an investment in land under subsection  102MB(1) of that Act.
Section 12-449 Transitional--MIT agricultural income
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) an amount (the relevant amount) is included in the assessable income for an income year of a *managed investment trust in relation to the income year (worked out for the purposes of determining the trust&#39;s *net income, or in the case of an *AMIT, the trust&#39;s total assessable income, for the income year); and
 (b) the relevant amount would be *MIT agricultural income (disregarding this section) of the managed investment trust because it is attributable to an asset that is *Australian agricultural land for rent; and
 (c) the managed investment trust derived, received or made the relevant amount before 1  July 2026; and
 (d) if the managed investment trust derived, received or made the relevant amount because the managed investment trust held the asset:
 (i) the managed investment trust held the asset just before 27  March 2018; or
 (ii) before 27 March 2018, the managed investment trust entered into a contract for the *acquisition or lease of the asset; and
 (e) if the managed investment trust derived, received or made the relevant amount because another entity (the second entity) held the asset:
 (i) the second entity held the asset just before 27  March 2018; or
 (ii) before 27 March 2018, the second entity entered into a contract for the acquisition or lease of the asset; and
 (f) if paragraph (e) applies--immediately before 27  March 2018, the managed investment trust held a *total participation interest (the pre-announcement TPI) of greater than nil in the second entity.
 (2) If paragraph (1)(d) applies, treat the relevant amount as not being *MIT agricultural income of the *managed investment trust.
 (3) If paragraph (1)(e) applies, treat part of the relevant amount as not being *MIT agricultural income of the *managed investment trust.
 (4) That part is equal to the relevant amount multiplied by the fraction worked out under subsections  (5) and (6).
 (5) If the *total participation interest (the post-announcement TPI) held by the *managed investment trust in the second entity at the end of the most recent income year ending before it derived, received or made the relevant amount exceeds the pre -announcement TPI, work out that fraction by dividing:
 (a) the pre-announcement TPI;
by:
 (b) the post-announcement TPI.
 (6) Otherwise, the fraction is 1.
Section 12-450 Meaning of MIT residential housing income
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) an amount is included in the assessable income for an income year of a *managed investment trust in relation to the income year (worked out for the purposes of determining the trust&#39;s *net income, or in the case of an *AMIT, the trust&#39;s total assessable income, for the income year); and
 (b) the amount mentioned in paragraph  (a) is not an amount mentioned in paragraph 12-405(1)(a), (b), (c), (d) or (e).
 (2) The amount is MIT residential housing income of the *managed investment trust to the extent that it is attributable to a *residential dwelling asset (whether or not held by the managed investment trust).
Asset used to provide affordable housing
 (3) The amount is not MIT residential housing income of the *managed investment trust under subsection  (2) to the extent that it is referable to the use of the *residential dwelling asset to *provide affordable housing.
 (4) If the amount is, or is attributable to, a *capital gain from a *CGT event, subsection (3) applies only if:
 (a) the entity that held the *residential dwelling asset just before the time (the CGT event time) when the CGT event happened had held it for at least 3,650 days (consecutive or not); and
 (b) each of those days satisfies the following requirements:
 (i) the day is on or after 1  July 2017 and before the CGT event time;
 (ii) the residential dwelling asset was used on the day to *provide affordable housing.
Income from a build to rent development
 (5) Subject to subsection  (7), the amount is not MIT residential housing income of the *managed investment trust under subsection (2) to the extent any of the following paragraphs applies to the amount in relation to a *dwelling of an *active build to rent development:
 (a) the amount is, or is referable to, a payment of rental income under a lease of the dwelling;
 (b) the amount is, or is attributable to, a *capital gain from a *CGT event in relation to the dwelling;
 (c) all of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the amount is, or is attributable to, a part of a capital gain from a CGT event in relation to a *membership interest in an entity;
 (ii) just before the time of the CGT event, all or part of the *market value of the membership interest is referable to the dwelling;
 (iii) subsection (6) applies to the part of the capital gain.
 (6) This subsection applies to the part of a *capital gain mentioned in paragraph (5)(c) worked out as follows:
where:
"value of the interest in the dwelling" means so much of the value of the membership interest as is referable to the *dwelling.
"value of the membership interest" means the *market value of the *membership interest just before the time of the *CGT event.
 (7) Subsection (5) does not apply to an amount if:
 (a) the *build to rent compliance period for each of the *dwellings of the *active build to rent development has ended; and
 (b) assuming that the build to rent compliance period for each of the dwellings had not ended, the active build to rent development would have *ceased to be an active build to rent development.
Section 12-451 Transitional--MIT residential housing income
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) an amount (the relevant amount) is included in the assessable income for an income year of a *managed investment trust in relation to the income year (worked out for the purposes of determining the trust&#39;s *net income, or in the case of an *AMIT, the trust&#39;s total assessable income, for the income year); and
 (b) the relevant amount would be *MIT residential housing income (disregarding this section) of the *managed investment trust because it is attributable to a facility that consists of or contains a *residential dwelling asset; and
 (c) the managed investment trust derived, received or made the relevant amount before 1  October 2027; and
 (d) if the managed investment trust derived, received or made the relevant amount because the managed investment trust held the facility:
 (i) the managed investment trust held the facility just before the time mentioned in subsection  (7); or
 (ii) before the time mentioned in subsection  (7), the managed investment trust entered into a contract for the *acquisition, creation or lease of the facility; and
 (e) if the managed investment trust derived, received or made the relevant amount because another entity (the second entity) held the facility:
 (i) the second entity held the facility just before the time mentioned in subsection  (7); or
 (ii) before the time mentioned in subsection  (7), the second entity entered into a contract for the acquisition, creation or lease of the facility; and
 (f) if paragraph (e) applies--immediately before the time mentioned in subsection  (7), the managed investment trust held a *total participation interest (the pre-announcement TPI) of greater than nil in the second entity.
 (2) If paragraph (1)(d) applies, treat the relevant amount as not being *MIT residential housing income of the *managed investment trust.
 (3) If paragraph (1)(e) applies, treat part of the relevant amount as not being *MIT residential housing income of the *managed investment trust.
 (4) That part is equal to the relevant amount multiplied by the fraction worked out under subsections  (5) and (6).
 (5) If the *total participation interest (the post-announcement TPI) held by the *managed investment trust in the second entity at the end of the most recent income year ending before it derived, received or made the relevant amount exceeds the pre -announcement TPI, work out that fraction by dividing:
 (a) the pre-announcement TPI;
by:
 (b) the post-announcement TPI.
 (6) Otherwise, the fraction is 1.
 (7) The time is 4.30 pm, by legal time in the Australian Capital Territory, on 14  September 2017.
Section 12-452 Meaning of residential dwelling asset
 (1) A residential dwelling asset is an asset that:
 (a) is a *dwelling; and
 (b) is *taxable Australian real property; and
 (c) is *residential premises (other than *commercial residential premises); and
 (d) is not a dwelling that:
 (i) is used primarily to provide specialist disability accommodation (within the meaning of the National Disability Insurance Scheme (Specialist Disability Accommodation Conditions) Rule 2018); and
 (ii) is enrolled in accordance with section  6 of that Rule; and
 (e) is not a dwelling that:
 (i) is used primarily to provide disability accommodation; and
 (ii) is a dwelling of a kind prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this subparagraph.
 (2) Section 118-120 (Extension to adjacent land) applies in relation to this section in the same way as it applies in relation to Subdivision  118-B.
 (3) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of applying section  118-120 in relation to this section, a *dwelling&#39;s *adjacent land may include land used primarily for private or domestic purposes in association with the dwelling and with one or more other dwellings.
Section 12-453 MIT agricultural income and MIT residential housing income--capital gains in relation to membership interests
 (1) Subsection (2) applies if:
 (a) any of the following provisions apply in relation to an amount:
 (i) section 12-448;
 (ii) section 12-450; and
 (b) the amount is, or is attributable to, a *capital gain from a *CGT event in relation to an asset that is a *membership interest in an entity; and
 (c) just before the CGT event happened, the entity held, directly or indirectly, one or more assets that are any of the following;
 (i) *Australian agricultural land for rent;
 (ii) a *residential dwelling asset.
 (2) For the purposes of subsections  12-448(2) and 12-450(2):
 (a) in a case where the *membership interest mentioned in subsection (1) passes the principal asset test in section 855-30 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 immediately before the time the *CGT event happens:
 (i) if the assets mentioned in paragraph  (1)(c) are all *Australian agricultural land for rent--treat the *capital gain as being wholly attributable to the Australian agricultural land for rent; or
 (ii) if the assets mentioned in paragraph  (1)(c) are all *residential dwelling assets--treat the capital gain as being wholly attributable to residential dwelling assets; or
 (iii) if all the assets mentioned in paragraph  (1)(c) are Australian agricultural land for rent and residential dwelling assets, and the *market value of the membership interest that is attributable to Australian agricultural land for rent equals or exceeds the market value of the membership interest that is attributable to residential dwelling assets--treat the capital gain as being wholly attributable to Australian agricultural land for rent; or
 (iv) if all the assets mentioned in paragraph  (1)(c) are Australian agricultural land for rent and residential dwelling assets, and the market value of the membership interest that is attributable to Australian agricultural land for rent falls short of the market value of the membership interest that is attributable to residential dwelling assets--treat the capital gain as being wholly attributable to residential dwelling assets; or
 (b) in any other case--treat the capital gain:
 (i) as not being attributable to Australian agricultural land for rent; and
 (ii) as not being attributable to residential dwelling assets.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), in determining whether the *membership interest passes the principal asset test, treat references in section  855-30 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 to *taxable Australian real property as instead being references to an asset that is any of the following:
 (a) *Australian agricultural land for rent;
 (b) a *residential dwelling asset.
 (4) For the purposes of this section, in working out the *market value of an asset, work out that market value just before the time the *CGT event mentioned in paragraph  (1)(b) happens.
Subdivision 12-J--FHSS released amounts
Table of sections
Section 12-460 FHSS released amounts
  The Commissioner must withhold an amount from the *FHSS released amounts paid in respect of a person.
Division 12A--Distributions by AMITs (including deemed payments)
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 12A
Section 12A-A Distributions by AMITs relating to dividend, interest and royalties
Section 12A-B Distributions by AMITs relating to Subdivision  12-H fund payments
Section 12A-C Deemed payments by AMITs etc.
 Guide to Division 12A
Section 12A-1 What this Division is about
When a withholding MIT that is an AMIT gives a member an AMMA statement, the trustee is deemed to have made a payment to the member.The deemed payment can flow through one or more custodians, giving rise to subsequent deemed payments.Withholding liabilities under Subdivisions 12-F and 12 -H do not apply in relation to deemed payments (although analogous liabilities may arise under Subdivision 12A-C).AMIT trustees, custodians and other entities may be required to give notices etc. to recipients of such deemed payments.
Subdivision 12A-A--Distributions by AMITs relating to dividend, interest and royalties
 Guide to Subdivision 12A-A
Section 12A-5 What this Subdivision is about
Withholding liabilities under Subdivision 12-F do not apply in relation to deemed payments arising under Subdivision  12A-C relating to dividends, interest or royalties (although analogous liabilities may arise under Subdivision  12A-C).AMIT trustees, custodians and other entities may be required to give notices etc. to recipients of such deemed payments.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 12A-10 Deemed payments--no obligation to withhold under Subdivision  12-F (dividend, interest and royalty payments)
Section 12A-15 Dividend, interest or royalty payments relating to AMIT--requirement to give notice or make information available
Section 12A-20 Failure to give notice or make information available under section  12A-15: administrative penalty
Section 12A-25 Meaning of AMIT DIR payment
Section 12A-30 Meaning of AMIT dividend payment
Section 12A-35 Meaning of AMIT interest payment
Section 12A-40 Meaning of AMIT royalty payment
 Operative provisions
Section 12A-10 Deemed payments--no obligation to withhold under Subdivision  12-F (dividend, interest and royalty payments)
 (1) If the entity that receives a payment as mentioned in subsection  12-215(1), 12-250(1) or 12-285(1) is the trustee of an *AMIT, the entity need not withhold an amount under that subsection from the payment if the payment arises because of the operation of section  12A-205 (deemed payments).
Note: The trustee may have to pay the Commissioner an amount in respect of the deemed payment (see Subdivision  12A-C).
 (2) Subsection (3) applies if:
 (a) the entity that receives a payment as mentioned in subsection  12-215(1), 12-250(1) or 12-285(1) is a *custodian; and
 (b) it received the payment from an *AMIT.
 (3) The entity need not withhold an amount under that subsection from the payment mentioned in that subsection if:
 (a) the payment arises because of the operation of section  12A-205 (deemed payments); or
 (b) the payment is a *post-AMMA actual payment in respect of a payment that so arises.
Note: Either or both of the trustee of the AMIT concerned and the custodian may have to pay the Commissioner an amount in respect of the deemed payment (see Subdivision  12A-C).
 (4) Disregard this section for the purposes of section  12A-15.
Section 12A-15 Dividend, interest or royalty payments relating to AMIT--requirement to give notice or make information available
AMITs and custodians
 (1) An entity that is an *AMIT or a *custodian must comply with subsection (2) if:
 (a) the entity makes a payment to another entity (the recipient) from which an amount would have been required to be withheld under Subdivision 12-F if:
 (i) the entity were a company; and
 (ii) the payment had been made to a foreign resident; and
 (iii) the condition in either or both of paragraphs 12 -210(a) or (b), of paragraphs 12-245(a) or (b) or of paragraphs 12-280(a) or (b) (as the case requires) were satisfied; and
 (b) an amount is not required to be withheld from the payment because:
 (i) the recipient is not a foreign resident; or
 (ii) the recipient is a foreign resident carrying on business in Australia at or through a permanent establishment (within the meaning of subsection  128B(3F) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) of the recipient in Australia, and the payment is attributable to the permanent establishment; and
 (c) the payment is any of the following:
 (i) a payment that arises because of the operation of section  12A-205 (deemed payments);
 (ii) a *pre-AMMA actual payment in respect of a payment that so arises.
 (2) The entity must:
 (a) give to the recipient a written notice containing the details specified in subsection  (3); or
 (b) make those details available on a website in a way that the details are readily accessible to the recipient for not less than 5 continuous years.
 (3) The notice must be given, or the details must be made available on a website, before or at the time when the payment is made and:
 (a) must specify the part of the payment from which an amount would have been so required to have been withheld; and
 (b) must specify the income year of the *AMIT to which that part relates.
Note: Failure to give the notice or make the details available as required by this section incurs an administrative penalty: see section  12A-20.
Other entities
 (4) An entity that is not an *AMIT or a *custodian must comply with subsection (5) if:
 (a) the entity receives a payment; and
 (b) another entity (the subsequent recipient) is or becomes entitled:
 (i) to receive from the entity; or
 (ii) to have the entity credit to the subsequent recipient, or otherwise deal with on the subsequent recipient&#39;s behalf or as the subsequent recipient directs;
  an amount attributable to the payment; and
 (c) the entity would have been required to withhold an amount from the payment under subsection  12-215(1), 12-250(1) or 12-285(1) if the subsequent recipient had been a foreign resident; and
 (d) an amount is not required to be withheld from the payment because:
 (i) the subsequent recipient is not a foreign resident; or
 (ii) the subsequent recipient is a foreign resident carrying on business in Australia at or through a permanent establishment (within the meaning of subsection  128B(3F) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) of the subsequent recipient in Australia, and the payment is attributable to the permanent establishment; and
 (e) the payment is any of the following:
 (i) a payment that arises because of the operation of section  12A-205 (deemed payments);
 (ii) a *pre-AMMA actual payment in respect of a payment that so arises.
 (5) The entity must:
 (a) give to the subsequent recipient a written notice containing the details specified in subsection  (6); or
 (b) make those details available on a website in a way that the details are readily accessible to the subsequent recipient for not less than 5 continuous years.
 (6) The notice must be given, or the details must be made available on a website, before or at the time when the amount is paid or credited to the subsequent recipient, or is dealt with on the subsequent recipient&#39;s behalf or as the subsequent recipient directs, and:
 (a) must specify the part of the payment referred to in paragraph  (4)(a) from which an amount would have been so required to have been withheld; and
 (b) must specify the income year of the *AMIT to which that part relates.
Note: Failure to give the notice or make the details available as required by this section incurs an administrative penalty: see section  12A-20.
Section 12A-20 Failure to give notice or make information available under section  12A-15: administrative penalty
  An entity that:
 (a) is required to give a notice, or make details available on a website, under section  12A-15 in relation to:
 (i) a payment made to another entity; or
 (ii) an amount paid or credited to, or dealt with on behalf of or as directed by, another entity; and
 (b) fails to comply with that section;
is liable to pay to the Commissioner a penalty equal to the amount that would have been required to be withheld under this Subdivision (disregarding section 12-300) in relation to amounts attributable to the payment or amount if the notice had been given or the details had been made available.
Note: Division 298 in this Schedule contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
Section 12A-25 Meaning of AMIT DIR payment
  An AMIT DIR payment means any of the following:
 (a) an *AMIT dividend payment;
 (b) an *AMIT interest payment;
 (c) an *AMIT royalty payment.
Section 12A-30 Meaning of AMIT dividend payment
 (1) This section applies to a trust that is an *AMIT for an income year.
 (2) The object of this section is to ensure that the total of the *AMIT dividend payments that the trustee of the *AMIT makes in relation to the income year equals, as nearly as practicable, the amount mentioned in subsection  (3).
 (3) The amount is the total of the *determined member components for the *AMIT for the income year of the character of a dividend (as defined in Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) that is subject to a requirement to withhold under Subdivision  12-F.
 (4) A payment (the actual or deemed payment) that the trustee of a trust makes in relation to an income year is an AMIT dividend payment in relation to that year. However, the amount of the AMIT dividend payment is worked out under the following method statement, and may be:
 (a) the amount of the actual or deemed payment; or
 (b) the amount of the actual or deemed payment, increased or reduced as a result of the method statement.
Note: The payment by the trustee may be an actual payment, or a deemed payment under section  12A-205.
Method statementStep 1. Work out what it is reasonable to expect will be the amount mentioned in subsection  (3).Step 2. The AMIT dividend payment is so much of the step 1 amount as is reasonable having regard to:
 (a) the object of this section; and (b) the amounts of any earlier AMIT dividend payments made by the trustee in relation to the income year; and (c) the expected amounts of any later AMIT dividend payments the trustee expects to make in relation to the income year.
 (5) The amount mentioned in subsection  (3) and the expected amounts of any later *AMIT dividend payments are to be worked out on the basis of the trustee&#39;s knowledge when the payment is made.
 (6) Subsection (5) does not apply if the payment is a payment arising because of the operation of section  12A-205 (deemed payments).
 (7) However, the payment is not an AMIT dividend payment in relation to the income year if:
 (a) the payment is a *post-AMMA actual payment in respect of another payment; and
 (b) the other payment arises because of the operation of section  12A-205; and
 (c) the other payment is an AMIT dividend payment.
Section 12A-35 Meaning of AMIT interest payment
 (1) This section applies to a trust that is an *AMIT for an income year.
 (2) The object of this section is to ensure that the total of the *AMIT interest payments that the trustee of the *AMIT makes in relation to the income year equals, as nearly as practicable, the amount mentioned in subsection  (3).
 (3) The amount is the total of the *determined member components for the *AMIT for the income year of the character of interest (as defined in Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) that is subject to a requirement to withhold under Subdivision  12-F.
 (4) To work out the amount of an AMIT interest payment, apply subsections 12A-30(4), (5), (6) and (7). For this purpose:
 (a) treat references in those subsections to AMIT dividend payments as instead being references to AMIT interest payments; and
 (b) treat the reference in subsection  12A-30(4) to &quot;the amount mentioned in subsection (3)&quot; as instead being a reference to &quot;the amount mentioned in subsection  12A-35(3)&quot;.
Section 12A-40 Meaning of AMIT royalty payment
 (1) This section applies to a trust that is an *AMIT for an income year.
 (2) The object of this section is to ensure that the total of the *AMIT royalty payments that the trustee of the *AMIT makes in relation to the income year equals, as nearly as practicable, the amount mentioned in subsection  (3).
 (3) The amount is the total of the *determined member components for the *AMIT for the income year of the character of a *royalty that is subject to a requirement to withhold under Subdivision 12-F.
 (4) To work out the amount of an AMIT royalty payment, apply subsections 12A-30(4), (5), (6) and (7). For this purpose:
 (a) treat references in those subsections to AMIT dividend payments as instead being references to AMIT royalty payments; and
 (b) treat the reference in subsection  12A-30(4) to &quot;the amount mentioned in subsection (3)&quot; as instead being a reference to &quot;the amount mentioned in subsection  12A-40(3)&quot;.
Subdivision 12A-B--Distributions by AMITs relating to Subdivision 12-H fund payments
 Guide to Subdivision 12A-B
Section 12A-100 What this Subdivision is about
Withholding liabilities under Subdivision 12-H do not apply in relation to deemed payments arising under Subdivision  12A-C analogous to fund payments under Subdivision 12-H (although analogous liabilities may arise under Subdivision  12A-C).AMIT trustees, custodians and other entities may be required to give notices etc. to recipients of such deemed payments.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 12A-105 Deemed payments--no obligation to withhold under Subdivision  12-H
Section 12A-110 Meaning of fund payment--AMITs
 Operative provisions
Section 12A-105 Deemed payments--no obligation to withhold under Subdivision  12-H
 (1) The trustee mentioned in subsection  12-385(1) need not withhold an amount under that subsection from the payment mentioned in that subsection if the payment arises because of the operation of section  12A-205 (deemed payments).
Note: The trustee may have to pay the Commissioner an amount in respect of the deemed payment (see Subdivision  12A-C).
 (2) The *custodian mentioned in subsection 12-390(1) need not withhold an amount under that subsection from the later payment mentioned in that subsection if:
 (a) the later payment arises because of the operation of section  12A-205 (deemed payments); or
 (b) the later payment is a *post-AMMA actual payment in respect of a payment of a kind mentioned in paragraph (a).
Note: Either or both of the trustee of the AMIT concerned and the custodian may have to pay the Commissioner an amount in respect of the deemed payment (see Subdivision  12A-C).
 (3) The entity mentioned in subsection  12-390(4) need not withhold an amount under that subsection from the payment mentioned in that subsection if:
 (a) the payment arises because of the operation of section  12A-205 (deemed payments); or
 (b) the payment is a *post-AMMA actual payment in respect of a payment of a kind mentioned in paragraph (a).
Note: The entity may have to pay the Commissioner an amount in respect of the deemed payment (see Subdivision  12A-C).
 (4) Disregard this section for the purposes of section  12-395.
Section 12A-110 Meaning of fund payment --AMITs
 (1) This section applies to a trust that is an *AMIT for an income year.
 (2) The object of this section is to ensure that the total of the *fund payments that the trustee of the *AMIT makes in relation to the income year equals, as nearly as practicable, the amount mentioned in subsection  (3).
 (3) The amount is the sum of the following amounts:
 (a) total of the *determined member components for the *AMIT for the income year of a character relating to assessable income, disregarding determined member components (the excluded components) of any of the following characters:
 (i) the character of a *discount capital gain from a *CGT asset that is not *taxable Australian property;
 (ii) the character of a *capital gain (other than a discount capital gain) from a CGT asset that is not taxable Australian property;
 (iii) the character of a dividend (as defined in Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) that is subject to, or exempted from, a requirement to withhold under Subdivision  12-F;
 (iv) the character of interest (as defined in Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) that is subject to, or exempted from, a requirement to withhold under Subdivision  12-F;
 (v) the character of a *royalty that is subject to, or exempted from, a requirement to withhold under Subdivision 12-F;
 (vi) the character of *ordinary income, or *statutory income, from a source other than an *Australian source;
 (vii) if a legislative instrument under subsection  (4) specifies a character--that character;
 (b) the total of each *capital loss of the AMIT from a *CGT event that:
 (i) happened in the income year to a CGT asset that is not taxable Australian property; and
 (ii) has been applied against a capital gain from a CGT event that happened in relation to a CGT asset that is taxable Australian property;
  but only to the extent that each such capital loss has been so applied in the income year;
 (c) the total of each amount to which subsection  (3A) applies in relation to the income year.
 (3A) If:
 (a) the AMIT has a *net capital loss for an earlier income year; and
 (b) one or more of the *capital losses the trust made during that earlier income year were from *CGT events that happened in relation to *CGT assets that were not *taxable Australian property; and
 (c) in relation to the income year mentioned in paragraph  (3)(c), some or all of the net capital loss is applied against a *capital gain from a CGT event that happens in relation to a CGT asset that is taxable Australian property;
this subsection applies, for the income year mentioned in paragraph (3)(c), to an amount equal to so much of the net capital loss that is so applied as related to capital losses mentioned in paragraph  (b) of this subsection.
 (4) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, specify one or more characters for the purposes of subparagraph  (3)(a)(vii).
 (5) A payment (the actual or deemed payment) that the trustee of a trust makes in relation to an income year is a fund payment in relation to that year. However, the amount of the fund payment is worked out under the following method statement, and may be:
 (a) the amount of the actual or deemed payment; or
 (b) the amount of the actual or deemed payment, increased or reduced as a result of the method statement.
Note: The payment by the trustee may be an actual payment, or a deemed payment under section  12A-205.
Method statementStep 1. Reduce the actual or deemed payment by so much of it that is attributable to the excluded components.Step 2. Work out what it is reasonable to expect will be the amount mentioned in subsection  (3). Do so on the basis that a *capital gain from *taxable Australian property of the trust that was or would be reduced under step 3 of the method statement in subsection  102-5(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 were double the amount it actually is.Step 3. The fund payment is so much of the step 2 amount as is reasonable having regard to:
 (a) the object of this section; and (b) the step 1 amount; and (c) the amounts of any earlier fund payments made by the trustee in relation to the income year; and (d) the expected amounts of any later fund payments the trustee expects to make in relation to the income year.
 (6) The amount mentioned in subsection  (3) and the expected amounts of any later *fund payments are to be worked out on the basis of the trustee&#39;s knowledge when the payment is made.
 (7) Subsection (6) does not apply if the payment is a payment arising because of the operation of section  12A-205 (deemed payments).
 (8) However, the payment is not a fund payment in relation to the income year if:
 (a) the payment (the actual payment) is a *post-AMMA actual payment in respect of another payment; and
 (b) the other payment arises because of the operation of section  12A-205; and
 (c) the other payment is a fund payment.
 (9) An amount is also not a fund payment in relation to the income year unless it is paid:
 (a) during the income year; or
 (b) within 3 months after the end of the income year; or
 (c) within a longer period (starting at the end of the period referred to in paragraph  (b) and not exceeding 3 years) allowed by the Commissioner.
 (10) The Commissioner may allow a longer period as mentioned in paragraph  (9)(c) only if the Commissioner is of the opinion that:
 (a) if the other payment arises at a time because of the operation of section  12A-205 (deemed payments)--the *AMIT complied with subsection  276-455(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 in respect of the income year (requirement to give AMMA statements within 3 months); or
 (b) otherwise--the trustee was unable to make the payment during the income year, or within 3 months after the end of the income year, because of circumstances beyond the influence or control of the trustee.
Subdivision 12A-C--Deemed payments by AMITs etc.
 Guide to Subdivision 12A-C
Section 12A-200 What this Subdivision is about
When a withholding MIT that is an AMIT gives a member an AMMA statement, the trustee is deemed to have made a payment to the member.The payment is generally the sum of the determined member components reflected in the statement that are of a character relating to assessable income, reduced by any previous actual payments related to those components.The deemed payment can flow through one or more custodians, giving rise to subsequent deemed payments.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 12A-205 Issue of AMMA statement etc. deemed to be payment
Section 12A-210 Post-AMMA actual payment and pre-AMMA actual payment in respect of deemed payment
Section 12A-215 AMIT payment to the Commissioner in respect of deemed payments to offshore entities etc.
Section 12A-220 Custodian payment to the Commissioner in respect of deemed payments to offshore entities etc.
 Operative provisions
Section 12A-205 Issue of AMMA statement etc. deemed to be payment
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) an entity (the first recipient) is or was a *member of a *withholding MIT in respect of an income year; and
 (b) the withholding MIT is an *AMIT for the income year; and
 (c) the AMIT gives the first recipient an *AMMA statement for the income year.
 (2) For the purposes of this Part, Subdivision  840-M of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 and Division 11A of Part  III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936:
 (a) treat the trustee of the *AMIT as having made a payment (the first deemed payment) of an amount to the first recipient at the time the AMIT gave the first recipient the *AMMA statement; and
 (b) treat the amount of the first deemed payment as being the amount worked out as follows:
 (i) first, work out the total of all the *determined member components of all the *members of the AMIT of a character relating to assessable income for the income year;
 (ii) next, identify each of the *pre-AMMA actual payments (if any) made to those members in respect of all payments by the trustee to those members that arise from the operation of paragraph  (a);
 (iii) next, identify every *AMIT DIR payment (if any) and each *fund payment (if any) that arises from each such pre-AMMA actual payment;
 (iv) next, reduce the result of subparagraph  (i) by the sum of each such AMIT DIR payment and fund payment;
 (v) next, work out how much of the result of subparagraph  (iv) is referable to the first recipient.
 (3) Also, for the purposes of Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, treat the first recipient as having derived the first deemed payment just before the end of the income year to which the *AMMA statement relates.
 (4) Subsection (5) applies if:
 (a) the first recipient is a *custodian; and
 (b) another entity (the subsequent recipient):
 (i) starts to have, at a time, an entitlement to an amount that is reasonably attributable to all or part of the first deemed payment; or
 (ii) would start to have, at a time, such an entitlement if the first deemed payment were an actual payment of an amount.
 (5) For the purposes of this Part, Subdivision  840-M of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 and Division 11A of Part  III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936:
 (a) treat the first recipient as having made a payment (the subsequent deemed payment) of an amount to the subsequent recipient at that time; and
 (b) treat the amount of the subsequent deemed payment as being the amount of the entitlement mentioned in subparagraph  (4)(b)(i) or (ii); and
 (c) treat the amount of the subsequent deemed payment as being attributable to the first deemed payment.
 (6) Also, for the purposes of Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, treat the subsequent recipient as having derived the subsequent deemed payment at the time the subsequent deemed payment arises.
 (7) If:
 (a) an entity is a subsequent recipient mentioned in subsection  (4) (including as a result of a previous operation of this subsection); and
 (b) subsection (5) applies with the result that a payment is treated as having been made to the entity; and
 (c) the entity is a *custodian;
apply subsections (4), (5) and (6) again as if the entity were the first recipient mentioned in subsection (4).
Note: This means that the entity is treated under subsection (5) as having made a payment to another entity if the other entity has (or would have) an entitlement as mentioned in paragraph  (4)(b).
Section 12A-210 Post-AMMA actual payment and pre-AMMA actual payment in respect of deemed payment
 (1) A payment that does not arise because of the operation of section 12A-205 is a post-AMMA actual payment in respect of a payment (the deemed payment) that does arise because of the operation of that section if:
 (a) the payment and the deemed payment are both attributable to the same *member component for the *AMIT mentioned in that section; and
 (b) the actual payment is made at or after the time the deemed payment arises.
 (2) A payment that does not arise because of the operation of section 12A-205 is a pre-AMMA actual payment in respect of a payment (the deemed payment) that does arise because of the operation of that section if:
 (a) the payment and the deemed payment are both attributable to the same *member component for the *AMIT mentioned in that section; and
 (b) the actual payment is made before the time the deemed payment arises.
Section 12A-215 AMIT payment to the Commissioner in respect of deemed payments to offshore entities etc.
 (1) A trustee of a trust that is an *AMIT for an income year must pay an amount to the Commissioner if:
 (b) the trustee makes a payment (the deemed payment) that arises because of the operation of section 12A-205; and
 (c) the payment is made to an entity (the recipient) that is:
 (i) if the payment is a *fund payment and the trust is a *withholding MIT in relation to the income year--an entity covered by section  12-410; or
 (ii) if the payment is an *AMIT DIR payment made in relation to the income year--an entity that is not an Australian resident.
Note 1: An entity may be covered by section 12-410 if the entity has an address outside Australia or payment is authorised to be made to a place outside Australia.
Note 2: If the payment is made to a recipient not covered by subparagraph (c)(i) or (ii), the trustee is required to give a notice to the recipient or publish information on a website setting out certain details about the payment: see sections  12-395 and 12A-15.
 (2) The amount that the trustee must pay is equal to the amount that the trustee would, if the assumptions in subsection  (3) were made, have had to withhold under:
 (a) if the deemed payment is a *fund payment--section 12-385; or
 (b) if the deemed payment is an *AMIT DIR payment--section 12-210, 12-245 or 12-280.
 (3) The assumptions are that:
 (a) the deemed payment had not arisen because of the operation of section 12A-205; and
 (b) the deemed payment had instead been an actual payment; and
 (c) if the deemed payment is an *AMIT DIR payment:
 (i) where it corresponds to the character of a dividend (as defined in Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) that is subject to a requirement to withhold under Subdivision  12-F--the trust had been a company, and it had paid it as a dividend; or
 (ii) where it corresponds to the character of interest (as defined in Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) that is subject to a requirement to withhold under Subdivision  12-F--it were the payment of interest; or
 (iii) where it corresponds to the character of a *royalty that is subject to a requirement to withhold under Subdivision 12-F--it were the payment of a royalty; and
 (d) if the deemed payment is an AMIT DIR payment--the condition in either or both of paragraphs 12 -210(a) or (b), of paragraphs 12-245(a) or (b) or of paragraphs 12-280(a) or (b) (as the case requires) were satisfied.
 (4) The trustee may recover from the recipient as a debt an amount that the trustee has paid to the Commissioner under subsection  (1).
 (5) The trustee is entitled to set off an amount that the trustee can recover from the recipient under subsection  (4) against debts due by the trustee to the recipient.
Section 12A-220 Custodian payment to the Commissioner in respect of deemed payments to offshore entities etc.
 (1) A *custodian must pay an amount to the Commissioner if:
 (a) the trustee of a trust that was an *AMIT for an income year and was a *withholding MIT in relation to the income year made a payment (the first deemed payment) that:
 (i) arose because of the operation of section  12A-205; and
 (ii) was a *fund payment or an *AMIT DIR payment; and
 (b) the custodian makes a payment (the subsequent deemed payment) that arises because of the operation of section 12A-205; and
 (c) the first deemed payment gave rise to the subsequent deemed payment, because of one or more operations of section  12A-205; and
 (d) the subsequent deemed payment or part of it (the covered part) was covered by a notice or information under:
 (i) if the first deemed payment was a fund payment--section  12-395; or
 (ii) if the first deemed payment was an AMIT DIR payment--section  12A-15; and
 (e) the subsequent deemed payment is made to an entity (the recipient) that is:
 (i) if the first deemed payment was a fund payment--covered by section  12-410; or
 (ii) if the first deemed payment was an AMIT DIR payment-- not an Australian resident.
Note 1: An entity may be covered by section 12-410 if the entity has an address outside Australia or payment is authorised to be made to a place outside Australia.
Note 2: If the payment is made to a recipient not covered by subparagraph (e)(i) or (ii), the trustee is required to give a notice to the recipient or publish information on a website setting out certain details about the payment: see sections  12-395 and 12A-15.
 (2) The amount that the *custodian must pay is the amount that the custodian would, if the assumptions in subsection (3) were made, have had to withhold under:
 (a) if the first deemed payment was a *fund payment--subsection 12-390(1); or
 (b) if the first deemed payment was an *AMIT DIR payment--section 12-210, 12-245 or 12-280.
 (3) The assumptions are that:
 (a) the subsequent deemed payment had not arisen because of the operation of section 12A-205; and
 (b) the subsequent deemed payment had instead been an actual payment; and
 (c) if the first deemed payment was an *AMIT DIR payment:
 (i) where the first deemed payment corresponded to the character of a dividend (as defined in Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) that is subject to a requirement to withhold under Subdivision  12-F--the *custodian had been a company, and it had paid the subsequent deemed payment as a dividend; or
 (ii) where the first deemed payment corresponded to the character of interest (as defined in Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) that is subject to a requirement to withhold under Subdivision  12-F--the subsequent deemed payment were the payment of interest; or
 (iii) where the first deemed payment corresponded to the character of a *royalty that is subject to a requirement to withhold under Subdivision 12-F--the subsequent deemed payment were the payment of a royalty; and
 (d) if the first deemed payment was an AMIT DIR payment--the condition in either or both of paragraphs 12 -210(a) or (b), of paragraphs 12-245(a) or (b) or of paragraphs 12-280(a) or (b) (as the case requires) were satisfied.
 (4) The *custodian may recover from the recipient as a debt an amount that the custodian has paid to the Commissioner under subsection (1).
 (5) The *custodian is entitled to set off an amount that the custodian can recover from the recipient under subsection (4) against debts due by the custodian to the recipient.
Division 13--Alienated personal services payments
Table of sections
Section 13-1 Object of this Division
Section 13-5 Payment to the Commissioner in respect of alienated personal services payments
Section 13-10 Alienated personal services payments
Section 13-15 Personal services payment remitters
Section 13-20 Time for payments to Commissioner for alienated personal services payments made during 2000 -01
Section 13-1 Object of this Division
  The object of this Division is to ensure the efficient collection of income tax (and other liabilities) on any *personal services income included in an individual&#39;s assessable income under Division 86 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 by:
 (a) putting *personal services entities receiving *alienated personal services payments in a position similar to their position if amounts were withheld from the payments under Division  12; but
 (b) doing so in a way that enables them to comply with their obligations without having to withhold amounts separately from each payment.
Note: Under Division 86 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about alienation of personal services income), an individual&#39;s personal services income that is gained or produced by another entity is in some cases included in the individual&#39;s assessable income. Payments of this income by the entity might not be caught by Division  12.
Section 13-5 Payment to the Commissioner in respect of alienated personal services payments
Obligation to pay amounts
 (1) A *personal services entity must pay an amount of tax to the Commissioner if:
 (a) it receives an *alienated personal services payment that relates to an individual&#39;s personal services income; and
 (b) it receives the payment during a *PAYG payment period for which it is a *personal services payment remitter.
Working out the amounts
 (2) Use this method statement to work out the amount:
Method statementStep 1. Identify the payments that the *personal services entity makes to the individual during the period mentioned in paragraph (1)(b) that are *withholding payments covered by section 12-35.Step 2. Identify the amounts that:
 (a) are included in the individual&#39;s assessable income under section 86-15 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; and (b) relate to *alienated personal services payments the entity receives during that period.
Step 3. Work out the sum of all the amounts that Division  12 would require the entity to withhold in respect of that period if both of these were taken into account:
 (a) the payments identified in step 1; and (b) the amounts identified in step 2, as if they were payments of salary covered by section 12-35.
Step 4. Work out the sum of all the amounts withheld under section  12-35 from the payments identified in step 1.Step 5. Subtract the sum under step 4 from the sum under step 3.
Example: For the PAYG payment period of 1 April 2001 to 30 June 2001, NewIT Pty. Ltd. received amounts totalling $18,000 that were Ron&#39;s personal services income. NewIT does not conduct a personal services business.
 During the period, NewIT paid Ron $3,000 in salary. This is a withholding payment covered by section  12-35 (step 1).
 $15,000 of the amount NewIT received is included in Ron&#39;s assessable income under section  86-15 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (step 2).
 If NewIT had paid the $15,000 in salary to Ron within 14 days after the end of the PAYG payment period, the amount that NewIT would have had to withhold under Division  12 on the total amount of $18,000 would have been $4,000 (step 3).
 NewIT withheld $500 from the salary payment of $3,000, as required by section 12-35 (step 4).
 On the basis of these facts, the amount NewIT must pay to the Commissioner (step 5) is:
 (3) Subject to subsections  (4) and (5), the *personal services entity must pay the amount to the Commissioner by the end of the 21st day after the end of the *PAYG payment period.
Note: A different rule applies for alienated personal services payments that large withholders and medium withholders make during the 2000 -01 income year. See section 13-20.
 (4) If:
 (a) the *personal services entity is a *deferred BAS payer on the 21st day after the end of the *PAYG payment period; and
 (b) the personal services entity&#39;s PAYG payment period is a *quarter;
the entity must pay that amount to the Commissioner as shown in the table:
Payments by *deferred BAS payersItemIf paragraph (4)(a) applies to the *quarter ending on:the amount for this quarter must be paid by the end of:130 Septemberthe following 28 October231 Decemberthe following 28 February331 Marchthe following 28 April430 Junethe following 28 July
 (5) If:
 (a) the *personal services entity is a *deferred BAS payer on the 21st day after the end of the *PAYG payment period; and
 (b) the personal services entity&#39;s PAYG payment period is a month;
the entity must pay that amount to the Commissioner:
 (c) by the end of the 28th day of the month following that period unless the PAYG payment period is a December; or
 (d) by the end of the 28th day of the next February if the PAYG payment period is a December.
Section 13-10 Alienated personal services payments
  An alienated personal services payment is a payment (including a payment in the form of a *non-cash benefit) that a *personal services entity receives and that relates to an amount that:
 (a) is included in an individual&#39;s assessable income under Division  86 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or
 (b) would be so included but for the fact that the entity received the income in the course of conducting a *personal services business.
For valuation of non-cash benefits, see sections 21 and 21A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.
Section 13-15 Personal services payment remitters
General
 (1) A *personal services entity is a personal services payment remitter for a *PAYG payment period if, in the income year preceding that period:
 (a) the entity&#39;s *ordinary income or *statutory income included a person&#39;s *personal services income; and
 (b) the entity was not conducting a *personal services business.
Businesses not previously receiving personal services income
 (2) A *personal services entity is a personal services payment remitter for a *PAYG payment period if:
 (a) the entity&#39;s *ordinary income or *statutory income did not include an individual&#39;s *personal services income in any income year preceding that period; and
 (b) it is reasonable to expect that, in the income year during which the period occurs, the entity&#39;s income will include a person&#39;s *personal services income that the entity will not have received in the course of conducting a *personal services business.
 (3) It is not reasonable to expect that the *personal services entity will receive a person&#39;s *personal services income in the course of conducting a *personal services business if it is reasonable to expect that:
 (a) the entity will receive at least 80% of that income from the same entity (or one entity and its *associates); and
 (b) the entity will not meet the results test under section  87-18 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Personal services business determinations taking effect
 (4) However, a *personal services entity is not a personal services payment remitter for a *PAYG payment period if, during that period or an earlier PAYG payment period in the same income year, a *personal services business determination relating to the entity takes effect.
Section 13-20 Time for payments to Commissioner for alienated personal services payments made during 2000 -01
 (1) Subject to subsection  (2), if:
 (a) a *personal services entity must, under section 13-5, pay an amount for *alienated personal services payments it received during a particular *PAYG payment period; and
 (b) the period ends in a *quarter in the *financial year starting on 1 July 2000;
the payment must be paid to the Commissioner by the end of the 21st day after the end of the quarter.
 (2) If:
 (a) the *personal services entity is a *deferred BAS payer on the 21st day after the end of the *quarter; and
 (b) the quarter ends on 31st March or 30th June of 2001;
the payment must be paid to the Commissioner by the end of the 28th day after the end of that quarter.
Division 14--Benefits, gains and taxable supplies for which amounts must be paid to the Commissioner
Table of sections
Section 14-1 Object of this Subdivision
Section 14-5 Provider of non-cash benefit must pay amount to the Commissioner if payment would be subject to withholding
Section 14-10 Dividend, interest or royalty received, for a foreign resident, in the form of a non -cash benefit
Section 14-15 Payer can recover amount paid to the Commissioner
Section 14-50 Object of this Subdivision
Section 14-55 Liability for TFN withholding tax
Section 14-60 Investment body may recover TFN withholding tax from investor
Section 14-65 Application of rules in Division 18
Section 14-75 Overpayment of TFN withholding tax
Section 14-85 Other laws do not exempt from TFN withholding tax
Subdivision 14-A--Non-cash benefits
Section 14-1 Object of this Subdivision
  The object of this Subdivision is:
 (a) to put entities that provide *non-cash benefits, and entities that receive them, in a position similar to their position under Division 12 if payments of money had been made instead of the non -cash benefits being provided; and
 (b) in that way, to prevent entities from avoiding their obligations under Division  12 by providing non-cash benefits.
Section 14-5 Provider of non-cash benefit must pay amount to the Commissioner if payment would be subject to withholding
 (1) An entity (the payer) must pay an amount to the Commissioner before providing a *non-cash benefit to another entity (the recipient) if Division 12 would require the payer to withhold an amount (the notionally withheld amount ) if, instead of providing the benefit to the recipient, the payer made a payment to the recipient in money equal to the *market value of the benefit when the benefit is provided.
 (2) The amount to be paid to the Commissioner is equal to the notionally withheld amount.
Example: Nick is a building contractor who has entered into a voluntary agreement with Mike for the purposes of section  12-55. Nick proposes to give Mike his old utility van (whose market value is $1,000) as payment for work Mike has done for him over a fortnight.
 If Nick were instead to pay Mike $1,000, Nick would have had to withhold $203 under Division 12 (in accordance with withholding rates current at the time).
 This section requires Nick to pay $203 to the Commissioner before giving the van to Mike.
 (3) This section does not apply to providing:
 (a) a *fringe benefit; or
 (b) a benefit that is an exempt benefit under the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986; or
 (c) a benefit that would be an exempt benefit under that Act if paragraphs  (d) and (e) of the definition of employer in subsection 136(1) of that Act were omitted; or
 (d) a benefit constituted by the acquisition of an *ESS interest *under an employee share scheme to which Subdivision  83A-B or 83A-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 applies.
Section 14-10 Dividend, interest or royalty received, for a foreign resident, in the form of a non -cash benefit
  If:
 (a) an entity (the payer) receives in the form of a *non-cash benefit:
 (i) a *dividend of a company; or
 (ii) interest (within the meaning of Division  11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936); or
 (iii) a *royalty; and
 (b) section 12-215, 12-250 or 12-285 would have required the payer to withhold an amount if the dividend, interest or royalty had been a payment in money;
the payer must pay that amount to the Commissioner before providing the benefit (or part of it) to another entity.
Section 14-15 Payer can recover amount paid to the Commissioner
 (1) The payer may recover from the recipient as a debt an amount that the payer has paid to the Commissioner under section  14-5.
 (2) If the payer has paid an amount to the Commissioner under section  14-10, the payer may:
 (a) if the payer has provided all of the benefit to another entity--recover the amount from that other entity as a debt; or
 (b) if the payer has provided a part of the benefit to another entity--recover from that other entity as a debt the corresponding proportion of the amount paid to the Commissioner.
 (3) If the payer can recover an amount from another entity under this section, the payer is entitled to set the amount off against debts due by the payer to the other entity.
Subdivision 14-B--Accruing gains
Section 14-50 Object of this Subdivision
  The object of this Subdivision is to put the parties to a *Part VA investment with an accruing gain in a position similar to what would have been their position under Subdivision  12-E (Payments where TFN or ABN not quoted) if the *investment body had paid the gain in money to the *investor at the end of the income year.
Section 14-55 Liability for TFN withholding tax
 (1) *TFN withholding tax is payable if:
 (a) in relation to a *Part VA investment, an amount (the accrued gain) is included in the *investor&#39;s assessable income for an income year under section 159GQ of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (about gains accruing on securities); and
 (b) the investment:
 (i) is of a kind mentioned in item  1 or 2 of the table in subsection 202D(1) of that Act; or
 (ii) is of a kind mentioned in item  3 of that table and is non-transferable; and
 (c) the term of the investment does not end during the income year; and
 (d) section 12-140 would have required the *investment body to withhold an amount (the TFN withholding amount) from a payment of the accrued gain to the investor, if the investment body had made the payment at the end of the income year and section  12-150 had not been enacted.
Note: Section 202D of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 lists the investments in connection with which tax file numbers are to be quoted.
 (2) The amount of *TFN withholding tax is equal to the TFN withholding amount.
 (3) The *TFN withholding tax is payable jointly and severally by the *investor and the *investment body.
 (4) However, if the *investment body is the Commonwealth or an *untaxable Commonwealth entity:
 (a) the *TFN withholding tax is payable by the *investor; and
 (b) the investor is taken to have authorised the investment body to pay the TFN withholding tax on the investor&#39;s behalf.
 (5) The *TFN withholding tax is due and payable at the end of 21 days after the end of the income year referred to in paragraph (1)(a).
Note 1: When it is due and payable, the TFN withholding tax is payable to the Commissioner: see paragraph  255-5(1)(b).
Note 2: An entity by whom it is payable must pay it to the Commissioner in accordance with Subdivision  16-B: see subsection 16-70(3). If any of it remains unpaid, the entity is liable to pay general interest charge: see section  16-80.
Note 3: The Commissioner may defer the time at which TFN withholding tax becomes due and payable: see section  255-10.
 (6) The adoption (under section  18 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) of an accounting period ending on a day other than 30 June is disregarded for the purposes of:
 (a) this section; and
 (b) the application of Division  16E of Part III of that Act for the purposes of this section.
Section 14-60 Investment body may recover TFN withholding tax from investor
 (1) The *investment body may recover from the *investor as a debt any of the *TFN withholding tax that it pays.
 (2) The *investment body is entitled to set off an amount that it can recover from the *investor under this section against:
 (a) a debt due by it to the investor; or
 (b) an amount that is accruing to the investor, or stands to the investor&#39;s credit, in respect of the *Part VA investment, even if the amount is not yet due.
Section 14-65 Application of rules in Division  18
  These provisions:
 (a) subsection 18-15(1) and sections 18-20 and 18 -25 (about credits for amounts withheld from withholding payments); and
 (b) section 18-80 (about refunds when exemption declaration not given);
apply as if any of the *TFN withholding tax that has been paid were an amount withheld under subsection  12-140(1) from a *withholding payment covered by that subsection and made to the *investor during:
 (c) unless the *investor has adopted (under section 18 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) an accounting period ending on a day other than 30  June--the income year referred to in paragraph 14-55(1)(a); or
 (d) if the investor has adopted such an accounting period--the income year in which the TFN withholding tax is paid.
Note: Unless the investor has adopted such an accounting period, the credit under section  18-15, 18-20 or 18-25 will be in respect of the income year before the one in which the TFN withholding tax is paid.
Section 14-75 Overpayment of TFN withholding tax
  If *TFN withholding tax has been overpaid:
 (a) the Commissioner must refund the amount overpaid; and
 (b) the *investor is not entitled to a credit under section 18-15, 18-20 or 18-25 in respect of the amount overpaid.
Section 14-85 Other laws do not exempt from TFN withholding tax
 (1) A provision of a law passed before the commencement of this section that purports to exempt an entity from liability to pay *TFN withholding tax, or to pay taxes that include TFN withholding tax, does not exempt that entity from liability to pay TFN withholding tax.
 (2) A provision of a law passed at or after the commencement of this section that purports to exempt an entity from liability to pay taxes under the laws of the Commonwealth, or to pay certain taxes under those laws that include *TFN withholding tax, is not to be interpreted as exempting the entity from liability to pay TFN withholding tax, unless it specifically mentions TFN withholding tax.
Subdivision 14-C--Shares and rights under employee share schemes
Table of sections
Section 14-155 Liability for TFN withholding tax (ESS)
Section 14-160 Employer may give individual tax file numbers to provider
Section 14-165 Provider may recover TFN withholding tax (ESS) from individual
Section 14-170 Application of rules in Division 18
Section 14-175 Overpayment of TFN withholding tax (ESS)
Section 14-180 Application of certain provisions of Division 83A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997
Section 14-155 Liability for TFN withholding tax (ESS)
 (1) Tax (TFN withholding tax (ESS)) imposed by the Income Tax (TFN Withholding Tax (ESS)) Act 2009 is payable if:
 (a) a company (the provider) provides one or more *ESS interests to an individual under an *employee share scheme; and
 (b) as a result, an amount is included in the individual&#39;s assessable income under Division  83A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for an income year (taking into account subsection  (2) of this section); and
 (c) the individual has quoted neither of the following to the provider before the end of the income year:
 (i) if the individual acquired the interests in relation to any services provided to the provider, or to a *subsidiary of the provider, in the course or furtherance of an *enterprise *carried on by the individual--the individual&#39;s *ABN;
 (ii) in any case--the individual&#39;s *tax file number.
 (2) For the purposes of paragraph  (1)(b), disregard sections 83A-33 and 83A-35 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about reducing the amount included in the individual&#39;s assessable income).
Note: Disregard the 30 day rule in subsections 83A-115(3) and 83A -120(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for the purposes of this Subdivision: see subsection 392-5(6) in this Schedule.
 (3) The *TFN withholding tax (ESS) is payable by the provider.
 (4) The *TFN withholding tax (ESS) is due and payable at the end of 21 days after the end of the income year referred to in paragraph (1)(b).
Note 1: When it is due and payable, the TFN withholding tax (ESS) is payable to the Commissioner: see paragraph  255-5(1)(b).
Note 2: The provider must pay the TFN withholding tax (ESS) to the Commissioner in accordance with Subdivision  16-B: see subsection 16-70(4). If any of it remains unpaid, the provider is liable to pay general interest charge: see section  16-80.
Note 3: The Commissioner may defer the time at which TFN withholding tax (ESS) becomes due and payable: see section  255-10.
Section 14-160 Employer may give individual tax file numbers to provider
 (1) The individual is taken to have authorised a *subsidiary (the employer) of the provider to inform the provider of the individual&#39;s *tax file number if:
 (a) the individual has made a *TFN declaration in relation to the employer; and
 (b) some or all of the *ESS interests mentioned in paragraph 14-155(1)(a) were provided to the individual in relation to the individual&#39;s employment by the employer.
 (2) If the employer does so, the individual is taken, for the purposes of this Subdivision and Division  392 (Employee share scheme reporting), to have quoted his or her *tax file number to the provider.
Section 14-165 Provider may recover TFN withholding tax (ESS) from individual
 (1) The provider may recover from the individual as a debt any of the *TFN withholding tax (ESS) the provider pays.
 (2) The provider is entitled to set off an amount that the provider can recover from the individual under this section against a debt due by the provider to the individual.
Section 14-170 Application of rules in Division  18
  These provisions:
 (a) subsection 18-15(1) (about credits for amounts withheld from withholding payments); and
 (b) sections 18-65 and 18-70 (about refunds of amounts withheld in error);
apply as if any of the *TFN withholding tax (ESS) that has been paid were an amount withheld under section  12-35 from a *withholding payment made to the individual and covered by that section.
Section 14-175 Overpayment of TFN withholding tax (ESS)
  If *TFN withholding tax (ESS) has been overpaid:
 (a) the Commissioner must refund the amount overpaid; and
 (b) the individual is not entitled to a credit under section  18-15 in respect of the amount overpaid.
Section 14-180 Application of certain provisions of Division  83A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997
  The following provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 have effect for the purposes of this Subdivision in the same way as they have for the purposes of Division 83A of that Act:
 (a) section 83A-130 (about takeovers and restructures);
 (b) section 83A-305 (about associates);
 (c) section 83A-320 (about trusts);
 (d) section 83A-325 (about relationships similar to employment);
 (e) section 83A-335 (about stapled securities);
 (f) section 83A-340 (about indeterminate rights).
Subdivision 14-D--Capital proceeds involving foreign residents and taxable Australian property
Table of sections
Section 14-200 Certain acquisitions of taxable Australian property from foreign residents
Section 14-205 Effect of look-through earnout rights
Section 14-210 Whether an entity is a relevant foreign resident
Section 14-215 Excluded transactions
Section 14-220 Commissioner clearance certificates
Section 14-225 Entity declarations
Section 14-230 Administrative penalties for false or misleading declarations
Section 14-235 Varying amounts to be paid to the Commissioner
Section 14-200 Certain acquisitions of taxable Australian property from foreign residents
 (1) You must pay to the Commissioner an amount if:
 (a) you become the owner of a *CGT asset as a result of *acquiring it from one or more entities under one or more transactions; and
 (b) subsection 14-210(1) (about foreign residents) applies to at least one of those entities at the time one of those transactions is entered into; and
 (c) at that time, the CGT asset is:
 (i) *taxable Australian real property; or
 (ii) an *indirect Australian real property interest; or
 (iii) an option or right to acquire such property or such an interest;
unless a transaction referred to in paragraph (a) is excluded under section 14-215.
Note: You must pay the amount on account of income tax possibly payable by the entities on their capital proceeds resulting from your acquisition of the CGT asset.
 (2) You must pay the amount to the Commissioner on or before the day you became the *CGT asset&#39;s owner.
Note: There are penalties for failing to pay the amount (see Division 16).
 (3) The amount to be paid to the Commissioner is:
 (a) unless paragraph (b) applies--an amount equal to 15% of:
 (i) the first element of the *CGT asset&#39;s *cost base just after the *acquisition, ignoring paragraphs 112 -36(1)(b) and (c) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about the effect of look-through earnout rights); less
 (ii) if the acquisition is the result of you exercising an option--any payment you made, and the *market value of any property you gave, for the option (or to renew or extend it); or
 (b) the varied amount applying under section  14-235.
 (4) This section does not apply if the amount that would otherwise be payable is nil.
Section 14-205 Effect of look-through earnout rights
Acquisitions of taxable Australian property from foreign residents
 (1) You must pay to the Commissioner an amount if:
 (a) you are required under section  14-200 to pay an amount to the Commissioner in relation to your *acquisition of a *CGT asset; and
 (b) under a *look-through earnout right relating to the CGT asset and the acquisition, you provide a *financial benefit to one or more entities; and
 (c) subsection 14-210(1) (about foreign residents) would apply to at least one of those entities at the time you provide the financial benefit if section  14-210 were modified as described in subsection (2) of this section; and
 (d) an amount is not already required to be withheld from a *withholding payment relating to the financial benefit.
Note 1: To work out the amount payable, see subsection (4).
Note 2: You must pay the amount on account of income tax possibly payable by the entities on their increased capital proceeds from receiving the financial benefit.
Modifications of the relevant foreign residents test
 (2) The modifications of section  14-210 are as follows:
Modifications to section 14-210 for the purposes of this section Column 1Column 2ItemFor a reference in that section to:substitute a reference to:1transaction is entered into*financial benefit is provided2transaction (other than a reference covered by item 1)*financial benefit314-20014-205
When you must pay the amount
 (3) You must pay the amount to the Commissioner on or before the day you provide the *financial benefit.
Note: There are penalties for failing to pay the amount (see Division 16).
 (4) The amount to be paid to the Commissioner is:
 (a) unless paragraph (b) applies--an amount equal to 15% of the *market value of the *financial benefit; or
 (b) the varied amount applying under section  14-235.
Section 14-210 Whether an entity is a relevant foreign resident
Is the entity a foreign resident at the time of the transaction?
 (1) This subsection applies to an entity at the time a transaction is entered into if, at that time:
 (a) you know that the entity is a foreign resident; or
 (b) you reasonably believe that the entity is a foreign resident; or
 (c) you do not reasonably believe that the entity is an Australian resident, and either:
 (i) the entity has an address outside Australia (according to any record that is in your possession, or is kept or maintained on your behalf, about the transaction); or
 (ii) you are authorised to provide a related financial benefit to a place outside Australia (whether to the entity or to anyone else); or
 (d) the entity has a connection outside Australia of a kind specified in the regulations; or
 (e) the *CGT asset to which the transaction relates is:
 (i) *taxable Australian real property; or
 (ii) an *indirect Australian real property interest, the holding of which causes a company title interest (within the meaning of Part X of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) to arise.
Note: This subsection is relevant to whether you must pay an amount to the Commissioner under section  14-200.
Exception--the entity gives you a clearance certificate
 (2) Despite subsection  (1), that subsection does not apply to the entity in relation to the transaction if:
 (a) before you pay the Commissioner under section  14-200 in relation to the *CGT asset to which the transaction relates, the entity gives you a certificate about the entity that:
 (i) was issued under subsection  14-220(1); and
 (ii) is for a period covering the time the transaction is entered into; and
 (b) the CGT asset is of a kind described in paragraph  (1)(e) of this section.
Exception--the entity gives you a residency or interests declaration
 (3) Despite subsection  (1), that subsection does not apply to the entity in relation to the transaction if:
 (a) before you pay the Commissioner under section  14-200 in relation to the *CGT asset to which the transaction relates, the entity gives you a declaration that:
 (i) is about the entity or the CGT asset; and
 (ii) was given under subsection  14-225(1) or (2); and
 (iii) is for a period covering the time the transaction is entered into; and
 (b) when you are given the declaration, you do not know the declaration to be false; and
 (c) for a declaration given under subsection  14-225(1)--the CGT asset is not of a kind described in paragraph (1)(e) of this section.
Section 14-215 Excluded transactions
  A transaction that results in the *acquisition of a *CGT asset is excluded under this section if:
 (b) the transaction is on an *approved stock exchange; or
 (c) the transaction is conducted using a crossing system (within the meaning of the *market integrity rules); or
 (d) an amount is already required to be withheld (other than under Subdivision  14-E) from a *withholding payment relating to the transaction; or
 (e) subsection 26BC(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (about securities lending arrangements) applies in relation to the transaction as a result of the transaction being covered by subparagraph  (a)(ii) of that subsection; or
 (f) any of the entities to which subsection  14-210(1) (about foreign residents) applies at the time of the transaction:
 (i) is a company for which any of the conditions in paragraph  161A(1)(a) of the Corporations Act 2001 (about insolvency and external administration) is satisfied; or
 (ii) is, under a *foreign law, in the same or a similar position to a company covered by subparagraph (i); or
 (g) the transaction arises from any of the following:
 (i) the administration of the estate of a bankrupt;
 (ii) a composition or scheme of arrangement accepted under Division  6 of Part IV of the Bankruptcy Act 1966;
 (iii) a debt agreement under Part  IX of that Act;
 (iv) a personal insolvency agreement under Part  X of that Act;
 (v) circumstances that are, under a foreign law, the same or similar to those in any of the above subparagraphs.
Note: This section is relevant to whether you must pay an amount to the Commissioner under section  14-200.
Section 14-220 Commissioner clearance certificates
 (1) The Commissioner may certify that, based on information before the Commissioner, there is nothing to suggest that an entity is or will be a foreign resident during a specified period.
Note: Such a certificate could result in you not being required to pay an amount under this Subdivision (see subsection  14-210(2)).
 (2) A certificate under subsection  (1):
 (a) may be issued on application to the Commissioner in the *approved form; and
 (b) is to be in writing; and
 (c) applies only for the purposes of this Subdivision.
 (3) For the purposes of (but without limiting) paragraph  388-50(1)(c), the Commissioner may require an application for a certificate under subsection (1) to state:
 (a) whether the applicant holds or will hold specified *CGT assets on behalf of another entity during any part of the period for which the certificate is sought; and
 (b) whether the applicant knows or reasonably believes that the other entity is or will be a foreign resident during that period.
Note: Section 388-50 sets out when an application is in the approved form.
 (4) A certificate issued under subsection  (1) is not a legislative instrument.
Section 14-225 Entity declarations
Declaration that an entity is an Australian resident
 (1) An entity may, in writing, declare that, for a specified period, the entity is and will be an Australian resident.
Note: Such a declaration could result in you not being required to pay an amount under this Subdivision (see subsection  14-210(3)).
Declaration that asset not an indirect Australian real property interest
 (2) An entity may, in writing, declare that, for a specified period, specified *CGT assets are *membership interests but not *indirect Australian real property interests.
Note: Such a declaration could result in you not being required to pay an amount under this Subdivision (see subsection  14-210(3)).
Limit on the periods for which declarations have effect
 (3) A period specified in a declaration under this section is of no effect to the extent that it includes days later than 6 months after the day the declaration is made.
Declarations are not legislative instruments
 (4) A declaration under this section is not a legislative instrument.
Section 14-230 Administrative penalties for false or misleading declarations
Knowingly making false or misleading declarations
 (1) You are liable to pay the Commissioner a penalty of 120 penalty units if:
 (a) you make a statement; and
 (b) the statement is, or purports to be, a declaration under section  14-225; and
 (c) the statement is false or misleading in a material particular, whether because of things in it or omitted from it; and
 (d) you know, at the time of making the statement, that it is so false or misleading.
Note: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
Recklessly making false or misleading declarations
 (2) You are liable to pay the Commissioner a penalty of 80 penalty units if:
 (a) you make a statement; and
 (b) the statement is, or purports to be, a declaration under section  14-225; and
 (c) the statement is false or misleading in a material particular, whether because of things in it or omitted from it; and
 (d) you were reckless in connection with the making of the statement.
Note: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
Not taking reasonable care in making declarations
 (3) You are liable to pay the Commissioner a penalty of 40 penalty units if:
 (a) you make a statement; and
 (b) the statement is, or purports to be, a declaration under section  14-225; and
 (c) the statement is false or misleading in a material particular, whether because of things in it or omitted from it; and
 (d) you did not take reasonable care in connection with the making of the statement.
Note: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
Section 14-235 Varying amounts to be paid to the Commissioner
Policies relevant to varying amounts
 (1) In exercising a power under this section to vary an amount, the Commissioner must have regard to the need to protect a creditor&#39;s right to recover a debt.
Varying particular amounts
 (2) The Commissioner may, in writing, vary a particular amount payable by you to the Commissioner under this Subdivision. The variation takes effect when you become aware of it.
Note: Decisions to vary, or not to vary, are reviewable (see section  20-80).
 (3) Any of the following entities may apply to the Commissioner in the *approved form for a variation under subsection (2):
 (a) you;
 (b) an entity from which you *acquire, or could acquire, the *CGT asset;
 (c) an entity that is owed a debt by an entity covered by paragraph  (b).
 (4) A variation made under subsection  (2) is not a legislative instrument.
Varying classes of amounts
 (5) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, vary classes of amounts payable to the Commissioner under this Subdivision.
Amounts may be reduced to nil
 (6) The Commissioner&#39;s power under subsection  (2) or (5) to vary an amount includes the power to reduce the amount to nil.
Subdivision 14-E--GST payable on taxable supplies of certain real property
Table of sections
Section 14-250 Recipients of certain taxable supplies of real property must pay amounts to Commissioner
Section 14-255 Notification by suppliers of residential premises etc.
Section 14-250 Recipients of certain taxable supplies of real property must pay amounts to Commissioner
Liability to pay an amount
 (1) You must pay to the Commissioner an amount if:
 (a) you are the recipient (within the meaning of the *GST Act) of a *taxable supply that is, or includes, a *supply to which subsection (2) applies; and
 (b) in a case where the supply is a supply of *potential residential land--either:
 (i) you are not registered (within the meaning of that Act); or
 (ii) you do not acquire the thing supplied for a *creditable purpose.
 (2) This subsection applies to a *supply, by way of sale or long-term lease (within the meaning of the *GST Act), of:
 (a) *new residential premises that:
 (i) have not been created through *substantial renovations of a building; and
 (ii) are not *commercial residential premises; or
 (b) *potential residential land that:
 (i) is included in a *property subdivision plan; and
 (ii) does not contain any building that is in use for a commercial purpose;
other than a supply that is of a kind determined by the Commissioner under subsection (3).
 (3) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, determine that subsection  (2) does not apply to a kind of *supply specified in the determination.
When the amount must be paid
 (4) You must pay the amount on or before:
 (a) the day on which:
 (i) any of the *consideration for the *supply (other than consideration provided as a deposit) is first provided; or
 (ii) if the supplier is your *associate, and the supply is without consideration--the supply is made; or
 (b) if a determination under subsection  (5) applies--the day provided under that determination.
 (5) The Commissioner may determine, by legislative instrument, circumstances in which amounts under this section are to be paid on or before the day provided under the determination. The determination may provide for amounts to be paid in instalments.
The amount to be paid
 (6) The amount to be paid to the Commissioner is an amount equal to:
 (a) if the *margin scheme applies to the *supply:
 (i) the percentage, of the amount provided under subsection  (7), determined by the Minister under subsection (8); or
 (ii) if there is no such determination--7% of the amount provided under subsection  (7); or
 (b) otherwise--1/11 of the amount provided under subsection (7).
 (7) For the purposes of paragraphs  (6)(a) and (b), the amount is:
 (a) if the contract for the *supply specifies an amount (the contract price) that is the *price for the supply, subject to normal adjustments that apply on completion of transactions of that kind--that contract price; or
 (b) otherwise--the *price for the supply.
 (8) The Minister may, by legislative instrument, determine a percentage exceeding 7%, but not exceeding 9%, for the purposes of subparagraph  (6)(a)(i).
 (9) Despite subsection  (6), if:
 (a) the supplier is your *associate; and
 (b) the *supply is without *consideration or is for consideration that is less than the *GST inclusive market value;
the amount to be paid to the Commissioner is an amount equal to 10% of the *GST exclusive market value (within the meaning of the *GST Act) of the supply.
 (10) Despite subsections  (6) and (9), if:
 (a) the *supply does not consist solely of one or more supplies to which subsection (2) applies; and
 (b) it is practicable to ascertain, at the time any of the *consideration for the supply (other than consideration provided as a deposit) is first provided, the amount (the reduced amount ) of the amount provided under subsection (6) or (9) that relates to supplies to which subsection (2) applies;
the amount provided under subsection (6) or (9) is taken (other than for the purposes of this subsection) to be the reduced amount.
Multiple recipients
 (11) If there is more than one recipient (within the meaning of the *GST Act) of the *supply (the original supply ):
 (a) treat each recipient as being the recipient of a separate supply; and
 (b) treat the amount under subsection  (6), (9) or (10) (as the case requires) for such a separate supply as being the same proportion of that amount for the original supply, as the proportion of the original supply that is constituted by that separate supply.
Treat recipients who are joint tenants as a single recipient for the purposes of this subsection.
Section 14-255 Notification by suppliers of residential premises etc.
 (1) You must not make a *supply, by way of sale or long-term lease (within the meaning of the *GST Act), of *residential premises or of *potential residential land to another entity unless, before making the supply, you have given to the other entity a written notice stating:
 (a) whether the other entity will be required to make a payment under section  14-250 in relation to the supply; and
 (b) if the other entity will be required to make such a payment in relation to the supply:
 (i) the name and *ABN of the entity that is liable to pay the *GST on the supply; and
 (ii) the amount that the other entity will be required to pay to the Commissioner under section  14-250 in relation to the supply; and
 (iii) when the other entity will be required to pay that amount; and
 (iv) if some or all of the *consideration for the supply will not be expressed as an amount of *money--the *GST inclusive market value of so much of the consideration as will not be expressed as an amount of money; and
 (v) such other matters as are specified in the regulations.
 (2) However, subsection  (1):
 (a) does not apply to a supply of *commercial residential premises; and
 (b) does not apply to a supply of *potential residential land to another entity if the other entity:
 (i) is registered (within the meaning of the *GST Act); and
 (ii) acquires the land for a *creditable purpose.
 (3) To avoid doubt, a failure to comply with subsection  (1) does not affect the other entity&#39;s obligation to make a payment under section 14-250.
Strict liability offence
 (4) You must not fail to give a notice required under this section.
Penalty: 100 penalty units.
 (5) An offence against subsection  (4) is a strict liability offence.
Note: For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code.
Administrative penalty
 (6) You are liable to pay the Commissioner a penalty of 100 penalty units if you fail to give a notice required under this section.
Note: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
 (7) However, you are not liable to a penalty for failing to meet the requirements of paragraph  (1)(b) in relation to a supply if, at the time you gave the notice, you reasonably believed that you were not required to meet those requirements in relation to that supply.
Division 15--Working out the amount to withhold
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 15
Section 15-A Working out how much to withhold
Section 15-B Withholding schedules and regulations
Section 15-C Declarations
 Guide to Division 15
Section 15-1 What this Division is about
This Division is mainly about how to work out how much an entity must withhold under Division  12.In most cases, the entity will need to use either the Commissioner&#39;s withholding schedules or the regulations.The entity will also need to take into account a TFN declaration or declaration under section  15-50 it has been given because, under the schedules and regulations, the declaration may affect how to calculate the amount to withhold.This Division also deals with when an individual can make such a declaration (other than a TFN declaration) so as to change the amount that must be withheld from payments to the individual.
Subdivision 15-A--Working out how much to withhold
Table of sections
Section 15-10 How much to withhold
Section 15-15 Variation of amounts required to be withheld
Section 15-10 How much to withhold
 (1) The amount that Subdivision  12-B, 12-C or 12-D requires to be withheld from a payment is to be worked out under the withholding schedules made under section  15-25. However, if the regulations prescribe how the amount is to be worked out, then it is to be worked out under the regulations.
Note 1: A TFN declaration, declaration under section 15-50 or voluntary agreement may affect how much is required to be withheld under the withholding schedules or regulations.
Note 2: The Commissioner may vary an amount required to be withheld. See section  15-15.
 (2) The amount that Subdivision  12-E, 12-F, 12-FA, 12-FAA, 12-FB, 12-FC, 12 -G (except one covered by section 12-325) or 12-J requires to be withheld from a payment is to be worked out under the regulations.
Note 1: The amount that section 12-325 requires to be withheld is worked out under that section.
Note 2: The Commissioner may vary an amount required to be withheld. See section  15-15.
 (3) The amount that Subdivision  12-H requires to be withheld from a payment or receipt is worked out under subsection 12-385(2), 12 -390(2) or 12-390(5).
Section 15-15 Variation of amounts required to be withheld
 (1) The Commissioner may, for the purposes of meeting the special circumstances of a particular case or class of cases, vary the *amount required to be withheld by an entity from a *withholding payment (except a withholding payment covered by section 12-140, 12-145, 12-175 or 12 -180 or Subdivision 12-FC or 12-H). If the Commissioner does so, the amount is varied accordingly.
Note 1: Section 12-140 is about a payment arising from an investment where the recipient does not quote its tax file number (or, in some cases, its ABN).
Note 2: Sections 12-175 and 12-180 are about a payment of the income of a closely held trust to a beneficiary, where the beneficiary does not quote the beneficiary&#39;s tax file number.
Note 3: Section 12-145 is about an investor becoming presently entitled to income of a unit trust.
Note 3A: Subdivision 12-FC is about certain labour mobility programs.
Note 4: Subdivision 12-H is about distributions of withholding MIT income.
 (2) The Commissioner&#39;s power to vary an amount includes the power to reduce the amount to nil.
 (3) A variation must be made:
 (a) if it applies to a particular entity--by a written notice given to that entity; or
 (b) if it applies to a class of entities--by legislative instrument.
Subdivision 15-B--Withholding schedules and regulations
Table of sections
Section 15-25 Commissioner&#39;s power to make withholding schedules
Section 15-30 Matters to be considered when making withholding schedules
Section 15-35 Regulations about withholding
Section 15-25 Commissioner&#39;s power to make withholding schedules
 (1) For the purposes of collecting income tax and the other liabilities referred to in paragraphs 11 -1(b), (ca), (caa), (cb), (cc), (cd), (da) and (db), the Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, make one or more withholding schedules specifying the amounts, formulas and procedures to be used for working out the *amount required to be withheld by an entity:
 (a) from a *withholding payment covered by Subdivision 12-B, 12-C or 12-D; or
 (b) an *alienated personal services payment to which Division 13 applies.
 (2) A withholding schedule may deal differently with:
 (a) different payments; and
 (b) different circumstances of the recipients of those payments; and
 (c) different periods in respect of which those payments are made.
This subsection does not limit subsection 33(3A) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901.
Section 15-30 Matters to be considered when making withholding schedules
  The Commissioner must have regard to the following matters when making a withholding schedule:
 (a) the rates of income tax as specified in the Income Tax Rates Act 1986;
 (b) the rates of *Medicare levy as specified in the Medicare Levy Act 1986;
 (c) the methods for working out, for any financial year starting on or after 1  July 2025, the following:
 (i) the amounts referred to in paragraphs  (a) and (b) of the definition of applicable repayable amount for the purposes of subsection 46(1) (about repayments of accumulated AASL debt) of the Australian Apprenticeship Support Loans Act 2014;
 (ii) the amounts referred to in paragraphs 154 -20(1)(a) and (b) (about repayments of accumulated HELP debt) of the Higher Education Support Act 2003;
 (iii) the amounts referred to in paragraphs  (a) and (b) of the definition of applicable repayable amount for the purposes of subsection 1061ZVHA(1) (about repayments of accumulated SSL debt) of the Social Security Act 1991;
 (iv) the amounts referred to in paragraphs  (a) and (b) of the definition of applicable repayable amount for the purposes of subsection 1061ZZFD(1) (about repayments of accumulated FS debts) of the Social Security Act 1991;
 (v) the amounts referred to in paragraphs  (a) and (b) of the definition of applicable repayable amount for the purposes of subsection 10F(1) (about repayments of accumulated ABSTUDY SSL debt) of the Student Assistance Act 1973;
 (vi) the amounts referred to in paragraphs  (a) and (b) of the definition of applicable repayable amount for the purposes of subsection 12ZLC(1) (about repayments of accumulated FS debts) of the Student Assistance Act 1973;
 (vii) the amounts referred to in paragraphs  (a) and (b) of the definition of applicable repayable amount for the purposes of subsection 23EA(1) (about repayments of accumulated VETSL debts) of the VET Student Loans Act 2016;
 (d) any *tax offsets;
 (e) the family tax benefit (within the meaning of the A New Tax System (Family Assistance) Act 1999);
 (f) the periods in respect of which *withholding payments are made;
 (fa) in relation to withholding payments that are *working holiday taxable income--whether an entity is registered under section 16-147;
 (g) any other prescribed matter.
Section 15-35 Regulations about withholding
 (1) For the purposes of collecting income tax and the other liabilities referred to in section 11-1, the regulations may specify the amounts, formulas and procedures to be used for working out the *amount required to be withheld by an entity from a *withholding payment covered by Division 12 (except one covered by section 12-325).
 (2) The regulations may deal differently with:
 (a) different payments; and
 (b) different circumstances of the recipients of those payments; and
 (c) different periods in respect of which those payments are made.
This subsection does not limit subsection 33(3A) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901.
Subdivision 15-C--Declarations
Table of sections
Section 15-50 Declarations
Declarations about matters
 (1) An individual who:
 (a) expects to receive a *withholding payment covered by Subdivision 12-B, 12-C or 12-D, or an *alienated personal services payment to which Division 13 applies, from an entity; and
 (b) wishes to have a matter relating to the individual&#39;s income tax or other liability referred to in paragraph  11-1(b), (ca), (caa), (cb), (cc), (cd), (da) or (db) taken into account by the entity in working out the *amount required to be withheld from the payment;
may give the entity a declaration about the matter in the *approved form.
When declarations under subsection (1) can&#39;t be given
 (2) The individual cannot give a declaration under subsection (1) unless:
 (a) a *TFN declaration is in effect between the individual and the entity, or a *voluntary agreement covers the payment; and
 (b) if the individual has given another entity a declaration on any matter--that declaration is not in effect.
Declarations changing information given in TFN declaration
 (3) If:
 (a) an individual has given a *TFN declaration to an entity; and
 (b) the individual made a statement about a matter in the TFN declaration; and
 (c) the individual&#39;s circumstances change in relation to the matter;
the individual may give the entity a declaration about the matter in the *approved form.
Regulations
 (4) The regulations may prescribe:
 (b) when a declaration under subsection  (1) or (3) starts or ceases to be in effect; and
 (c) when a declaration under subsection  (1) or (3) is taken to have been given.
 (5) If:
 (a) an individual gives an entity a declaration under subsection  (1) or (3) about a matter; and
 (b) the individual&#39;s circumstances change in relation to the matter;
the regulations may also prescribe when the individual must give the entity a new declaration about the matter.
Division 16--Payer&#39;s obligations and rights
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 16
Section 16-A To withhold
Section 16-B To pay withheld amounts to the Commissioner
Section 16-BA To be registered
Section 16-C To provide information
Section 16-D Additional rights and obligations of entity that makes a payment
 Guide to Division 16
Section 16-1 What this Division is about
This Division sets out the obligations and rights of an entity required to withhold an amount under Division  12, or to pay an amount to the Commissioner under Division 12A, 13 or 14.Note: The entity may also have obligations under other legislation. See, for example, the obligation to keep records under section  262A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.
Subdivision 16-A--To withhold
Table of sections
When to withhold
Section 16-5 When to withhold an amount
Section 16-7 Treat entity obliged to pay under Subdivision  12A-C as having withheld amount under Division 12
Section 16-20 Payer discharged from liability to recipient for amount withheld
Penalties for not withholding
Section 16-25 Failure to withhold: offence
Section 16-30 Failure to withhold: administrative penalty for entity other than exempt Australian government agency
Section 16-35 Failure to withhold: administrative penalty for exempt Australian government agency in relation to payment other than dividend, interest or royalty
Section 16-40 Failure to withhold: administrative penalty for exempt Australian government agency in relation to dividend, interest or royalty payment
Section 16-43 Failure to withhold: administrative penalty for exempt Australian government agency in relation to payment to foreign resident etc.
 When to withhold
Section 16-5 When to withhold an amount
  If Division 12 requires an entity to withhold an amount from a payment, the entity must do so when making the payment.
Note 1: An entity is required to withhold an amount under section 12-145 when an investor becomes presently entitled to income of a unit trust.
Note 1A: A trustee of a closely held trust is required to withhold an amount under section  12-180 when a beneficiary is presently entitled to unpaid income of the trust.
Note 2: If section 12-215, 12-250 or 12 -285, or subsection 12-390(4), requires an entity to withhold an amount from a payment received by the entity, the entity must do so at the time required by that provision.
Section 16-7 Treat entity obliged to pay under Subdivision  12A-C as having withheld amount under Division 12
  For the purposes of this Division:
 (a) if an entity must pay an amount to the Commissioner under Subdivision  12A-C, treat the entity as being obliged to withhold the amount under Division 12; and
 (b) if an entity has paid an amount to the Commissioner under Subdivision  12A-C, treat the entity as having withheld the amount under Division 12.
Section 16-20 Payer discharged from liability to recipient for amount withheld
 (1) An entity that:
 (a) withholds an amount as required by Division  12; or
 (b) pays to the Commissioner an amount as required by Division  12A, 13 or 14;
is discharged from all liability to pay or account for that amount to any entity except the Commissioner.
Note: The entity may be required to refund the amount in some circumstances. See Subdivision  18-B.
 (2) An entity is discharged from all liability to pay so much of the total amount payable to *acquire a *CGT asset as is equal to any amount the entity pays to the Commissioner under Subdivision  14-D in relation to the acquisition.
 Penalties for not withholding
Section 16-25 Failure to withhold: offence
 (1) An entity must not fail to withhold an amount as required by Division  12.
Penalty: 10 penalty units.
Note 1: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Note 2: See sections 16-30, 16-35, 16 -40 and 16-43 for an alternative administrative penalty.
 (2) An entity must not fail to pay to the Commissioner an amount as required by Division  12A or 13 or Subdivision 14-A, 14-B, 14-C or 14 -D.
Penalty: 10 penalty units.
Note 1: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Note 2: See sections 16-30, 16-35, 16 -40 and 16-43 for an alternative administrative penalty.
 (3) An offence against subsection  (1) or (2) is a strict liability offence.
Note: For strict liability, see section  6.1 of the Criminal Code.
 (4) If a person is convicted of an offence in relation to:
 (a) a failure by that person or someone else to withhold an amount as required by Division  12; or
 (b) a failure by that person or someone else to pay to the Commissioner an amount as required by Division  12A or 13 or Subdivision 14-A, 14-B, 14-C or 14 -D;
the court may order the convicted person to pay to the Commissioner an amount up to the *amount required to be withheld. The court may so order in addition to imposing a penalty on the convicted person.
Section 16-30 Failure to withhold: administrative penalty for entity other than exempt Australian government agency
 (1) An entity (except an *exempt Australian government agency) that:
 (a) fails to withhold an amount as required by Division  12; or
 (b) fails to pay an amount to the Commissioner as required by Division  12A, 13 or 14;
is liable to pay to the Commissioner a penalty equal to that amount.
Note 1: An entity may become liable under this section in respect of a payment it made or received that is taken to have been subject to withholding tax as a result of a Commissioner&#39;s determination under subsection  177F(2A) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (see also subsection  177F(2F) of that Act).
Note 2: Division 298 in this Schedule contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to a failure to pay an amount to the Commissioner as required by Subdivision  14-E if:
 (a) the amount relates to a *taxable supply of *new residential premises (other than *commercial residential premises); and
 (b) the entity was given a notice under section  14-255:
 (i) stating that the premises are not new residential premises; or
 (ii) indicating that the entity will not be required to pay an amount to the Commissioner under section  14-250 in relation to the supply; and
 (c) at the time *consideration for the supply (other than consideration provided as a deposit) is first provided, there was nothing in:
 (i) the contract for the supply; or
 (ii) any other circumstances relating to the supply;
  that made it unreasonable for the entity to believe that the statement or indication was correct.
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to a failure to pay an amount to the Commissioner in relation to a *taxable supply as required by Subdivision  14-E if:
 (a) the entity required to pay the amount in relation to the supply gives the supplier a bank cheque on or before the day *consideration for the supply (other than consideration provided as a deposit) is first provided; and
 (b) the bank cheque is for the amount the entity is required to pay to the Commissioner, and is payable to the Commissioner.
Section 16-35 Failure to withhold: administrative penalty for exempt Australian government agency in relation to payment other than dividend, interest or royalty
 (1) An *exempt Australian government agency that:
 (a) fails to withhold an amount as required by Division  12; or
 (b) fails to pay to the Commissioner an amount as required by Division  14;
is liable to pay to the Commissioner a penalty of 20 penalty units.
Note 1: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Note 2: Division 298 in this Schedule contains machinery provisions for administrative and civil penalties.
Exception
 (4) This section does not apply in relation to an *amount required to be withheld from a *withholding payment covered by Subdivision  12-F (about dividend, interest or royalty payment) or by Subdivision 12-FB (about payments to foreign residents).
Section 16-40 Failure to withhold: administrative penalty for exempt Australian government agency in relation to dividend, interest or royalty payment
  An *exempt Australian government agency that:
 (a) fails to withhold an amount as required by Division  12 from a *withholding payment covered by Subdivision 12-F (about dividend, interest or royalty payment); or
 (b) fails to pay to the Commissioner an amount as required by Division  14 in respect of a withholding payment covered by that Subdivision;
is liable to pay to the Commissioner a penalty equal to that amount.
Note 1: An exempt Australian government agency may become liable under this section in respect of a payment it made or received that is taken to have been subject to withholding tax as a result of a Commissioner&#39;s determination under subsection  177F(2A) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (see also subsection  177F(2F) of that Act).
Note 2: Division 298 in this Schedule contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
Section 16-43 Failure to withhold: administrative penalty for exempt Australian government agency in relation to payment to foreign resident etc.
  An *exempt Australian government agency that:
 (a) fails to withhold an amount as required by Division  12 from a *withholding payment covered by Subdivision 12-FB (about payments to foreign residents); or
 (b) fails to pay to the Commissioner an amount as required by Division  14 in respect of a withholding payment covered by that Subdivision;
is liable to pay to the Commissioner a penalty equal to that amount.
Note: Division 298 in this Schedule contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
Subdivision 16-B--To pay withheld amounts to the Commissioner
Table of sections
When and how to pay amounts to the Commissioner
Section 16-70 Entity to pay amounts to Commissioner
Section 16-75 When amounts must be paid to Commissioner
Section 16-80 Penalty for failure to pay within time
Section 16-85 How amounts are to be paid
Who is a large, medium or small withholder
Section 16-95 Meaning of large withholder
Section 16-100 Meaning of medium withholder
Section 16-105 Meaning of small withholder
Section 16-110 Commissioner may vary withholder&#39;s status downwards
Section 16-115 Commissioner may vary withholder&#39;s status upwards
 When and how to pay amounts to the Commissioner
Section 16-70 Entity to pay amounts to Commissioner
 (1) An entity that withholds an amount under Division  12 must pay the amount to the Commissioner in accordance with this Subdivision.
 (2) An entity that must pay an amount to the Commissioner under Division  13 or Subdivision 14-A must do so in accordance with section 16-85.
 (3) An entity that must pay an amount to the Commissioner under Subdivision  14-B, 14-C, 14-D or 14-E must do so in accordance with sections  16-80 and 16-85.
Note: For provisions about the collection and recovery of amounts payable to the Commissioner under this Part, see Part  4-15.
Section 16-75 When amounts must be paid to Commissioner
Large withholder
 (1) A *large withholder must pay to the Commissioner as shown in the table an amount it withholds under Division 12 (other than section  12-175 or 12-180) during a month.
Payments by large withholdersItemIf the amount is withheld on this day of week:It must be paid to the Commissioner on or before:1Saturday or SundayThe second Monday after that day2Monday or TuesdayThe first Monday after that day3WednesdayThe second Thursday after that day4Thursday or FridayThe first Thursday after that day
Medium withholders
 (2) Subject to subsection  (2A), a *medium withholder must pay to the Commissioner an amount that it withholds during a month under Division  12 (other than section 12-175 or 12-180) by the end of the 21st day of the next month.
 (2A) If a *medium withholder:
 (a) withholds an amount during a month under Division  12 (other than section 12-175 or 12-180); and
 (b) is a *deferred BAS payer on the 21st day of the month (the next month) following that month;
the medium withholder must pay that amount to the Commissioner by the end of the 28th day of:
 (c) the next month unless the amount is withheld during December; or
 (d) the next February if the amount is withheld during December.
Small withholders
 (3) Subject to subsection  (4), if a *small withholder withholds an amount under Division 12 (other than section  12-175 or 12-180) during a month in a *quarter, it must pay the amount to the Commissioner by the end of the 21st day of the month after the end of that quarter.
 (4) If a *small withholder:
 (a) withholds an amount under Division  12 (other than section 12-175 or 12-180) during a month in a *quarter; and
 (b) is a *deferred BAS payer on the 21st day of the month after the end of that quarter;
the small withholder must pay that amount to the Commissioner as shown in the table:
Payments by *deferred BAS payersItemIf the amount is withheld during the *quarter ending on:the amount must be paid to the Commissioner by the end of:130 Septemberthe following 28 October231 Decemberthe following 28 February331 Marchthe following 28 April430 Junethe following 28 July
Payment of income of closely held trust
 (5) A trustee must pay to the Commissioner an amount the trustee withholds under section  12-175 or 12-180 from a payment made during an income year. The trustee must do so:
 (a) by the end of the 28th day of the next month following the day by which the trustee was required to give to the Commissioner a report under subsection  16-152(1) for the income year; or
 (b) within a longer period allowed by the Commissioner.
Section 16-80 Penalty for failure to pay within time
  If an amount that an entity must pay to the Commissioner under subsection  16-70(1) or (3) remains unpaid after the time by which it is due to be paid, the entity is liable to pay *general interest charge on the unpaid amount for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the unpaid amount was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day, at the end of which, any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the unpaid amount;
 (ii) general interest charge on any of the unpaid amount.
Section 16-85 How amounts are to be paid
Large withholder
 (1) A *large withholder must pay to the Commissioner by a means of *electronic payment:
 (a) an amount that it withholds under Division  12; and
 (b) an amount that it pays to the Commissioner under Division  13 or 14.
Note 1: A different rule applies for some large withholders for July and August 2000. See section  16-130.
Note 2: A penalty applies if a large withholder fails to pay electronically as required--see section  288-20.
Note 3: A large withholder must also pay other tax debts electronically--see section 8AAZMA.
Medium or small withholder
 (2) A *medium withholder or *small withholder must pay to the Commissioner:
 (a) any amount that it withholds under Division  12; and
 (b) any amount that it pays to the Commissioner under Division  13 or 14;
by a means of *electronic payment, or any other means approved in writing by the Commissioner.
Commissioner may vary payment method
 (3) The Commissioner may, with an entity&#39;s agreement, vary the means by which the withholder pays amounts to the Commissioner under this Subdivision. The variation must be by written notice given to the entity.
 Who is a large, medium or small withholder
Section 16-95 Meaning of large withholder
 (1) An entity is a large withholder for a particular month (the current month) in a *financial year starting on or after 1 July 2001 if:
 (a) it was a *large withholder for June 2001; or
 (b) the *amounts withheld by the entity during a financial year ending at least 2 months before the current month exceeded $1 million; or
 (c) both of the following apply:
 (i) at the end of a financial year (the threshold year) ending at least 2 months before the current month, the entity was one of a number of companies that were at that time all members of the same *wholly-owned group;
 (ii) the amounts withheld by those companies during the threshold year exceeded $1 million; or
 (d) the Commissioner determines under section  16-115 that the entity is a large withholder for the current month.
Note: Different rules apply for working out who is a large withholder for a month in 2000-01. See section  16-125.
Exception
 (2) However, the entity is not a *large withholder if the Commissioner determines under section 16-110 that it is a *medium withholder or a *small withholder for the current month.
Section 16-100 Meaning of medium withholder
 (1) An entity is a medium withholder for a particular month (the current month) in a *financial year starting on or after 1 July 2001 if it is not a *large withholder for that month and:
 (a) it was a *medium withholder for June 2001; or
 (b) the *amounts withheld by the entity during a financial year ending before the current month exceeded $25,000; or
 (c) the Commissioner determines under section  16-110 or 16-115 that the entity is a medium withholder for the current month.
Note: Different rules apply for working out who is a large withholder for a month in 2000-01. See section  16-125.
 (2) However, the entity is not a *medium withholder if the Commissioner determines under section 16-110 or 16-115 that the entity is a *large withholder or a *small withholder for the current month.
Section 16-105 Meaning of small withholder
  An entity is a small withholder for a particular month if:
 (a) there is at least one *amount withheld by the entity during that month; and
 (b) the entity is neither a *large withholder nor a *medium withholder for that month.
Section 16-110 Commissioner may vary withholder&#39;s status downwards
 (1) The Commissioner may, by giving written notice to a *withholder:
 (a) make the following determinations:
 (i) a determination that a *large withholder is a *medium withholder or a *small withholder;
 (ii) a determination that a medium withholder is a small withholder; or
 (b) revoke or vary any such determination.
 (2) The notice must state that the determination applies:
 (a) for specified months; or
 (b) for all months from and including a specified month.
 (3) The determination has no effect for a particular month unless the notice is given before that month.
 (4) An entity that would otherwise be a *large withholder or a *medium withholder for a particular month may apply in writing to the Commissioner for a determination under this section.
Note: A person who is dissatisfied with a decision under this section may object against the decision in the manner set out in Part  IVC.
Section 16-115 Commissioner may vary withholder&#39;s status upwards
 (1) The Commissioner may, by giving written notice to a *withholder:
 (a) make the following determinations:
 (i) a determination that a *small withholder is a *medium withholder or a *large withholder;
 (ii) a determination that a medium withholder is a large withholder; or
 (b) revoke or vary any such determination.
 (2) The notice must state that the determination applies:
 (a) for specified months; or
 (b) for all months from and including a specified month.
 (3) A determination that a *small withholder is a *medium withholder has no effect for a particular month unless the notice is given before that month.
 (4) Any other determination under this section has no effect for a month that is earlier than the second month after the month in which the notice is given.
 (5) The Commissioner may, in making a determination under this section, have regard to the following:
 (a) the sum of the amounts that the Commissioner considers to be likely to be the *amounts required to be withheld by the entity in the following 12 months;
 (b) the extent (if any) to which the entity makes or receives *withholding payments that were previously made or received by another entity;
 (c) any failure by the entity to comply with its obligations under this Part;
 (d) any *arrangement that was entered into or carried out for the purpose of lengthening the intervals at which the entity is required to pay to the Commissioner amounts withheld from withholding payments;
 (e) such other matters as the Commissioner considers relevant.
Note: A person who is dissatisfied with a decision under this section may object against the decision in the manner set out in Part  IVC.
Subdivision 16-BA--To be registered
Table of sections
Registration of withholders
Section 16-140 Withholders must be registered
Section 16-141 Registration and cancellation
Branch registration
Section 16-142 Branches may be registered
Section 16-143 Separate amounts for entities and branches
Section 16-144 Cancellation of branch registration
Section 16-145 Effect on branches of cancelling the entity&#39;s registration
Registration of employers of working holiday makers
Section 16-146 Employers of working holiday makers must be registered
Section 16-147 Registering employers of working holiday makers
Section 16-148 Cancelling the registration of employers of working holiday makers
 Registration of withholders
Section 16-140 Withholders must be registered
 (1) An entity that must pay an amount to the Commissioner under:
 (a) subsection 16-70(1) (about amounts withheld under Division 12); or
 (aaa) Division 12A (about deemed payments by AMITs); or
 (aa) Division 13 (about payments in respect of alienated personal services payments); or
 (b) Subdivision 14-A, 14-B, 14-C or 14-D (about payments in respect of non -cash benefits or capital proceeds);
must apply to register with the Commissioner.
 (2) The entity must apply in the *approved form by the day on which the entity is first required:
 (a) to withhold an amount under Division  12; or
 (b) to pay an amount to the Commissioner under Division  12A or 13 or Subdivision 14-A, 14-B, 14-C or 14-D.
However, the Commissioner may allow a longer period for applying.
 (3) An entity that contravenes this section is liable to an administrative penalty of 5 penalty units.
Note 1: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Note 2: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative and civil penalties.
Section 16-141 Registration and cancellation
  The Commissioner may register an entity or cancel the registration of an entity at any time.
 Branch registration
Section 16-142 Branches may be registered
 (1) The Commissioner may register a branch of a registered entity if:
 (a) the entity applies, in the *approved form, for registration of the branch; and
 (b) the entity has an *ABN or has applied for one; and
 (c) the Commissioner is satisfied that the branch maintains an independent system of accounting, and can be separately identified by reference to:
 (i) the nature of the activities carried on through the branch; or
 (ii) the location of the branch; and
 (d) the Commissioner is satisfied that the entity is *carrying on an enterprise through the branch, or intends to carry on an enterprise through the branch, from a particular date specified in the application.
A branch that is so registered is a PAYG withholding branch.
Note: A branch may be both a PAYG withholding branch under this Subdivision and a GST branch under the GST Act.
 (2) The Commissioner may register a branch of a *government entity or a *non-profit sub -entity if:
 (a) the branch or sub-entity applies, in the *approved form, for registration; and
 (b) the branch or sub-entity has an *ABN or has applied for one.
A branch or sub-entity that is so registered is also a PAYG withholding branch.
Section 16-143 Separate amounts for entities and branches
 (1) If an entity has a *PAYG withholding branch, this Part applies to the entity as if the amounts that it must pay to the Commissioner under this Part were separated into the following classes:
 (a) for each such branch of the entity, a class of amounts that relate to the branch; and
 (b) a class of amounts that do not relate to any of the entity&#39;s branches.
Note: This section does not impose any legal obligations on the branches. The entity remains legally responsible under this Part for all amounts that relate to its branches.
 (2) Those amounts are worked out as if the branch were a separate entity and as if:
 (a) all payments made through the branch, from which amounts are required to be withheld under Division  12, were made by that separate entity; and
 (aa) all *alienated personal services payments received through the branch, in respect of which Division 13 requires an amount to be paid to the Commissioner, were received by that separate entity; and
 (b) all *non-cash benefits or *capital proceeds provided through the branch, in respect of which Division  14 requires an amount to be paid to the Commissioner, were provided by that separate entity.
Section 16-144 Cancellation of branch registration
  The Commissioner must cancel the registration of a *PAYG withholding branch of an entity if the Commissioner is satisfied that the branch does not satisfy paragraph 16-142(c) or (d).
Section 16-145 Effect on branches of cancelling the entity&#39;s registration
  If an entity&#39;s registration is cancelled, the registration of any *PAYG withholding branches of the entity ceases to have effect.
 Registration of employers of working holiday makers
Section 16-146 Employers of working holiday makers must be registered
 (1) An entity must apply to the Commissioner to register under section  16-147 if:
 (a) the entity must pay an amount to the Commissioner under subsection  16-70(1) from salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances it pays to an individual as the individual&#39;s *working holiday taxable income; and
 (b) in a case where a period has been determined under subsection  16-148(5) during which the entity cannot apply under this section--the period has ended.
 (2) The entity must apply in the *approved form by the day on which the entity is first required to withhold an amount under Division 12 from salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances it pays to an individual as the individual&#39;s *working holiday taxable income.
 (3) However, the Commissioner may allow a longer period for applying.
 (4) An entity that contravenes this section is liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units.
Note 1: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Note 2: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative and civil penalties.
 (5) This section does not affect an obligation that an entity has under section  16-140.
Section 16-147 Registering employers of working holiday makers
 (1) The Commissioner must register an entity under this section if, and only if, the entity:
 (a) has applied under section  16-146 for registration; and
 (b) has made a declaration to the Commissioner, in the *approved form, that states that the entity:
 (i) has a genuine business requirement to employ one or more *working holiday makers; and
 (ii) agrees to comply with the Fair Work Act 2009 in relation to its employment of any individual who is a working holiday maker; and
 (iii) agrees to check that any individual it employs as a working holiday maker holds a visa that causes that person to be a working holiday maker; and
 (c) has given to the Commissioner, in the approved form, information relating to its employment, or proposed employment, of working holiday makers.
 (2) Subparagraph (1)(b)(i) does not apply if the entity is not carrying on a *business.
 (3) The registration takes effect on the day determined by the Commissioner.
Notification of the Commissioner&#39;s decision
 (4) The Commissioner must notify the entity of:
 (a) the Commissioner&#39;s decision on the application; and
 (b) if the Commissioner decides to register the entity--the day on which the registration takes effect;
within 30 days after the making of the application.
Note: The decision on the application is reviewable (see section  20-80).
 (5) If the Commissioner decides to register the entity, the *Australian Business Registrar must enter in the *Australian Business Register a statement that the entity is registered under this section. The statement must specify the day on which the registration takes effect.
 (7) A failure to comply with subsection  (4) or (5) does not affect the validity of the Commissioner&#39;s decision.
Basis of registration
 (8) A registration under this section is granted on the basis that:
 (a) the registration may be cancelled under section  16-148; and
 (b) the registration may be cancelled, suspended, varied or made subject to conditions by or under later legislation; and
 (c) no compensation is payable if the registration is cancelled, suspended, varied or made subject to conditions as mentioned in any of the above paragraphs.
Section 16-148 Cancelling the registration of employers of working holiday makers
 (1) The Commissioner may cancel an entity&#39;s registration under section  16-147 if:
 (a) the entity advises the Commissioner, in the *approved form, that the entity does not employ, and does not intend to employ, any individual who is a *working holiday maker; or
 (b) the Commissioner is satisfied that:
 (i) the entity; or
 (ii) if the entity is a partnership--any of the partners; or
 (iii) if the entity is a company--any director, shareholder or employee of the company who participates in the management or control of the company; or
 (iv) if the entity is a trustee of a trust--any appointer of trustees of the trust, or any person who participates in the control of the trust;
  is not a fit and proper person.
 (2) The cancellation takes effect on the day determined by the Commissioner. The day must not be earlier than the day on which notice of the cancellation is given under subsection  (6).
 (3) If the Commissioner is considering whether the entity, or another person mentioned in subparagraph  (1)(b)(ii), (iii) or (iv), is a fit and proper person, the Commissioner must give the entity a notice that:
 (a) informs the entity accordingly; and
 (b) invites the entity to make submissions to the Commissioner on the matter within 28 days after the Commissioner gives the notice.
 (4) Without limiting the matters to which the Commissioner may have regard in considering whether the entity, or another person mentioned in subparagraph  (1)(b)(ii), (iii) or (iv), is a fit and proper person, the Commissioner must have regard to:
 (a) whether a court has made a finding, in proceedings commenced by the Fair Work Ombudsman, that the entity has contravened the Fair Work Act 2009; and
 (b) whether the entity has failed to withhold amounts as required by Division  12; and
 (c) any relevant information the entity has provided in submissions to the Commissioner within the period specified in paragraph  (3)(b).
 (5) The Commissioner must, having regard to the reasons for the cancellation, determine a period, starting when the cancellation takes effect, during which the entity cannot apply under section  16-146 for registration.
Notification of the cancellation
 (6) The Commissioner must notify the entity of:
 (a) the cancellation; and
 (b) the day on which the cancellation takes effect; and
 (c) the period determined under subsection  (5) for the cancellation.
Note: A decision to cancel, including a determination under subsection (5), is reviewable (see section  20-80).
 (7) The *Australian Business Registrar must enter in the *Australian Business Register a statement that the entity&#39;s registration under section  16-147 has been cancelled. The statement must specify the day on which the cancellation takes effect.
 (8) A failure to comply with subsection  (6) or (7) does not affect the validity of the Commissioner&#39;s decision.
Subdivision 16-C--To provide information
Table of sections
To the Commissioner
Section 16-150 Commissioner must be notified of amounts
Section 16-152 Annual reports--Withholding payments covered by section  12-175
Section 16-153 Annual reports--other payments
To recipients of withholding payments
Section 16-155 Annual payment summary
Section 16-156 Annual payment summary for sections  12-175 and 12-180
Section 16-157 Payment summary for Subdivision  12-H
Section 16-160 Part-year payment summary
Section 16-165 Payment summaries for superannuation lump sums and payments for termination of employment
Section 16-166 Payment summary for a departing Australia superannuation payment
Section 16-167 Payment summary for payment to recipient who does not quote ABN
Section 16-170 Form and content of payment summary
Section 16-175 Penalty for not providing payment summary
Section 16-180 Commissioner may exempt entity from giving payment summary
Section 16-182 Definition of reportable employer superannuation contribution
 To the Commissioner
Section 16-150 Commissioner must be notified of amounts
 (1) An entity that must pay an amount (even if it is a nil amount) to the Commissioner, other than an amount to which subsection  (4) applies, under:
 (a) subsection 16-70(1) (about amounts withheld under Division 12); or
 (aa) Division 13 (about payments in respect of alienated personal services payments); or
 (b) Subdivision 14-A, 14-B, 14-C or 14-D (about payments in respect of non -cash benefits or capital proceeds);
must notify the Commissioner of the amount on or before the day on which the amount is due to be paid (regardless of whether it is paid). The notification must be in the *approved form and lodged with the Commissioner.
Note: This section does not apply to amounts that an employer notifies to the Commissioner under Division  389: see section 389-20.
 (2) An entity that must pay an amount (even if it is a nil amount) to the Commissioner under Subdivision  14-E (about payments in respect of taxable supplies of certain real property) must notify the Commissioner of the amount:
 (a) on or before the day provided in a determination under subsection  (3); or
 (b) if there is no such determination--on or before the day on which the amount is due to be paid (regardless of whether it is paid).
The notification must be in the *approved form and lodged with the Commissioner.
 (3) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, determine when the Commissioner must be notified for the purposes of paragraph  (2)(a).
 (4) If:
 (a) an entity must pay an amount (even if it is a nil amount) to the Commissioner under subsection  16-70(1) (about amounts withheld under Division 12); and
 (b) subsection 12-450(5) (about income from a build to rent development) applies to the amount;
the entity must notify the Commissioner of the amount:
 (c) on or before the day provided in a determination under subsection  (5) of this section; or
 (d) if there is no such determination--on or before the day on which the amount is due to be paid (regardless of whether it is paid).
The notification must be in the *approved form and lodged with the Commissioner.
 (5) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, determine when the Commissioner must be notified for the purposes of paragraph  (4)(c).
Section 16-152 Annual reports--Withholding payments covered by section  12-175
Reports about withholding payments
 (1) A trustee must give a report to the Commissioner in the *approved form if the trustee made any *withholding payments covered by section  12-175 or 12-180 (about payments from the income of certain closely held trusts) during an income year.
 (2) The trustee must give the report under subsection  (1) to the Commissioner:
 (a) not later than 3 months after the end of the income year; or
 (b) within such further period (if any) as the Commissioner allows.
Reports about trust distributions
 (3) A trustee must give a report to the Commissioner in the *approved form if the trustee would be taken to have made any *withholding payments covered by section  12-175 or 12-180 during an income year if the relevant beneficiary had not *quoted the beneficiary&#39;s *tax file number as mentioned in paragraph 12-175(2)(a) or 12-180(2)(a).
Note: The effect of subsection (3) is that the trustee must report amounts distributed to beneficiaries even if the trustee was not required to withhold from those distributions.
 (4) The trustee must give the report under subsection  (3) to the Commissioner:
 (a) by the end of the day on which the trustee lodges the trust&#39;s *income tax return for the income year; or
 (b) within such further period (if any) as the Commissioner allows.
Miscellaneous
 (5) Subsections 16-153(5), (6) and (7) apply to this section in the same way as they apply to section  16-153.
Section 16-153 Annual reports--other payments
 (1) An entity must give a report to the Commissioner in the *approved form, not later than 31 October after the end of a *financial year, if during the financial year:
 (a) the entity made any payment from which an amount was required to be withheld under section  12-190, Subdivision 12-F (other than section  12-215, 12-250 or 12-285), Subdivision 12-FA, section  12-315 or Subdivision 12-FC or 12-G; or
 (b) the entity provided any *non-cash benefit in respect of which an amount was required to be paid to the Commissioner under Division 14 because of the application of that Division in relation to section  12-190, Subdivision 12-F (other than section  12-215, 12-250 or 12-285), Subdivision 12-FA, section  12-315 or Subdivision 12-G; or
 (c) the entity received any payment from which an amount was required to be withheld under section  12-215, 12-250, 12-285 or 12-317; or
 (d) the entity received any non -cash benefit in respect of which an amount was required to be paid to the Commissioner under Division 14 because of the application of that Division in relation to section  12-215, 12-250, 12-285 or 12-317.
Note: A report under this subsection will not cover amounts that an employer notifies to the Commissioner under Division  389: see section 389-20.
 (2) An entity must give a report to the Commissioner in the form required by subsection  (3), not later than 14 August after the end of a *financial year, if during the financial year:
 (a) the entity made any payment from which an amount was required to be withheld under Subdivision  12-B, 12-C or 12-D; or
 (aa) the entity received any *alienated personal services payment in respect of which an amount was required to be paid to the Commissioner under Division 13; or
 (b) the entity provided any *non-cash benefit in respect of which an amount was required to be paid to the Commissioner under Division 14 because of the application of that Division in relation to Subdivision  12-B, 12-C or 12-D; or
 (c) any person has a *reportable fringe benefits amount for the income year ending at the end of the financial year in respect of the person&#39;s employment by the entity; or
 (d) the entity made *reportable employer superannuation contributions in respect of a person&#39;s employment.
Note: A report under this subsection will not cover amounts that an employer notifies to the Commissioner under Division  389: see section 389-20.
 (3) The report under subsection  (2) must be either:
 (a) a report in the *approved form; or
 (b) a report consisting of:
 (i) copies of all the summaries that the entity gave in relation to the *financial year under section 16-155 in respect of payments, *non-cash benefits, *alienated personal services payments, *reportable fringe-benefit amounts and *reportable employer superannuation contributions covered by subsection  (2) of this section; and
 (ii) an accompanying statement in the approved form.
 (4) An entity must give a report to the Commissioner in the *approved form if the entity is required to withhold amounts under Subdivision 12-H in relation to *fund payments made by a particular *withholding MIT (the paying trust ) in relation to an income year of that trust.
Note: The entity may be the withholding MIT itself or a custodian or other entity.
 (4A) The report under subsection  (4) must be given:
 (a) not later than 14 days after the end of 6 months after the end of the income year of the *withholding MIT in relation to which the relevant *fund payments were made; or
 (b) within a longer period allowed by the Commissioner.
 (5) In applying this section:
 (a) a requirement to pay a nil amount to the Commissioner is to be treated as a requirement to pay an amount to the Commissioner; and
 (b) a requirement to withhold a nil amount is to be treated as a requirement to withhold an amount.
 (6) The Commissioner may, to meet the special circumstances of a particular case or class of cases, vary the requirements of this section.
 (7) A variation must be made:
 (a) if it applies to a particular entity--by a written notice given to that entity; or
 (b) if it applies to a class of entities--by legislative instrument.
 To recipients of withholding payments
Section 16-155 Annual payment summary
 (1) Within 14 days after the end of a *financial year, an entity (the payer) must give a *payment summary (and a copy of it) to another entity (the recipient) if:
 (a) during the year the payer made one or more *withholding payments (other than withholding payments covered by section 12-85, 12-175, 12 -180, 12-190, 12-215, 12-250, 12-285, 12-317, 12-385 or 12 -390) to the recipient; or
 (b) during the year the payer received one or more withholding payments covered by section  12-215, 12-250 or 12-285 and, in relation to each of them, the recipient is the foreign resident mentioned in the section; or
 (baa) during the year the payer received one or more withholding payments covered by section  12-317 and, in relation to each of them, the recipient is the likely foreign recipient mentioned in the section; or
 (ba) during the year the payer received one or more withholding payments covered by Division  13 and, in relation to each of them, an amount is included in the recipient&#39;s assessable income under Division 86 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or
 (bb) because of section  86-40 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, the payer is taken to have paid salary to the recipient on the last day of the year; or
 (c) the recipient is an individual and has a *reportable fringe benefits amount, for the income year ending at the end of that financial year, in respect of his or her employment (within the meaning of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986) by the payer; or
 (d) the recipient is an individual and *reportable employer superannuation contributions have been made by the payer, in respect of the individual&#39;s employment, during the year.
 (2) The *payment summary must cover:
 (a) if paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (ba) applies--each of the *withholding payments mentioned in that paragraph, except one covered by a previous payment summary (and a copy of it) given by the payer to the recipient under section  16-160; and
 (aa) if paragraph (1)(bb) applies--each of the withholding payments constituted by the salary mentioned in that paragraph, except one covered by a previous payment summary (and a copy of it) given by the payer to the recipient under section  16-160; and
 (b) if paragraph (1)(c) applies--the *reportable fringe benefits amount, except so much of it as is covered by a previous payment summary (and a copy of it) given by the payer to the recipient under this section; and
 (c) if paragraph (1)(d) applies--the total of the *reportable employer superannuation contributions, except so much of those contributions as are covered by a previous payment summary given by the payer to the recipient under section  16-160.
Note: A payment summary under this section will not cover amounts that an employer notifies to the Commissioner under Division  389: see section 389-20.
Parental leave pay paid in error
 (3) Despite subsection  (2), the *payment summary must not cover a *withholding payment if:
 (a) the withholding payment is a payment of an amount purported to have been paid by way of *parental leave pay; and
 (b) the amount was not lawfully so payable.
 (4) The payer must, within 28 days of becoming aware that the *payment summary covers a *withholding payment to which subsection (3) applies:
 (a) give the recipient an amended payment summary that does not cover the withholding payment; or
 (b) give the recipient notice in the *approved form; or
 (c) give the Secretary (within the meaning of the Paid Parental Leave Act 2010) notice in writing that the payer does not intend to give the recipient an amended payment summary or notice under this subsection.
Section 16-156 Annual payment summary for sections  12-175 and 12-180
 (1) A trustee must give a *payment summary to a beneficiary of the trust, if the trustee made any *withholding payments covered by section  12-175 or 12-180 to the beneficiary during the income year.
 (2) The *payment summary:
 (a) must cover each of the *withholding payments mentioned in subsection (1); and
 (b) may be in electronic form; and
 (c) must be given:
 (i) not later than 14 days after the day by which the trustee was required to give the Commissioner a report under subsection  16-152(1) for the income year; or
 (ii) within a longer period allowed by the Commissioner.
Section 16-157 Payment summary for Subdivision  12-H
 (1) An entity (the payer) must give a *payment summary to another entity (the recipient) if the payer made *withholding payments covered by section 12-385 or 12 -390 to the recipient in relation to *fund payments made by a particular *withholding MIT (the paying trust) in relation to an income year of that trust.
Note: The entity may be the withholding MIT itself or a custodian or other entity.
 (2) The *payment summary:
 (a) must cover each of the *withholding payments mentioned in subsection (1); and
 (b) may be in electronic form; and
 (c) must be given:
 (i) not later than 14 days after the end of 6 months after the end of the income year of the *withholding MIT in relation to which the relevant *fund payments were made; or
 (ii) within a longer period allowed by the Commissioner.
Section 16-160 Part-year payment summary
 (1) An entity (the payer) must give a *payment summary (and a copy of it) to another entity (the recipient) if, not later than 21 days before the end of a *financial year, the recipient asks in writing for a payment summary covering:
 (a) one or more *withholding payments (other than withholding payments covered by section 12-85, 12-190, 12-215, 12 -250, 12-285, 12-317, 12-385 or 12-390) that the payer made to the recipient during the year; or
 (b) one or more withholding payments covered by section  12-215, 12-250 or 12-285, or a part of each such payment, that the payer received during the year for the recipient, if the recipient is the foreign resident mentioned in the section; or
 (ba) one or more withholding payments covered by section  12-317, or a part of each such payment, that the payer received during the year for the recipient, if the recipient is the likely foreign recipient mentioned in that section; or
 (c) one or more withholding payments covered by Division  13 that the payer received during the year and that are included in the recipient&#39;s assessable income for the income year under section 86-15 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997;
other than a payment covered by a previous payment summary (and a copy of it) given under this section.
Note: A payment summary under this section will not cover amounts that an employer notifies to the Commissioner under Division  389: see section 389-20.
 (2) The payer must comply with the request within 14 days after receiving it, unless:
 (a) the recipient is an individual and has a *reportable fringe benefits amount, for the income year ending at the end of that *financial year, in respect of his or her employment (within the meaning of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986) by the payer; or
 (b) the payer has made *reportable employer superannuation contributions, in respect of the recipient&#39;s employment, during the financial year.
 (3) Despite subsection  (1), the *payment summary must not cover a *withholding payment if:
 (a) the withholding payment is a payment of an amount purported to have been paid by way of *parental leave pay; and
 (b) at the time the recipient asks for the payment summary, the payer is aware that the amount was not lawfully so payable.
Section 16-165 Payment summaries for superannuation lump sums and payments for termination of employment
 (1) Within 14 days after an entity (the payer) makes a payment covered under subsection (2) to a person (the recipient), the entity must:
 (a) give a *payment summary to the recipient that covers the payment (and no other payments); and
 (b) give a copy of the summary to the Commissioner.
 (2) The following payments are covered under this subsection if they are *withholding payments:
 (a) a *superannuation lump sum;
 (b) a payment that is an *employment termination payment or would be one except that it is received more than 12 months after termination of employment, other than a directed termination payment within the meaning of section  82-10F of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997.
Note: A payment summary under this section will not cover amounts that an employer notifies to the Commissioner under Division  389: see section 389-20.
Section 16-166 Payment summary for a departing Australia superannuation payment
  Within 14 days after an entity (the payer) makes a *departing Australia superannuation payment, the payer must:
 (a) give a *payment summary that covers the payment to the recipient of the payment; and
 (b) give a copy of the summary to the Commissioner.
Section 16-167 Payment summary for payment to recipient who does not quote ABN
 (1) An entity (the payer) that makes a *withholding payment covered by section 12-190 (about payments to recipients who do not quote their ABN) to another entity (the recipient) must give the recipient a *payment summary (and a copy of it) that covers that payment, unless the *amount required to be withheld from the payment is nil.
 (2) The summary must cover only that payment.
 (3) The payer must give the summary to the recipient when making the payment, or as soon as practicable afterwards.
Section 16-170 Form and content of payment summary
 (1) A payment summary (except one relating to section 12-175 or 12-180 or Subdivision  12-H) is a written statement that:
 (a) names the payer and the recipient; and
 (b) if the recipient has given the recipient&#39;s *tax file number or *ABN to the payer--states the tax file number or ABN; and
 (c) states the total of the *withholding payments (if any) that it covers, and the total of the *amounts withheld by the payer from those withholding payments; and
 (d) specifies the *financial year in which the withholding payments were made; and
 (e) specifies the *reportable fringe benefits amount (if any) that it covers and the income year to which that amount relates; and
 (f) specifies the *reportable employer superannuation contributions (if any) that it covers and the income year to which those contributions relate; and
 (g) is in the *approved form.
 (1AAA) A payment summary relating to section 12-175 or 12-180 is a statement that:
 (a) names the trustee and the beneficiary; and
 (b) states the total of the *withholding payments (if any) that it covers, and the total of the *amounts withheld by the trustee from those withholding payments; and
 (c) specifies the income year of the trust to which it relates; and
 (d) is in the *approved form.
 (1AA) A payment summary relating to Subdivision 12-H is a statement that:
 (a) names the payer and the recipient; and
 (b) if the recipient has given the recipient&#39;s *tax file number or *ABN to the payer--states the tax file number or ABN; and
 (c) states the total of the *withholding payments (if any) that it covers, and the total of the *amounts withheld by the payer from those withholding payments; and
 (d) specifies the income year of the relevant *withholding MIT to which it relates.
 (1A) For any of the *withholding payments to which paragraph 16-155(2)(aa) applies, paragraph (1)(d) is taken to refer to the *financial year preceding the financial year in which the withholding payments were received.
 (2) The Commissioner may, in writing, require particular information to be included in a *payment summary or a class of payment summaries.
 (3) A *payment summary may consist of 2 or more statements that each complies with subsection (1) and together cover what section  16-155, 16-156, 16-160, 16-165, 16-166 or 16-167 (as appropriate) requires the payment summary to cover.
 (4) The Commissioner may vary any requirements under subsection  (1), (1AAA), (2) or (3) by written notice given to an entity. The Commissioner may do so in such instances and to such extent as the Commissioner thinks fit.
Section 16-175 Penalty for not providing payment summary
 (1) An entity must not fail to comply with any requirements under section 16-155, 16-156, 16 -157, 16-160, 16-165, 16-166 or 16-167, or subsection 16-170(1), (1AAA), (1AA), (2) or (3) (including any requirements varied by the Commissioner under subsection  16-170(4)).
Penalty: 20 penalty units.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
 (2) An offence under subsection  (1) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section  6.1 of the Criminal Code.
Section 16-180 Commissioner may exempt entity from giving payment summary
 (1) The Commissioner may, having regard to the circumstances of a particular case or class of cases, exempt an entity from specified requirements of any of sections  16-155 to 16-167. If the Commissioner does so, the exemption has effect accordingly.
 (2) An exemption must be made:
 (a) if it applies to a particular entity--by a written notice given to that entity; or
 (b) if it applies to a class of entities--by legislative instrument.
Section 16-182 Definition of reportable employer superannuation contribution
 (1) A reportable employer superannuation contribution, for an individual for an income year, is an amount that has been, is, or will be contributed in respect of the income year:
 (a) by an employer of the individual, or an *associate of the employer, for the individual&#39;s benefit; and
 (b) to a *superannuation fund or an *RSA;
to the extent that either or both of the following paragraphs apply:
 (c) the individual has or has had, or might reasonably be expected to have or have had, the capacity to influence the size of the amount;
 (d) the individual has or has had, or might reasonably be expected to have or have had, the capacity to influence the way the amount was, is or will be contributed so that his or her assessable income is reduced.
 (2) However, an amount is not a reportable employer superannuation contribution to the extent that it is included in the individual&#39;s assessable income for the income year.
 (3) For the purposes of this section, employer has the expanded meaning given by section 12 of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 (assuming that subsection 12(11) of that Act had not been enacted).
 (4) For the purposes of this section, disregard whether any *superannuation benefits arising from a contribution are payable to a *SIS dependant of the individual if the individual dies before or after becoming entitled to receive the benefits.
 (5) For the purposes of paragraph  (1)(c), treat the individual as neither having, nor being able reasonably to be expected to have, the capacity to influence the size of the amount if:
 (a) the employer or *associate is required to contribute the amount by:
 (i) an *industrial instrument; or
 (ii) the rules of a *superannuation fund; and
 (b) the individual does not and did not have, and is not able reasonably to be expected to have or have had, the capacity to influence the content of that instrument or those rules, to the extent that the instrument or rules relate to:
 (i) the requirement to contribute the amount; or
 (ii) the size of the amount.
Subdivision 16-D--Additional rights and obligations of entity that makes a payment
Table of sections
Section 16-195 Payer&#39;s right to recover amounts of penalty: certain withholding taxes
 (1) An entity that has paid an amount of penalty under section  16-30, 16-35 or 16-40 for a *withholding payment covered by:
 (a) Subdivision 12-F (about a dividend, interest or royalty payment); or
 (aa) section 12-305 (about a departing Australia superannuation payment); or
 (ab) Subdivision 12-FC (about labour mobility programs); or
 (b) section 12-320 (about a mining payment); or
 (c) Subdivision 12-H (about distributions of withholding MIT income);
may recover an amount equal to the amount of penalty from the person liable to pay the *withholding tax, or *mining withholding tax, for the withholding payment.
Note Sections 16-30, 16-35 and 16 -40 provide for an administrative penalty for failing to comply with Division 12 or 14.
 (2) Subsection (3) applies if an entity has paid an amount of penalty under section  12-415 to the Commissioner for a failure to give a notice, or to make details available on a website, as required by section  12-395 in relation to an amount (the relevant amount).
 (3) The entity may recover from another entity that is liable to pay *managed investment trust withholding tax in relation to an amount attributable to the relevant amount the lesser of:
 (a) an amount equal to the amount of that tax that the other entity is liable to pay; and
 (b) the amount of the penalty.
Division 18--Recipient&#39;s entitlements and obligations
Table of Subdivisions
Section 18-A Crediting withheld amounts
Section 18-B Refund of certain withheld amounts
Section 18-C Recipient&#39;s obligations
Section 18-D Directors etc. of non-complying companies
Subdivision 18-A--Crediting withheld amounts
 Guide to Subdivision 18-A
Section 18-1 What this Subdivision is about
In general, an entity:&bull;  that receives a withholding payment (except one covered by section  12-215, 12-250 or 12-285, Subdivision  12-FC, or subsection 12-390(4)); or&bull;  that is the foreign resident for which a withholding payment covered by section  12-215, 12-250 or 12-285, Subdivision  12-FC, or subsection 12-390(4), (or a part of it) is received;is entitled to a credit for the amount withheld from the withholding payment.However, if that entity is a partnership or trust, a partner, beneficiary or trustee may be entitled to the credit.This Subdivision tells you:&bull;  who is entitled to a credit; and&bull;  how to work out the amount of the credit.How a credit is applied is set out in Division 3 of Part IIB.
Table of sections
General exception
Section 18-5 No credit for refunded amount
Entitlement to credits: income tax liability
Section 18-10 Application of sections 18-15, 18 -20 and 18-25
Section 18-15 Tax credit for recipient of withholding payments
Section 18-20 Tax credit where recipient is a partnership
Section 18-25 Tax credit where recipient is a trust
Section 18-27 Tax credit for alienated personal services payments
Entitlement to credits: dividend, interest or royalty, amount attributable to fund payment or labour mobility program
Section 18-30 Credit: dividend, interest or royalty
Section 18-32 Credit: amount attributable to fund payment
Section 18-33 Credit: labour mobility programs
Section 18-35 Credit: penalty under section 12-415, 16 -30, 16-35 or 16-40 or related general interest charge
Section 18-40 Credit: liability under Part  4-25
Entitlement to credit: departing Australia superannuation payment
Section 18-42 Credit--departing Australia superannuation payment
Entitlement to credit: mining payment
Section 18-45 Credit--mining payment
Entitlement to credit: Petroleum resource rent tax
Section 18-55 Credit--Natural resource payments
Entitlement to credit: taxable supply of real property
Section 18-60 Credit--payment relating to taxable supply of real property
 General exception
Section 18-5 No credit for refunded amount
  An entity is not entitled to a credit under this Subdivision for an *amount withheld from a *withholding payment to the extent that the amount must be refunded under Subdivision 18-B.
Note: See also Subdivision  18-D (PAYG withholding non-compliance tax, which can reverse the economic benefit of a credit of a director, or an associate of a director, of a company that does not comply with its obligations under subsection  16-70(1)).
 Entitlement to credits: income tax liability
Section 18-10 Application of sections  18-15, 18-20 and 18-25
 (1) The rules set out in sections  18-15, 18-20 and 18-25 do not apply to an *amount withheld from a *withholding payment that is covered by:
 (a) Subdivision 12-F (Dividend, interest and royalty payments); or
 (b) Subdivision 12-FA (Departing Australia superannuation payments); or
 (c) Subdivision 12-FC (Labour Mobility Programs); or
 (d) section 12-320 (Mining payments); or
 (e) Subdivision 12-H (Distributions of withholding MIT income); or
 (f) Division 13 (Alienated personal services payments); or
 (g) Subdivision 14-E (GST payable on taxable supplies of certain real property).
 (2) If an entity withholds an amount from a *withholding payment as required by section 12-317, apply sections 18-15, 18 -20 and 18-25 in relation to the payment as if the payment had been made to the likely foreign recipient mentioned in section 12-317 (instead of to the intermediary mentioned in that section).
 (3) If an entity withholds an amount from a *withholding payment as required by section 12-325 (natural resource payments), apply sections  18-15, 18-20 and 18-25 to the payment as if the entity had withheld only so much of that amount as was withheld in respect of tax.
Note: Section 18-55 provides a credit for amounts withheld in respect of petroleum resource rent tax.
Section 18-15 Tax credit for recipient of withholding payments
 (1) An entity is entitled to a credit equal to the total of the *amounts withheld from *withholding payments made to the entity during an income year if an assessment has been made of the income tax payable, or an assessment has been made that no income tax is payable, by the entity for the income year.
 (2) To the extent that the entitlement to a credit is in respect of an *amount withheld from a *withholding payment to which paragraph  16-155(2)(aa) applies, the entitlement is treated as arising for the income year preceding the income year in which the withholding payment is made.
Section 18-20 Tax credit where recipient is a partnership
 (1) An entity is entitled to a credit in respect of *amounts withheld from *withholding payments made to a partnership during an income year if:
 (a) the entity has an individual interest in the net income or partnership loss of the partnership for that income year that is wholly or partly attributable to those withholding payments; and
 (b) the *income tax return of the partnership for the income year has been lodged with the Commissioner; and
 (c) an assessment has been made of the income tax payable, or an assessment has been made that no income tax is payable, by the entity for the income year.
 (2) The amount of the credit is worked out using the formula:
where:
"amounts withheld" means the sum of the *amounts withheld from the *withholding payments.
"individual interest" means so much of the individual interest of the partner as is attributable to the *withholding payments.
"net income/partnership loss" means so much of the net income or partnership loss for that income year as is attributable to the *withholding payments.
Section 18-25 Tax credit where recipient is a trust
 (1) An entity is entitled under subsection (2), (4), (6) or (8) to a credit in respect of *amounts withheld (the amounts withheld) from *withholding payments made to the trustee of a trust during an income year.
Trust--section 97
 (2) A beneficiary of the trust is entitled to a credit if:
 (a) an amount is included in the assessable income of the beneficiary under section  97 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 in respect of a share of the net income of the trust; and
 (b) the share is wholly or partly attributable to the *withholding payments; and
 (c) an assessment has been made of the income tax payable, or an assessment has been made that no income tax is payable, by the beneficiary for the income year.
 (3) The amount of the credit is worked out using the formula:
  where:
"net income" means so much of the net income as is attributable to the *withholding payments.
"share of net income" means so much of that share of the net income as is attributable to the *withholding payments.
Trust--section 98
 (4) The trustee of the trust is entitled to a credit if:
 (a) under section 98 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 the trustee is liable to be assessed, and to pay income tax, on an amount in respect of a share of the net income of the trust to which a beneficiary is presently entitled; and
 (b) the share is wholly or partly attributable to the *withholding payments; and
 (c) an assessment has been made of that income tax or an assessment has been made that no income tax is payable.
 (5) The amount of the credit is worked out using the formula:
where:
"net income" means so much of the net income as is attributable to the *withholding payments.
"share of net income" means so much of that share of the net income as is attributable to the *withholding payments.
Trust--section 99 or 99A
 (6) The trustee of the trust is entitled to a credit under this subsection if:
 (a) under section 99 or 99A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, the trustee is liable to be assessed, and to pay income tax, on the net income of the trust, or on part of it; and
 (b) the net income or that part of it is wholly or partly attributable to the *withholding payments; and
 (c) an assessment has been made of that income tax or an assessment has been made that no income tax is payable.
 (7) The amount of the credit is worked out using the formula:
where:
"net income" means so much of the net income as is attributable to the *withholding payments.
"part of net income" means so much of the net income, or of that part of it, as is attributable to the *withholding payments.
Trust--no net income
 (8) If there is no net income of the trust for the income year, the trustee is entitled to a credit equal to the sum of the *amounts withheld from the *withholding payments.
Section 18-27 Tax credit for alienated personal services payments
  An entity is entitled to a credit equal to the total of the amounts paid under Division  13 in respect of amounts included in the entity&#39;s assessable income for an income year under section 86-15 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 if an assessment has been made of the income tax payable, or an assessment has been made that no income tax is payable, by the entity for the income year.
 Entitlement to credits: dividend, interest or royalty, amount attributable to fund payment or labour mobility program
Section 18-30 Credit: dividend, interest or royalty
 (1) An entity is entitled to a credit if:
 (a) the entity&#39;s *ordinary income, or *statutory income, includes any of the following:
 (i) a *dividend (or a part of it), interest (within the meaning of Division 11A of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ) or a *royalty;
 (ii) an amount that is represented by or reasonably attributable to an *AMIT DIR payment; and
 (b) if subparagraph  (a)(i) applies--if the entity has borne all or part of an *amount withheld from the dividend, interest or royalty; and
 (c) if subparagraph  (a)(ii) applies--if the entity has borne all or part of an amount paid under Division 12A in respect of the AMIT DIR payment.
 (2) The amount of the credit is that amount or part.
Note: A taxpayer may also be entitled to a credit in relation to payment of interest under, or in relation to the transfer of, a qualifying security. See section  128NBA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.
Section 18-32 Credit: amount attributable to fund payment
 (1) An entity is entitled to a credit if:
 (a) the entity&#39;s *ordinary income or *statutory income includes an amount that is represented by or reasonably attributable to a *fund payment; and
 (b) the entity has borne all or part of:
 (i) an *amount withheld from the payment under Subdivision 12-H; or
 (ii) an amount paid under Division  12A in respect of the fund payment.
 (2) The amount of the credit is that amount or part.
 (3) Subsection (4) applies if:
 (a) all or part of an amount (the fund payment part) is represented by a payment that is a *fund payment; and
 (b) under subsection  840-805(4A) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, a *foreign pension fund is taken, in respect of the fund payment part, to be a beneficiary in its own right, and not a beneficiary in the capacity of the trustee of another trust; and
 (c) there is an *amount withheld from the fund payment under Subdivision 12-H.
 (4) For the purposes of paragraph  (1)(b):
 (a) treat the *foreign pension fund as having borne all or part of the amount withheld; and
 (b) treat a beneficiary of the foreign pension fund as not having borne all or part of the amount withheld.
Section 18-33 Credit: labour mobility programs
 (1) An individual is entitled to a credit if:
 (a) the individual&#39;s *ordinary income or *statutory income includes salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances; and
 (b) an amount is withheld from the salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances under Subdivision  12-FC (about labour mobility programs).
 (2) The amount of the credit is the *amount withheld.
Section 18-35 Credit: penalty under section  12-415, 16-30, 16-35 or 16-40 or related general interest charge
 (1) If an entity has paid:
 (a) an amount of penalty under section  16-30 or 16-40 to the Commissioner for a *withholding payment covered by Subdivision  12-F or 12-H; or
 (b) an amount of *general interest charge under section 298-25 for the penalty;
the entity liable to pay the *withholding tax for the withholding payment is entitled to a credit equal to the amount of penalty, or general interest charge, as appropriate.
 (1AA) If an entity has paid:
 (a) an amount of penalty under section  16-30 or 16-35 to the Commissioner for a *withholding payment covered by Subdivision  12-FC (labour mobility programs); or
 (b) an amount of *general interest charge under section 298-25 for the penalty;
the entity liable to pay the *labour mobility program withholding tax for the withholding payment is entitled to a credit equal to the lesser of:
 (c) the amount of the penalty, or general interest charge, as appropriate; and
 (d) the amount of labour mobility program withholding tax (and any general interest charge under section  840-910 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) in relation to the withholding payment, reduced by:
 (i) any credits from an application of section  18-33 in relation to the withholding payment; and
 (ii) any credits from a previous application of this subsection in relation to the withholding payment.
 (1A) If an entity has paid:
 (a) an amount of penalty under section  12-415 to the Commissioner for a failure to give a notice, or to make details available on a website, as required by section 12-395; or
 (b) an amount of *general interest charge under section  298-25 for the penalty;
the entity liable to pay the *managed investment trust withholding tax in relation to the amount (the relevant amount) giving rise to the penalty is entitled to a credit equal to the lesser of:
 (d) the amount of penalty, or general interest charge, as appropriate; and
 (e) the amount of managed investment trust withholding tax (and any general interest charge under section  840-810 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) in relation to the relevant amount.
Remission
 (2) If:
 (a) an entity has paid to the Commissioner an amount of penalty mentioned in paragraph  (1)(a), (1AA)(a) or (1A)(a); and
 (b) the Commissioner remits the whole or a part of the amount of the penalty under section  298-20;
then:
 (c) any credit under subsection  (1), (1AA) or (1A) relating to the amount paid to the Commissioner is reduced by the amount that is remitted; and
 (d) the Commissioner must pay to the entity an amount equal to the amount that is remitted.
 (3) If:
 (a) an entity has paid to the Commissioner an amount of *general interest charge mentioned in paragraph (1)(b), (1AA)(b) or (1A)(b); and
 (b) the Commissioner remits the whole or a part of the amount of the charge under section  8AAG;
then:
 (c) any credit under subsection  (1), (1AA) or (1A) relating to the amount is reduced by the amount that is remitted; and
 (d) the Commissioner must pay to the entity an amount equal to the amount that is remitted.
Section 18-40 Credit: liability under Part  4-25
 (1) If an entity has paid to the Commissioner:
 (a) an amount of penalty under Subdivision  284-C in relation to a *scheme to which paragraph 177C(1)(bc) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 applies for a *withholding payment; or
 (b) an amount of *general interest charge under section 298-25 in relation to that amount;
the entity liable to pay the *withholding tax for that withholding payment is entitled to a credit equal to the amount paid by the entity.
Remission
 (2) If:
 (a) an entity has paid an amount under Subdivision  284-C in relation to a penalty mentioned in paragraph (1)(a); and
 (b) the Commissioner remits the whole or a part of the amount of the penalty under section  298-20;
then:
 (c) any credit under subsection  (1) relating to the amount paid by the entity is reduced by the amount that is remitted; and
 (d) the Commissioner must pay to the entity an amount equal to the amount that is remitted.
 (3) If:
 (a) an entity has paid to the Commissioner an amount of *general interest charge mentioned in paragraph (1)(b); and
 (b) the Commissioner remits the whole or a part of the amount of the charge under section  8AAG;
then:
 (c) any credit under subsection  (1) relating to the amount is reduced by the amount that is remitted; and
 (d) the Commissioner must pay to the entity an amount equal to the amount that is remitted.
 Entitlement to credit: departing Australia superannuation payment
Section 18-42 Credit--departing Australia superannuation payment
Credit--amount withheld
 (1) If there is an *amount withheld from a *withholding payment that is covered by section 12-305 (departing Australia superannuation payment), the entity liable to pay *withholding tax under section 301-175 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 on the payment is entitled to a credit of an amount equal to the amount withheld.
Credit--penalty amount
 (2) If an entity has paid to the Commissioner a penalty amount under section  16-30 or 16-35 in relation to an *amount required to be withheld under section  12-305 (departing Australia superannuation payment), the entity mentioned in subsection (1) is entitled to a credit equal to the penalty amount.
Remission
 (3) If the Commissioner remits the whole or a part of the amount of penalty under section  298-20 that has been paid to the Commissioner by the entity:
 (a) any credit that relates to the amount is reduced by the amount that is remitted; and
 (b) the Commissioner must pay to the entity an amount equal to the amount that is remitted.
 Entitlement to credit: mining payment
Section 18-45 Credit--mining payment
Credit--amount withheld
 (1) If there is an *amount withheld from a *withholding payment that is covered by section 12-320 (mining payment):
 (a) if paragraph (b) does not apply--the entity liable to pay *mining withholding tax under section 128V of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 on the payment is entitled to a credit of an amount equal to the amount withheld; or
 (b) if, under subsection  128U(4) of that Act, separate mining payments are taken to have been made to, or applied for the benefit of, 2 or more entities because of that payment--each of those entities is entitled to a credit equal to the amount worked out using the formula:
Credit--penalty amount
 (2) If an entity has paid to the Commissioner a penalty amount under section  16-30 or 16-35 in relation to an *amount required to be withheld under section  12-320 (mining payment):
 (a) if paragraph (1)(a) applies--the entity mentioned in that paragraph is entitled to a credit equal to the penalty amount; or
 (b) if paragraph (1)(b) applies--each of the entities mentioned in that paragraph is entitled to a credit of an amount worked out using the formula:
Remission
 (3) If the Commissioner remits the whole or a part of the amount of penalty under section  298-20 that has been paid to the Commissioner by the entity:
 (a) any credit that relates to the amount is reduced by the amount that is remitted; and
 (b) the Commissioner must pay to the entity an amount equal to the amount that is remitted.
 Entitlement to credit: Petroleum resource rent tax
Section 18-55 Credit--Natural resource payments
 (1) An entity is entitled to a credit in a year of tax (within the meaning of the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 1987) if:
 (a) one or more *withholding payments covered by section 12-325 (natural resource payments) from which there are *amounts withheld in respect of *petroleum resource rent tax are made to the entity during the year of tax; and
 (b) an assessment has been made of the petroleum resource rent tax payable, or an assessment has been made that no petroleum resource rent tax is payable, by the entity for the year of tax.
 (2) The amount of the credit is so much of the total of the *amounts withheld as is withheld in respect of *petroleum resource rent tax.
 Entitlement to credit: taxable supply of real property
Section 18-60 Credit--payment relating to taxable supply of real property
 (1) An entity is entitled to a credit if:
 (a) the entity is liable for *GST on a *taxable supply to which subsection 14-250(2) applies; and
 (b) another entity made a payment under section  14-250 in relation to the supply.
 (2) The amount of the credit is an amount equal to the amount of the payment.
 (3) The credit arises when an assessment has been made of the entity&#39;s *net amount for the *tax period of the entity in which the payment was made.
Subdivision 18-B--Refund of certain withheld amounts
Table of sections
Section 18-65 Refund of withheld amounts by the payer to the recipient
Section 18-70 Refund of withheld amounts by the Commissioner to the recipient
Section 18-80 Refund by Commissioner of amount withheld from payment in respect of investment
Section 18-85 Refund by Commissioner of amount withheld from payment in respect of supply of real property
Section 18-65 Refund of withheld amounts by the payer to the recipient
 (1) An entity (the payer) must refund to another entity (the recipient) an amount if:
 (a) the payer:
 (i) withheld the amount purportedly under Division  12 from a payment made to, or received for, the recipient (whether the amount has been paid to the Commissioner or not); or
 (ia) paid the amount to the Commissioner purportedly under Division  13 for an *alienated personal services payment in relation to which an amount is included in the recipient&#39;s assessable income year under section  86-15 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or
 (ii) paid the amount to the Commissioner purportedly under Division  14 (other than Subdivisions 14-D and 14-E) for a *non-cash benefit provided to, or received for, the recipient; and
 (b) either:
 (i) the amount was so withheld, or paid to the Commissioner, in error; or
 (ii) in the case of an amount withheld from a payment of an amount purported to have been paid by way of *parental leave pay--the amount paid was not lawfully so payable; and
 (c) either:
 (i) the payer becomes aware of the matter mentioned in paragraph  (b); or
 (ii) the recipient applies to the payer for the refund;
  before the end of the *financial year in which the amount was so withheld or paid to the Commissioner; and
 (d) any information requested by the payer under subsection  (3) has been given to the payer, or the time for making the request (see subsection (4)) has passed without such a request being made.
 (1A) For the purposes of this section, if an entity has paid an amount to the Commissioner purportedly under Subdivision  12A-C (about deemed payments by AMITs), treat the entity as having withheld the amount purportedly under Division  12.
 (2) The amount that must be refunded under subsection  (1) is a debt recoverable by the recipient from the payer.
Request for tax file number (or in some cases, ABN)
 (3) The payer may request the recipient to give to the payer:
 (a) in any case--the recipient&#39;s *tax file number; or
 (b) in any case--evidence of the basis on which the recipient is taken to have quoted its tax file number to the payer; or
 (c) if the payment or *non-cash benefit was in respect of a *Part VA investment made by the recipient in the course or furtherance of an *enterprise carried on by it--the recipient&#39;s *ABN;
if:
 (d) the payment, *alienated personal services payment or non-cash benefit was in respect of any of the following provisions:
 (i) Subdivision 12-B (payments for work or services);
 (ii) Subdivision 12-C (Payments for retirement or because of termination of employment);
 (iii) Subdivision 12-D (benefits and compensation payments);
 (iv) section 12-140 or 12-145 (recipient does not quote tax file number or ABN);
 (v) section 12-175 or 12-180 (Payment of income of closely held trust where TFN not quoted); and
 (e) when the application for the refund is made, or when the payer otherwise becomes aware of the matter mentioned in paragraph  (1)(b) of this section, the payer has a record of none of the following:
 (i) the recipient&#39;s tax file number;
 (ii) the basis on which the recipient is taken to have quoted the tax file number to the payer;
 (iii) if paragraph (c) applies--the recipient&#39;s ABN.
When must the request be made
 (4) The request must be made within 7 working days (of the payer) after the payer receives the application for the refund or after the payer otherwise becomes aware of the matter mentioned in paragraph  (1)(b) (as appropriate).
Recovery of refunded amount
 (5) If a payer refunds an amount under subsection  (1), the payer may recover from the Commissioner as a debt due to the payer so much of the amount:
 (a) which is withheld as mentioned in subparagraph  (1)(a)(i) and paid to the Commissioner, or which is paid to the Commissioner as mentioned in subparagraph (1)(a)(ia) or (ii); and
 (b) which the payer has not recorded as being offset under subsection  (6).
Offsetting a refunded amount
 (6) If:
 (a) a payer refunds an amount (the refunded amount) under subsection (1); and
 (b) the amount withheld as mentioned in subparagraph  (1)(a)(i) that the payer has paid to the Commissioner, or the amount paid to the Commissioner as mentioned in subparagraph (1)(a)(ia) or (ii), is equal to all or a part of the refunded amount; and
 (c) apart from this subsection, the payer would be required to pay to the Commissioner another amount or amounts under Division  13 or 14 (other than Subdivision 14-D) or subsection  16-70(1) (the payment to the Commissioner); and
 (d) the payer records in writing that it offsets all or a part of the amount paid to the Commissioner (as mentioned in paragraph  (b)) against the payment to the Commissioner;
the payment to the Commissioner is reduced by so much of the amount as the payer so recorded as being offset.
 (7) The payer must not record that it offsets any part of an amount that:
 (a) the payer has previously recorded under subsection  (6); or
 (b) the payer has sought to recover from the Commissioner under subsection  (5).
Section 18-70 Refund of withheld amounts by the Commissioner to the recipient
 (1) An entity (the recipient) may apply in writing to the Commissioner for the refund of an amount if:
 (a) another entity (the payer):
 (i) withheld an amount purportedly under Division  12 from a payment made to, or received for, the recipient; or
 (ia) paid the amount to the Commissioner purportedly under Division 13 for an *alienated personal services payment in relation to which an amount is included in the recipient&#39;s assessable income year under section 86-15 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or
 (ii) paid to the Commissioner an amount purportedly under Division  14 for a *non-cash benefit provided to, or received for, the recipient; or
 (iii) paid to the Commissioner an amount purportedly under Subdivision  14-D for *capital proceeds provided to, or applied on behalf of, the recipient; and
 (b) either:
 (i) the amount was so withheld, or paid to the Commissioner, in error; or
 (ii) in the case of an amount withheld from a payment of an amount purported to have been paid by way of *parental leave pay--the amount paid was not lawfully so payable; and
 (c) if subparagraph  (a)(i), (ia) or (ii) applies--section 18-65 does not apply because the payer did not become aware of the matter mentioned in paragraph  (b), or the recipient did not apply for a refund, as mentioned in subsection 18-65(1); and
 (d) if subparagraph  (a)(i) applies--the payer has already paid the withheld amount to the Commissioner.
 (1A) For the purposes of this section, if an entity has paid an amount to the Commissioner purportedly under Subdivision  12A-C (about deemed payments by AMITs), treat the entity as having withheld the amount purportedly under Division  12.
 (2) The Commissioner must refund the amount if the application sets out:
 (a) if the recipient has a *tax file number--that tax file number; or
 (b) if the recipient does not have a tax file number but was taken to have quoted a tax file number to the payer before the amount was withheld or paid to the Commissioner--the basis on which the recipient was taken to have quoted the tax file number; or
 (c) if the payment or *non-cash benefit was in respect of a *Part VA investment made by the recipient in the course or furtherance of an *enterprise carried on by it--the recipient&#39;s *ABN;
and the Commissioner is satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable to refund the amount, having regard to:
 (d) the circumstances that gave rise to the withholding obligation (if any); and
 (e) the nature of the matter mentioned in paragraph  (1)(b); and
 (f) any other matter the Commissioner considers relevant.
Note: A person who is dissatisfied with a decision under this section may object against the decision in the manner set out in Part  IVC.
Section 18-80 Refund by Commissioner of amount withheld from payment in respect of investment
  The Commissioner must refund to an entity all or part of an *amount withheld from a *withholding payment covered by section  12-140 or 12-145 that was made to that entity if:
 (a) the entity applies in writing for the refund; and
 (b) the Commissioner is satisfied that the entity was entitled to give *the investment body a declaration under Division 5 of Part VA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 in relation to the *Part VA investment in respect of which the withholding payment was made, but did not do so; and
 (c) the Commissioner is also satisfied it is fair and reasonable to make the refund, having regard to the purposes of this Part and any other matters that the Commissioner considers appropriate.
Note: A person who is dissatisfied with a decision under this section may object against the decision in the manner set out in Part  IVC.
Section 18-85 Refund by Commissioner of amount withheld from payment in respect of supply of real property
 (1) An entity (the recipient) may apply, in the *approved form, to the Commissioner for the refund of an amount if:
 (a) another entity (the payer) has made a payment under section 14-250, or purportedly under that section, in relation to a supply by the recipient; and
 (b) the payment, or part of the payment, was made in error.
 (2) The application must be made no later than 14 days before the day on which *GST is payable on the supply.
 (3) The amount of the refund that the recipient may apply for is an amount equal to the amount of the payment, or the part of the payment that was made in error, as the case requires.
 (4) The Commissioner must refund the amount under subsection  (3) if the Commissioner is satisfied that paragraphs (1)(a) and (b) apply and that it would be fair and reasonable to refund the amount, having regard to:
 (a) the circumstances that gave rise to the obligation (if any) to make the payment under section  14-250; and
 (b) the nature of the error; and
 (c) any other matter the Commissioner considers relevant.
Subdivision 18-C--Recipient&#39;s obligations
Section 18-100 Obligation to keep payment summary
 (1) An entity that is given a *payment summary and a copy of it in any financial year under this Part must retain the copy for:
 (a) 5 years after the end of that financial year; or
 (b) a shorter period determined by the Commissioner in writing for the entity; or
 (c) a shorter period determined by the Commissioner by legislative instrument for a class of entities that includes the entity.
 (1AA) A determination under paragraph  (1)(c) may specify different periods for different classes of entities.
 (1A) An offence under subsection  (1) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section  6.1 of the Criminal Code.
Subdivision 18-D--Directors etc. of non-complying companies
Table of sections
Object of Subdivision
Section 18-120 Object of Subdivision
PAYG withholding non-compliance tax
Section 18-125 Directors of non-complying companies
Section 18-130 Directors of non-complying companies--tax reduced in certain circumstances
Section 18-135 Associates of directors of non-complying companies
Section 18-140 Notices
Section 18-145 When PAYG withholding non-compliance tax must be paid
Section 18-150 General interest charge payable on unpaid PAYG withholding non -compliance tax
Section 18-155 Validity of decisions and evidence
Section 18-160 Rights of indemnity and contribution
Credits for later compliance
Section 18-165 Credits for later compliance--scope
Section 18-170 Credits for later compliance--Commissioner must give notice in certain circumstances
Section 18-175 Credits for later compliance--Commissioner may give notice
Section 18-180 Effect of earlier credits
Other provisions
Section 18-185 When Commissioner may give notice
Section 18-190 Review of decisions
 Object of Subdivision
Section 18-120 Object of Subdivision
  The object of this Subdivision is to reverse the economic benefit of a credit under section  18-15 (Tax credit for recipient of withholding payment) of a director, or an *associate of a director, of a company if:
 (a) the company does not comply with its obligations under subsection 16-70(1) (obligation to pay amounts withheld to the Commissioner); and
 (b) the credit is attributable to *amounts withheld from *withholding payments made by the company to the director or associate;
until the company complies with its obligations.
 PAYG withholding non-compliance tax
Section 18-125 Directors of non-complying companies
Liability to pay PAYG withholding non-compliance tax
 (1) An individual must pay *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax in relation to a company for an income year of the individual if:
 (a) the individual is or has been a director (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) of the company; and
 (b) the company was required to pay to the Commissioner under subsection  16-70(1) in this Schedule amounts:
 (i) the company withheld from *withholding payments the company made to any entities during the income year of the individual; and
 (ii) to which subsection  (2) applies; and
 (c) the company did not pay the total of those amounts to the Commissioner on or before the last day (the non-compliance day) on or before which the company was required to pay any of those amounts to the Commissioner in accordance with subsection  16-70(1); and
 (d) a credit to which the individual is entitled under section  18-15 is attributable to an extent to *amounts withheld by the company under Division 12 from withholding payments made to the individual during the income year of the individual.
Note: For the purposes of paragraph (1)(d), it does not matter whether the company pays the amounts withheld from the withholding payments made to the individual to the Commissioner under subsection  16-70(1).
 (2) This subsection applies to *amounts withheld that the company was required to pay to the Commissioner on or before a particular day (the payment day) under subsection  16-70(1), if:
 (a) both of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the individual was a director (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) of the company on the payment day;
 (ii) the company did not pay the total of those amounts to the Commissioner in accordance with subsection  16-70(1) on or before the payment day; or
 (b) all of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the individual became a director of the company after the payment day;
 (ii) the individual was still a director of the company 30 days after becoming a director;
 (iii) the company did not pay the total of those amounts to the Commissioner in accordance with subsection  16-70(1) on or before the last of those 30 days.
Amount of tax
 (3) The amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax the individual must pay is the lesser of:
 (a) the extent of the credit mentioned in paragraph  (1)(d); and
 (b) the total amount the company did not pay to the Commissioner as mentioned in paragraph  (1)(c).
Section 18-130 Directors of non-complying companies--tax reduced in certain circumstances
 (1) The amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax the individual must pay as mentioned in section 18-125 is reduced if the Commissioner gives a notice to the individual under this section.
Notice
 (2) The Commissioner must give a written notice to the individual on a day (the reduction notice day) (whether before, on or after the day (if any) the Commissioner gives the individual the relevant notice under section  18-140), if the Commissioner is satisfied that:
 (a) because of illness or for some other good reason, it would have been unreasonable to expect the individual to take part, and the individual did not take part, in the management of the company at any time during the period:
 (i) starting on a day on or by which the company was required to pay any of the total mentioned in paragraph  18-125(1)(c) to the Commissioner under subsection 16-70(1); and
 (ii) ending on the reduction notice day; or
 (b) the individual took all reasonable steps to ensure that one of the following happened:
 (i) the directors (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) of the company caused the company to pay the total of the amounts mentioned in paragraph 18-125(1)(c) to the Commissioner;
 (ii) the directors caused an administrator of the company to be appointed under section  436A, 436B or 436C of the Corporations Act 2001;
 (iia) the directors caused a small business restructuring practitioner for the company to be appointed under section  453B of that Act;
 (iii) the directors caused the company to begin to be wound up (within the meaning of that Act);
  or there were no reasonable steps the individual could have taken to ensure that any of those things happened.
 (3) In determining what are reasonable steps for the purposes of paragraph  (2)(b), the Commissioner must have regard to:
 (a) when, and for how long, the individual was a director and took part  in the management of the company; and
 (b) all other relevant circumstances.
Amount of reduction
 (4) The amount of the reduction is the amount stated in the notice.
 (5) In determining the amount to state in the notice, the Commissioner must have regard to:
 (a) in a case to which paragraph  (2)(a) applies--when, and for how long, the individual could not have been expected to take part, and did not take part, in the management of the company; and
 (b) in a case to which paragraph  (2)(b) applies--when, and for how long, the individual was a director and took part in the management of the company; and
 (c) in either case--what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Effect of reduction
 (6) The amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax the individual must pay is treated as always having been that amount as reduced under this section.
Section 18-135 Associates of directors of non-complying companies
Liability to pay PAYG withholding non-compliance tax
 (1) An individual must pay *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax in relation to a company for an income year of the individual if:
 (a) at a time when another individual (the director) was a director (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) of the company, the first individual was an *associate of the director; and
 (b) the company was required to pay to the Commissioner under subsection  16-70(1) in this Schedule amounts:
 (i) the company withheld from *withholding payments the company made to any entities during the income year of the individual; and
 (ii) to which subsection  (2) of this section applies; and
 (c) the company did not pay the total of those amounts to the Commissioner on or before the last day (the non-compliance day) on or before which the company was required to pay any of those amounts to the Commissioner in accordance with subsection  16-70(1); and
 (d) subsection (3) or (6) of this section applies; and
 (e) a credit to which the individual is entitled under section  18-15 is attributable to an extent to *amounts withheld by the company under Division 12 from withholding payments made to the individual during the income year of the individual.
Note: For the purposes of paragraph (1)(e), it does not matter whether the company pays the amounts withheld from the withholding payments made to the individual to the Commissioner under subsection  16-70(1).
 (2) This subsection applies to *amounts withheld that the company was required to pay to the Commissioner on or before a particular day (the payment day) under subsection  16-70(1), if:
 (a) all of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the director was a director (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) of the company on the payment day;
 (ii) the individual was an *associate of the director on the payment day;
 (iii) the company did not pay the total of those amounts to the Commissioner in accordance with subsection  16-70(1) on or before the payment day; or
 (b) all of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the director became a director of the company after the payment day;
 (ii) the director was still a director of the company 30 days after becoming a director;
 (iii) the individual was an *associate of the director throughout that 30 day period;
 (iv) the company did not pay the total of those amounts to the Commissioner in accordance with subsection  16-70(1) on or before the last of those 30 days.
 (3) This subsection applies if the Commissioner is satisfied that:
 (a) because of:
 (i) the individual&#39;s relationship with the director; or
 (ii) a relationship of the individual with the company;
  the individual knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know, of the company&#39;s failure to pay the total of the amounts mentioned in paragraph  (1)(c) to the Commissioner; and
 (b) none of the following subparagraphs applies:
 (i) the individual took all reasonable steps to influence the director to cause the company to notify the Commissioner under Subdivision  18-C of the relevant *amounts withheld;
 (ii) the individual took all reasonable steps to influence the director to cause one of the events mentioned in subsection  (4) to happen, or there were no reasonable steps the individual could have taken to influence the director to cause any of those events to happen;
 (iii) the individual reported the company&#39;s non -payment to the Commissioner or to another authority with responsibilities relevant to the operation of the company.
Example: Other authorities with responsibilities relevant to the operation of the company could include the Minister, the police, ASIC or the Building and Construction Industry Commissioner.
 (4) The following are the events:
 (a) the company pays the total of the amounts mentioned in paragraph  (1)(c) to the Commissioner;
 (b) an administrator of the company is appointed under section  436A, 436B or 436C of the Corporations Act 2001;
 (ba) a small business restructuring practitioner for the company is appointed under section  453B of that Act;
 (c) the company begins to be wound up (within the meaning of that Act).
 (5) In determining what are reasonable steps for the purposes of paragraph  (3)(b), have regard to:
 (a) when, and for how long, the individual was an *associate of the director; and
 (b) when, and for how long, the director was a director and took part  in the management of the company; and
 (c) all other relevant circumstances.
 (6) This subsection applies if:
 (a) the individual was an employee of the company; and
 (b) the Commissioner is satisfied that the company treated the individual more favourably than it treated other employees of the company.
Amount of tax
 (7) The amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax the individual must pay is the lesser of:
 (a) the extent of the credit mentioned in paragraph  (1)(e); and
 (b) the total amount the company did not pay to the Commissioner as mentioned in paragraph  (1)(c).
Section 18-140 Notices
Notices
 (1) The Commissioner must not commence proceedings to recover:
 (a) the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax an individual must pay for an income year in relation to a company as mentioned in section  18-125 or 18-135; or
 (b) any related *general interest charge payable under section 18-150;
unless, after the non-compliance day mentioned in section 18-125 or 18-135, the Commissioner gives a written notice to the individual under this section.
 (2) The Commissioner may only give the notice if the Commissioner is satisfied, on the basis of information available to the Commissioner, that it is fair and reasonable for the individual to pay *PAYG withholding non -compliance tax in relation to the company for the income year.
 (3) The Commissioner must not give the notice on a day if, on that day:
 (a) the individual; or
 (b) in a case to which section  18-135 applies--the director mentioned in that section;
is liable to pay to the Commissioner a penalty under Division 269 because the company has not complied with the obligation mentioned in item 1 of the table in subsection  269-10(1) to pay to the Commissioner an *amount withheld to which paragraph  18-125(1)(b) or 18-135(1)(b) applies.
 (4) The notice must specify:
 (a) the company; and
 (b) the income year; and
 (c) the amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax the individual must pay.
Effect of compliance between non-compliance day and notice day
 (5) Subsections (6) and (7) apply if:
 (a) the company&#39;s liability to pay the total of the amounts mentioned in paragraph  18-125(1)(c) or 18-135(1)(c) to the Commissioner is discharged to any extent during the period:
 (i) starting on the day after the non -compliance day; and
 (ii) ending on the day before the day the Commissioner gives the notice under this section to the individual; and
 (b) had all discharges of the company&#39;s liability occurring during that period occurred before the non -compliance day:
 (i) the individual would not have been required to pay the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax in relation to the company for the income year; or
 (ii) the amount of PAYG withholding non -compliance tax the individual would have been required to pay would have been less than the actual amount of PAYG withholding non-compliance tax.
 (6) The amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax the individual must pay is reduced:
 (a) in a case to which subparagraph  (5)(b)(i) applies--to nil; or
 (b) otherwise--to the amount of PAYG withholding non -compliance tax the individual would have been required to pay as mentioned in subparagraph (5)(b)(ii).
 (7) The amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax the individual must pay is treated as always having been that amount as reduced under subsection  (6).
Section 18-145 When PAYG withholding non-compliance tax must be paid
 (1) The *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax an individual must pay for an income year is due and payable at the earliest time any of the income tax the individual must pay for the *financial year to which the income year relates is due and payable.
Note: Division 5 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 explains how to work out when to pay your income tax.
 (2) For the purposes of subsection  (1), if the individual is not required to pay income tax for the *financial year:
 (a) treat the individual as being required to pay income tax for the financial year; and
 (b) if the Commissioner has made an assessment that the income tax the individual is required to pay is nil--treat that assessment as being for an amount greater than nil.
Note: See Part 4-15 in this Schedule for collection and recovery provisions.
Section 18-150 General interest charge payable on unpaid PAYG withholding non -compliance tax
  If an amount of *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax that an individual must pay to the Commissioner remains unpaid after the time by which it is due to be paid, the individual is liable to pay *general interest charge on the unpaid amount of tax for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the unpaid amount of tax was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day, at the end of which, any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the unpaid amount of tax;
 (ii) general interest charge on any of the unpaid amount of tax.
Section 18-155 Validity of decisions and evidence
  Section 175 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (validity) applies to a decision of the Commissioner under section 18-140 in this Schedule in the same way as it applies to an assessment.
Section 18-160 Rights of indemnity and contribution
 (1) This section applies if an individual must pay *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax as mentioned in section 18-125 or 18 -135 because a company did not pay an amount to the Commissioner as mentioned in paragraph 18-125(1)(c) or 18-135(1)(c).
 (2) The individual has the same rights (whether by way of indemnity, subrogation, contribution or otherwise) against the company or anyone else as if:
 (a) the individual had made a payment equal to the amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax under a guarantee of the liability of the company to pay the amount to the Commissioner; and
 (b) under the guarantee:
 (i) the individual; and
 (ii) every individual to whom subsection  (3) applies;
  were jointly and severally liable as guarantors (but only, in the case of an individual to whom subparagraph  (ii) of this paragraph applies, to the extent to which subsection (3) applies to the individual); and
 (c) any credit to which the individual mentioned in subsection  (1) is entitled under section 18-170 or 18-175 in relation to the amount of PAYG withholding non -compliance tax were a repayment of the payment mentioned in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
 (3) This subsection applies to an individual to the extent that:
 (a) the individual was a director (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) of the company on the day (the payment day) on or by which the company was required to pay the amount mentioned in subsection  (1) to the Commissioner; or
 (b) both of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the individual became a director of the company after the payment day;
 (ii) the individual was still a director of the company 30 days after becoming a director.
 (4) However, subsection  (3) does not apply to an individual to the extent that the amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax the individual must pay in relation to the company for the income year as mentioned in section  18-125 is reduced under section  18-130.
 Credits for later compliance
Section 18-165 Credits for later compliance--scope
  Sections 18-170, 18-175 and 18-180 apply if:
 (a) an individual must pay *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax in relation to a company for an income year because the company did not pay to the Commissioner the total of the amounts mentioned in paragraph  18-125(1)(c) or 18-135(1)(c); and
 (b) the Commissioner gives to the individual a notice under section  18-140 on a particular day (the tax notice day) in relation to the PAYG withholding non -compliance tax the individual must pay; and
 (c) on or after the tax notice day, the company&#39;s liability to pay the total of the amounts to the Commissioner is discharged to any extent.
Section 18-170 Credits for later compliance--Commissioner must give notice in certain circumstances
Commissioner must give notice to director or associate in certain circumstances
 (1) The Commissioner must give a written notice to the individual on a particular day (the credit notice day) if, had the discharge mentioned in paragraph 18-165(c) (and all previous discharges of the company&#39;s liability mentioned in that paragraph) occurred before the tax notice day:
 (a) the individual would not have been required to pay the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax in relation to the company for the income year; or
 (b) the amount of PAYG withholding non -compliance tax the individual would have been required to pay would have been less than the actual amount of PAYG withholding non-compliance tax.
Note 1: Subsection 18-180(2) provides that the Commissioner must not give a notice to the individual in certain circumstances.
Note 2: The amount of PAYG withholding non-compliance tax may be limited by:
        (a) the conditions in subsections 18-125(1) and (2) or 18 -135(1) to (6); or
        (b) the limits on the amount of the tax in subsection  18-125(3) or 18-135(7).
Note 3: In working out the actual amount of the tax for the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), have regard to other credits to which the individual is entitled under this section or section  18-175. See subsection 18-180(1).
Director or associate entitled to credit if Commissioner gives notice
 (2) The individual is entitled to a credit if the Commissioner gives a written notice to the individual under subsection  (1).
 (3) The individual becomes entitled to the credit on the day the Commissioner gives the notice to the individual.
Amount of credit
 (4) The amount of the credit is the amount stated in the notice.
 (5) In a case to which paragraph  (1)(a) applies, the amount stated must be the amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax.
 (6) In any other case, the amount stated:
 (a) must not exceed the amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax; and
 (b) must not exceed the amount of the discharge mentioned in paragraph  18-165(c); and
 (c) must not be less than the amount by which:
 (i) the amount of the PAYG withholding non -compliance tax; exceeds
 (ii) the amount that would have been the amount of the PAYG withholding non -compliance tax had the discharge mentioned in paragraph 18-165(c) (and all previous discharges of the company&#39;s liability mentioned in that paragraph) occurred before the tax notice day.
 (7) In determining the amount to state in the notice in a case to which paragraph  (1)(a) does not apply, the Commissioner must have regard to what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Section 18-175 Credits for later compliance--Commissioner may give notice
Commissioner may give notice to director or associate
 (1) The Commissioner may give a written notice to the individual on a particular day (the credit notice day).
Note: Subsection 18-180(2) provides that the Commissioner must not give a notice to the individual in certain circumstances.
Director or associate entitled to credit if Commissioner gives notice
 (2) The individual is entitled to a credit if the Commissioner gives a written notice to the individual under subsection  (1).
 (3) The individual becomes entitled to the credit on the day the Commissioner gives the notice to the individual.
Amount of credit
 (4) The amount of the credit is the amount stated in the notice.
 (5) The amount stated:
 (a) must not exceed the amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax; and
Note: In working out the amount of the tax for the purposes of paragraph (5)(a), have regard to other credits to which the individual is entitled under section  18-170 or this section. See subsection 18-180(1).
 (b) must not exceed the amount of the discharge mentioned in paragraph  18-165(c).
Commissioner&#39;s discretion
 (6) In determining:
 (a) whether to give a notice under this section; or
 (b) the amount to state in the notice;
the Commissioner must have regard to what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Section 18-180 Effect of earlier credits
 (1) A reference in section  18-170 or 18-175, or subsection (2) of this section, to the amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax is treated as being a reference to:
 (a) the amount of the PAYG withholding non -compliance tax; less
Note: The amount of the PAYG withholding non-compliance tax may, in a case to which section  18-125 applies, be affected by reductions under section 18-130.
 (b) the total of any credits to which the individual is entitled in relation to the amount of PAYG withholding non -compliance tax because of notices given to the individual under section 18-170 or 18 -175 before the credit notice day.
 (2) The Commissioner must not give a written notice to the individual under section  18-170 or 18-175 if, on the day before the credit notice day, the amount of the *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax is nil.
 Other provisions
Section 18-185 When Commissioner may give notice
  The Commissioner may give a notice to the individual on a day (the notice day) under section 18-130, 18 -140, 18-170 or 18-175 if:
 (a) on the notice day, the Commissioner has not given a notice of assessment to the individual for the income year mentioned in section  18-125 or 18-135; or
 (b) if the notice would:
 (i) in the case of a notice under section  18-130--result in the individual being liable to pay *PAYG withholding non-compliance tax or an increased amount of PAYG withholding non -compliance tax; or
 (ii) in the case of a notice under section 18-140--result in the Commissioner being able to commence proceedings to recover PAYG withholding non -compliance tax, or an increased amount of PAYG withholding non-compliance tax, from the individual; or
 (iii) in the case of a notice under section  18-170 or 18-175--reduce the amount of a credit or disentitle the individual to a credit;
  the Commissioner gives the notice no later than 2 years after first giving a notice of assessment to the individual for the income year mentioned in section  18-125 or 18-135; or
 (c) if the notice would:
 (i) in the case of a notice under section  18-130--result in the individual being liable to pay no PAYG withholding non-compliance tax, or a reduced amount of PAYG withholding non -compliance tax; or
 (ii) in the case of a notice under section  18-140--result in the Commissioner no longer being able to commence proceedings to recover PAYG withholding non-compliance tax, or result in the Commissioner being able to commence proceedings to recover a reduced amount of PAYG withholding non -compliance tax, from the individual; or
 (iii) in the case of a notice under section  18-170 or 18-175--increase the amount of a credit or entitle the individual to a credit;
  the Commissioner gives the notice no later than 4 years after first giving a notice of assessment to the individual for the income year mentioned in section  18-125 or 18-135; or
 (d) in any case--the Commissioner gives the notice:
 (i) to give effect to a decision on a review or appeal; or
 (ii) as a result of an objection made by the individual or pending a review or appeal.
Section 18-190 Review of decisions
  An individual to whom the Commissioner gives a notice under section  18-140 in relation to an amount of *PAYG withholding non -compliance tax may object, under Part IVC of this Act, against a decision of the Commissioner under section 18-130, 18 -140, 18-170 or 18-175 in relation to the PAYG withholding non-compliance tax if the individual is dissatisfied with the decision.
Division 20--Other matters
Table of Subdivisions
Section 20-B Offences
Section 20-D Review of decisions
Subdivision 20-B--Offences
Table of sections
Section 20-35 Offences
Section 20-40 Joining of charges
Section 20-45 Offences that would otherwise be committed by a partnership or unincorporated company
Section 20-35 Offences
 (1) A person must not:
 (a) present a document issued by the Commissioner that specifies a person (the specified person); and
 (b) falsely pretend to be the specified person with the intention of obtaining under this Part a credit for, or a payment of, an *amount withheld from a *withholding payment.
 (2) A person must not attempt to obtain for the person a credit under this Part for an *amount withheld from a *withholding payment if:
 (a) the payment is not covered by section  12-215, 12-250, 12-285 or 12-317, or subsection  12-390(4), and was made to another person; or
 (b) the payment is covered by section  12-215, 12-250, 12-285 or 12-317, or subsection  12-390(4), and the person is not the foreign resident in respect of which all or a part of the payment is received as mentioned in that provision.
 (3) A person must not, with the intention of obtaining a credit, a payment or any other benefit, present:
 (a) a copy of a *payment summary (except one relating to Subdivision 12-H); or
 (b) a document purporting to be a copy of such a payment summary;
which is not a copy duly given to the person.
Penalty: 60 penalty units, or imprisonment for 12 months, or both.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
 (4) A person must not, with the intention of obtaining a credit, a payment or any other benefit, present:
 (a) a *payment summary relating to Subdivision 12-H, or a copy of such a payment summary; or
 (b) a document purporting to be such a payment summary or a copy of such a payment summary;
which is not a payment summary, or a copy of a payment summary, duly given to the person.
Penalty: 60 penalty units, or imprisonment for 12 months, or both.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Section 20-40 Joining of charges
 (1) Charges against the same person for a number of offences against this Part may be joined in one complaint, information or summons if those charges:
 (a) are founded on the same facts; or
 (b) form a series of offences of the same or a similar character; or
 (c) are part of a series of offences of the same or similar character.
 (2) Particulars of each offence charged must be set out in a separate paragraph if 2 or more of the charges are included in the same complaint, information or summons.
 (3) If the charges are joined, the charges must be tried together unless the court:
 (a) considers it just that any of the charges should be tried separately; and
 (b) makes an order to that effect.
 (4) If a person is convicted of 2 or more of the offences:
 (a) the court may impose one penalty for both or all of those offences; but
 (b) the penalty must not exceed the sum of the maximum penalties that could be imposed in respect of each offence separately.
Section 20-45 Offences that would otherwise be committed by a partnership or unincorporated company
 (1) An offence against this Part that would otherwise be committed by a partnership is taken to have been committed by each partner who:
 (a) aided, abetted, counselled or procured the relevant act or omission; or
 (b) was in any way knowingly concerned in, or party to, the relevant act or omission (whether directly or indirectly, and whether by any act or omission of the partner).
 (2) An offence against this Part that would otherwise be committed by a company that is not incorporated is taken to have been committed by each member of the company&#39;s committee of management who:
 (a) aided, abetted, counselled or procured the relevant act or omission; or
 (b) was in any way knowingly concerned in, or party to, the relevant act or omission (whether directly or indirectly, and whether by any act or omission of the member).
Subdivision 20-D--Review of decisions
Section 20-80 Reviewable decisions
  A person who is dissatisfied with any of the following decisions of the Commissioner may object against the decision in the manner set out in Part  IVC.
Reviewable decisionsItemDescription1ADecision not to grant an exemption under subsection 12-319(1) from withholding obligations in relation to sections  12-315 and 12-3171Decision not to give a certificate under subsection 12-335(1) exempting an entity from notifying the Commissioner about a natural resource payment5Decision to revoke a certificate under subsection 12-335(3)10Decision to vary a certificate under subsection 12-335(3)14Decision under subsection 14-220(1) not to issue a certificate on application under subsection  14-220(2)15Decision under subsection 14-220(1) to issue a certificate16Decision under subsection 14-235(2) not to vary an amount on application under subsection 14-235(3)17Decision under subsection 14-235(2) to vary an amount25Refusal to determine under subsection 16-110(1) that a large withholder is a *medium withholder or a *small withholder for a particular month or particular months30Refusal to determine under subsection 16-110(1) that a medium withholder is a small withholder for a particular month or particular months35Decision to revoke a determination made under subsection 16-110(1)40Decision to vary a determination made under subsection 16-110(1) for a particular month or particular months45Reviewable decisionsItemDescription1ADecision not to grant an exemption under subsection 12-319(1) from withholding obligations in relation to sections  12-315 and 12-3171Decision not to give a certificate under subsection 12-335(1) exempting an entity from notifying the Commissioner about a natural resource payment5Decision to revoke a certificate under subsection 12-335(3)10Decision to vary a certificate under subsection 12-335(3)14Decision under subsection 14-220(1) not to issue a certificate on application under subsection  14-220(2)15Decision under subsection 14-220(1) to issue a certificate16Decision under subsection 14-235(2) not to vary an amount on application under subsection 14-235(3)17Decision under subsection 14-235(2) to vary an amount25Refusal to determine under subsection 16-110(1) that a large withholder is a *medium withholder or a *small withholder for a particular month or particular months30Refusal to determine under subsection 16-110(1) that a medium withholder is a small withholder for a particular month or particular months35Decision to revoke a determination made under subsection 16-110(1)40Decision to vary a determination made under subsection 16-110(1) for a particular month or particular months45Determination under subsection 16-115(1) that a small withholder is a medium withholder or a large withholder for a particular month or particular months50Determination under subsection 16-115(1) that a medium withholder is a large withholder55Decision not to revoke a determination made under subsection 16-115(1)60Decision not to vary a determination made under subsection 16-115(1) for a particular month or particular months62Decision under section 16-147 not to register an entity that has applied to be registered63Decision under section 16-148 to cancel a registration (including making a determination under subsection  16-148(5))65Decision not to refund an amount under section 18-7070Decision not to refund an amount under section 18-80
Note: Division 298 also provides review rights about remission of administrative penalties.
Division 21--Entitlements relating to insolvent ADIs and general insurers
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 21
Section 21-A Treatment of some payments by APRA
 Guide to Division 21
Section 21-1 What this Division is about
This Part applies in relation to a payment by APRA under: (a) Division 2AA of Part II of the Banking Act 1959 applying in relation to an account with an ADI; or (b) Part VC of the Insurance Act 1973 applying in relation to a general insurance policy issued by a general insurance company;in a way corresponding to the way this Part would have applied if the payment had been made by the ADI or company in connection with the account or policy.
Subdivision 21-A--Treatment of some payments by APRA
Table of sections
Section 21-5 APRA treated like ADI or general insurance company
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) an entity&#39;s entitlement under Division  2AA of Part II of the Banking Act 1959 to be paid an amount by *APRA in connection with the entity&#39;s account with an *ADI is met wholly or partly; or
 (b) an entity&#39;s entitlement under Part  VC of the Insurance Act 1973 to be paid an amount in connection with a *general insurance policy issued by a *general insurance company is met wholly or partly.
Note 1: Division 2AA of Part II of the Banking Act 1959 entitles entities that have certain accounts with certain insolvent ADIs to be paid amounts by APRA worked out by reference to the balance of those accounts.
Note 2: Part VC of the Insurance Act 1973 entitles entities with valid claims against certain insolvent general insurance companies under certain general insurance policies issued by those companies to be paid amounts by APRA.
 (2) This Part applies in relation to *APRA and the meeting of the entitlement in a way corresponding to the way in which this Part would have applied in relation to the *ADI or *general insurance company doing, in connection with the account or policy, whatever was done in meeting the entitlement.
Example: APRA (or APRA&#39;s agent or delegate) pays an entity an amount of the entity&#39;s entitlement relating to an account with an ADI. This Part applies in relation to APRA and the payment in a way corresponding to the way in which this Part would have applied in relation to the ADI had the ADI made a payment at that time of that amount under the arrangements for keeping the account.
Chapter 2--Collection, recovery and administration of income tax
Part 2-10--Pay as you go (PAYG) instalments
Division 45--Instalment payments
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 45
Section 45-A Basic rules
Section 45-B When instalments are due
Section 45-C Working out instalment amounts
Section 45-D Quarterly payers
Section 45-DA Monthly payers
Section 45-E Annual payers
Section 45-F Varying the instalment rate for quarterly payers who pay on the basis of instalment income
Section 45-G General interest charge payable in certain cases if instalments are too low
Section 45-H Partnership income
Section 45-I Trust income included in instalment income of beneficiary
Section 45-J How Commissioner works out your instalment rate and notional tax
Section 45-K How Commissioner works out your benchmark instalment rate and benchmark tax
Section 45-L How Commissioner works out amount of quarterly instalment on basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax
Section 45-M How amount of quarterly instalment is worked out on basis of your estimate of your benchmark tax
Section 45-N How this Part applies to the trustee of a trust
Section 45-P Anti-avoidance rules
Section 45-Q General rules for consolidated groups
Section 45-R Special rules for consolidated groups
Section 45-S MEC groups
 Guide to Division 45
Section 45-1 What this Division is about
If you have business or investment income, you must pay instalments towards your income tax liability. However, you do not have to do so unless the Commissioner has given you an instalment rate. Generally, instalments are payable for each quarter of your income year. Alternatively, instalments could be payable monthly or annually.Your instalments may be based on your previous year&#39;s income tax liability and notified to you by the Commissioner, or on your estimate of your income tax liability for the current income year. (In this case, you are a quarterly payer who pays on the basis of GDP adjusted notional tax). Generally, four quarterly instalments are payable annually on this basis, but you may only be required to pay two.If you are not eligible to pay instalments on that basis, or if you are so eligible but choose not to do so, you must work out the amount of your quarterly instalment by multiplying your instalment income for an instalment quarter by the rate the Commissioner gave you, or by a rate you choose yourself. (In this case, you are a quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income).If your business or investment income exceeds a certain limit, you may have to pay an instalment after the end of each month. (In this case, you are a monthly payer).If you are not required to be registered for GST purposes, you may be able to choose to pay an annual instalment after the end of the income year. (In this case, you are an annual payer).The amount of annual instalment can be your instalment income for the income year multiplied by the rate the Commissioner gave you, or an amount based on your previous year&#39;s income tax liability and notified to you by the Commissioner, or your own estimate of your income tax liability for the income year.
Subdivision 45-A--Basic rules
Table of sections
Section 45-5 Object of this Part
Section 45-10 Application of Part
Section 45-15 Liability for instalments
Section 45-20 Information to be given to the Commissioner by certain payers
Section 45-25 Penalty for failure to notify Commissioner
Section 45-30 Credit for instalments payable
Section 45-5 Object of this Part
 (1) The object of this Part  is to ensure the efficient collection of:
 (a) income tax; and
 (b) *Medicare levy; and
 (ca) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Chapter  4 of the Higher Education Support Act 2003; and
 (caa) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Part  3A of the VET Student Loans Act 2016; and
 (cb) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Chapter  2AA of the Social Security Act 1991; and
 (cc) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Part  2 of the Student Assistance Act 1973; and
 (cd) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Chapter  3 of the Australian Apprenticeship Support Loans Act 2014; and
 (d) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Part  2B.3 of the Social Security Act 1991; and
 (e) amounts of liabilities to the Commonwealth under Division  6 of Part 4A of the Student Assistance Act 1973;
through the application of the principles set out in the rest of this section.
 (2) As you earn *instalment income, you pay instalments after the end of each *instalment quarter worked out on the basis of your instalment income for that quarter if you are required or choose to work out your instalment on this basis. However, you may be able to pay an amount notified by the Commissioner. (There are exceptions to this).
 (2A) Alternatively:
 (a) you may be required to pay instalments after the end of each *instalment month worked out on the basis of your instalment income for that month; or
 (b) you may be able to choose to pay an annual instalment for the income year.
 (3) The total of your instalments for an income year is as close as possible to the total of your liabilities for the income year that are covered by subsection  (1), except so far as the amounts of those liabilities are attributable to a *net capital gain. (The exception does not apply to the entities listed in subsections 45-120(2) and (2A) or the net capital gains specified in subsection  45-120(2B).)
 (4) Consequently, the additional amounts you have to pay to discharge those liabilities, after an assessment of your income tax for the income year is made, are as low as possible.
 (5) If you are a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income, the amount of each of your instalments for an income year is the same proportion (as nearly as possible, subject to the principles in subsections  (3) and (4)) of the total of those instalments as your *instalment income for that *instalment quarter is of your total instalment income for the income year.
 (5A) If you are a *monthly payer, the amount of each of your instalments for an income year is the same proportion (as nearly as possible, subject to the principles in subsections (3) and (4)) of the total of those instalments as your *instalment income for that *instalment month is of your total instalment income for the income year.
 (6) When instalments are payable, and how their amount is calculated, are the same for different kinds of entities, except as expressly provided.
Note: Subdivision 45-P penalises an entity whose tax position, so far as it relates to PAYG instalments and related matters, is altered by a scheme that is inconsistent with the object of this Part.
Section 45-10 Application of Part
  This Part applies to individuals, companies, and the entities listed in items  4 to 10, and 12 and 13, of the table in section 9-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (which lists the entities that must pay income tax).
Note 1: Section 45-450 provides for how this Part applies to a trustee covered by any of items  4 to 8, and 12 and 13, of the table in section 9-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997. In most respects, the trust is treated like a company.
Note 2: This Part also applies to a trustee covered by item 11 of the table in section  9-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, but only to the extent set out in section  45-455, and the rest of Subdivision 45-N, in this Schedule.
Section 45-15 Liability for instalments
 (1) The Commissioner may give you an instalment rate from time to time, by giving you written notice of the rate.
 (2) You are liable to pay instalments under this Division if the Commissioner has given you an instalment rate.
Note 1: The instalment rate that the Commissioner gives you is worked out under section  45-320 or 45-775.
Note 2: If your assessable income has always consisted wholly of withholding payments (other than non-quotation withholding payments), the Commissioner will not give you an instalment rate.
Note 3: Work out the amount of your instalments under Subdivision  45-C.
Note 4: If the Commissioner withdraws the rate under section 45-90, you are not liable to pay further instalments.
Note 5: For provisions about collection and recovery of amounts you are liable to pay under this Part, see Part  4-15.
Section 45-20 Information to be given to the Commissioner by certain payers
 (1) If you are liable to pay an instalment for a period (even if it is a nil amount), you must notify the Commissioner of the amount of your *instalment income for the period.
 (2) You must notify the Commissioner in the *approved form and on or before the day when the instalment is due (regardless of whether it is paid).
 (2A) If you are a *monthly payer for the period, you must give the notification electronically, unless the Commissioner otherwise approves.
Note: A penalty applies if you fail to give the notification electronically as required--see section  288-10.
 (2B) The notification is given electronically if it is transmitted to the Commissioner in an electronic format approved by the Commissioner.
Exceptions
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to:
 (a) a quarterly instalment worked out under section  45-112 (on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax or estimated benchmark tax); or
 (b) an annual instalment, unless it is worked out under paragraph  45-115(1)(a) (based on the Commissioner&#39;s rate and your instalment income for the income year).
Section 45-25 Penalty for failure to notify Commissioner
 (1) If you fail to notify the Commissioner of an amount as required by section  45-20, or you notify an amount that is less than the correct amount, you are liable to pay the *failure to notify penalty on the amount, or on the shortfall, multiplied by the instalment rate that you are required to use to work out the instalment for the period, for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the amount was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the day before you notify the Commissioner of the correct amount, or he or she otherwise becomes aware of it.
 (2) This section does not apply to a notification required to be lodged on or after 1 July 2000.
Note: See instead Division 286 in Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953.
Section 45-30 Credit for instalments payable
 (1) You are entitled to a credit when the Commissioner makes an assessment of the income tax you are liable to pay for an income year or an assessment that no income tax is payable by you for an income year.
 (2) The credit is equal to:
 &bull;  the total of each instalment payable by you for the income year (even if you have not yet paid it);
reduced by:
 &bull;  the total of each credit that you have claimed under section  45-215 or 45-420 in respect of such an instalment.
 (3) The making of the assessment, and the resulting credit entitlement, do not affect the liability to pay an instalment.
Note: How the credit is applied is set out in Division 3 of Part  IIB.
 (4) If:
 (a) you are a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group at any time during a *consolidation transitional year for you; and
 (b) an amount of instalment payable by you, or an amount of credit claimed by you under section  45-215 or 45-420, is taken into account in working out a credit to which the *head company of that consolidated group is entitled under section 45-865 for a consolidation transitional year for the head company;
that amount, to the extent to which it is so taken into account under that section, is not to be taken into account in working out any credit to which you are entitled under this section for any year.
Subdivision 45-B--When instalments are due
Table of sections
Section 45-50 Liability to pay instalments
Section 45-60 Meaning of instalment quarter
Section 45-61 When quarterly instalments are due--payers of quarterly instalments
Section 45-65 Meaning of instalment month
Section 45-67 When monthly instalments are due--payers of monthly instalments
Section 45-70 When annual instalments are due
Section 45-72 Means of payment of instalment
Section 45-75 Instalments recoverable in same way as income tax
Section 45-80 General interest charge on late payment
Section 45-90 Commissioner may withdraw instalment rate
Section 45-50 Liability to pay instalments
 (1) Subject to subsection (4), you are liable to pay an instalment for an *instalment quarter in an income year if, at the end of that instalment quarter, you are:
 (a) a *quarterly payer who pays 4 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax; or
 (b) a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income.
 (2) Subject to subsection  (4), you are liable to pay an instalment for an *instalment quarter that is the third or fourth instalment quarter in an income year if, at the end of that quarter, you are a *quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax.
 (2A) Subject to subsection  (4), you are liable to pay an instalment for an *instalment month if, at the end of that month, you are a *monthly payer.
 (3) Subject to subsection  (4), you are liable to pay an instalment for an income year if, at the end of the *starting instalment quarter in that year, you are an *annual payer.
 (4) You are only liable to pay an instalment for an *instalment quarter, an *instalment month or an income year if:
 (a) the Commissioner has given you an instalment rate; and
 (b) the Commissioner has not withdrawn your instalment rate before the end of that quarter, month or year.
Section 45-60 Meaning of instalment quarter
  For an income year (whether it ends on 30  June or not), the following are the instalment quarters:
 (a) your first instalment quarter consists of the first 3 months of the income year; and
 (b) your second instalment quarter consists of the fourth, fifth and sixth months of the income year; and
 (c) your third instalment quarter consists of the seventh, eighth and ninth months of the income year; and
 (d) your fourth instalment quarter consists of the tenth, 11th and 12th months of the income year.
Section 45-61 When quarterly instalments are due--payers of quarterly instalments
You are not a deferred BAS payer
 (1) Subject to subsection  (2), if you are:
 (a) a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income; or
 (b) a *quarterly payer who pays 4 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax; or
 (c) a *quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax;
the instalment for an *instalment quarter that you are liable to pay is due on or before the 21st day of the month after the end of that quarter.
Note: You are only liable to pay instalments for the third and fourth instalment quarters in an income year if you are a quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax. See section 45-50.
You are a deferred BAS payer
 (2) If:
 (a) subsection (1) would, but for this subsection, have applied to you in relation to an *instalment quarter; but
 (b) you are a *deferred BAS payer on the 21st day of the month after the end of that quarter;
the instalment for that quarter is instead due on or before:
 (c) the 28th day of the month after the end of that quarter unless all or a part of a December falls within the last month of that quarter; or
 (d) if all or a part of a December falls within the last month of that quarter--the next 28  February.
Note 1: You are only liable to pay instalments for the third and fourth instalment quarters in an income year if you are a quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax. See section 45-50.
Note 2: If you are the head company of a consolidated group to which Subdivision  45-Q applies, the instalment is due on or before the 21st day of the month after the end of the quarter: see section  45-715.
Section 45-65 Meaning of instalment month
  For an income year (whether it ends on 30  June or not), the following are instalment months:
 (a) the month that starts on the first day of the income year;
 (b) each subsequent month.
Note: For the meaning of month, see section  2G of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901.
Section 45-67 When monthly instalments are due--payers of monthly instalments
You are not a deferred BAS payer
 (1) If you are a *monthly payer, the instalment for an *instalment month that you are liable to pay is due on or before the 21st day of the next instalment month.
 (2) If:
 (a) subsection (1) would, but for this subsection, have applied to you in relation to an *instalment month; but
 (b) you are a *deferred BAS payer on the 21st day of the next instalment month;
the instalment for the month mentioned in paragraph (a) is instead due on or before:
 (c) the 28th day of that next instalment month unless that next instalment month is January; or
 (d) if that next instalment month is January--the next 28  February.
Note: If you are the head company of a consolidated group to which Subdivision  45-Q applies, the instalment is due on or before the 21st day of that next month: see section 45-715 (as it has effect because of section  45-703).
Section 45-70 When annual instalments are due
 (1) This section applies if you are liable to pay an annual instalment for the 2002 -03 income year or a later income year.
 (2) If the income year ends on 30  June, the instalment is due on or before the next 21 October.
 (3) If the income year ends on a day other than 30  June, the instalment is due on or before the 21st day of the fourth month after the end of the income year.
Section 45-72 Means of payment of instalment
  You must pay an instalment by *electronic payment, or any other means approved in writing by the Commissioner.
Section 45-75 Instalments recoverable in same way as income tax
  Instalments are to be treated as income tax for the purposes of sections  254 and 255 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.
Section 45-80 General interest charge on late payment
  If you fail to pay some or all of an instalment by the time by which the instalment is due to be paid, you are liable to pay the *general interest charge on the unpaid amount for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the instalment was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day on which, at the end of the day, any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the instalment;
 (ii) general interest charge on any of the instalment.
Section 45-90 Commissioner may withdraw instalment rate
 (1) The Commissioner may:
 (a) by giving you written notice, withdraw your instalment rate; or
 (b) by legislative instrument, withdraw the instalment rate of a class of entities that includes you.
Note: If the Commissioner does so, you cease to be liable to pay instalments (even if you have chosen a rate under section  45-205). See subsection 45-50(4).
 (2) If the Commissioner withdraws your instalment rate and later gives you another one:
 (a) you are again liable to pay instalments in accordance with section  45-50; and
 (b) this Division has effect as if the Commissioner has given you an instalment rate for the first time.
Subdivision 45-C--Working out instalment amounts
Table of sections
Section 45-110 How to work out amount of quarterly instalment on instalment income basis
Section 45-112 Amount of instalment for quarterly payer who pays on basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax
Section 45-114 How to work out amount of monthly instalment
Section 45-115 How to work out amount of annual instalment
Section 45-120 Meaning of instalment income
Section 45-110 How to work out amount of quarterly instalment on instalment income basis
 (1) Work out the amount of an instalment you are liable to pay for an *instalment quarter as follows if, at the end of that instalment quarter, you are a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income:
 (2) For the purposes of the formula in subsection  (1):
"Applicable instalment rate" means:
 (a) unless paragraph (b) or (c) applies--the most recent instalment rate given to you by the Commissioner under section  45-15 before the end of that quarter; or
 (b) if you have chosen an instalment rate for that quarter under section  45-205--that rate; or
 (c) if you have chosen an instalment rate under section  45-205 for an earlier *instalment quarter in that income year (and paragraph (b) does not apply)--that rate.
Note: If you believe the Commissioner&#39;s rate is not appropriate for the current income year, you may choose a different instalment rate under Subdivision  45-F.
Section 45-112 Amount of instalment for quarterly payer who pays on basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax
 (1) If, at the end of an *instalment quarter in an income year, you are a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax who is liable to pay an instalment for that quarter, the amount of your instalment for that quarter is:
 (a) unless paragraph (b) or (c) applies--the amount that the Commissioner works out under Subdivision  45-L, and notifies to you, as the amount of the instalment; or
 (b) if you choose to work out the amount of the instalment on the basis of your estimate of your *benchmark tax for that income year, and you notify the Commissioner in accordance with subsection (2)--the amount worked out under Subdivision  45-M; or
 (c) if paragraph (b) applied to your instalment for an earlier *instalment quarter in that income year--the amount that the Commissioner works out under Subdivision  45-M, and notifies to you, as the amount of the instalment.
 (2) If the amount of the instalment is worked out under paragraph  (1)(b) on the basis of your estimate of your *benchmark tax for the income year, you must notify the Commissioner in the *approved form, on or before the day when the instalment is due (disregarding subsection (3)), of the amount of that estimate.
 (3) If:
 (a) after the end of an *instalment quarter the Commissioner notifies you of an amount as the amount of your instalment for that quarter; and
 (b) the amount of your instalment for that quarter is not worked out under paragraph (1)(b);
the instalment is due on or before the 21st day after the day on which the notice is given.
Section 45-114 How to work out amount of monthly instalment
 (1) Work out the amount of an instalment you are liable to pay for an *instalment month as follows if, at the end of that instalment month, you are a *monthly payer:
 (2) For the purposes of the formula in subsection  (1):
"applicable instalment rate" means:
 (a) unless paragraph (b) or (c) applies--the most recent instalment rate given to you by the Commissioner under section  45-15 before the end of that month; or
 (b) if you have chosen an instalment rate for that month under section  45-205--that rate; or
 (c) if you have chosen an instalment rate under section  45-205 for an earlier *instalment month in that income year (and paragraph (b) does not apply)--that rate.
Note: If you believe the Commissioner&#39;s rate is not appropriate for the current income year, you may choose a different instalment rate under Subdivision  45-F.
 (3) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, determine one or more specified additional methods by which a specified class of entity that is a *monthly payer at the end of an *instalment month may work out, in specified circumstances, the amount of an instalment that it is liable to pay for the instalment month.
Note: For specification by class, see subsection 13(3) of the Legislation Act 2003.
 (4) You may choose a method specified in the determination:
 (a) unless paragraph (b) applies--for any *instalment month; or
 (b) if the determination provides that that method can be chosen only for the first instalment month in an *instalment quarter--for the first instalment month in an instalment quarter.
 (5) The determination may provide that an entity that chooses a method in accordance with paragraph  (4)(b) for the first *instalment month in an *instalment quarter is taken to have chosen that method under subsection (4) for the other instalment months in that quarter. The determination has effect accordingly.
 (6) Subsection (7) applies if:
 (a) the Commissioner has made a determination under subsection  (3); and
 (b) at the end of an *instalment month, you are a *monthly payer; and
 (c) you choose under subsection  (4), for that month:
 (i) if the determination specifies one additional method to work out that amount--that method; or
 (ii) if the determination specifies more than one additional method to work out that amount--one of those methods.
 (7) Despite subsection  (1), work out the amount of an instalment you are liable to pay for that *instalment month in accordance with the method that you chose for that month under subsection  (4).
Section 45-115 How to work out amount of annual instalment
 (1) The amount of an instalment you are liable to pay for the 2002 -03 income year or a later income year is whichever of the following you choose:
 (a) the amount worked out using the formula:
 (b) your most recent *notional tax notified by the Commissioner before the end of the income year;
 (c) the amount that you estimate will be your *benchmark tax for the income year.
Note 1: You cannot choose a different instalment rate under Subdivision 45-F if you are an annual payer. Instead you can work out the amount of your instalment under paragraph  (c).
Note 2: You may be liable to general interest charge under section 45-235 if working out your instalment under paragraph  (c) leads you to pay an instalment that is less than 85% of your benchmark tax for the income year (worked out by the Commissioner under section  45-365).
 (2) Commissioner&#39;s instalment rate for an income year means the most recent instalment rate given to you by the Commissioner before the end of the income year.
 (3) If you choose to work out your instalment under paragraph  (1)(c), you must notify the Commissioner, in the *approved form, of the amount of the instalment on or before the day when it is due.
Section 45-120 Meaning of instalment income
General rule
 (1) Your instalment income for a period includes your *ordinary income *derived during that period, but only to the extent that it is assessable income of the income year that is or includes that period.
Note 1: No other amount is instalment income unless it is covered by another provision of this section or by Subdivision  45-H or 45-I.
Note 1A: The operation of this section and other provisions relating to instalment income is affected by sections  45-855 and 45-860 (about a member of a consolidated group during a period before the members of the group are treated as a single entity for the purposes of this Part.)
Note 2: If during that period you are a partner in a partnership, or a beneficiary of a trust, your instalment income also includes some of the partnership&#39;s or trust&#39;s instalment income for the period (except in some cases). See Subdivision  45-H or 45-I.
Statutory income included for some entities
 (2) The instalment income of:
 (a) a *complying approved deposit fund or a *non-complying approved deposit fund; or
 (b) a *complying superannuation fund or a *non-complying superannuation fund; or
 (c) a *pooled superannuation trust;
for a period also includes the entity&#39;s *statutory income, to the extent that:
 (d) it is reasonably attributable to that period; and
 (e) it is assessable income of the income year that is or includes that period.
 (2A) The instalment income of a *life insurance company for a period also includes any part of its *statutory income that:
 (a) is reasonably attributable to that period; and
 (b) is included in the *complying superannuation class of its taxable income for the income year that is or includes that period.
Net gains under Subdivision 250-E of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 included in instalment income
 (2B) Your instalment income for a period also includes the difference between:
 (a) a gain (or gains) you make from a *financial arrangement to the extent to which it is (or they are):
 (i) assessable under Subdivision  250-E of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; and
 (ii) reasonably attributable to that period; and
 (b) a loss (or losses) you make from a financial arrangement to the extent to which it is (or they are):
 (i) allowable to you as a deduction under Subdivision  250-E of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; and
 (ii) reasonably attributable to that period.
This is so only if the gain (or gains) referred to in paragraph (a) exceeds the loss (or losses) referred to in paragraph (b).
Effect of Division 230 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 on instalment income
 (2C) Your instalment income for a period also includes the difference between:
 (a) a gain (or gains) you make from a *financial arrangement to the extent to which it is (or they are):
 (i) assessable under Division  230 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; and
 (ii) reasonably attributable to that period; and
 (b) a loss (or losses) you make from a financial arrangement to the extent to which it is (or they are):
 (i) allowable to you as a deduction under Division  230 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; and
 (ii) reasonably attributable to that period.
This is so only if the gain (or gains) referred to in paragraph (a) equals or exceeds the loss (or losses) referred to in paragraph (b).
 (2D) However, your instalment income for a period is worked out disregarding subsection  (2C) if any of the following apply:
 (a) you are an individual;
 (b) the only gains and losses that would be taken into account under subsection  (2C) for the period are from *financial arrangements that are *qualifying securities.
 (2E) A gain or loss that is taken into account under subsection  (2C) in working out an amount (including a nil amount) to be included in your instalment income for a period is not to be, to any extent, taken into account again under another provision of this section in calculating your instalment income for the same or any other period.
Exclusion: amounts in respect of withholding payments
 (3) Your instalment income for a period does not include amounts in respect of:
 (a) *withholding payments (except *non-quotation withholding payments) made to you during that period; and
 (b) amounts included in your assessable income under section  86-15 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for which there are amounts required to be paid under Division  13; and
 (c) which a penalty is applicable under section  12-415.
Farm management deposits: effect of making and repayment
 (4) Your instalment income for a period is reduced (but not below nil) by a *farm management deposit made during that period, but only to the extent that, at the end of that period, you can reasonably expect to be able to deduct the deposit under section  393-5 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for the income year that is or includes that period.
 (5) Your instalment income for a period also includes an amount that section 393-10 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 includes in your assessable income, for the income year that is or includes that period, because of a repayment during that period of all or some of a *farm management deposit.
Gross proceeds on disposal of registered emissions units included in instalment income
 (5A) Your instalment income for a period also includes an amount that section 420-25 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 includes in your assessable income, for the income year that is or includes that period, because you cease to *hold a *registered emissions unit during that period.
Instalment income of entity that is not liable for instalments
 (6) An entity can have *instalment income for a period even if the entity is not liable to pay an instalment for that period.
Note: For example, although a partnership does not pay instalments, it is necessary to work out the partnership&#39;s instalment income in order to work out instalments payable by the partners. See Subdivision  45-H.
Subdivision 45-D--Quarterly payers
Table of sections
Section 45-125 Quarterly payer who pays instalments on the basis of instalment income
Section 45-130 Quarterly payer who pays on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax
Section 45-132 Quarterly payer who pays 4 instalments annually on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax
Section 45-134 Quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax
Section 45-125 Quarterly payer who pays instalments on the basis of instalment income
 (1) You are a quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income if:
 (a) at the end of the *starting instalment quarter in an income year, you are not a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax and you are not a *monthly payer or an *annual payer; or
 (b) but for this section, you would be a quarterly payer who pays on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax at the end of the starting instalment quarter in an income year but you choose to pay quarterly instalments on the basis of your instalment income.
Note: The entity must make the choice mentioned in paragraph (b) in accordance with subsection  (4).
 (2) The starting instalment quarter in an income year (the current year) is:
 (a) if the Commissioner gives you an instalment rate for the first time during an *instalment quarter in the current year--that instalment quarter (even if it is not the first instalment quarter in the current year); or
 (b) if the Commissioner has given you an instalment rate during a previous income year and your instalment rate has not been withdrawn--the first instalment quarter in the current year.
How and when you become such a payer
 (3) You become a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income just before the end of the *starting instalment quarter if paragraph  (1)(a) or (b) is satisfied.
 (4) You must make the choice mentioned in paragraph  (1)(b) by notifying the Commissioner in the *approved form on or before the day on which the instalment for that quarter is due (disregarding subsection  45-112(3)).
How and when you stop being such a payer
 (5) If you are a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income because of paragraph (1)(a), you stop being such a payer at the start of the first *instalment quarter in the next income year if:
 (a) at the end of that quarter, you become:
 (i) a quarterly payer who pays on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax; or
 (ii) an *annual payer; or
 (b) at the end of the first *instalment month of that quarter, you become a *monthly payer.
No quarterly payer status in quarter if monthly payer in following month
 (5A) Despite subsections  (1) and (3), you cannot be a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income at a time in an *instalment quarter if you are a *monthly payer at a time in the first *instalment month that ends after that quarter.
 (6) If you are a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income because of paragraph (1)(b), you stop being such a payer at the start of the first *instalment quarter in the next income year if:
 (a) you become an *annual payer at the end of that quarter; or
 (b) both of the following conditions apply:
 (i) you choose not to be a quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income;
 (ii) you become a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax at the end of that quarter.
 (7) You may only make the choice mentioned in paragraph  (6)(b) if you would otherwise satisfy paragraph 45-130(1)(a), (b), (c) or (d) at the end of that quarter. You must make that choice by notifying the Commissioner in the *approved form on or before the day on which the instalment for that quarter is due (disregarding subsection  45-112(3)).
Section 45-130 Quarterly payer who pays on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax
 (1) You are a quarterly payer who pays on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax if, at the end of the *starting instalment quarter in an income year:
 (a) you are an individual who is not an *annual payer, a *monthly payer or a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income; or
 (b) you are a *self-assessment entity:
 (i) that is not an *annual payer or a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income; and
 (ii) your base assessment instalment income (within the meaning of section  45-320) for the *base year is $2 million or less; or
 (c) you satisfy all of the following conditions:
 (i) you are a self -assessment entity whose base assessment instalment income (within the meaning of section 45-320) for the *base year is more than $2 million;
 (ii) you are not an annual payer, but you satisfy the conditions set out in subsection  45-140(1) for an annual payer;
 (iia) you are not a *monthly payer;
 (iii) you are not a quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income; or
 (d) for the 2009-10 income year or a later income year--you are one of the following kinds of entity (an eligible business entity):
 (i) a *small business entity (other than because of subsection 328-110(4) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 );
 (ii) an entity covered by subsection  (1A) of this section.
Note: Paragraph (a) may apply to you if you are a multi-rate trustee. See section  45-468.
 (1A) An entity is covered by this subsection for an income year if:
 (a) the entity is not a *small business entity (other than because of subsection 328-110(4) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ) for the income year; and
 (b) the entity would be such a small business entity for the income year if:
 (i) each reference in Subdivision  328-C (about what is a small business entity) of that Act to $10 million were instead a reference to $50 million; and
 (ii) the reference in paragraph  328-110(5)(b) of that Act to a small business entity were instead a reference to an entity covered by this subsection.
How and when you become such a payer
 (2) You become such a payer just before the end of the *starting instalment quarter if paragraph (1)(a), (b), (c) or (d) is satisfied.
 (2A) For the purposes of subsection  (2), you satisfy proposed paragraph (1)(d) at the end of the *starting instalment quarter in an income year if you are an eligible business entity for the income year that includes that instalment quarter.
How and when you stop being such a payer
 (3) You stop being a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax at the start of the first *instalment quarter in the next income year if you fail to satisfy paragraph (1)(a), (b), (c) or (d) at the end of that quarter.
 (3A) For the purposes of subsection  (3), you fail to satisfy proposed paragraph (1)(d) at the end of the first *instalment quarter in an income year if you are not an eligible business entity for the income year that includes that instalment quarter.
 (4) In addition, you stop being such a payer at the start of the first *instalment quarter in the next income year if:
 (a) at the end of that quarter, you become:
 (i) a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income; or
 (ii) an *annual payer; or
 (b) at the end of the first *instalment month of that quarter, you become a *monthly payer.
No quarterly payer status in quarter if monthly payer in following month
 (5) Despite subsections  (1) and (2), you cannot be a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax at a time in an *instalment quarter if you are a *monthly payer at a time in the first *instalment month that ends after that quarter.
Section 45-132 Quarterly payer who pays 4 instalments annually on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax
 (1) You are a quarterly payer who pays 4 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax if, at the end of the *starting instalment quarter in an income year:
 (a) you satisfy the conditions to be a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax under section 45-130; and
 (b) you do not satisfy the conditions to be a *quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax under section  45-134.
How and when you become such a payer
 (2) You become such a payer just before the end of the *starting instalment quarter if paragraphs (1)(a) and (b) are satisfied.
How and when you stop being such a payer
 (3) You stop being a *quarterly payer who pays 4 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax at the start of the first *instalment quarter in the next income year if you fail to satisfy paragraphs (1)(a) and (b) at the end of that quarter.
 (4) In addition, you stop being such a payer at the start of the first *instalment quarter in the next income year if:
 (a) at the end of that quarter, you become:
 (i) a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income; or
 (ii) an *annual payer; or
 (b) at the end of the first *instalment month of that quarter, you become a *monthly payer.
Section 45-134 Quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax
 (1) You are a quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax if, at the end of the *starting instalment quarter in an income year, you are an individual that is a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax and one or more of the following paragraphs apply:
 (a) both of the following conditions are satisfied:
 (i) you are carrying on a *primary production business in the income year;
 (ii) the assessable income that was *derived from, or resulted from, a primary production business that you carried on in the *base year exceeded the amount of so much of your deductions in that year that are reasonably related to that income;
 (b) both of the following conditions are satisfied:
 (i) you are a *special professional in the income year;
 (ii) your *assessable professional income in the base year exceeded the amount of so much of your deductions in that year that are reasonably related to that income.
Note: This section may apply to you if you are a multi-rate trustee. See section  45-468.
How and when you become such a payer
 (2) You become such a payer just before the end of the *starting instalment quarter if subsection (1) is satisfied.
How and when you stop being such a payer
 (3) You stop being a *quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax at the start of the first *instalment quarter in the next income year if you fail to satisfy subsection (1) at the end of that quarter.
 (4) In addition, you stop being such a payer at the start of the first *instalment quarter in the next income year if:
 (a) at the end of that quarter, you become:
 (i) a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income; or
 (ii) an *annual payer; or
 (b) at the end of the first *instalment month of that quarter, you become a *monthly payer.
Subdivision 45-DA--Monthly payers
Table of sections
Section 45-136 Monthly payer
Section 45-138 Monthly payer requirement
Section 45-136 Monthly payer
 (1) You are a monthly payer at a time if:
 (a) you were a monthly payer immediately before that time; or
 (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply--you satisfy the requirement in subsection  45-138(1) for the income year in which that time occurs.
Note: If paragraph (b) applies, see subsection (3) for the time at which you become a monthly payer.
 (2) The starting instalment month in an income year (the current year) is:
 (a) if the Commissioner gives you an instalment rate for the first time during an *instalment month in the current year--the next instalment month in the current year; or
 (b) if the Commissioner has given you an instalment rate during a previous income year and your instalment rate has not been withdrawn--the first instalment month in the current year.
How and when you become such a payer
 (3) Despite subsection  (1), if paragraph (1)(b) applies, you become a *monthly payer just before the end of the *starting instalment month in the income year.
How and when you stop being such a payer
 (4) Despite subsection  (1), you stop being a *monthly payer at the start of the first *instalment month in a later income year if:
 (a) you do not satisfy the requirement in subsection  45-138(1) for that later income year; and
 (b) you give the Commissioner a notice (the MP stop notice) in the *approved form for that later income year before the start of that later income year.
Section 45-138 Monthly payer requirement
 (1) You satisfy the requirement in this subsection for an income year if at the start of your *MPR test day for that income year, your base assessment instalment income (within the meaning of section  45-320) for the *base year equals or exceeds:
 (a) $20 million; or
 (b) if regulations made for the purposes of this paragraph specify a different amount--that amount.
 (2) However, you do not satisfy the requirement in subsection (1) for an income year if, at the start of your *MPR test day for that income year:
 (a) you have (or, if you are a *member of a *GST group, the *representative member of the GST group has) an obligation to give the Commissioner a *GST return for a quarterly *tax period; and
 (b) you are not the *head company of a *consolidated group nor the *provisional head company of a *MEC group; and
 (c) your base assessment instalment income (within the meaning of section  45-320) for the *base year is less than $100 million.
 (3) For the purposes of subsections  (1) and (2), at the start of an entity&#39;s *MPR test day:
 (a) determine the amount of the entity&#39;s base assessment instalment income (within the meaning of section  45-320) for the *base year only on the basis of the information provided by the Commissioner to the entity before that start of that day; and
 (b) in determining on that day whether an entity has an obligation mentioned in paragraph  (2)(a), disregard any creation or removal of such an obligation after that day (even if that change is made retrospective to that day).
 (4) An entity&#39;s MPR test day for an income year is:
 (a) if the Commissioner gives the entity an instalment rate for the first time during an *instalment month in the income year--the last day of that month; or
 (b) otherwise--the first day of the third last month of the previous income year.
 (5) Subsection (6) applies if, disregarding that subsection, an entity does not satisfy the requirement in subsection (1) for an income year.
 (6) For the purposes of this section, in determining the entity&#39;s base assessment instalment income (within the meaning of section  45-320) for the *base year:
 (a) disregard subsection  45-120(2C); and
 (b) disregard paragraph  (3)(a) of this section, to the extent that that paragraph relates to the operation of subsection 45-120(2C).
 (7) If, because of subsection  (6), the entity satisfies the requirement in subsection (1) for an income year, the entity must give the Commissioner a notice in the *approved form in respect of that income year before:
 (a) if the *starting instalment month in the income year is determined under paragraph 45-136(2)(a)--the end of that starting instalment month; or
 (b) if the starting instalment month in the income year is determined under paragraph  45-136(2)(b)--the start of that starting instalment month.
Subdivision 45-E--Annual payers
Table of sections
When you start and stop being an annual payer
Section 45-140 Choosing to pay annual instalments
Section 45-145 Meaning of instalment group
Section 45-150 Entity stops being annual payer if involved with GST registration or instalment group
Section 45-155 Entity stops being annual payer if notional tax is $8,000 or more, or entity chooses to pay quarterly
Section 45-160 Head company of a consolidated group stops being annual payer
 When you start and stop being an annual payer
Section 45-140 Choosing to pay annual instalments
 (1) You may choose to pay instalments annually instead of quarterly if, at the end of the *starting instalment quarter, you satisfy the following conditions:
 (a) you are neither registered, nor *required to be registered, under Part 2-5 of the *GST Act; and
 (b) you are not a partner in a partnership that is registered, or required to be registered, under that Part; and
 (c) your most recent *notional tax notified by the Commissioner is less than $8,000; and
 (d) in the case of a company--the company is not a *participant in a *GST joint venture under Division 51 of that Act; and
 (e) in the case of a company--the company is not part of an *instalment group.
Note: You cannot choose to be an annual payer while you are the head company of a consolidated group to which Subdivision  45-Q applies: see section 45-720.
 (1A) You may also choose at a time (subject to subsection  (2)) to pay instalments annually instead of quarterly if at that time either:
 (a) an *annual tax period election of yours has effect and, if you are a partner in one or more partnerships that are registered under Part 2-5 of the *GST Act, an annual tax period election of each of those partnerships has effect; or
 (b) all of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) you are neither registered, nor *required to be registered, under Part 2-5 of the GST Act;
 (ii) you are a partner in one or more partnerships that are registered under that Part;
 (iii) an annual tax period election of each of those partnerships has effect;
and at the end of the *starting instalment quarter, you satisfy the following conditions:
 (c) you are not a partner in a partnership that is required to be registered under Part  2-5 of the GST Act;
 (d) your most recent *notional tax notified by the Commissioner is less than $8,000;
 (e) in the case of a company--the company is not a *participant in a *GST joint venture under Division 51 of that Act;
 (f) in the case of a company--the company is not part of an *instalment group.
Note: You cannot choose to be an annual payer while you are the head company of a consolidated group to which Subdivision  45-Q applies: see section 45-720.
 (2) You must make the choice under subsection  (1) or (1A) by notifying the Commissioner, in the *approved form, on or before the day on which that instalment would otherwise be due.
 (3) You become an annual payer just before the end of the *starting instalment quarter if:
 (a) you satisfy the conditions in subsection  (1) or (1A); and
 (b) you choose to pay instalment annually.
Section 45-145 Meaning of instalment group
 (1) An instalment group consists of:
 (a) a company:
 (i) that has *majority control of at least one other company; but
 (ii) of which no other company has *majority control; and
 (b) any other company of which the first -mentioned company has *majority control.
 (2) A company has majority control of another company if, and only if:
 (a) the first company is in a position to cast, or control the casting of, more than 50% of the maximum number of votes that might be cast at a general meeting of the other company; or
 (b) the first company has the power to appoint or remove the majority of the directors of the other company; or
 (c) the other company is, or a majority of its directors are, accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act according to the directions, instructions or wishes of the first company.
Section 45-150 Entity stops being annual payer if involved with GST registration or instalment group
 (1) You stop being an *annual payer if, during an *instalment quarter that is in an income year that starts after the commencement of this section:
 (a) you become *required to be registered under Part 2-5 of the *GST Act; or
 (b) you become a partner in a partnership that is required to be registered under that Part; or
 (c) a partnership in which you are a partner becomes required to be registered under that Part; or
 (d) in the case of a company--the company becomes a *participant in a *GST joint venture under Division 51 of that Act; or
 (e) in the case of a company--the company becomes part of an *instalment group; or
 (f) an *annual tax period election of yours, or of a partnership in which you are a partner, ceases to have effect.
 (2) If you stop being an *annual payer under subsection (1):
 (a) you must still pay an annual instalment for the income year mentioned in that subsection; and
 (b) you must pay an instalment for each instalment quarter in the next income year for which subsection  45-50(1) or (2) requires you to do so.
 (3) You may again become an *annual payer if:
 (a) after you stop being an *annual payer under subsection (1), you satisfy the conditions in subsection 45-140(1) or (1A); and
 (b) you again choose under section  45-140 to pay instalments annually.
Section 45-155 Entity stops being annual payer if notional tax is $8,000 or more, or entity chooses to pay quarterly
 (1) You stop being an *annual payer at the start of the first *instalment quarter in an income year (the current year) if:
 (a) after the end of the first instalment quarter in the previous income year and before the end of the first instalment quarter in the current year, the Commissioner notifies you of your *notional tax, and it is $8,000 or more; or
 (b) you choose to pay instalments quarterly instead of annually.
 (1A) You must make the choice by notifying the Commissioner, in the *approved form, on or before the day on which the instalment for the first *instalment quarter for the current year would otherwise be due (disregarding subsection  45-112(3)).
 (2) You must pay an instalment for the first *instalment quarter of the next income year, and later instalment quarters, in accordance with Subdivision  45-B.
 (3) You must still pay an annual instalment for the previous income year referred to in subsection  (1).
 (4) You may again become an *annual payer at the end of the first *instalment quarter in a later income year if:
 (a) at that time, you satisfy the conditions in subsection  45-140(1) or in paragraphs 45-140(1A)(c), (d), (e) and (f); and
 (b) you again choose under section  45-140 to pay annually.
Section 45-160 Head company of a consolidated group stops being annual payer
 (1) You stop being an *annual payer at the start of an *instalment quarter if Subdivision 45-Q starts applying to you as the *head company of a *consolidated group during that quarter.
 (2) You must pay an instalment for that *instalment quarter and later instalment quarters in accordance with Subdivision 45-B.
 (3) You may again become an *annual payer if:
 (a) after you stop being an *annual payer under subsection (1), you satisfy the conditions in subsection 45-140(1) or (1A); and
 (b) you again choose under section  45-140 to pay instalments annually.
Note: You cannot choose to be an annual payer while you are the head company of a consolidated group to which Subdivision  45-Q applies: see section 45-720.
Subdivision 45-F--Varying the instalment rate for quarterly or monthly payers who pay on the basis of instalment income
Table of sections
Section 45-200 Application
Section 45-205 Choosing a varied instalment rate
Section 45-210 Notifying Commissioner of varied instalment rate
Section 45-215 Credit on using varied rate in certain cases
Section 45-200 Application
 (1) This Subdivision applies if you are a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income at the end of an *instalment quarter.
 (2) If you are a *monthly payer, this Subdivision has effect in relation to you in respect of an *instalment month in the same way in which it has effect in relation to a *quarterly payer in respect of an *instalment quarter.
Section 45-205 Choosing a varied instalment rate
 (1) You may choose an instalment rate for working out under section  45-110 the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter in an income year.
 (2) If you do so, you must use that instalment rate to work out the amount of that instalment. (You cannot later choose another instalment rate for working out that amount.)
Note 1: If choosing a rate leads you to pay an instalment that is too low, you may be liable to general interest charge under section  45-230.
Note 2: If you choose a rate under this section, you must use it even if the Commissioner later gives you a new instalment rate.
 (3) You must also use that instalment rate to work out the amount of the instalment that you are liable to pay for each later *instalment quarter in that income year, unless you choose another instalment rate under subsection  (1) for working out that amount.
Note 1: If you choose a rate under this section, you must use it even if the Commissioner later gives you a new instalment rate.
Note 2: If a rate you have chosen for an instalment quarter is not appropriate for a later instalment quarter in the same income year, you should choose another rate under subsection  (1) for the later quarter. If the earlier rate is too low, you may be liable to general interest charge under section  45-230.
 (4) However, for working out under section  45-110 the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter in a later income year, you must use the most recent instalment rate given to you by the Commissioner before the end of that quarter, unless you again choose another instalment rate under subsection  (1).
 (5) Subsection (6) applies if you are a monthly payer.
 (6) Treat the references in subsections  (1) and (4) to section 45-110 as instead being references to section 45-114.
Section 45-210 Notifying Commissioner of varied instalment rate
  If you work out the amount of an instalment using an instalment rate you have chosen under section  45-205, you must specify that rate in the notice about your instalment income that you must give the Commissioner under section  45-20.
Section 45-215 Credit on using varied rate in certain cases
 (1) You are entitled to claim a credit if:
 (a) the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter (the current quarter) in an income year is to be worked out using an instalment rate you chose under section  45-205; and
 (b) that rate is lower than the instalment rate you used to work out the amount of your instalment for the previous instalment quarter (if any) in the same income year; and
 (c) the amount worked out using the method statement is greater than nil.
Method statementStep 1. Add up the instalments you are liable to pay for the earlier *instalment quarters in the income year (even if you have not yet paid all of them).Step 2. Subtract from the step 1 amount each earlier credit that you have claimed under this section or section  45-420 in respect of the income year.Step 3. Multiply the total of your *instalment income for those earlier *instalment quarters by the instalment rate to be used for the current quarter.Step 4. Subtract the step 3 amount from the step 2 amount.Step 5. If the result is a positive amount, it is the amount of the credit you can claim.
 (2) A claim for a credit must be made in the *approved form on or before the day on which the instalment for the current quarter is due.
Note: How the credit is applied is set out in Division 3 of Part  IIB.
 (3) The credit entitlement does not affect your liability to pay an instalment.
Subdivision 45-G--General interest charge payable in certain cases if instalments are too low
Table of sections
Section 45-225 Effect of Subdivision in relation to monthly payers
Section 45-230 Liability to GIC on shortfall in quarterly instalment worked out on the basis of varied rate
Section 45-232 Liability to GIC on shortfall in quarterly instalment worked out on the basis of estimated benchmark tax
Section 45-233 Reduction in GIC liability under section  45-232 if shortfall is made up in later instalment
Section 45-235 Liability to GIC on shortfall in annual instalment
Section 45-240 Commissioner may remit general interest charge
Section 45-225 Effect of Subdivision in relation to monthly payers
  If you are a *monthly payer, this Subdivision has effect in relation to you in respect of an *instalment month in the same way in which it has effect in relation to a *quarterly payer in respect of an *instalment quarter.
Section 45-230 Liability to GIC on shortfall in quarterly instalment worked out on the basis of varied rate
 (1) You are liable to pay the *general interest charge under this section if:
 (a) you use an instalment rate (the varied rate) under section 45-205 to work out the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter (the variation quarter) in an income year; and
 (b) the varied rate is less than 85% of your *benchmark instalment rate for that income year that the Commissioner works out under Subdivision 45-K.
 (2) You are liable to pay the *general interest charge on the amount worked out as follows:
where:
"rate discrepancy" means the difference between the varied rate and the lesser of:
 (a) the most recent instalment rate given to you by the Commissioner before the end of the variation quarter; and
 (b) your *benchmark instalment rate for that income year.
"credit adjustment" means:
 (a) if, as a result of using the varied rate for the variation quarter, you claimed a credit under section  45-215--the amount worked out as follows:
  or the amount of the credit, whichever is less; and
 (b) otherwise--nil.
 (2A) If the variation quarter is in a *consolidation transitional year for you as a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group, a reference in subsection (2) to:
 (a) your *instalment income for the variation quarter; or
 (b) your instalment income for the earlier instalment quarters in the income year;
is taken to be a reference to so much of that income as is reasonably attributable to the period in that quarter or those quarters (as appropriate) during which you are not a subsidiary member of the group.
 (3) You are liable to pay the charge for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the instalment for the variation quarter was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the day on which your assessed tax for the income year is due to be paid.
 (4) The Commissioner must give you written notice of the *general interest charge to which you are liable under subsection (2). You must pay the charge within 14 days after the notice is given to you.
 (5) If any of the *general interest charge to which you are liable under subsection (2) remains unpaid at the end of the 14 days referred to in subsection (4), you are also liable to pay the *general interest charge on the unpaid amount for each day in the period that:
 (a) starts at the end of those 14 days; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day on which, at the end of the day, any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the unpaid amount;
 (ii) general interest charge on the unpaid amount.
Section 45-232 Liability to GIC on shortfall in quarterly instalment worked out on the basis of estimated benchmark tax
 (1) You are liable to pay the *general interest charge under this section if:
 (a) the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter (the variation quarter) in an income year is worked out under paragraph  45-112(1)(b) or (c) on the basis of your estimate of your *benchmark tax for that income year; and
 (b) the estimate used is less than 85% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section 45-365).
Amount on which the charge is payable
 (2) You are liable to pay the *general interest charge on the amount worked out as follows (if it is a positive amount):
where:
"acceptable amount", of your instalment for an *instalment quarter in an income year, has the meaning given by subsections  (3), (3A), (3B), (3C) and (3D).
"actual amount" means:
 (a) the amount of your instalment, as worked out on the basis of the estimate; or
 (b) if, as a result of using the estimate, you claimed a credit under section  45-420 for the variation quarter--the amount of the credit, expressed as a negative amount.
 (3) If you are a *quarterly payer who pays 4 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax, the acceptable amount of your instalment for that instalment quarter is:
 (a) if the amount of the instalment is worked out under paragraph  45-112(1)(b) or (c)--the amount worked out using the table in this subsection (which can be a negative amount); or
 (b) otherwise--the amount notified to you by the Commissioner under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter.
Acceptable amount of an instalmentItemIf the *instalment quarter is:The acceptable amount of your instalment for that instalment quarter is:1the first in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalmentthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner notified to you under paragraph 45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter; and(b) 25% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section  45-365).2the second in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalmentthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner would have notified to you under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter if the amounts of all your instalments for that income year had been required to be worked out under Subdivision  45-L; and(b) the amount worked out by subtracting:&bull;  the *acceptable amount of your instalment for the earlier instalment quarter in that income year; from:&bull;  50% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section  45-365).3the third in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalmentthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner would have notified to you under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter if the amounts of all your instalments for that income year had been required to be worked out under Subdivision  45-L; and(b) the amount worked out by subtracting:&bull;  the total of the *acceptable amounts of your instalments for the earlier instalment quarters in that income year; from:&bull;  75% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section  45-365).4the fourth in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalmentthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner Acceptable amount of an instalmentItemIf the *instalment quarter is:The acceptable amount of your instalment for that instalment quarter is:1the first in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalmentthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner notified to you under paragraph 45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter; and(b) 25% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section  45-365).2the second in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalmentthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner would have notified to you under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter if the amounts of all your instalments for that income year had been required to be worked out under Subdivision  45-L; and(b) the amount worked out by subtracting:&bull;  the *acceptable amount of your instalment for the earlier instalment quarter in that income year; from:&bull;  50% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section  45-365).3the third in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalmentthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner would have notified to you under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter if the amounts of all your instalments for that income year had been required to be worked out under Subdivision  45-L; and(b) the amount worked out by subtracting:&bull;  the total of the *acceptable amounts of your instalments for the earlier instalment quarters in that income year; from:&bull;  75% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section  45-365).4the fourth in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalmentthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner would have notified to you under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter if the amounts of all your instalments for that income year had been required to be worked out under Subdivision  45-L; and(b) the amount worked out by subtracting:&bull;  the total of the *acceptable amounts of your instalments for the earlier instalment quarters in that income year; from:&bull;  100% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section  45-365).
 (3A) Subject to subsections  (3B), (3C) and (3D), if you are a *quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax, the acceptable amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter in an income year is:
 (a) if the amount of the instalment is worked out under paragraph  45-112(1)(b) or (c)--the amount worked out using the table in this subsection (which can be a negative amount); or
 (b) otherwise--the amount notified to you by the Commissioner under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that instalment quarter.
Acceptable amount of an instalmentItemIf the *instalment quarter is:The acceptable amount of your instalment for that instalment quarter is:1the third *instalment quarter in that income yearthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner notified to you under paragraph 45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter; and(b) 75% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section  45-365).2the fourth *instalment quarter in that income yearthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner would have notified to you under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter if the amounts of all your instalments for that income year had been required to be worked out under Subdivision  45-L; and(b) the amount worked out by subtracting:&bull;  the *acceptable amount of your instalment for the earlier instalment quarter in that income year; from:&bull;  100% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section  45-365).
 (3B) If:
 (a) you are a *quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax; and
 (b) the Commissioner first gives you an instalment rate during the second *instalment quarter in an income year;
the acceptable amount of your instalment for an instalment quarter in that income year is:
 (c) if the amount of the instalment is worked out under paragraph 45-112(1)(b) or (c)--the amount worked out using the table in this subsection  (which can be a negative amount); or
 (d) otherwise--the amount notified to you by the Commissioner under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that instalment quarter.
Acceptable amount of an instalmentItemIf the *instalment quarter is:The acceptable amount of your instalment for that instalment quarter is:1the third *instalment quarter in that income yearthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner notified to you under paragraph 45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter; and(b) 50% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section  45-365).2the fourth *instalment quarter in that income yearthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner would have notified to you under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter if the amounts of all your instalments for that income year had been required to be worked out under Subdivision  45-L; and(b) the amount worked out by subtracting:&bull;  the *acceptable amount of your instalment for the earlier instalment quarter in that income year; from:&bull;  75% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section  45-365).
 (3C) If:
 (a) you are a *quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax; and
 (b) the Commissioner first gives you an instalment rate during the third *instalment quarter in an income year;
the acceptable amount of your instalment for an instalment quarter in that income year is:
 (c) if the amount of the instalment is worked out under paragraph  45-112(1)(b) or (c)--the amount worked out using the table in this subsection (which can be a negative amount); or
 (d) otherwise--the amount notified to you by the Commissioner under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that instalment quarter.
Acceptable amount of an instalmentItemIf the *instalment quarter is:The acceptable amount of your instalment for that instalment quarter is:1the third *instalment quarter in that income yearthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner notified to you under paragraph 45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter; and(b) 25% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section  45-365).2the fourth *instalment quarter in that income yearthe lower of:(a) the amount that the Commissioner would have notified to you under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter if the amounts of all your instalments for that income year had been required to be worked out under Subdivision  45-L; and(b) the amount worked out by subtracting:&bull;  the *acceptable amount of your instalment for the earlier instalment quarter in that income year; from:&bull;  50% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section 45-365).
 (3D) If:
 (a) you are a *quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax; and
 (b) the Commissioner first gives you an instalment rate during the fourth *instalment quarter in an income year;
the acceptable amount of your instalment for an instalment quarter in that income year is the lower of the following amounts:
 (c) the amount that the Commissioner notified to you under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) as the amount of your instalment for that instalment quarter;
 (d) 25% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section 45-365).
Period for which the charge is payable
 (4) You are liable to pay the charge for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the instalment for the variation quarter was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the day on which your assessed tax for the income year is due to be paid.
Commissioner to notify you
 (5) The Commissioner must give you written notice of the *general interest charge to which you are liable under subsection (2). You must pay the charge within 14 days after the notice is given to you.
Further charge if charge under subsection (2) remains unpaid
 (6) If any of the *general interest charge to which you are liable under subsection (2) remains unpaid at the end of the 14 days referred to in subsection (5), you are also liable to pay the *general interest charge on the unpaid amount for each day in the period that:
 (a) starts at the end of those 14 days; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day on which, at the end of the day, any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the unpaid amount;
 (ii) general interest charge on the unpaid amount.
Modifications for subsidiary member of consolidated group
 (7) Subsections (1) to (6) apply to you with the modifications set out in subsections  (8) to (10) if the variation quarter is in a *consolidation transitional year for you as a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group.
 (8) For the purposes of subsection  (7), a reference in subsection (1), (3), (3A), (3B), (3C) and (3D) to your *benchmark tax for that year is taken to be a reference to the amount worked out as follows:
 (9) For the purposes of subsection  (7), a reference in this section to:
 (a) the acceptable amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter in an income year; or
 (b) the acceptable amount of your instalment for the earlier instalment quarter in an income year; or
 (c) the acceptable amounts of your instalments for the earlier instalment quarters in an income year;
is taken to be a reference to so much of the acceptable amount of instalment or acceptable amounts of instalments, worked out under subsection (3), (3A), (3B), (3C) or (3D) for that quarter or those quarters (as appropriate), as is reasonably attributable to the period in that quarter or those quarters (as appropriate) during which you are not a *subsidiary member of the group.
 (10) For the purposes of subsection  (7), a reference to the actual amount in subsection (2) is taken to be a reference to so much of the actual amount worked out under that subsection as is reasonably attributable to the period in the variation quarter during which you are not a *subsidiary member of the group.
Section 45-233 Reduction in GIC liability under section  45-232 if shortfall is made up in later instalment
 (1) This section reduces the amount (the shortfall) on which you are liable to pay the *general interest charge under subsection  45-232(2) if, for a later *instalment quarter (the later quarter ) that is in the same income year as the variation quarter, the amount worked out as follows is a negative amount:
That amount (expressed as a positive number) is called the top up.
 (2) For the purposes of the formula in subsection  (1):
"actual amount of your instalment for the later quarter" means:
 (a) the amount of your instalment for the later quarter, as worked out under section  45-112; or
 (b) if you claimed a credit under section  45-420 for the later quarter--the amount of the credit, expressed as a negative amount.
Amount of the reduction
 (3) The shortfall is reduced by applying so much of the top up as does not exceed the shortfall.
 (4) However, if some of the top up has already been applied (under any other application or applications of this section) to reduce the amount on which you are liable to pay the *general interest charge under subsection  45-232(2) as it applies to a different *instalment quarter, the shortfall is reduced by applying so much of the top up as has not already been applied, and does not exceed the shortfall.
Period for which reduction has effect
 (5) The reduction has effect for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the instalment for the later quarter was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the day on which your assessed tax for the income year is due to be paid.
Section 45-235 Liability to GIC on shortfall in annual instalment
 (1) You are liable to pay the *general interest charge under this section if:
 (a) you choose to estimate the amount of your instalment (the estimated instalment amount) for an income year under paragraph 45-115(1)(c) or former paragraph  45-175(1)(b); and
 (b) that amount is less than 85% of your *benchmark tax for the income year (which the Commissioner works out under section 45-365).
 (2) If you estimated the amount of the instalment under former paragraph  45-175(1)(b), you are liable to pay the *general interest charge on the difference between the estimated instalment amount and the lower of the following amounts:
 (a) your most recent *notional tax notified by the Commissioner at least 30 days before the day on which the instalment was due;
 (b) your *benchmark tax for the income year.
 (3) If you estimated the amount of the instalment under paragraph  45-115(1)(c), you are liable to pay the *general interest charge on the difference between the estimated instalment amount and the lowest of the following amounts:
 (a) the amount of your instalment worked out using the most recent instalment rate given to you by the Commissioner before the end of the income year;
 (b) your most recent *notional tax notified by the Commissioner before the end of the income year under subsection 45-320(5);
 (c) your *benchmark tax for the income year.
 (4) You are liable to pay the charge for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the instalment for the income year was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the day on which your assessed tax for the income year is due to be paid.
 (5) The Commissioner must give you written notice of the *general interest charge to which you are liable under subsection (2) or (3). You must pay the charge within 14 days after the notice is given to you.
 (6) If any of the *general interest charge to which you are liable under subsection (2) or (3) remains unpaid at the end of the 14 days referred to in subsection  (5), you are also liable to pay the *general interest charge on the unpaid amount for each day in the period that:
 (a) starts at the end of those 14 days; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day on which, at the end of the day, any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the unpaid amount;
 (ii) general interest charge on the unpaid amount.
Section 45-240 Commissioner may remit general interest charge
  The Commissioner may, if he or she is satisfied that because special circumstances exist it would be fair and reasonable to do so, remit the whole or any part of any *general interest charge payable under subsection  45-230(2) or 45-232(2) or subsection 45-235(2) or (3).
Subdivision 45-H--Partnership income
Section 45-260 Instalment income for a period in which you are in a partnership
 (1) Your instalment income for a period (the current period) includes an amount for each partnership in which you are a partner at any time during the current period. The amount is worked out using the formula:
 (2) For the purposes of the formula in subsection  (1):
"your assessable income from the partnership for the last income year" means so much of your individual interest in the partnership&#39;s net income for an income year as was included by section  92 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 in your assessable income for the most recent income year:
 (a) that ended before the start of the current period; and
 (b) for which you have an assessment, or for which the Commissioner has notified you that you do not have a taxable income.
 (3) However, if for any reason the component defined in subsection  (2) does not exist or is a nil amount, or the partnership had no *instalment income for that income year, your instalment income for the current period includes, for that partnership, an amount that is fair and reasonable having regard to:
 (a) the extent of your interest in the partnership during the current period; and
 (b) the partnership&#39;s *instalment income for the current period; and
 (c) any other relevant circumstances.
Exception for corporate limited partnerships
 (4) Your instalment income for the current period does not include an amount for a partnership that is a *corporate limited partnership for the income year that is or includes that period.
Note: Your instalment income will still include a distribution by the partnership that is ordinary income. See section  45-120.
Subdivision 45-I--Trust income included in instalment income of beneficiary
Table of sections
Section 45-280 Instalment income for a period in which you are a beneficiary of a trust
Section 45-285 Instalment income includes distributions by certain resident unit trusts
Section 45-286 Instalment income includes distributions by certain managed investment trusts
Section 45-287 When trusts are disqualified due to concentrated ownership
Section 45-288 Resident investment trusts for beneficiaries who are absolutely entitled
Section 45-290 Exceptions to exclusion of trust capital gains from beneficiary&#39;s instalment income
Section 45-280 Instalment income for a period in which you are a beneficiary of a trust
 (1) Your instalment income for a period (the current period) includes an amount for each trust of which you are a beneficiary at any time during the current period. The amount is worked out using the formula:
 (2) For the purposes of the formula in subsection  (1):
"your assessable income from the trust for the last income year" means so much of a share of the trust&#39;s net income for an income year as:
 (a) Division 6 of Part  III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 included in your assessable income for the most recent income year:
 (i) that ended before the start of the current period; and
 (ii) for which you have an assessment, or for which the Commissioner has notified you that you do not have a taxable income; and
 (b) is not attributable to a *capital gain made by the trust.
Note: For exceptions to paragraph (b), see section  45-290.
 (3) However, if for any reason the component defined in subsection  (2) does not exist or is a nil amount, or the trust had no *instalment income for that income year, your instalment income for the current period includes, for that trust, an amount that is fair and reasonable having regard to:
 (a) the extent of your interest in the trust, and your interest in the income of the trust, during the current period; and
 (b) the trust&#39;s *instalment income for the current period; and
 (c) any other relevant circumstances.
Exception for corporate unit trusts and public trading trusts
 (4) Your instalment income for the current period does not include an amount for a trust if the trustee is liable to be assessed, and to pay tax, under section  102S of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 for the income year that is or includes that period.
Note: Your instalment income will still include a distribution by the trust that is ordinary income. See section  45-120.
Exception for certain resident unit trusts
 (5) Your instalment income for the current period does not include an amount for a trust under subsection (1) if the conditions in either subsection  45-285(1) or (2) are satisfied for you for that trust for that period.
Note: Your instalment income will instead include a distribution by the trust: see section  45-285.
Exception for trusts whose beneficiary is absolutely entitled
 (6) Your instalment income for the current period does not include an amount for a trust under subsection (1) if, throughout the current period:
 (a) the trustee of the trust did not have any active duties to perform in the management of the trust (other than the duty to deal with the trust income and capital in accordance with any requests made or directions given by the beneficiary or beneficiaries); and
 (b) if there was only one beneficiary, the beneficiary:
 (i) was absolutely entitled to the trust assets; and
 (ii) had a vested and indefeasible interest in any trust income arising from time to time; and
 (c) if there was more than one beneficiary, each beneficiary:
 (i) was absolutely entitled to that beneficiary&#39;s interest in the trust assets; and
 (ii) had a vested and indefeasible interest in a proportion of any trust income arising from time to time, being a proportion that corresponded to the beneficiary&#39;s proportional interest in the trust capital.
Instead, your instalment income for the current period includes the following amount:
Section 45-285 Instalment income includes distributions by certain resident unit trusts
 (1) Your instalment income for a period includes trust income or trust capital that a unit trust distributes to you, or applies for your benefit, during that period if:
 (a) the unit trust is a resident unit trust (within the meaning of section  102Q of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) for the income year of the trust that is or includes that period; and
 (b) throughout that period:
 (i) any of the units in the trust were listed for quotation in the official list of a stock exchange in Australia or elsewhere; or
 (ii) any of the units in the trust were offered to the public; or
 (iii) the units in the trust were held by at least 50 persons; and
 (c) section 45-287 in this Schedule did not apply to the trust at any time during that period; and
 (d) throughout that period, the trust&#39;s activities consisted only of activities listed in the definition of eligible investment business in section 102M of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.
(It does not matter whether the trust income or trust capital is included in your assessable income for the income year that is or includes that period.)
 (2) Your instalment income for a period also includes trust income or trust capital that a unit trust distributes to you, or applies for your benefit, during that period if:
 (a) the income or capital is not included in your instalment income under subsection (1); and
 (b) the unit trust is a resident unit trust (within the meaning of section  102Q of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) for the income year of the trust that is or includes that period; and
 (c) throughout that period, the trust&#39;s activities consisted only of activities listed in the definition of eligible investment business in section 102M of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; and
 (d) throughout that period, either:
 (i) you are yourself the trustee of a unit trust that satisfies each of paragraphs  (1)(a) to (d) of this section; or
 (ii) you are yourself the trustee of one or more trusts covered by section  45-288; or
 (iii) you are exempt from tax; or
 (iv) you are a *complying superannuation entity or a statutory fund of a *life insurance company.
(It does not matter whether the trust income or trust capital is included in your assessable income for the income year that is or includes that period.)
Extension--nominee and bare trust situations
 (3) In determining, for the purposes of subparagraph  (1)(b)(iii), how many persons hold units in a unit trust, if:
 (a) another trust (the holding trust) is a unit holder in the unit trust; and
 (b) the holding trust is a trust of the kind covered by subsection  45-280(6); and
 (c) the beneficiary&#39;s or beneficiaries&#39; absolute entitlement exists at all times while the holding trust is in existence;
the beneficiary or beneficiaries count as persons who hold units in the unit trust, and the trustee of the holding trust does not.
Section 45-286 Instalment income includes distributions by certain managed investment trusts
  Your instalment income for a period includes trust income or trust capital that a trust distributes to you, or applies for your benefit, during that period if:
 (a) the income or capital is not included in your instalment income under section  45-280 or 45-285; and
 (b) the trust satisfies the condition in paragraph  275-10(3)(a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 in relation to the income year that is or includes that period; and
 (c) the trust is a *managed investment trust for that income year; and
 (d) the trust meets the requirement in section  275-110 of that Act throughout the income year.
(It does not matter whether the trust income or trust capital is included in your assessable income for the income year that is or includes that period.)
Section 45-287 When trusts are disqualified due to concentrated ownership
Concentrated ownership
 (1) This section applies to a trust if an individual holds, or up to 20 individuals hold between them directly or indirectly and for their own benefit, interests in the trust:
 (a) carrying *fixed entitlements to:
 (i) at least 75% of the trust&#39;s income; or
 (ii) at least 75% of the trust&#39;s capital; or
 (b) if beneficiaries of the trust have a right to vote in respect of activities of the trust--carrying at least 75% of those voting rights.
Single individual
 (2) Subsection (1) operates as if all of these were a single individual:
 (a) an individual, whether or not the individual holds interests in the trust; and
 (b) the individual&#39;s *associates; and
 (c) for any interests in respect of which other individuals are nominees of the individual or of the individual&#39;s associates--those other individuals.
Concentrated ownership--potential due to possible variation of rights etc.
 (3) This section also applies to a trust if, because of:
 (a) any provision in the trust&#39;s constituent document, or in any contract, agreement or instrument:
 (i) authorising the variation or abrogation of rights attaching to any of the interests in the trust; or
 (ii) relating to the conversion, cancellation, extinguishment or redemption of any of those interests; or
 (b) any contract, *arrangement, option or instrument under which a person has power to acquire any of those interests; or
 (c) any power, authority or discretion in a person in relation to the rights attaching to any of those interests;
it is reasonable to conclude that the rights attaching to any of the interests are capable of being varied or abrogated in such a way (even if they are not in fact varied or abrogated in that way) that, directly or indirectly, the trust would be disqualified under subsection  (1).
Tracing
 (4) In applying this section:
 (a) if a *complying superannuation fund, *approved deposit fund or *superannuation fund for foreign residents has more than 50 members and has, directly or indirectly, a *fixed entitlement to any of the trust&#39;s income or capital--that entitlement is taken to be held by more than 20 individuals for their own benefit; and
 (b) if a complying superannuation fund, approved deposit fund or superannuation fund for foreign residents has 50 or fewer members and has, directly or indirectly, a fixed entitlement to any of the trust&#39;s income or capital--each of the members is taken to have a share of that entitlement, in equal proportions, for his or her own benefit.
Section 45-288 Resident investment trusts for beneficiaries who are absolutely entitled
  This section covers a trust if:
 (a) the trust is a resident unit trust within the meaning of section 102Q of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; and
 (b) the trust is of the kind covered by subsection 45-280(6) in this Schedule; and
 (c) the requests or directions that beneficiaries may give the trustee are limited to requests or directions as to which of the activities listed in the definition of eligible investment business in section  102M of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 the trustee should engage in; and
 (d) all of the trust&#39;s beneficiaries became beneficiaries as a result of a public offer to invest in the trust; and
 (e) either:
 (i) the trust has 50 or more beneficiaries; or
 (ii) if the trustee of the trust is also the trustee of one or more other trusts that satisfy paragraphs  (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this section--all those trusts together have a total of 50 or more beneficiaries.
Section 45-290 Exceptions to exclusion of trust capital gains from beneficiary&#39;s instalment income
 (1) This section sets out cases where paragraph  (b) of the definition of your assessable income from the trust for the last income year in subsection  45-280(2) does not apply.
 (2) It does not apply in the case of:
 (a) a *complying approved deposit fund or a *non-complying approved deposit fund for the income year that is or includes the current period; or
 (b) a *complying superannuation fund or a *non-complying superannuation fund for that year; or
 (c) a *pooled superannuation trust for that year.
 (3) It does not apply in the case of a *life insurance company to the extent that the share of the trust&#39;s net income is included in the *complying superannuation class of its taxable income for the income year that is or includes the current period.
Subdivision 45-J--How Commissioner works out your instalment rate and notional tax
Table of sections
Section 45-320 Working out instalment rate
Section 45-325 Working out your notional tax
Section 45-330 Working out your adjusted taxable income
Section 45-335 Working out your adjusted withholding income
Section 45-340 Adjusted tax on adjusted taxable income or on adjusted withholding income
Section 45-320 Working out instalment rate
 (1) Except as provided by section  45-775, an instalment rate that the Commissioner gives you must be the percentage worked out to 2 decimal places (rounding up if the third decimal place is 5 or more) using the formula:
However, the instalment rate must be a nil rate if either component of the formula is nil.
 (2) For the purposes of the formula in subsection  (1):
"base assessment instalment income" means so much of your assessable income, as worked out for the purposes of the *base assessment, as the Commissioner determines is *instalment income for the *base year.
 (3) The base assessment is the latest assessment for your most recent income year for which an assessment has been made. However, if the Commissioner is satisfied that there is a later income year for which you do not have a taxable income, the base assessment is the latest return or other information from which an assessment for that income year would have been made.
 (4) The base year is the income year to which the *base assessment relates.
 (5) When the Commissioner gives you the instalment rate, he or she must also notify you of the amount of your *notional tax, as worked out for the purposes of working out the instalment rate.
Section 45-325 Working out your notional tax
Notional tax if you have no withholding income
 (1) Your notional tax is your *adjusted tax (worked out under section 45-340) on your *adjusted taxable income (worked out under section 45-330) for the *base year.
Notional tax if you have no-TFN contributions income
 (1A) In working out the notional tax of a *complying superannuation fund, *non-complying superannuation fund or *RSA provider for the *base year, assume that the entity had no *no-TFN contributions income for the base year and that the entity was not entitled to a *tax offset for the base year under Subdivision 295-J of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Notional tax if you have withholding income
 (2) However, your notional tax (as worked out under subsection (1)) is reduced if your assessable income for the *base assessment includes amounts in respect of *withholding payments (except *non-quotation withholding payments).
 (3) It is reduced (but not below nil) by your *adjusted tax (worked out under section 45-340) on your *adjusted withholding income (worked out under section  45-335) for the *base year.
Commissioner may take into account effect of the law, as applying to income years after base year
 (4) For the purposes of working out your *notional tax, the Commissioner may work out an amount as if provisions of an Act or regulations, as they may reasonably be expected to apply for the purposes of your assessment for a later income year, had applied for the purposes of the *base assessment.
Commissioner may take into account proposed changes to the law so as to reduce instalment rate
 (5) For the purposes of working out your *notional tax, the Commissioner may work out an amount as if provisions of an Act or regulations that, in the Commissioner&#39;s opinion, are likely to be enacted or made had applied for the purposes of the *base assessment. But the Commissioner may do so only if, as a result, the instalment rate given to you is reduced.
 (6) If the *base year is the income year immediately preceding the income year in which 1 July 2000 occurred, subsections (4) and (5) apply for the purpose of working out the *base assessment instalment income of a *life insurance company in the same way as they apply for the purpose of working out such a company&#39;s *notional tax.
Section 45-330 Working out your adjusted taxable income
 (1) Your adjusted taxable income for the *base year is your total assessable income for the *base assessment, reduced by:
 (a) any *net capital gain included in that assessable income; and
 (b) your deductions for the base year (except *tax losses), as used in making that assessment; and
 (c) the amount of any tax loss, to the extent that it is *unutilised at the end of the base year.
Exception: superannuation entities and net capital gains
 (2) Paragraph (1)(a) does not apply in the case of:
 (a) a *complying approved deposit fund or a *non-complying approved deposit fund for the *base year; or
 (b) a *complying superannuation fund or a *non-complying superannuation fund for that year; or
 (c) a *pooled superannuation trust for that year.
Special rule for some entities
 (2A) If an entity:
 (a) has *tax losses transferred to it under Subdivision 707-A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or
 (b) is a *corporate tax entity at any time during the *base year;
the adjusted taxable income of the entity for the base year is worked out under subsection (1) as if paragraph  (1)(c) were replaced by the following provision:
 (c) the lesser of the following amounts:
 (i) the amount of any tax loss, to the extent that it is *unutilised at the end of the base year;
 (ii) the amount of the deductions for tax losses used in making your *base assessment.
Amounts assessable under Subdivision 250-E of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997
 (2AA) To avoid doubt, paragraph  (1)(a) does not apply to a *net capital gain that is included in your assessable income under Subdivision  250-E of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Special rule for life insurance companies
 (3) The adjusted taxable income of a *life insurance company for the *base year is worked out as follows:
Method statementStep 1. Recalculate the taxable income of the *ordinary class for the *base assessment on the basis that it did not include any *net capital gain.Step 2. Add to the step 1 result the deductions for *tax losses of the *ordinary class that were used in making the *base assessment.Step 3. Reduce the step 2 result by the lesser of the following amounts:
 (a) the amount of any *tax losses of the *ordinary class, to the extent that they are *unutilised at the end of the *base year; (b) deductions for tax losses of the ordinary class that were used in making the *base assessment.
Step 4. Add to the step 3 result the taxable income of the *complying superannuation class for the *base assessment.Step 5. Add to the step 4 result the deductions for *tax losses of the *complying superannuation class that were used in making the *base assessment.Step 6. Reduce the step 5 result by the lesser of the following amounts:
 (a) the amount of any *tax losses of the *complying superannuation class, to the extent that they are *unutilised at the end of the *base year; (b) deductions for tax losses of the complying superannuation class that were used in making the *base assessment.
 The result of this step is the adjusted taxable income of the company for the *base year.
Section 45-335 Working out your adjusted withholding income
  Your adjusted withholding income for the *base year is:
 &bull;  the total of the amounts included in your assessable income for the *base assessment in respect of *withholding payments (except *non-quotation withholding payments);
reduced by:
 &bull;  your deductions for that year, as used in making that assessment, to the extent that they reasonably relate to those amounts.
Section 45-340 Adjusted tax on adjusted taxable income or on adjusted withholding income
  Your adjusted tax on your *adjusted taxable income, or on your *adjusted withholding income, for the *base year is worked out as follows:
Method statementStep 1. The income tax payable on your *adjusted taxable income, or on your *adjusted withholding income, for the *base year is worked out disregarding any *tax offset under:
 (aa) section 61-110 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the Low Income tax offset); or (a) Subdivision 61-G of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the private health insurance tax offset); or (da) Subdivision 61-L of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (tax offset for Medicare levy surcharge (lump sum payments in arrears)); or (db) Division 160 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the corporate loss carry back tax offset for 2020 -21, 2021-22 or 2022-23 for businesses with turnover under $5 billion); or (e) section 205-70 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the tax offset for *franking deficit tax liabilities); or (g) section 290-230 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the tax offset for superannuation contributions made for a spouse); or (ga) Subdivision 360-A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the tax offset for early stage investors in innovation companies); or (h) Subdivision 418-B of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the junior minerals exploration incentive tax offset).
Step 2. The *Medicare levy payable on your *adjusted taxable income, or on your *adjusted withholding income, for the *base year is worked out disregarding sections 8B, 8C, 8D, 8E, 8F and 8G of the Medicare Levy Act 1986 (which increase Medicare levy in certain cases).Step 3. The amount (if any) that you would have been liable to pay for the *base year in respect of an *accumulated HELP debt if your taxable income for the base year had been your *adjusted taxable income, or your *adjusted withholding income, for that year is worked out.Step 3AAA. The amount (if any) that you would have been liable to pay for the *base year in respect of an *accumulated VETSL debt if your taxable income for the base year had been your *adjusted taxable income, or your *adjusted withholding income, for that year is worked out.Step 3AA. The amount (if any) that you would have been liable to pay for the *base year in respect of an *accumulated SSL debt if your taxable income for the base year had been your *adjusted taxable income, or your *adjusted withholding income, for that year is worked out.Step 3AB. The amount (if any) that you would have been liable to pay for the *base year in respect of an *accumulated ABSTUDY SSL debt if your taxable income for the base year had been your *adjusted taxable income, or your *adjusted withholding income, for that year is worked out.Step 3AC. The amount (if any) that you would have been liable to pay for the *base year in respect of an *accumulated AASL debt if your taxable income for the base year had been your *adjusted taxable income, or your *adjusted withholding income, for that year is worked out.Step 3A. The amount (if any) that you would have been liable to pay for the *base year by way of an *FS assessment debt if your taxable income for the base year had been your *adjusted taxable income, or your *adjusted withholding income, for that year is worked out.Step 4. The results of steps 1, 2, 3, 3AAA, 3AA, 3AB, 3AC and 3A are added together. The result is your adjusted tax on your *adjusted taxable income, or on your *adjusted withholding income.
Subdivision 45-K--How Commissioner works out your benchmark instalment rate and benchmark tax
Table of sections
Section 45-355 When Commissioner works out benchmark instalment rate and benchmark tax
Section 45-360 How Commissioner works out benchmark instalment rate
Section 45-365 Working out your benchmark tax
Section 45-370 Working out your adjusted assessed taxable income for the variation year
Section 45-375 Adjusted assessed tax on adjusted assessed taxable income
Section 45-355 When Commissioner works out benchmark instalment rate and benchmark tax
 (1) The Commissioner may work out your *benchmark instalment rate for an income year (the variation year) if, under section  45-205, you choose an instalment rate to work out the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter in that year.
 (1A) The Commissioner may work out your *benchmark tax for an income year (the variation year) if, under paragraph  45-112(1)(b) or (c), the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter in an income year is worked out on the basis of your estimate of your *benchmark tax for that income year.
 (2) The Commissioner may work out your *benchmark tax for an income year (the variation year) if, under paragraph  45-115(1)(c), you estimate the amount of your annual instalment for that year.
Section 45-360 How Commissioner works out benchmark instalment rate
 (1) Your benchmark instalment rate for the variation year is the percentage worked out to 2 decimal places (rounding up if the third decimal place is 5 or more) using the formula:
However, your benchmark instalment rate is a nil rate if either component of the formula is nil.
 (2) For the purposes of the formula in subsection  (1):
"variation year instalment income" means so much of your assessable income for the variation year as the Commissioner determines is *instalment income for that year.
Section 45-365 Working out your benchmark tax
Benchmark tax if you had no withholding income
 (1) Your benchmark tax is your *adjusted assessed tax (worked out under section 45-375) on your *adjusted assessed taxable income (worked out under section 45-370) for the variation year.
Benchmark tax if you have no-TFN contributions income
 (1A) In working out the benchmark tax of a *complying superannuation fund, *non-complying superannuation fund or *RSA provider for the variation year, assume that the entity had no *no-TFN contributions income for the variation year and that the entity was not entitled to a *tax offset for the variation year under Subdivision 295-J of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Benchmark tax if you had withholding income
 (2) However, your benchmark tax (as worked out under subsection (1)) is reduced if your assessable income for the variation year includes amounts in respect of *withholding payments.
 (3) It is reduced (but not below nil) by the sum of:
 (a) the total amount of the credits to which you are entitled for the variation year under section  18-15 (for amounts withheld from withholding payments made to you during the variation year); and
 (b) the total amount of the credits to which you are entitled for the variation year under section  18-27 (for amounts paid under Division 13 in respect of amounts included in your assessable income under section  86-15 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997).
Section 45-370 Working out your adjusted assessed taxable income for the variation year
 (1) Your adjusted assessed taxable income for the variation year is your taxable income for the year, reduced by any *net capital gain included in your assessable income for the year.
Exception: superannuation entities and net capital gains
 (2) In working out the adjusted assessed taxable income, taxable income is not reduced by any *net capital gain in the case of:
 (a) a *complying approved deposit fund or a *non-complying approved deposit fund for the variation year; or
 (b) a *complying superannuation fund or a *non-complying superannuation fund for the variation year; or
 (c) a *pooled superannuation trust for the variation year.
Special rule for life insurance companies
 (3) The adjusted assessed taxable income of a *life insurance company for the variation year is worked out as follows:
Method statementStep 1. Recalculate the *ordinary class of the taxable income for the variation year on the basis that the assessable income that relates to the class did not include any *net capital gain.Step 2. Add to the step 1 result the *complying superannuation class of the taxable income for the variation year.
Section 45-375 Adjusted assessed tax on adjusted assessed taxable income
  Your adjusted assessed tax on your *adjusted assessed taxable income for the variation year is worked out as follows:
Method statementStep 1. The income tax payable on your *adjusted assessed taxable income for the variation year is worked out disregarding any *tax offset under:
 (aa) section 61-110 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the Low Income tax offset); or (a) Subdivision 61-G of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the private health insurance tax offset); or (ca) Subdivision 61-L of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (tax offset for Medicare levy surcharge (lump sum payments in arrears)); or (d) section 205-70 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the tax offset for *franking deficit tax liabilities); or (f) section 290-230 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the tax offset for superannuation contributions made for a spouse); or (fa) Subdivision 360-A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the tax offset for early stage investors in innovation companies); or (g) Subdivision 418-B of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the junior minerals exploration incentive tax offset).
Step 2. The *Medicare levy payable on your *adjusted assessed taxable income for the variation year is worked out disregarding sections  8B, 8C, 8D, 8E, 8F and 8G of the Medicare Levy Act 1986 (which increase Medicare levy in certain cases).Step 3. The amount (if any) that you would have been liable to pay for the variation year in respect of an *accumulated HELP debt if your taxable income for that year had been your *adjusted assessed taxable income for that year is worked out.Step 3AAA. The amount (if any) that you would have been liable to pay for the variation year in respect of an *accumulated VETSL debt if your taxable income for that year had been your *adjusted assessed taxable income for that year is worked out.Step 3AA. The amount (if any) that you would have been liable to pay for the variation year in respect of an *accumulated SSL debt if your taxable income for that year had been your *adjusted assessed taxable income for that year is worked out.Step 3AB. The amount (if any) that you would have been liable to pay for the variation year in respect of an *accumulated ABSTUDY SSL debt if your taxable income for that year had been your *adjusted assessed taxable income for that year is worked out.Step 3AC. The amount (if any) that you would have been liable to pay for the variation year in respect of an *accumulated AASL debt if your taxable income for that year had been your *adjusted assessed taxable income for that year is worked out.Step 3A. The amount (if any) that you would have been liable to pay for the variation year by way of an *FS assessment debt if your taxable income for that year had been your *adjusted assessed taxable income for that year is worked out.Step 4. The results of steps 1, 2, 3, 3AAA, 3AA, 3AB, 3AC and 3A are added together. The result is your adjusted assessed tax on your *adjusted assessed taxable income for the variation year.
Subdivision 45-L--How Commissioner works out amount of quarterly instalment on basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax
Table of sections
Section 45-400 Working out amount of instalment--payers of 4 quarterly instalments
Section 45-402 Working out amount of instalment--payers of 2 quarterly instalments
Section 45-405 Working out your GDP-adjusted notional tax
Section 45-400 Working out amount of instalment--payers of 4 quarterly instalments
Scope
 (1) This section applies if you are a *quarterly payer who pays 4 instalments annually on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax at the end of an *instalment quarter in an income year (the current year ).
Working out amount of instalment
 (2) The amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter which the Commissioner must work out and notify to you under paragraph 45-112(1)(a) is:
 (a) the amount worked out in accordance with the table if it is positive; or
 (b) otherwise--nil.
Amount of quarterly instalment worked out on basis of GDP-adjusted notional taxItemIf the instalment quarter is:The amount of the instalment is:1the first in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalment25% of your *GDP-adjusted notional tax2the second in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalment50% of your *GDP-adjusted notional tax, reduced by the amount of your instalment for the earlier *instalment quarter in that income year3the third in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalment75% of your *GDP-adjusted notional tax, reduced by the total of your instalments for earlier *instalment quarters in that income year4the fourth in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalment100% of your *GDP-adjusted notional tax, reduced by the total of your instalments for earlier *instalment quarters in that income year
Note: Your instalments for earlier instalment quarters may have been worked out on a basis other than GDP -adjusted notional tax.
Amount reduced in circumstances specified by regulations
 (3) In the circumstances (if any) specified by the regulations, the amount worked out in accordance with the table in subsection  (2) is reduced by the amount worked out under the regulations.
 (4) Without limiting subsection  (3), the regulations may specify circumstances by:
 (a) specifying the particular *instalment quarter to which the reduction applies; or
 (b) specifying the kind of payers to whom the reduction applies.
 (5) In working out, under subsection  (2), the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter in an income year, assume that there had not been any reductions under subsection  (3) for earlier instalment quarters in that year.
Section 45-402 Working out amount of instalment--payers of 2 quarterly instalments
 (1) This section applies if you are a *quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax at the end of an *instalment quarter in an income year (the current year).
 (2) If you are liable to pay an instalment for that *instalment quarter, the amount of that instalment which the Commissioner must work out and notify to you under paragraph  45-112(1)(a) is:
 (a) the amount worked out in accordance with this section if it is positive; or
 (b) otherwise--nil.
Amount of instalment
 (3) Subject to subsections  (4) to (6), the amount of that instalment is worked out in accordance with the following table:
Amount of quarterly instalmentItemIf the *instalment quarter is:the amount of the instalment is:1the third *instalment quarter in the income year75% of your *GDP-adjusted notional tax2the fourth *instalment quarter in the income year100% of your *GDP-adjusted notional tax, reduced by your instalment for earlier instalment quarter in that income year
You receive instalment rate for the first time in second quarter
 (4) If the Commissioner gives you an instalment rate for the first time during the second *instalment quarter in that income year, the amount of the instalment is worked out in accordance with the following table:
Amount of quarterly instalmentItemIf the *instalment quarter is:the amount of the instalment is:1the third *instalment quarter in the income year50% of your *GDP-adjusted notional tax2the fourth *instalment quarter in the income year75% of your *GDP-adjusted notional tax, reduced by your instalment for the earlier instalment quarter in that income year
You receive instalment rate for the first time in third quarter
 (5) If the Commissioner first gives you an instalment rate during the third *instalment quarter in that income year, the amount of the instalment is worked out in accordance with the following table:
Amount of quarterly instalmentItemIf the *instalment quarter is:the amount of the instalment is:1the third *instalment quarter in the income year25% of your *GDP-adjusted notional tax2the fourth *instalment quarter in the income year50% of your *GDP-adjusted notional tax, reduced by your instalment for the earlier instalment quarter in that income year
You receive instalment rate for the first time in fourth quarter
 (6) If the Commissioner first gives you an instalment rate during the fourth *instalment quarter in that income year, the amount of the instalment must be equal to 25% of your *GDP-adjusted notional tax.
Section 45-405 Working out your GDP-adjusted notional tax
 (1) Except as provided by section  45-775, your GDP-adjusted notional tax is worked out in the same way as your *notional tax would be worked out for the purposes of working out an instalment rate if that instalment rate were to be given to you at the same time as notice of the amount of the instalment referred to in section  45-400 or 45-402 (as appropriate).
 (2) However, for the purposes of subsection  (1):
 (a) your *adjusted taxable income for the *base year; and
 (b) your *adjusted withholding income (if any) for the *base year;
are each increased in accordance with the formula:
 (3) For the purposes of the formula in subsection  (2):
"original amount" means the amount that, apart from subsection (2), would be your *adjusted taxable income for the *base year, or your *adjusted withholding income for the *base year, as appropriate.
"GDP adjustment" means:
 (a) the percentage (rounded to the nearest whole number, rounding down a number ending in .5) worked out using the following formula; or
 (b) if the percentage worked out using the formula is negative--0%:
 (4) For the purposes of the formula in subsection  (3):
"sum of GDP amounts (current year)" means the sum of the *GDP amounts, for the *quarters in the last calendar year (the later calendar year) ending at least 3 months before the start of the current year, specified in the document referred to in subsection  (6).
"sum of GDP amounts (previous year)" means the sum of the *GDP amounts, for the *quarters in the calendar year (the earlier calendar year) before the later calendar year, specified in the document referred to in subsection  (6).
 (5) The GDP amount for a *quarter is the amount published by the Australian Statistician as the original gross domestic product at current prices for that quarter.
 (6) The GDP adjustment must be worked out on the basis of the first document that:
 (a) is published by the Australian Statistician after the end of the later calendar year; and
 (b) sets out the *GDP amounts for all the *quarters in both the later calendar year and the earlier calendar year.
 (7) To avoid doubt, subsections  45-325(4) and (5) also have effect for the purposes of working out your *GDP-adjusted notional tax.
Reduced GDP adjustment for 2022-23 income year
 (9) Despite subsections  (3) and (6), if the current year is the 2022-23 income year, then for the purposes of the formula in subsection (2) the GDP adjustment is 2%.
Note: This subsection will be repealed on 1 July 2027: see Part 2 of Schedule  5 to the Treasury Laws Amendment (Cost of Living Support and Other Measures) Act 2022.
Reduced GDP adjustment for 2023-24 income year
 (10) Despite subsections  (3) and (6), if the current year is the 2023-24 income year, then for the purposes of the formula in subsection (2) the GDP adjustment is 6%.
Note: This subsection will be repealed on 1 July 2028: see Part 2 of Schedule  4 to the Treasury Laws Amendment (2023 Measures No. 2) Act 2023.
Subdivision 45-M--How amount of quarterly instalment is worked out on basis of your estimate of your benchmark tax
Table of sections
Section 45-410 Working out amount of instalment--payers of 4 quarterly instalments
Section 45-412 Working out amount of instalment--payers of 2 quarterly instalments
Section 45-415 Estimating your benchmark tax
Section 45-420 Credit in certain cases where amount of instalment is nil
Section 45-410 Working out amount of instalment--payers of 4 quarterly instalments
 (1A) This section applies if you are a *quarterly payer who pays 4 instalments annually on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax at the end of an *instalment quarter in an income year (the current year ).
 (1) For the purposes of paragraph  45-112(1)(b) or (c), the amount of your instalment for that *instalment quarter in an income year is:
 (a) the amount worked out, in accordance with this section, on the basis of the estimate of your *benchmark tax for that income year that section 45-415 requires to be used, if that amount is positive; or
 (b) otherwise--nil.
Note: If the amount is negative, you can claim a credit under section  45-420.
First instalment quarter
 (2) If the *instalment quarter is the first in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalment, the amount is 25% of the estimate of your *benchmark tax.
Second instalment quarter
 (3) If the *instalment quarter is the second in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalment, the amount is worked out by subtracting:
 &bull;  the amount of your instalment under section  45-112 for the earlier *instalment quarter in that income year;
from:
 &bull;  50% of the estimate of your *benchmark tax.
Third instalment quarter
 (4) If the *instalment quarter is the third in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalment, the amount is worked out using this method statement.
Method statementStep 1. The total of your instalments under section  45-112 for earlier *instalment quarters in that income year is subtracted from 75% of the estimate of your *benchmark tax.Step 2. If you were entitled to claim a credit under section 45-420 for the second of those earlier *instalment quarters, the amount of the credit is added to the step 1 amount.
Fourth instalment quarter
 (5) If the *instalment quarter is the fourth in that income year for which you are liable to pay an instalment, the amount is worked out using this method statement.
Method statementStep 1. The total of your instalments under section  45-112 for earlier *instalment quarters in that income year is subtracted from the estimate of your *benchmark tax.Step 2. For each credit that you were entitled to claim under section  45-420 for any of those earlier *instalment quarters, the amount of the credit is added to the step 1 amount.
Section 45-412 Working out amount of instalment--payers of 2 quarterly instalments
 (1) This section applies if you are a *quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax at the end of an *instalment quarter in an income year.
 (2) If you are liable to pay an instalment for that quarter, the amount of that instalment for the purposes of paragraph  45-112(1)(b) or (c) is:
 (a) the amount worked out, in accordance with this section, on the basis of the estimate of your *benchmark tax for that income year that section  45-415 requires to be used, if that amount is positive; or
 (b) otherwise--nil.
Note: If the amount is negative, you can claim a credit under section  45-420.
Instalment for third quarter
 (3) Subject to subsections  (5) to (9), the amount of the instalment for the third *instalment quarter in that year is 75% of the estimate of your *benchmark tax.
Instalment for fourth quarter
 (4) Subject to subsections  (5) to (9), the amount of the instalment for the fourth *instalment quarter in that year is worked out by subtracting:
 (a) the amount of your instalment for the earlier instalment quarter in that year;
from:
 (b) the estimate of your *benchmark tax.
You receive instalment rate for the first time in second quarter
 (5) If the Commissioner gives you an instalment rate for the first time during the second *instalment quarter in the income year, the amount of the instalment for the third *instalment quarter in that year is 50% of the estimate of your *benchmark tax.
 (6) If the Commissioner gives you an instalment rate for the first time during the second *instalment quarter in the income year, the amount of the instalment for the fourth instalment quarter in that year is worked out by subtracting:
 (a) the amount of your instalment for the earlier instalment quarter in that year;
from:
 (b) 75% of the estimate of your *benchmark tax.
You receive instalment rate for the first time in third quarter
 (7) If the Commissioner gives you an instalment rate for the first time during the third *instalment quarter in the income year, the amount of the instalment for the third instalment quarter in that year is 25% of the estimate of your *benchmark tax.
 (8) If the Commissioner gives you an instalment rate for the first time during the third *instalment quarter in the income year, the amount of the instalment for the fourth instalment quarter in that year is worked out by subtracting:
 (a) the amount of your instalment for the earlier instalment quarter in that year;
from:
 (b) 50% of the estimate of your *benchmark tax.
You receive instalment rate for the first time in fourth quarter
 (9) If the Commissioner gives you an instalment rate for the first time during the fourth *instalment quarter in the income year, the amount of the instalment for that quarter is 25% of the estimate of your *benchmark tax.
Section 45-415 Estimating your benchmark tax
 (1) If you choose under paragraph  45-112(1)(b) to work out the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter in an income year on the basis of your estimate of your *benchmark tax for that income year, you must make the estimate on or before the day on which the instalment is due (disregarding subsection  45-112(3)).
 (2) Having done so, you must use that estimate to work out the amount of that instalment. (You cannot later make another estimate for working out that amount.)
Note: If your estimate leads you to pay an instalment that is too low, you may be liable to general interest charge under section  45-232.
 (3) The Commissioner must also use that estimate to work out under this Subdivision the amount of each instalment:
 (a) that you are liable to pay for a later *instalment quarter in that income year; and
 (b) whose amount he or she must notify to you under paragraph  45-112(1)(c);
unless a later application of this subsection requires him or her to use a later estimate you make under subsection (1) of this section.
Note: This means that if an estimate you have made is not appropriate for a later instalment quarter in the same income year, you should choose under paragraph  45-112(1)(b) to work out the amount of your instalment for that later quarter on the basis of a new estimate under this section. If the instalment that the Commissioner works out on the basis of the earlier estimate is too low, you may be liable to general interest charge under section  45-232.
Section 45-420 Credit in certain cases where amount of instalment is nil
 (1) You are entitled to claim a credit if the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter (the current quarter) in an income year is nil because the amount worked out for the current quarter in accordance with section  45-410 or 45-412 (as appropriate) is negative. The amount of the credit is equal to that amount, expressed as a positive amount.
 (2) A claim for a credit must be made in the *approved form on or before the day on which the instalment for the current quarter is due.
Note: How the credit is applied is set out in Division 3 of Part  IIB.
Subdivision 45-N--How this Part applies to the trustee of a trust
Table of sections
Trustees to whom this Part applies
Section 45-450 Trustees to whom a single instalment rate is given
Section 45-455 Trustees to whom several instalment rates are given
Section 45-460 Rest of Subdivision applies only to multi-rate trustees
Section 45-465 Meaning of instalment income
Section 45-468 Multi-rate trustee may pay quarterly instalments
How Commissioner works out instalment rate and notional tax for a multi-rate trustee
Section 45-470 Working out instalment rate
Section 45-473 Commissioner must notify you of notional tax
Section 45-475 Working out your notional tax
Section 45-480 Working out your adjusted taxable income
Section 45-483 Meaning of reduced beneficiary&#39;s share and reduced no beneficiary&#39;s share
Section 45-485 Working out your adjusted withholding income
How Commissioner works out benchmark instalment rate and benchmark tax for a multi-rate trustee
Section 45-525 When Commissioner works out benchmark instalment rate and benchmark tax
Section 45-530 How Commissioner works out benchmark instalment rate
Section 45-535 Working out your benchmark tax
 Trustees to whom this Part applies
Section 45-450 Trustees to whom a single instalment rate is given
 (1) This Part applies to a trustee covered by any of items  4 to 8, and 12 and 13, of the table in section 9-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (2) Such a trustee is called a single-rate trustee.
 (3) This Part applies to the trustee of a trust that is a *public trading trust, for an income year as if the trustee had a taxable income for the income year equal to the net income of the trust for the income year.
Section 45-455 Trustees to whom several instalment rates are given
Trustee previously assessed in respect of beneficiary
 (1) This Part also applies for an income year (the current year), to the trustee of a trust, in respect of a beneficiary of the trust, if for a previous income year the trustee of the trust was liable to be assessed, and to pay tax, under subsection  98(1) or (2) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 in respect of that beneficiary.
 (2) However, this Part does not apply for the current year to the trustee in respect of that beneficiary if:
 (a) for that previous income year the trustee was liable to be assessed, and to pay tax, under subsection  98(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 in respect of that beneficiary; and
 (b) that beneficiary will no longer be under a legal disability, or it is reasonable to expect that he or she will no longer be under a legal disability, at the end of the current year.
Trustee previously assessed under section 99 or 99A
 (3) This Part also applies for an income year to the trustee of a trust if for a previous income year the trustee was liable to be assessed, and to pay tax, under section  99 or 99A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 .
Multiple applications of this Part to the same trustee for the same income year
 (4) The application of this Part for an income year, to the trustee of a trust, in respect of a beneficiary of the trust, because of subsection  (1), is distinct from, and additional to, each of the following:
 (a) the application of this Part for that income year, to the trustee of the trust, in respect of another beneficiary;
 (b) the application of this Part for that income year, to the trustee of the trust, because of subsection  (3);
 (c) the application of this Part for that income year to a beneficiary of the trust.
 (5) The application of this Part for an income year, to the trustee of a trust, because of subsection  (3), is distinct from, and additional to, each of the following:
 (a) the application of this Part for that income year, to the trustee of the trust, in respect of a beneficiary of the trust, because of subsection  (1);
 (b) the application of this Part for that income year to a beneficiary of the trust.
 (6) A multi-rate trustee is a trustee to whom this Part applies because of this section.
Section 45-460 Rest of Subdivision applies only to multi -rate trustees
  The rest of this Subdivision applies to you if, and only if, you are a *multi-rate trustee. (It applies instead of Subdivisions  45-J and 45-K.)
Note: Except as provided in the rest of this Subdivision or elsewhere, this Part applies according to its terms to a multi -rate trustee. For example, a multi-rate trustee can become an annual payer under Subdivision  45-E.
Section 45-465 Meaning of instalment income
  Your instalment income for a period is the whole of the trust&#39;s *instalment income for that period.
Section 45-468 Multi-rate trustee may pay quarterly instalments
  Subdivision 45-D (about quarterly payers) applies to you in the same way as it applies to an individual.
Note: This means that a multi-rate trustee may pay instalments on the basis of GDP -adjusted notional tax if the trustee otherwise satisfies the relevant test that applies to an individual.
 How Commissioner works out instalment rate and notional tax for a multi-rate trustee
Section 45-470 Working out instalment rate
 (1) An instalment rate that the Commissioner gives you must be the percentage worked out to 2 decimal places (rounding up if the third decimal place is 5 or more) using the formula:
However, the instalment rate must be a nil rate if either component of the formula is nil.
 (2) For the purposes of the formula in subsection  (1):
"base assessment instalment income" means so much of the assessable income of the trust, as worked out for the purposes of the *base assessment, as the Commissioner determines is *instalment income of the trust for the *base year.
 (3) The base assessment is the latest assessment for the most recent income year for which an assessment has been made of the tax payable by you:
 (a) under subsection  98(1) or (2) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 in respect of the same beneficiary; or
 (b) under section 99 or 99A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936;
as appropriate.
 (4) However, if the Commissioner is satisfied that there is a later income year for which no tax is payable as mentioned in subsection  (3), the base assessment is the latest return or other information from which an assessment of tax so payable for that income year would have been made.
 (5) The base year is the income year to which the *base assessment relates.
Section 45-473 Commissioner must notify you of notional tax
  When the Commissioner gives you the instalment rate, he or she must also notify you of the amount of your *notional tax, as worked out for the purposes of working out the instalment rate.
Section 45-475 Working out your notional tax
Notional tax if no withholding income
 (1) Your notional tax is your *adjusted tax (worked out under section 45-340) on your *adjusted taxable income (worked out under section 45-480) for the *base year.
Notional tax if trust has withholding income
 (2) However, your notional tax (as worked out under subsection (1)) is reduced if the trust&#39;s assessable income for the *base assessment includes amounts in respect of *withholding payments (except *non-quotation withholding payments).
 (3) It is reduced (but not below nil) by your *adjusted tax (worked out under section 45-340) on your *adjusted withholding income (worked out under section  45-485) for the *base year.
Commissioner may take into account actual and proposed changes to the law
 (4) Subsections 45-325(4) and (5) apply for the purposes of working out your *notional tax under this section.
Section 45-480 Working out your adjusted taxable income
 (1) Your adjusted taxable income for the *base year is worked out using the formula:
 (2) For the purposes of the formula in subsection  (1):
"adjusted net income of the trust" means the net income of the trust, as worked out for the purposes of the *base assessment and:
 (a) reduced by any *net capital gain included in the trust&#39;s assessable income as so worked out; and
 (b) increased by any deductions for *tax losses that were made in so working out that net income; and
 (c) reduced by the amount of any tax loss, to the extent that it is *unutilised at the end of the *base year.
"reduced net income of the trust" means the net income of the trust, as worked out for the purposes of the *base assessment and reduced by any *net capital gain included in the trust&#39;s assessable income as so worked out.
"relevant share" means the *reduced beneficiary&#39;s share, or the *reduced no beneficiary&#39;s share, as appropriate, of the net income of the trust, as worked out for the purposes of the *base assessment.
Section 45-483 Meaning of reduced beneficiary&#39;s share and reduced no beneficiary&#39;s share
 (1) If the trustee of a trust is liable to be assessed, and to pay tax, for an income year under subsection  98(1) or (2) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 in respect of a particular beneficiary, the reduced beneficiary&#39;s share of the net income is the amount on which the trustee is so liable to be assessed and to pay tax, except so much of that amount as is attributable to a *net capital gain included in the trust&#39;s assessable income for that income year.
 (2) If the trustee of a trust is liable to be assessed, and to pay tax, for an income year under section  99 or 99A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, the reduced no beneficiary&#39;s share of the net income is the amount on which the trustee is so liable to be assessed and to pay tax, except so much of that amount as is attributable to a *capital gain made by the trust during that income year.
Section 45-485 Working out your adjusted withholding income
 (1) Your adjusted withholding income for the *base year is worked out using the formula:
 (2) For the purposes of the formula in subsection  (1):
"net withholding income of the trust" means:
 &bull;  the total of the amounts included in the trust&#39;s assessable income for the *base assessment in respect of *withholding payments (except *non-quotation withholding payments);
reduced by:
 &bull;  the trust&#39;s deductions for that year, as used in making that assessment, to the extent that they reasonably relate to those amounts.
"reduced net income of the trust" has the meaning given by subsection 45-480(2).
"relevant share" has the meaning given by subsection 45-480(2).
 How Commissioner works out benchmark instalment rate and benchmark tax for a multi-rate trustee
Section 45-525 When Commissioner works out benchmark instalment rate and benchmark tax
 (1) The Commissioner may work out your *benchmark instalment rate for an income year (the variation year) if, under section  45-205, you choose an instalment rate to work out the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter in that year.
 (2) The Commissioner may work out your *benchmark tax for an income year (the variation year) if, under paragraph  45-112(1)(b) or (c), the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter in an income year is worked out on the basis of your estimate of your *benchmark tax for that income year.
 (3) The Commissioner may work out your *benchmark tax for an income year (the variation year) if, under paragraph  45-115(1)(c), you estimate the amount of your annual instalment for that year.
Section 45-530 How Commissioner works out benchmark instalment rate
 (1) Your benchmark instalment rate for the variation year is the percentage worked out to 2 decimal places (rounding up if the third decimal place is 5 or more) using the formula:
However, your benchmark instalment rate is a nil rate if either component of the formula is nil.
 (2) For the purposes of the formula in subsection  (1):
"variation year instalment income" means so much of the trust&#39;s assessable income for the variation year as the Commissioner determines is *instalment income for that year.
Section 45-535 Working out your benchmark tax
Benchmark tax if no withholding income
 (1) Your benchmark tax is your *adjusted assessed tax (worked out under section 45-375) on the *reduced beneficiary&#39;s share, or the *reduced no beneficiary&#39;s share, as appropriate, of the net income of the trust for the variation year.
Benchmark tax if you had withholding income
 (2) However, your benchmark tax (as worked out under subsection (1)) is reduced if the trust&#39;s assessable income for the variation year includes amounts in respect of *withholding payments.
 (3) It is reduced (but not below nil) by the total amount of the credits to which you are entitled for the variation year under section  18-25 (for amounts withheld from the withholding payments).
Subdivision 45-P--Anti-avoidance rules
Table of sections
Section 45-595 Object of this Subdivision
Section 45-597 Effect of Subdivision in relation to instalment months
Section 45-600 General interest charge on tax benefit relating to instalments
Section 45-605 When do you get a tax benefit from a scheme?
Section 45-610 What is your tax position for an income year?
Section 45-615 What is your hypothetical tax position for an income year?
Section 45-620 Amount on which GIC is payable, and period for which it is payable
Section 45-625 Credit if you also got a tax detriment from the scheme
Section 45-630 When do you get a tax detriment from a scheme?
Section 45-635 No tax benefit or detriment results from choice for which income tax law expressly provides
Section 45-640 Commissioner may remit general interest charge in special cases
Section 45-595 Object of this Subdivision
 (1) The object of this Subdivision is to penalise an entity whose *tax position, so far as it relates to *PAYG instalments (and related credits and *general interest charge), is altered by a *scheme that is inconsistent with:
 (a) the purposes and objects of this Part ; or
 (b) the purposes and objects of any relevant provisions of this Part;
(whether those purposes and objects are stated expressly or not).
 (2) This Subdivision is not intended to apply to a straightforward use of structural features of this Part if that use is consistent with the purposes and objects mentioned in subsection  (1).
 (3) This Subdivision is to be interpreted and applied accordingly.
Section 45-597 Effect of Subdivision in relation to instalment months
  This Subdivision has effect in relation to an *instalment month in the same way in which it has effect in relation to an *instalment quarter.
Section 45-600 General interest charge on tax benefit relating to instalments
 (1) You are liable to pay the *general interest charge under section 45-620 if:
 (a) you get a *tax benefit from a *scheme; and
 (b) the tax benefit relates to a *component of your *tax position for an income year, and that component is covered by section  45-610; and
 (c) having regard to the matters referred to in subsection  (3), it would be concluded that an entity that entered into or carried out the scheme (or part of it) did so for the sole or dominant purpose of:
 (i) an entity (whether you, that entity or another entity) getting one or more tax benefits from the scheme; or
 (ii) 2 or more entities (whether or not including you or that entity) each getting one or more tax benefits from the scheme.
 (2) It does not matter:
 (a) whether or not you entered into or carried out the *scheme (or part of it); or
 (b) whether the entity that entered into or carried out the scheme (or part of it) did so alone or together with one or more others; or
 (c) whether the scheme (or any part of it) was entered into or carried out inside or outside Australia; or
 (d) whether or not the *tax benefit you got is of the same kind as a tax benefit mentioned in paragraph (1)(c).
Matters to be considered in determining purpose of scheme
 (3) In considering an entity&#39;s purpose in entering into or carrying out a *scheme (or part of one), have regard to these matters:
 (a) the manner in which the scheme or part was entered into or carried out;
 (b) the form and substance of the scheme, including:
 (i) the legal rights and obligations involved in the scheme; and
 (ii) the economic and commercial substance of the scheme;
 (c) the purposes and objects of this Part and of any relevant provisions of this Part (whether those purposes and objects are stated expressly or not);
 (d) the timing of the scheme;
 (e) the period over which the scheme was entered into and carried out;
 (f) the effect that this Act would have in relation to the scheme apart from this Subdivision;
 (g) any change in your financial position that has resulted from the scheme, or may reasonably be expected to result from it;
 (h) any change that has resulted from the scheme, or may reasonably be expected to result from it, in the financial position of an entity that has or had a connection or dealing with you, whether the connection or dealing is or was of a family, business or other nature;
 (i) any other consequence for you, or for such an entity, of the scheme having been entered into or carried out;
 (j) the nature of the connection between you and such an entity, including the question whether the dealing is or was at *arm&#39;s length.
GIC is payable on each of 2 or more tax benefits
 (4) If you get 2 or more *tax benefits from the *scheme, this section has a separate application to each of them.
Section 45-605 When do you get a tax benefit from a scheme?
 (1) This section describes how to work out whether you get a tax benefit from a *scheme and, if so, the amount of the tax benefit.
 (2) First, determine your actual *tax position for an income year (apart from this Subdivision).
 (3) Next, determine your *hypothetical tax position for the same income year (apart from this Subdivision).
 (4) Then compare each *component of the 2 positions. If the amount of that component of the actual *tax position is lower than the amount of that component of the *hypothetical tax position, the difference between the 2 amounts is a tax benefit that you get from the *scheme.
Note 1: The difference between the 2 amounts is not a tax benefit to the extent that it is attributable to certain things for which the income tax law expressly provides. See section  45-635.
Note 2: An entity may get 2 or more tax benefits from the same scheme. One reason is that the scheme may affect 2 or more components of the entity&#39;s tax position for an income year. Another reason is that the scheme may affect the tax position for 2 or more income years.
Section 45-610 What is your tax position for an income year?
  Your tax position for an income year consists of a number of components. The table sets out each component, and how to work out the amount of the component.
Components of your tax position that relate to PAYG instalments and creditsItemEach of these is a component:The amount of that component is:1Your instalment for each *instalment quarter in the income year is a quarterly instalment component .The amount worked out as follows:(a) if you are liable to pay an instalment for that instalment quarter--the amount of the instalment; or(b) if for any reason you are not liable to pay an instalment for that instalment quarter--nil (even if you are an *annual payer or a *quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax); or(c) if you are entitled to claim a credit for that instalment quarter under section  45-420 (because the instalment for that quarter is to be worked out on the basis of your estimated benchmark tax)--the amount of the credit (expressed as a negative amount).2Your annual instalment for the income year is the annual instalment component.The amount worked out as follows:(a) if you are liable to pay an annual instalment for the income year--the amount of the instalment; or(b) if for any reason you are not liable to pay an annual instalment for the income year--nil (even if you are a *quarterly payer).3A variation credit component is a credit arising under section 45-215 because the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter in the income year is to be worked out using an instalment rate you chose under section  45-205.The amount worked out as follows:(a) if you are entitled to the credit--the amount of the credit (expressed as a negative amount); or(b) otherwise--nil.4A variation GIC component is the *general interest charge you are liable to pay under:(a) subsection 45-230(2) (varied instalment rate); or(b) subsection 45-232(2) (estimated benchmark tax); or(c) subsection 45-235(2) or (3) (annual instalment);because of how your instalment for an *instalment quarter in the income year, or for the income year, was worked out.The amount worked out as follows:(a) if you are liable to pay the charge--the amount of the charge; or(b)Components of your tax position that relate to PAYG instalments and creditsItemEach of these is a component:The amount of that component is:1Your instalment for each *instalment quarter in the income year is a quarterly instalment component .The amount worked out as follows:(a) if you are liable to pay an instalment for that instalment quarter--the amount of the instalment; or(b) if for any reason you are not liable to pay an instalment for that instalment quarter--nil (even if you are an *annual payer or a *quarterly payer who pays 2 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax); or(c) if you are entitled to claim a credit for that instalment quarter under section  45-420 (because the instalment for that quarter is to be worked out on the basis of your estimated benchmark tax)--the amount of the credit (expressed as a negative amount).2Your annual instalment for the income year is the annual instalment component.The amount worked out as follows:(a) if you are liable to pay an annual instalment for the income year--the amount of the instalment; or(b) if for any reason you are not liable to pay an annual instalment for the income year--nil (even if you are a *quarterly payer).3A variation credit component is a credit arising under section 45-215 because the amount of your instalment for an *instalment quarter in the income year is to be worked out using an instalment rate you chose under section  45-205.The amount worked out as follows:(a) if you are entitled to the credit--the amount of the credit (expressed as a negative amount); or(b) otherwise--nil.4A variation GIC component is the *general interest charge you are liable to pay under:(a) subsection 45-230(2) (varied instalment rate); or(b) subsection 45-232(2) (estimated benchmark tax); or(c) subsection 45-235(2) or (3) (annual instalment);because of how your instalment for an *instalment quarter in the income year, or for the income year, was worked out.The amount worked out as follows:(a) if you are liable to pay the charge--the amount of the charge; or(b) otherwise--nil.
Example: A scheme results in X Pty Ltd being able to choose to be an annual payer for the 2000-01 income year.
 The following table shows the actual tax position of X Pty Ltd for that year, and also its hypothetical tax position as defined in section  45-615. X Pty Ltd has got 4 tax benefits from the scheme: one for each of the 4 instalment quarters.
Section 2000-01 income yearFor this component:The amount of that component of the actual tax position is:The amount of that component of the hypothetical tax position is:Quarterly instalment component for first instalment quarternil$3,000Quarterly instalment component for second instalment quarternil$4,000Quarterly instalment component for third instalment quarternil$3,000Quarterly instalment component for fourth instalment quarternil$2,000Annual instalment component$12,000nil
Section 45-615 What is your hypothetical tax position for an income year?
  Your hypothetical tax position for an income year is what would have been, or what could reasonably be expected to have been, your *tax position for the income year if the *scheme had not been entered into or carried out.
Section 45-620 Amount on which GIC is payable, and period for which it is payable
 (1) You are liable to pay the *general interest charge on twice the *tax benefit mentioned in paragraph  45-600(1)(a).
Note 1: To the extent that you also got a tax detriment from the scheme, you get a credit: see section  45-625.
Note 2: In special circumstances the Commissioner can remit some or all of the general interest charge: see section  45-640.
 (2) You are liable to pay the charge for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which your instalment for the period mentioned in the applicable item of the table in section  45-610 was due to be paid, or would have been due to be paid if you had been liable to pay an instalment for that period; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the day on which your assessed tax for the income year is due to be paid.
 (3) The Commissioner must give you written notice of the *general interest charge to which you are liable under subsection (1). You must pay the charge within 14 days after the notice is given to you.
 (4) If any of the *general interest charge to which you are liable under subsection (1) remains unpaid at the end of the 14 days referred to in subsection (3), you are also liable to pay the general interest charge on the unpaid amount for each day in the period that:
 (a) starts at the end of those 14 days; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day on which, at the end of the day, any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the unpaid amount;
 (ii) general interest charge on the unpaid amount.
Section 45-625 Credit if you also got a tax detriment from the scheme
 (1) You are entitled to a credit if:
 (a) you are liable to pay *general interest charge under section 45-620 because you got one or more *tax benefits from the *scheme; and
 (b) the Commissioner is satisfied that:
 (i) you got a *tax detriment from the scheme; and
 (ii) the tax detriment relates to a *component of your *tax position for an income year, and that component is covered by section  45-610.
(It does not matter whether that income year is the same as the one referred to in section 45-600.)
Note: How the credit is applied is set out in Division 3 of Part  IIB.
 (2) The credit is equal to the *general interest charge on twice the amount of the *tax detriment for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which your instalment for the period mentioned in the item of the table in section  45-610 that applies for the purposes of working out the amount of the tax detriment:
 (i) was due to be paid; or
 (ii) would have been due to be paid if you had been liable to pay an instalment for that period; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the day on which your assessed tax for the income year is due to be paid.
 (3) However, the credit cannot exceed the total *general interest charge you are liable to pay under section 45-620 because you got one or more *tax benefits from the *scheme.
Credit for each of 2 or more tax detriments
 (4) If you get 2 or more *tax detriments from the scheme, subsections (1) and (2) have a separate application to each of them. However, the total of the credits cannot exceed the total *general interest charge referred to in subsection (3).
Section 45-630 When do you get a tax detriment from a scheme?
 (1) This section describes how to work out whether you get a tax detriment from a *scheme and, if so, the amount of the tax detriment.
 (2) First, determine your actual *tax position for an income year (apart from this Subdivision).
 (3) Next, determine your *hypothetical tax position for the same income year (apart from this Subdivision).
 (4) Then compare each *component of the 2 positions. If the amount of that component of the actual *tax position is higher than the amount of that component of the *hypothetical tax position, the difference between the 2 amounts is a tax detriment that you get from the *scheme.
Example: In the fact situation in the example in section 45-610, X Pty Ltd gets a tax detriment from the scheme for the annual instalment component of its tax position for the income year.
Note 1: The difference between the 2 amounts is not a tax detriment to the extent that it is attributable to certain things for which the income tax law expressly provides. See section  45-635.
Note 2: An entity may get 2 or more tax detriments from the same scheme. One reason is that the scheme may affect 2 or more components of the entity&#39;s tax position for an income year. Another reason is that the scheme may affect the tax position for 2 or more income years.
Section 45-635 No tax benefit or detriment results from choice for which income tax law expressly provides
Choice under the income tax law generally
 (1) The difference between the 2 amounts referred to in subsection  45-605(4) or 45-630(4) is not a *tax benefit or *tax detriment if there would have been no difference between the 2 amounts but for one or more matters covered by subsection (3).
 (2) The difference between the 2 amounts is not a *tax benefit or *tax detriment to the extent that the difference between the 2 amounts would have been less but for one or more matters covered by subsection  (3).
 (3) This subsection covers:
 (a) an entity making an agreement, choice, declaration, election or selection; or
 (b) an entity giving a notice or exercising an option;
for which this Act expressly provides. However, this subsection does not cover an entity doing such a thing under:
 (c) Subdivision 126-B (about CGT roll-overs involving certain companies in the same wholly -owned group) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or
 (d) Subdivision 170-B of that Act (about transferring a net capital loss between certain companies in the same wholly -owned group).
Matters excluded in applying subsection (1) or (2)
 (4) Subsection (1) or (2) does not apply to a matter covered by subsection  (3) if an entity entered into or carried out the *scheme (or part of it) for the sole or dominant purpose of creating a circumstance or state of affairs whose existence is necessary for the entity referred to in subsection  (3):
 (a) to make the agreement, choice, declaration, election or selection; or
 (b) to give the notice or exercise the option.
Choice under some CGT provisions
 (5) The difference between the 2 amounts is not a *tax benefit or *tax detriment if:
 (a) there would have been no difference between the 2 amounts but for one or more matters covered by subsection  (7); and
 (b) the *scheme consisted wholly of that matter or those matters.
 (6) Also, the difference between the 2 amounts is not a *tax benefit or *tax detriment to the extent that the difference between the 2 amounts would have been less but for one or more matters covered by subsection  (7), but only if the *scheme consisted wholly of that matter or those matters.
 (7) This subsection covers:
 (a) a choice made under Subdivision  126-B (about CGT roll-overs involving certain companies in the same wholly-owned group) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or
 (b) an agreement made under Subdivision  170-B of that Act (about transferring a net capital loss between certain companies in the same wholly-owned group);
Section 45-640 Commissioner may remit general interest charge in special cases
 (1) The Commissioner may, if he or she is satisfied that because special circumstances exist it would be fair and reasonable to do so, remit the whole or any part of any *general interest charge payable under section 45-620.
 (2) If the Commissioner does so, section  45-625 (about credits for tax detriments from schemes) applies, and is taken always to have applied, as if the remitted amount had never been payable.
Subdivision 45-Q--General rules for consolidated groups
 Guide to Subdivision 45-Q
Section 45-700 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision allows the members of a consolidated group to be treated as a single entity for the purposes of Pay as you go (PAYG) instalments. Generally, the head company of the group is the entity liable to pay PAYG instalments.The PAYG instalments provisions in this Part apply to the head company in much the same way as they apply to any other company. However, the operation of some of these provisions is modified by this Subdivision.This Subdivision also contains special rules to deal with changes in the membership of the group.
Note 1: Subdivision 45-R contains special rules that apply to members of a consolidated group before they are treated as a single entity for the purposes of this Part. It also contains special rules that affect the operation of this Subdivision (see sections  45-880 and 45 -885).
Note 2: Subdivision 45-S extends the operation of this Subdivision so that it can apply to members of a MEC group. It contains modifications of this Subdivision for the purposes of that extended operation.
Table of sections
Application of Subdivision
Section 45-703 Effect of this Subdivision and Subdivision  45-R in relation to monthly payers
Section 45-705 Application of Subdivision to head company
Usual operation of this Part for consolidated group members
Section 45-710 Single entity rule
Section 45-715 When instalments are due--modification of section  45-61
Section 45-720 Head company cannot be an annual payer--modification of section  45-140
Membership changes
Section 45-740 Change of head company
Section 45-755 Entry rule (for an entity that becomes a subsidiary member of a consolidated group)
Section 45-760 Exit rule (for an entity that ceases to be a subsidiary member of a consolidated group)
Section 45-775 Commissioner&#39;s power to work out different instalment rate or GDP -adjusted notional tax
 Application of Subdivision
Section 45-703 Effect of this Subdivision and Subdivision  45-R in relation to monthly payers
 (1) If:
 (a) a company is the *head company of a *consolidated group; and
 (b) the company is a *monthly payer;
this Subdivision and Subdivision 45-R have effect in relation to the company as the head company of the group in respect of an *instalment month in the same way in which they have effect in relation to a company that is a *quarterly payer as the head company of a consolidated group in respect of an *instalment quarter.
 (2) If:
 (a) an entity is a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group; and
 (b) the entity is a *monthly payer;
this Subdivision and Subdivision 45-R have effect in relation to the entity in respect of an *instalment month in the same way in which they have effect in relation to an entity that is a *quarterly payer in respect of an *instalment quarter.
 (3) However, those effects are subject to any modifications set out in those Subdivisions.
Note: Subdivision 45-S can also have effect in relation to a monthly payer because of the operation of this section and section  45-910.
Section 45-705 Application of Subdivision to head company
Period during which Subdivision applies to head company
 (1) Subject to sections  45-880 and 45-885, this Subdivision applies to a company as the *head company of a *consolidated group during the period:
 (a) starting at the start of the *instalment quarter of the company determined under subsection (2), (3) or (4); and
 (b) ending:
 (i) at the end of the instalment quarter of the company determined under paragraph  (5)(a) or (b); or
 (ii) just before the instalment quarter of the company determined under paragraph  (5)(c) or (d).
When the period begins--initial head company instalment rate
 (2) This Subdivision starts to apply to a company as the *head company of a *consolidated group at the start of an *instalment quarter under this subsection if, during that quarter, the Commissioner gives the company (as that head company) the *initial head company instalment rate.
Note: The operation of this subsection may be affected by section  45-885.
When the period begins--group created from MEC group
 (3) This Subdivision starts to apply to a company as the *head company of a *consolidated group at the start of an *instalment quarter (the starting quarter) under this subsection if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
 (a) the consolidated group is *created from a *MEC group during the starting quarter;
 (b) the company is the head company of the consolidated group when the consolidated group is created from the MEC group;
 (c) either of the following applies:
 (i) this Subdivision applied, in accordance with Subdivision  45-S, to the *provisional head company of the MEC group at the end of the previous instalment quarter;
 (ii) the Commissioner gives the *initial head company instalment rate to the provisional head company of the MEC group during the starting quarter.
Note: For the application of this Subdivision to a provisional head company of a MEC group: see section  45-915.
When the period begins--new head company
 (4) This Subdivision starts to apply to a company as the *head company of a *consolidated group at the start of an *instalment quarter (the starting quarter) under this subsection if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
 (a) the company is an interposed company mentioned in subsection  615-30(2) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997;
 (b) the company chooses under that subsection that the consolidated group is to continue in existence at and after the completion time mentioned in that subsection;
 (c) the completion time occurs during the starting quarter;
 (d) one of the following subparagraphs applies:
 (i) this Subdivision applied to the original entity mentioned in that subsection  (as the head company of the consolidated group) at the end of the previous instalment quarter;
 (ii) the Commissioner gives the *initial head company instalment rate to the original entity mentioned in that subsection (as the head company of the consolidated group) during the starting quarter;
 (iii) the consolidated group is *created from a *MEC group during the starting quarter and this Subdivision applied to the *provisional head company of the MEC group at the end of the previous instalment quarter;
 (iv) the consolidated group is created from a MEC group during the starting quarter and the Commissioner gives the initial head company instalment rate to the provisional head company of the MEC group during the starting quarter.
When the period begins--modified timing for head company that is monthly payer
 (4A) Subsection (4B) applies if:
 (a) apart from subsection  (4B), this Subdivision starts to apply to a company as the *head company of a *consolidated group at a particular time because of the operation of subsection (2), (3) or (4); and
 (b) the company is a *monthly payer; and
 (c) the Commissioner gave the *initial head company instalment rate as mentioned in subsection (2), subparagraph (3)(c)(ii), subparagraph  (4)(d)(ii) or subparagraph (4)(d)(iv) in an *instalment month.
 (4B) Treat subsection  (2), (3) or (4) (as the case requires) as providing that this Subdivision starts to apply to the company as the *head company of the group at the start of the next *instalment month.
Note: For the application of this Subdivision to a monthly payer, see section  45-703.
When the period ends
 (5) This Subdivision stops applying to a company as the *head company of a *consolidated group at the earliest of the following times after the company becomes the head company:
 (a) the end of the *instalment quarter during which the consolidated group ceases to exist (other than because a *MEC group is *created from the consolidated group);
 (b) the end of the instalment quarter during which the Commissioner is notified of the creation of a MEC group from the consolidated group if the MEC group is created during that instalment quarter;
 (c) just before the instalment quarter during which the Commissioner is notified of the creation of a MEC group from the consolidated group if the MEC group was created before that instalment quarter;
 (d) just before the instalment quarter that includes the completion time mentioned in subsection  615-30(2) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 where an interposed company mentioned in that subsection chooses under that subsection that the consolidated group is to continue in existence.
Note: The operation of this subsection because of paragraph (a) may be affected by section  45-880.
 (6) For the purposes of subsection (5), the Commissioner is notified of the creation of a *MEC group from a *consolidated group when the Commissioner receives a notice of the consolidation of the MEC group under subsection  719-40(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (7) If this Subdivision stops applying to a company as the *head company of a *consolidated group just before an *instalment quarter under paragraph (5)(c), then, for the purposes of this Part, this Act has effect for the company and other *members of the group as if:
 (a) the consolidated group had continued to exist until just before the start of that quarter; and
 (b) the company were the head company of the group until just before the start of that quarter.
 (8) To avoid doubt, this Subdivision does not apply to a company as the *head company of a *consolidated group for any time at all if:
 (a) subsection (2), (3) or (4), and subsection  (5), would, apart from this subsection, apply to the company; but
 (b) the time at which this Subdivision would stop applying to the company under subsection  (5) is before the time at which this Subdivision would start to apply to the company under subsection (2), (3) or (4).
 (9) To avoid doubt, and apart from the operation of subsection  (7), this Subdivision may apply to a company as the *head company of a *consolidated group at a time when the company is not in fact the head company of the group.
Note: An example of this is when an interposed company becomes the new head company of a consolidated group. Under this section and section  45-740, this Subdivision may start applying to the company as if it had already become the head company when it is not yet such a company.
 Usual operation of this Part for consolidated group members
Section 45-710 Single entity rule
  If an entity is a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group for any period during which this Subdivision applies to the *head company of the group:
 (a) that entity; and
 (b) any other subsidiary member of the group;
are taken for the purposes of this Part to be parts of that head company (rather than separate entities) during that period.
Note: That means, amongst other things, the head company would be liable to pay instalments for that period as if the subsidiary members were parts of the head company.
Section 45-715 When instalments are due--modification of section  45-61
 (1) If:
 (a) the *head company of a *consolidated group is liable to pay an instalment for an *instalment quarter; and
 (b) this Subdivision applies to the head company during that quarter;
then, despite subsection 45-61(2), the instalment is due on or before the 21st day of the month after the end of that quarter whether or not the head company is a *deferred BAS payer on that day.
 (2) Subsection (3) applies if section  45-703 applies to the *head company of the *consolidated group (because it is a *monthly payer).
 (3) Treat the reference in subsection  (1) to subsection 45-61(2) as instead being a reference to subsection 45-67(2).
Section 45-720 Head company cannot be an annual payer--modification of section  45-140
  Despite any other provisions in this Part, the *head company of a *consolidated group cannot choose to be an *annual payer under section  45-140 while this Subdivision applies to the head company.
Note: You stop being an annual payer when this Subdivision starts applying to you as the head company of a consolidated group: see section  45-160.
 Membership changes
Section 45-740 Change of head company
Object
 (1) The object of this section (except subsection  (8)) is to ensure that, for the purposes of this Part, when a company becomes the new *head company of a *consolidated group:
 (a) the company inherits the history of the former head company of the group; and
 (b) the history of the new head company is effectively ignored.
 (2) This section applies to a *head company of a *consolidated group if:
 (a) the company is an interposed company mentioned in subsection  45-705(4) (an interposed company that chooses under subsection 615-30(2) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 that the consolidated group is to continue in existence at and after the completion time mentioned in that subsection); and
 (b) the conditions in subsection  45-705(4) are satisfied in relation to the interposed company (whether or not this Subdivision applies to the company as the head company of the group for any period of time).
 (3) Everything that happened before the completion time in relation to the company (the original company) that was the *head company of the *consolidated group immediately before the completion time:
 (a) is taken to have happened in relation to the interposed company instead of in relation to the original company; and
 (b) is taken to have happened in relation to the interposed company instead of what would (apart from this section) be taken to have happened in relation to the interposed company before the completion time;
just as if, at all times before the completion time:
 (c) the interposed company had been the original company; and
 (d) the original company had been the interposed company.
 (4) To avoid doubt, subsection  (3) also covers everything that, immediately before the completion time, was taken to have happened in relation to the original company because of:
 (a) section 701-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (single entity rule); or
 (b) section 701-5 of that Act (entry history rule); or
 (c) section 703-75 of that Act (effects of an interposed company becoming the *head company of a *consolidated group); or
 (d) section 719-90 of that Act (effects of a change of head company of a *MEC group); or
 (e) section 45-710 in this Schedule (single entity rule for the purposes of this Part), including an application of that section under Subdivision  45-S in this Schedule; or
 (f) this section; or
 (g) section 45-920 in this Schedule (effects of a change of *provisional head company of a MEC group for the purposes of this Part); or
 (h) one or more previous applications of any of the provisions covered by paragraphs  (a) to (g).
 (5) In addition, and without affecting subsection  (3):
 (a) an assessment of the original company for an income year that ends before the income year that includes the completion time; or
 (b) an amendment of the assessment;
is taken to be something that had happened to the interposed company, whether or not the assessment or amendment is made before the completion time.
 (6) This section has effect for the purposes of applying this Part to *members of the *consolidated group in relation to an *instalment quarter of the interposed company that ends after the completion time.
Note: An assessment mentioned in subsection (5) may therefore be taken to be the base assessment of the interposed company for the purposes of this Part.
 (7) Subsections (1) to (6) are to be disregarded in applying section  45-705 (about the application of this Subdivision to a company as the *head company of a *consolidated group).
Note: For example, if the Commissioner has given an initial head company instalment rate to the original company during an earlier instalment quarter, the rate is not, despite this section, treated as if it had been given to the interposed company for the purposes of section  45-705. Subject to the other provisions in that section, this Subdivision therefore starts applying to the interposed company under subsection  45-705(4).
Special rule for the original company
 (8) A provision of this Part that applies on an entity becoming a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group does not apply to the original company when it is taken to have become such a member at the completion time as a result of section  703-70 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Note: Section 45-755 (the entry rule) therefore does not apply to the original company on the company becoming a subsidiary member of the consolidated group.
Section 45-755 Entry rule (for an entity that becomes a subsidiary member of a consolidated group)
 (1) Despite any other provisions in this Part, an entity is liable to pay an instalment for an *instalment quarter or income year (as appropriate) during which the entity becomes a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group if:
 (a) this Subdivision applies to the *head company of the group at any time during that quarter or year (as appropriate); and
 (b) the entity would otherwise be liable to pay an instalment for that quarter or year (as appropriate) if it had not become a subsidiary member of the group; and
 (c) the entity becomes a subsidiary member of the group on a day other than the first day of that quarter or the first day of that year (as appropriate).
Note: Under paragraph (b), this section could apply to an entity that, at the time of becoming a subsidiary member of the group, was not a subsidiary member of another consolidated group, or was a member of another consolidated group but this Subdivision did not apply to the head company of that other group at that time.
Modifications for a quarterly payer who pays 4 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax
 (2) Subsections (3) and (4) apply to the entity if:
 (a) the entity would have been a *quarterly payer who pays 4 instalments annually on the basis of GDP-adjusted notional tax at the end of the *instalment quarter mentioned in subsection (1) if it had not become a *subsidiary member of the group; and
 (b) the amount of the instalment payable by the entity for that quarter would have been worked out under paragraph  45-112(1)(b); and
 (c) that quarter is not the fourth instalment quarter in an income year.
 (3) For the purposes of working out the amount of the instalment payable by the entity for that *instalment quarter, subsection 45-410(5) applies to the entity as if that quarter were the fourth instalment quarter in the income year for which the entity is liable to pay an instalment.
 (4) For the purposes of working out the *acceptable amount of the entity&#39;s instalment for that instalment quarter, subsection 45-232(3) applies to the entity as if that quarter were the fourth instalment quarter in the income year for which the entity is liable to pay an instalment.
Section 45-760 Exit rule (for an entity that ceases to be a subsidiary member of a consolidated group)
 (1) This section applies to an entity if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
 (a) the entity ceases to be a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group during an *instalment quarter of the *head company of the group;
 (b) this Subdivision applies to the head company of the group during that instalment quarter;
 (c) the entity does not, at the time it ceases to be a subsidiary member of the group, become:
 (i) a subsidiary member of another consolidated group the head company of which is one to which this Subdivision applies at that time; or
 (ii) a member (other than the *provisional head company) of a *MEC group the provisional head company of which is one to which this Subdivision applies, in accordance with Subdivision  45-S, at that time;
 (d) this Part applies to the entity under section  45-10.
 (2) This Part applies to the entity as if:
 (a) the Commissioner had given the entity an instalment rate equal to the most recent instalment rate given to the *head company mentioned in paragraph (1)(a) before the end of the *instalment quarter mentioned in that paragraph; and
 (b) the entity were a *quarterly payer who pays on the basis of instalment income at the end of that instalment quarter, and of each subsequent instalment quarter, until:
 (i) if the Commissioner first gives the entity an instalment rate worked out on the basis of the *base assessment covered by subsection (3) during the first instalment quarter of an income year--immediately before the end of that first instalment quarter; or
 (ii) if that rate is given to the entity during any other instalment quarter of an income year--immediately after the end of the last instalment quarter of that year.
 (3) This section only covers the first *base assessment of the entity for an income year that is, or includes, a period after the entity ceases to be a *subsidiary member of the group.
Section 45-775 Commissioner&#39;s power to work out different instalment rate or GDP -adjusted notional tax
 (1) This section applies if any of the following changes (the membership change) occurs in relation to a *consolidated group while this Subdivision applies to the *head company of the group:
 (a) an entity becomes a *subsidiary member of the group or a number of entities become subsidiary members of the group;
 (b) an entity ceases to be a subsidiary member of the group or a number of entities cease to be subsidiary members of the group.
 (2) If the Commissioner, having regard to the object of this Part and the membership change, is of the opinion that it would be reasonable to do so, the Commissioner may work out:
 (a) an instalment rate that is higher, or lower, than the most recent instalment rate given by the Commissioner to the *head company under section 45-15; or
 (b) an amount of *GDP-adjusted notional tax that is higher, or lower, than the amount of GDP-adjusted notional tax worked out for the purposes of the most recent amount of instalment notified by the Commissioner to the head company under paragraph  45-112(1)(a).
 (3) The new instalment rate or amount of *GDP-adjusted notional tax must be a rate or amount that, in the opinion of the Commissioner, is reasonable having regard to the object of this Part and the membership change.
Note 1: Subdivision 45-J does not apply for the purpose of working out an instalment rate under this section.
Note 2: Section 45-405 does not apply for the purpose of working out an amount of GDP -adjusted notional tax under this section.
Additional applications of subsection (2)
 (4) If, after exercising the power in relation to the membership change under subsection  (2) for the first time, and on the basis of an assessment (including an amendment) of the *head company for the income year in which the change occurs, or for an earlier year, the Commissioner has worked out:
 (a) another instalment rate under section  45-320 for the company (whether or not the Commissioner has given that rate to the company); or
 (b) another amount of *GDP-adjusted notional tax under section 45-405 for the company (whether or not the Commissioner has notified the company an amount of instalment based on that other amount);
the Commissioner may again exercise the power under subsection (2) in relation to the membership change, as if:
 (c) the rate mentioned in paragraph  (a) were the most recent instalment rate mentioned in paragraph (2)(a); and
 (d) the amount of GDP-adjusted notional tax mentioned in paragraph  (b) were the amount of GDP-adjusted notional tax worked out for the purposes of the most recent amount of instalment that is mentioned in paragraph  (2)(b).
 (5) To avoid doubt, in relation to the membership change, the Commissioner:
 (a) may exercise the power under subsection  (2) by applying subsection (4) more than once; but
 (b) must not exercise that power more than once in relation to a particular instalment rate mentioned in paragraph  (4)(a) or a particular amount of *GDP-adjusted notional tax mentioned in paragraph  (4)(b).
Subdivision 45-R--Special rules for consolidated groups
 Guide to Subdivision 45-R
Section 45-850 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision deals with the application of this Part to members of a consolidated group after the group has come into existence but before the members are treated as a single entity for the purposes of this Part.This Subdivision also contains special rules in relation to the application of Subdivision  45-Q to members of a consolidated group in these circumstances: (a) a group whose members were treated as a single entity under that Subdivision (a mature group) is acquired by another group (see section  45-880); or (b) a member of a mature group ceases to be such a member and becomes the head company of a new group (see section  45-885).
Note: Subdivision 45-S extends the operation of this Subdivision so that it can apply to members of a MEC group. It contains modifications of this Subdivision for the purposes of that extended operation.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 45-855 Section 701-1 disregarded for certain purposes
Section 45-860 Member having a different instalment period
Section 45-865 Credit rule
Section 45-870 Head company&#39;s liability to GIC on shortfall in quarterly instalment
Section 45-875 Other rules about the general interest charge
Section 45-880 Continued application of Subdivision 45-Q to the head company of an acquired group
Section 45-885 Early application of Subdivision 45-Q to the head company of a new group
 Operative provisions
Section 45-855 Section 701-1 disregarded for certain purposes
  If:
 (a) an amount is required to be worked out for the purpose of determining the *instalment income of an entity that is a *member of a *consolidated group for a period that is all or a part of a *consolidation transitional year for the entity; and
 (b) the period ends before Subdivision  45-Q starts to apply, because of subsection 45-705(2) or subparagraph  45-705(3)(c)(ii), (4)(d)(ii) or (iv), to the *head company of the group;
that amount must be worked out without regard to any application of section 701-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 to the entity in relation to the period.
Section 45-860 Member having a different instalment period
Different instalment period--instalment quarter
 (1) If:
 (a) but for Subdivision  45-Q, a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group would be liable to pay an instalment for an *instalment quarter of the subsidiary member that includes the starting time; and
 (b) that quarter starts before the start of the instalment quarter of the *head company of the group that includes the starting time;
then, despite section 45-710, the subsidiary member is liable to pay an instalment for that quarter.
Different instalment period--income year
 (2) If:
 (a) but for Subdivision  45-Q, a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group would be liable to pay an annual instalment for an income year of the subsidiary member that includes the starting time; and
 (b) that year ends before the end of the income year of the *head company of the group that includes the starting time;
then, despite section 45-710, the subsidiary member is liable to pay an instalment for that year.
Assumptions for working out amount of instalment
 (3) The amount of the instalment must be worked out on the following assumptions:
 (a) that the *instalment quarter or income year of the *subsidiary member (as appropriate) consists only of the period that is the part of the quarter or year occurring before the starting time;
 (b) that an amount required to be worked out for the purpose of determining the *instalment income of the subsidiary member for that period is worked out under section  45-855.
 (4) For the purposes of this section, the starting time is the time at which Subdivision 45-Q starts to apply to the *head company of the group because of subsection 45-705(2) or subparagraph  45-705(3)(c)(ii), (4)(d)(ii) or (iv).
Section 45-865 Credit rule
 (1) When the Commissioner makes an assessment:
 (a) of the income tax that the *head company of a *consolidated group is liable to pay for a *consolidation transitional year for the head company; or
 (b) that no income tax is payable by the head company for that year;
the head company is, in addition to any credit to which it is entitled under section 45-30 for that year, entitled to a credit in relation to instalments payable by an entity that is a *subsidiary member of the group at any time during that year.
 (2) The credit is equal to:
 (a) the sum of so much of each instalment payable by the entity (even if it has not paid it) for an *instalment quarter of a *consolidation transitional year for the entity, or for that year, as is reasonably attributable to so much of that quarter or year:
 (i) which is, or is included in, the consolidation transitional year for the *head company; and
 (ii) during which the entity is a *subsidiary member of the group;
  minus
 (b) the sum of so much of each credit that the entity has claimed under section  45-215 or 45-420 for each instalment quarter covered by paragraph (a) as is reasonably attributable to:
 (i) for a credit under section  45-215--so much of the preceding instalment quarters of that consolidation transitional year for the entity which is covered by subparagraphs (a)(i) and (ii); or
 (ii) for a credit under section  45-420--so much of that instalment quarter and the preceding instalment quarters of that consolidation transitional year for the entity which is covered by subparagraphs  (a)(i) and (ii).
 (3) To avoid doubt, if:
 (a) during the *instalment quarter or the *consolidation transitional year mentioned in paragraph (2)(a), the entity is a *subsidiary member of:
 (i) 2 or more *consolidated groups; or
 (ii) one or more consolidated groups and one or more *MEC groups; and
 (b) an amount is taken into account under that paragraph or paragraph  (2)(b) in working out the credit to which the *head company of one of the groups is entitled under subsection  (1);
that amount is not to be taken into account in working out the credit to which the head company of another of those groups is entitled under that subsection.
 (4) A reference in subsection  (3) to subsection (1) or paragraph (2)(a) or (b) includes a reference to that provision in its extended operation in relation to a *MEC group under Subdivision 45-S.
Note: This section applies to members of a MEC group with the modifications set out in section  45-930.
Section 45-870 Head company&#39;s liability to GIC on shortfall in quarterly instalment
Liability for the general interest charge
 (1) Subject to subsections  (3) and (4), the *head company of a *consolidated group is liable to pay the *general interest charge under this section for an *instalment quarter in a *consolidation transitional year for the head company if:
 (a) the instalment payable by at least one *member of the group for that quarter is worked out:
 (i) under paragraph  45-112(1)(b) or (c); or
 (ii) by using an instalment rate under section  45-205; and
 (b) the sum of instalments payable by the members of the group for that quarter, reduced by credits claimed by those members under section  45-215 or 45-420 for that quarter, is less than 17/80 of the head company&#39;s *benchmark tax for that consolidation transitional year.
Note: 17/80 of the head company&#39;s benchmark tax represents an amount that is 85% of one quarter of that benchmark tax.
Amount on which the charge is payable
 (2) Subject to subsections  (3) and (4), the *general interest charge is payable on the amount worked out in accordance with the following method statement (if the amount is a positive amount).
Method statementStep 1. Work out the amount that is 1/4 of the *benchmark tax of the *head company for that *consolidation transitional year of that head company.Step 2. Work out the sum of instalments that would have been payable by all the *members of the group for that *instalment quarter of that *head company if none of the members had worked out its instalment for that quarter under paragraph  45-112(1)(b) or (c) or by using an instalment rate under section 45-205.Step 3. Work out the sum of instalments payable by all the *members of the group for that *instalment quarter, reduced by credits claimed by the members under section  45-215 or 45-420 for that quarter.Step 4. Reduce the lesser of the results of steps 1 and 2 by the result of step 3. The result of this step is the amount on which the *general interest charge is payable if it is a positive amount. No general interest charge is payable if the result of this step is nil or a negative amount.
Amounts of instalments or credits that are taken into account
 (3) In working out an amount of instalment or credit for a *subsidiary member of the group for the purposes of any of the following provisions:
 (a) paragraph (1)(b);
 (b) step 2 or 3 of the method statement;
take into account only an amount of instalment or credit covered by that provision that is reasonably attributable to a period in that *consolidation transitional year of the *head company during which it is a subsidiary member of the group.
Members having different instalment quarters
 (4) In working out an amount of instalment or credit for a *subsidiary member whose *instalment quarters differ from those of the *head company for the purposes of any of the following provisions:
 (a) paragraph (1)(a) or (b);
 (b) step 2 or 3 of the method statement;
a reference to an instalment quarter in a *consolidation transitional year of the head company in any of those provisions includes a reference to the last instalment quarter of that subsidiary member ending before the end of that instalment quarter of the head company.
 (5) Subsections (6) and (7) apply if:
 (a) the *head company of the *consolidated group is a *monthly payer at a time in an *instalment month (the current month); and
 (b) any of the other *members of the group (the subsidiary quarterly payers) are *quarterly payers at a time in the *instalment quarter (the current quarter ) in which the current month starts.
 (6) Apply the following rules:
 (a) treat the reference in subsection  (1) to an *instalment quarter as being a reference to the current month;
 (b) treat the references in this section to that quarter (or that instalment quarter) as being references to the current month.
 (7) Also apply the following rules, for the purposes of subsections  (1) to (5):
 (a) treat the subsidiary quarterly payers as *monthly payers for each *instalment month (a notional instalment month ) that starts (disregarding paragraph (6)(a)) in the current quarter;
 (b) apply this section separately in relation to each of those notional instalment months;
 (c) treat the amount of instalment or credit for a subsidiary quarterly payer in respect of a notional instalment month as being the extent to which the amount of instalment or credit for the subsidiary quarterly payer for the current quarter is attributable to that notional instalment month.
Section 45-875 Other rules about the general interest charge
 (1) The *general interest charge under section 45-870 for an *instalment quarter in an income year is payable by the *head company for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the instalment for that quarter was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the day on which the head company&#39;s assessed tax for that income year is due to be paid.
 (2) The Commissioner must give the *head company written notice of the *general interest charge. The head company must pay the charge within 14 days after the notice is given to the head company.
 (3) If any of the *general interest charge remains unpaid at the end of the 14 days, the *head company is also liable to pay the general interest charge on the unpaid amount for each day in the period that:
 (a) starts at the end of those 14 days; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day on which, at the end of the day, any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the unpaid amount;
 (ii) general interest charge on the unpaid amount.
 (4) The Commissioner may, if he or she is satisfied that because special circumstances exist it would be fair and reasonable to do so, remit the whole or any part of any *general interest charge payable under section  45-870.
Section 45-880 Continued application of Subdivision  45-Q to the head company of an acquired group
 (1) This section applies to a company for which all of the following conditions are satisfied in relation to a particular time (the takeover time):
 (a) just before the takeover time, Subdivision  45-Q applied to the company as the *head company of a *consolidated group;
 (b) at the takeover time, the company becomes a *wholly-owned subsidiary of a *member of another consolidated group or *MEC group;
 (c) that other group is consolidated at or before the takeover time under section  703-50 or 719-50 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997;
 (d) the Commissioner receives the choice (or notice) under that section for the consolidation of that other group not later than 28 days after the takeover time, or within such further period (if any) as the Commissioner allows;
 (e) at the takeover time, Subdivision  45-Q (including that Subdivision as applied under Subdivision 45-S) does not apply to the head company or the *provisional head company of that other group.
 (2) For the purposes of this Part only, this Act has effect in relation to the company and the other *members of the *consolidated group mentioned in paragraph  (1)(a) (the preserved group) as if, during the period covered by subsection (5):
 (a) the preserved group had continued to exist as a consolidated group; and
 (b) the company were still the *head company of the preserved group; and
 (c) Subdivision 45-Q had continued to apply to the company as the head company of the preserved group; and
 (d) an entity, while being a *subsidiary member of the preserved group, were not treated as a member of the group mentioned in paragraph (1)(b) (the new group).
 (3) Subsection (2) does not stop the company from being a member of the new group for the purposes of this Part during the period covered by subsection  (5).
Note: This means, for example, sections 45-855 and 45 -860 apply to the head company as a member of the new group.
 (4) However, for the purposes of applying section  45-855 to the company, a reference in that section to an application of section 701-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 to the company in relation to the period mentioned in section 45-855 is taken to be:
 (a) a reference only to an application of section  701-1 of that Act to the company as a member of the new group during that period; and
 (b) not a reference to an application (because of subsection  (2) of this section) of section 701-1 of that Act to the company as the *head company of the preserved group during that period.
 (5) This subsection covers the period that starts from the start of the *instalment quarter of the company that includes the takeover time and ends at the earlier of the following times:
 (a) the end of the instalment quarter of the company during which the company ceases to be a member of the new group;
 (b) just before the instalment quarter of the company during which the Commissioner gives the *initial head company instalment rate to the *head company, or the *provisional head company, of the new group.
 (6) The Commissioner may, on the application of the company made not later than 28 days after the takeover time, allow such extension of time for the purposes of paragraph  (1)(d) as he or she considers appropriate.
 (7) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section prevents the operation of section  45-755 or 45-760 to *members of the preserved group while it continues to exist under subsection  (2).
Section 45-885 Early application of Subdivision  45-Q to the head company of a new group
 (1) This section applies to a company for which all of the following conditions are satisfied in relation to a particular time (the starting time):
 (a) just before the starting time, the company was a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group, or a member of a *MEC group;
 (b) just before the starting time, the consolidated group or MEC group was a mature group (see subsection  (4));
 (c) at the starting time, either of the following applies:
 (i) the company ceases to be a subsidiary member of the consolidated group, or a member of the MEC group;
 (ii) the group ceases to exist (otherwise than because a MEC group or consolidated group is *created from the group, or because its *head company or *provisional head company becomes a *wholly-owned subsidiary of a member of another mature group);
 (d) at the starting time, the company is the head company of another consolidated group;
 (e) within 28 days after the starting time, or within such further period (if any) as the Commissioner allows, the Commissioner receives the notice under section  703-58 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 in relation to the choice to consolidate, at and after the starting time, that other consolidated group under section 703-50 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
 (2) For the purposes of this Part:
 (a) the instalment rate that the Commissioner is taken to have given to the company under paragraph  45-760(2)(a) has effect as if it were the *initial head company instalment rate for the company as the *head company of the *consolidated group mentioned in paragraph  (1)(d); and
 (b) an instalment rate that would otherwise be the initial head company instalment rate for the company as the head company of that consolidated group is not to be treated as that initial head company instalment rate.
Note: This means, subject to the provisions in section 45-705, Subdivision  45-Q starts applying to the company as the head company of the consolidated group at the start of the instalment quarter that includes the starting time: see subsection  (2) of that section and paragraph 45-760(2)(a).
 (3) The Commissioner may, on the application of the company made within 28 days after the starting time, allow such extension of time for the purposes of paragraph  (1)(e) as he or she considers appropriate.
Mature group
 (4) For the purposes of this section, a *consolidated group or a *MEC group is a mature group at a particular time if:
 (a) for a consolidated group--Subdivision  45-Q applies to its *head company at that time; or
 (b) for a MEC group--Subdivision  45-Q, as applied under Subdivision 45-S, applies to its *provisional head company at that time.
Subdivision 45-S--MEC groups
 Guide to Subdivision 45-S
Section 45-900 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision sets out how this Part applies in relation to MEC groups and their members.
Table of sections
Preliminary
Section 45-905 Objects of Subdivision
General modification rules
Section 45-910 Extended operation of Part to cover MEC groups
Extended operation of Subdivision 45-Q
Section 45-913 Sections 45-705 and 45 -740 do not apply to members of MEC groups
Section 45-915 Application of Subdivision 45-Q to provisional head company
Section 45-917 Assumption for applying section 45-710 (single entity rule)
Section 45-920 Change of provisional head company
Section 45-922 Life insurance company
Extended operation of Subdivision 45-R
Section 45-925 Additional modifications of sections  45-855 and 45-860
Section 45-930 Modifications of sections 45-865 and 45 -870 and a related provision
Section 45-935 Additional modifications of section  45-885
 Preliminary
Section 45-905 Objects of Subdivision
  The objects of this Subdivision are to:
 (a) extend the operation of this Part (except sections  45-705 and 45-740 and this Subdivision) so that it can apply in relation to *MEC groups and their members; and
 (b) modify the rules in this Part for that extended operation so that they take account of the special characteristics of MEC groups.
 General modification rules
Section 45-910 Extended operation of Part to cover MEC groups
 (1) This Part (except sections  45-705 and 45-740 and this Subdivision) has effect in relation to members of a *MEC group in the same way in which it has effect in relation to *members of a *consolidated group.
 (2) However, that effect is subject to the modifications set out in the following table and elsewhere in this Subdivision.
Modifications of this PartItemA reference in this Part to:Is taken to be a reference to:1a *consolidated groupa *MEC group2the *head company of a *consolidated groupthe *provisional head company of a *MEC group3a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated groupa member (other than the *provisional head company) of a *MEC group
Exceptions
 (3) The modifications set out in the table do not apply to the following provisions:
 (a) this Subdivision;
 (b) subsection 45-30(4) (see section 45-930);
 (d) note 2 at the end of section  45-700;
 (e) sections 45-705 and 45-740 (see sections  45-913, 45-915 and 45-920);
 (f) subparagraphs 45-760(1)(c)(i) and (ii);
 (g) the note at the end of section  45-850;
 (h) sections 45-865 and 45-870 (see section  45-930);
 (i) paragraphs (1)(b), (c), (d) and (e), and subsection  (5), of section 45-880;
 (j) paragraphs (1)(a), (b) and (c), and subsection  (4), of section 45-885.
Note: The provisions covered by paragraphs (d), (f), (g), (i) and (j) apply to members of a MEC group without any modifications.
 Extended operation of Subdivision 45-Q
Section 45-913 Sections 45-705 and 45-740 do not apply to members of MEC groups
  In applying Subdivision  45-Q to members of a *MEC group, the Subdivision has effect as if:
 (a) section 45-705 had no effect and section 45-915 had effect instead; and
 (b) section 45-740 had no effect and section 45-920 had effect instead.
Section 45-915 Application of Subdivision  45-Q to provisional head company
Period during which Subdivision applies to provisional head company
 (1) Subject to sections  45-880 and 45-885 (as applied under this Subdivision), Subdivision 45-Q applies to a company as the *provisional head company of a *MEC group during the period:
 (a) starting at the start of the *instalment quarter of the company determined under subsection (2), (3) or (4); and
 (b) ending:
 (i) at the end of the instalment quarter of the company determined under paragraph  (6)(a) or (b); or
 (ii) just before the instalment quarter of the company determined under paragraph  (6)(c).
Note: The application of Subdivision 45-Q to the provisional head company is subject to the modifications set out in this section and elsewhere in this Subdivision.
When the period begins--initial head company instalment rate
 (2) Subdivision 45-Q starts to apply to a company as the *provisional head company of a *MEC group at the start of an *instalment quarter under this subsection if, during that quarter, the Commissioner gives the company (as that provisional head company) the *initial head company instalment rate.
Note: The operation of this subsection may be affected by section 45-885 (as applied under this Subdivision).
When the period begins--group created from consolidated group
 (3) Subdivision 45-Q starts to apply to a company as the *provisional head company of a *MEC group at the start of an *instalment quarter (the starting quarter) under this subsection if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
 (a) during the starting quarter, the Commissioner is notified of the creation of the MEC group from a *consolidated group (see subsection (5));
 (b) the company is the provisional head company of the MEC group when the Commissioner is so notified;
 (c) either of the following applies:
 (i) Subdivision 45-Q applied to the *head company of the consolidated group at the end of the previous instalment quarter;
 (ii) the Commissioner gives the *initial head company instalment rate to the head company of the consolidated group during the starting quarter.
Note: For the application of Subdivision 45-Q to a head company of a consolidated group: see section  45-705.
When the period begins--new provisional head company
 (4) Subdivision 45-Q starts to apply to a company as the *provisional head company of a *MEC group at the start of an *instalment quarter (the starting quarter) under this subsection if both of the following conditions are satisfied:
 (a) the company is appointed as the provisional head company of the MEC group under subsection  719-60(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 during the starting quarter;
 (b) one of the following applies:
 (i) Subdivision 45-Q applied to the former provisional head company of the MEC group at the end of the previous instalment quarter;
 (ii) the Commissioner gives the *initial head company instalment rate to the former provisional head company of the MEC group during the starting quarter;
 (iii) the Commissioner is notified during the starting quarter of the creation of the MEC group from a *consolidated group and Subdivision 45-Q applied to the *head company of the consolidated group at the end of the previous instalment quarter;
 (iv) the Commissioner is notified during the starting quarter of the creation of the MEC group from a consolidated group and the Commissioner gives the initial head company instalment rate to the head company of the consolidated group during the starting quarter.
When the period begins--modified timing for provisional head company that is monthly payer
 (4A) Subsection (4B) applies if:
 (a) apart from subsection  (4B), Subdivision 45-Q starts to apply to a company as the *provisional head company of a *MEC group at a particular time because of the operation of subsection (2), (3) or (4); and
 (b) the company is a *monthly payer; and
 (c) the Commissioner gave the *initial head company instalment rate as mentioned in subsection (2), subparagraph (3)(c)(ii), subparagraph  (4)(b)(ii) or subparagraph (4)(b)(iv) in an *instalment month.
 (4B) Treat subsection (2), (3) or (4) (as the case requires) as providing that Subdivision 45-Q starts to apply to the company as the *provisional head company of the *MEC group at the start of the next *instalment month.
Note: For the application of this Subdivision to a monthly payer, see sections  45-703 and 45-910.
Notification of creation of MEC group from consolidated group
 (5) For the purposes of subsections  (3) and (4), the Commissioner is notified of the creation of a *MEC group from a *consolidated group when the Commissioner receives a notice of the consolidation of the MEC group under subsection 719-40(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
When the period ends
 (6) Subdivision 45-Q stops applying to a company as the *provisional head company of a *MEC group at the earliest of the following times after the company becomes the provisional head company:
 (a) the end of the *instalment quarter during which the MEC group ceases to exist (other than because a *consolidated group is *created from the MEC group);
 (b) the end of the instalment quarter during which a consolidated group is created from the MEC group;
 (c) just before the instalment quarter during which another company is appointed as the provisional head company of the MEC group under subsection  719-60(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Note: The operation of this subsection because of paragraph (a) may be affected by section  45-880 (as applied under this Subdivision).
 (7) To avoid doubt, Subdivision  45-Q does not apply to a company as the *provisional head company of a *MEC group for any time at all if:
 (a) subsection (2), (3) or (4), and subsection  (6), would, apart from this subsection, apply to the company; but
 (b) the time at which Subdivision  45-Q would stop applying to the company under subsection (6) is before the time at which that Subdivision would start to apply to the company under subsection  (2), (3) or (4).
 (8) To avoid doubt, Subdivision  45-Q may apply to a company as the *provisional head company of a *MEC group at a time when the company is not in fact the provisional head company of the group.
Note: An example of this is when a company replaces another company as the provisional head company of a MEC group. Under this section and section  45-920, Subdivision 45-Q may start applying to the company as if it had already become the provisional head company when it is not yet such a company.
Section 45-917 Assumption for applying section  45-710 (single entity rule)
  In applying section  45-710 to members of a *MEC group at a particular time, the company that is the *provisional head company of the group at that time must be assumed to be the *head company of the group at all times during the period:
 (a) throughout which the group is in existence; and
 (b) that is all or a part of the income year of the company that includes that particular time.
Section 45-920 Change of provisional head company
Object
 (1) The object of this section (except subsection  (9)) is to ensure that, for the purposes of this Part, when a company becomes the new *provisional head company of a *MEC group:
 (a) the company inherits the history of the former provisional head company; and
 (b) the history of the new provisional head company is effectively ignored.
 (2) This section applies to a *provisional head company of a *MEC group (the new provisional head company ) that is appointed under subsection 719-60(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 if one of the following conditions is satisfied:
 (a) the conditions in subsection  45-915(4) are satisfied in relation to the new provisional head company (whether or not Subdivision 45-Q applies to the company as the provisional head company of the group for any period of time);
 (b) the new provisional head company is so appointed during the *instalment quarter of the company in which the MEC group is *created from a *consolidated group and either:
 (i) the Commissioner gives the *initial head company instalment rate to the *head company of the consolidated group during that instalment quarter; or
 (ii) Subdivision 45-Q applied to the head company of the consolidated group at the end of the previous instalment quarter.
 (3) Everything that happened before the starting time in relation to the company (the former company) that was the *provisional head company of the *MEC group immediately before the starting time:
 (a) is taken to have happened in relation to the new provisional head company instead of in relation to the former company; and
 (b) is taken to have happened in relation to the new provisional head company instead of what would (apart from this section) be taken to have happened in relation to the new provisional head company before the starting time;
just as if, at all times before the starting time:
 (c) the new provisional head company had been the former company; and
 (d) the former company had been the new provisional head company.
 (4) For the purposes of this section, the starting time is the time at which the *cessation event happened to the former company (the event that results in the appointment of the new provisional head company).
 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection  (3) also covers everything that, immediately before the starting time, was taken to have happened in relation to the former company because of:
 (a) section 701-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (single entity rule); or
 (b) section 701-5 of that Act (entry history rule); or
 (c) section 703-75 of that Act (effects of an interposed company becoming the *head company of a *consolidated group); or
 (d) section 719-90 of that Act (effects of a change of head company of a *MEC group); or
 (e) section 45-710 in this Schedule (single entity rule for the purposes of this Part), including an application of that section under this Subdivision; or
 (f) section 45-740 in this Schedule (effects of an interposed company becoming the head company of a consolidated group for the purposes of this Part); or
 (g) this section; or
 (h) one or more previous applications of any of the provisions covered by paragraphs  (a) to (g).
 (6) In addition, and without affecting subsection  (3):
 (a) an assessment of the former company for an income year that ends before the income year that includes the starting time; or
 (b) an amendment of the assessment;
is taken to be something that had happened to the new provisional head company, whether or not the assessment or amendment is made before the starting time.
 (7) This section has effect for the purposes of applying this Part to members of the *MEC group in relation to an *instalment quarter of the new provisional head company that ends after the starting time.
Note: An assessment mentioned in subsection (6) may therefore be taken to be the base assessment of the new provisional head company for the purposes of this Part.
 (8) Subsections (1) to (7) are to be disregarded in applying section  45-915 (about the application of Subdivision 45-Q to a company as the *provisional head company of a *MEC group).
Note: For example, if the Commissioner has given an initial head company instalment rate to the former company during an earlier instalment quarter, the rate is not, despite this section, treated as if it had been given to the new provisional head company for the purposes of section  45-915. Subject to the other provisions in that section, Subdivision  45-Q therefore starts applying to the new provisional head company under subsection 45-915(4).
Special rule for the former company
 (9) A provision of this Part that applies on an entity becoming a member (other than the *provisional head company) of a *MEC group does not apply to the former company when it becomes such a member at the starting time.
Note: Section 45-755 (the entry rule, as applied under this Subdivision) therefore does not apply to the former company on the company becoming such a member of the MEC group.
Section 45-922 Life insurance company
  In applying Subdivision  45-Q to members of a *MEC group for an *instalment quarter of the *provisional head company of the group in an income year of the provisional head company, the company is taken to be a *life insurance company for that quarter if:
 (a) one or more life insurance companies are members of the group at any time during that quarter; or
 (b) one or more life insurance companies were members of the group at any time during a previous instalment quarter of the company in that year.
 Extended operation of Subdivision 45-R
Section 45-925 Additional modifications of sections  45-855 and 45-860
  In applying sections  45-855 and 45-860 to members of a *MEC group, those sections have effect as if, in addition to the modifications set out in the table in section  45-910:
 (a) a reference in those sections to subsection  45-705(2) were a reference to subsection 45-915(2); and
 (b) a reference in those sections to subparagraph  45-705(3)(c)(ii), (4)(d)(ii) or (iv) were a reference to subparagraph 45-915(3)(c)(ii), (4)(b)(ii) or (iv).
Section 45-930 Modifications of sections  45-865 and 45-870 and a related provision
 (1) In applying sections 45-865 and 45-870, and subsection  45-30(4) (which is related to section 45-865), to members of a *MEC group, those provisions have effect as if:
 (a) a reference in those provisions to a *consolidated group were a reference to a *MEC group; and
 (b) a reference in those provisions to a MEC group were a reference to a consolidated group.
Note: This means a reference in those provisions to the head company of a consolidated group has effect as if it were a reference to the head company of a MEC group. Similarly, a reference in those provisions to a subsidiary member of a consolidated group has effect as if it were a reference to a subsidiary member of a MEC group.
 (2) However, the modifications in subsection  (1) do not apply to subsection 45-865(4) and the note at the end of section 45-865.
Note: This means subsection 45-865(4) and the note apply to members of a MEC group without any modifications.
Section 45-935 Additional modifications of section  45-885
  In applying section  45-885 to members of a *MEC group, that section has effect as if, in addition to the modifications set out in the table in section  45-910, it had been modified as set out in the following table:
Modifications of section 45-885ItemProvision:Modification:1Paragraph 45-885(1)(e)The paragraph is taken to have been replaced by the following paragraph:(e) within 28 days after the starting time, or within such further period (if any) as the Commissioner allows, the Commissioner receives a notice under section  719-76 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 in relation the consolidation of that other MEC group, at and after the starting time, under section  719-50 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.2Subsection 45-885(2) (including the note at the end of the subsection)A reference to paragraph 45-760(2)(a) is taken to be a reference to that paragraph as applied under this Subdivision3The note at the end of subsection 45-885(2)The reference to section 45-705 is taken to be a reference to section 45-915
Part 2-15--Returns and assessments
Division 70--Tax receipts
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 70
Section 70-A Tax receipts
 Guide to Division 70
Section 70-1 What this Division is about
The Commissioner must provide you with a tax receipt for an income year if you are an individual taxpayer and the total tax assessed to you for the income year is $100 or more (or such other amount as determined by the Commissioner from time to time).The tax receipt must include information about how the total tax assessed to you for the income year is notionally used to finance different categories of Commonwealth government expenditure.The tax receipt must also include information about the total amount of Commonwealth government debt, for the current and previous financial years, and the expected total amount of interest to be paid on that debt during the current financial year.
Subdivision 70-A--Tax receipts
Table of sections
Section 70-5 Tax receipt to be provided to certain individual taxpayers
 (1) The Commissioner must give you a *tax receipt in respect of an income year if:
 (a) the Commissioner is required to give you a notice of assessment in respect of the income year and has not previously given you a notice in respect of the income year; and
 (b) you are an individual; and
 (c) the amount of income tax you owe (as worked out under step 4 of subsection  4-10(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) for the *financial year that corresponds to the income year is equal to or greater than:
 (i) if subparagraph  (ii) does not apply--$100; or
 (ii) if the Commissioner has made a determination under subsection  (2)--the amount specified in the determination; and
 (d) the notice is given to you within the period of 18 months after the end of the income year.
 (2) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, make a determination that specifies an amount for the purposes of subparagraph  (1)(c)(ii).
 (3) The *tax receipt must include the following information:
 (a) your name;
 (b) the amount mentioned in paragraph  (1)(c);
 (c) how the amount mentioned in paragraph  (1)(c) is notionally used to finance different categories of Commonwealth government expenditure (other than expenditure that relates to amounts collected under the *GST law that are paid to the States and Territories);
 (d) an estimate of the total face value of Commonwealth stock and securities on issue at the end of the previous *financial year;
 (e) an estimate of the expected total face value of Commonwealth stock and securities on issue at the end of the financial year;
 (f) the expected total interest to be paid during the financial year in respect of the Commonwealth stock and securities referred to in paragraph  (e).
Note: The allocation of how the total tax assessed to you is spent is a notional calculation and may not represent how the tax assessed to you is actually spent.
 (4) For the purposes of determining the amounts in paragraphs  (2)(d) to (f), the Commissioner must use the information in the budget economic and fiscal outlook report prepared for the purpose of section 10 of the Charter of Budget Honesty Act 1998 in respect of the *financial year referred to in paragraph (1)(c).
 (5) For the purposes of determining the form of the information to be included in the *tax receipt, the Commissioner must seek the advice of the Minister and take that advice into account.
 (6) The Commissioner must give you the *tax receipt as soon as practicable.
Part 2-30--Collecting Medicare levy with income tax
Division 90--Medicare levy and Medicare levy surcharge
Table of Subdivisions
Section 90-A Treatment like income tax
Subdivision 90-A--Treatment like income tax
Table of sections
Section 90-1 Laws apply in relation to Medicare levy and Medicare levy surcharge as they apply in relation to income tax
  Except so far as the contrary intention appears, this Schedule and the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 apply, and are taken always to have applied, in relation to the following in the same way as they apply in relation to income tax and *tax:
 (a) *Medicare levy;
 (b) *Medicare levy (fringe benefits) surcharge.
Part 2-35--Excess superannuation contributions
Division 97--Excess contributions determinations
Table of Subdivisions
Section 97-A Excess concessional contributions determinations
Section 97-B Excess non-concessional contributions determinations
Subdivision 97-A--Excess concessional contributions determinations
 Guide to Subdivision 97-A
Section 97-1 What this Subdivision is about
The Commissioner must give you a determination stating the amount of your excess concessional contributions.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 97-5 Determination of excess concessional contributions
Section 97-10 Review
 Operative provisions
Section 97-5 Determination of excess concessional contributions
 (1) If you have *excess concessional contributions for a *financial year, the Commissioner must make a written determination stating the amount of those excess concessional contributions.
 (2) A determination under this section is an excess concessional contributions determination.
 (3) The Commissioner may amend a determination at any time.
 (5) Notice of a determination given by the Commissioner under this section is prima facie evidence of the matters stated in the notice.
Section 97-10 Review
  If you are dissatisfied with an *excess concessional contributions determination made in relation to you, you may object against the determination in the manner set out in Part IVC.
Subdivision 97-B--Excess non-concessional contributions determinations
 Guide to Subdivision 97-B
Section 97-20 What this Subdivision is about
The Commissioner must give you a determination stating: (a) the amount by which your non-concessional contributions exceed your non-concessional contributions cap; and (b) a proxy amount for your associated earnings on this excess; and (c) the total amount that can be released from your superannuation interests in relation to this excess and those earnings.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 97-25 Excess non-concessional contributions determinations
Section 97-30 Associated earnings
Section 97-35 Review
 Operative provisions
Section 97-25 Excess non-concessional contributions determinations
 (1) If your *non-concessional contributions for a *financial year (the contributions year) exceed your *non-concessional contributions cap for the contributions year, the Commissioner must make a written determination stating:
 (a) the amount of the excess; and
 (b) the amount of your associated earnings worked out under section  97-30; and
 (c) the following amount (the total release amount):
 (2) A determination under this section is an excess non-concessional contributions determination.
 (3) The Commissioner may amend a determination at any time.
 (5) Notice of a determination given by the Commissioner under this section is prima facie evidence of the matters stated in the notice.
Section 97-30 Associated earnings
 (1) You are taken to have associated earnings equal to the sum (rounded down to the nearest dollar) of the amounts worked out under the following formula for each of the days during the period:
 (a) starting on the first day of the contributions year; and
 (b) ending on the day the Commissioner makes the first *excess non-concessional contributions determination you receive for the contributions year.
where:
"excess" means the amount of the excess referred to in paragraph 97-25(1)(a).
"proxy rate" means the lower of:
 (a) the rate worked out under subsection  8AAD(1) for the first day of that period as if the base interest rate (within the meaning of subsection 8AAD(2)) for that day were the average of the base interest rates for each of the days of the contributions year; and
 (b) a rate determined under subsection  (2) for the contributions year.
"sum of earlier daily proxy amounts" means the sum of the amounts worked out under the formula for each of the earlier days (if any) during that period.
Note: Any excess non-concessional contributions determination you receive after the first one for the contributions year is an amended determination.
 (2) The Minister may, by legislative instrument, determine a rate for a specified *financial year.
Section 97-35 Review
  If you are dissatisfied with an *excess non-concessional contributions determination made in relation to you, you may object against the determination in the manner set out in Part  IVC.
Chapter 3--Collection, recovery and administration of other taxes
Part 3-10--Indirect taxes
Division 105--General rules for indirect taxes
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 105
Section 105-D General interest charge and penalties
Section 105-F Indirect tax refund schemes
Section 105-G Other administrative provisions
 Guide to Division 105
Section 105-1 What this Division is about
This Division contains rules relating to the administration of the indirect tax laws. Note 1: Administration rules relevant to particular indirect tax laws are in Divisions 110, 111 and 112. Note 2: For assessment of assessable amounts under indirect tax laws, see Division 155.The rules in this Division deal with the following: (c) limits on credits, refunds and recovering amounts; (e) the effect of not passing on refunds of overpaid amounts; (f) charges and penalties; (h) refunding indirect tax because of Australia&#39;s international obligations; (i) requirements for notifications.
Subdivision 105-D--General interest charge and penalties
Table of sections
Section 105-80 General interest charge
Section 105-85 Amending Acts cannot impose penalties or general interest charge earlier than 28 days after Royal Assent
Section 105-80 General interest charge
 (1) If any of an amount (the liability) to which this section applies remains unpaid after the time by which it is due to be paid, you are liable to pay the *general interest charge on the unpaid amount of the liability for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the liability was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day on which, at the end of the day, any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the liability;
 (ii) general interest charge on any of the liability.
Note: The general interest charge is worked out under Division 1 of Part  IIA.
 (2) This section applies to either of the following amounts that you are liable to pay:
 (a) an *assessed net fuel amount;
 (b) an assessed amount of *indirect tax (including an *assessed net amount).
Section 105-85 Amending Acts cannot impose penalties or general interest charge earlier than 28 days after Royal Assent
 (1) An Act that amends an *indirect tax law does not have the effect of making you liable to:
 (a) a penalty for an offence against an indirect tax law; or
 (b) *general interest charge under section 105-80;
for any act or omission that happens before the 28th day (the postponed day) after the day on which the amending Act receives the Royal Assent.
 (2) If the amending Act would (apart from this section) have the effect of making you liable to such a penalty or charge because you contravened a requirement to do something:
 (a) within a specified period ending before the postponed day; or
 (b) before a specified time happening before the postponed day;
the requirement has effect instead by reference to a period ending at the start of the postponed day, or by reference to the start of the postponed day, as the case requires.
 (3) This section does not relieve you from liability to such a penalty or charge to the extent to which the liability would have existed if the amending Act had not been enacted.
Subdivision 105-F--Indirect tax refund schemes
Table of sections
Section 105-120 Refund scheme--defence related international obligations
Section 105-125 Refund scheme--international obligations
Section 105-120 Refund scheme--defence related international obligations
 (1) The Commissioner must, on behalf of the Commonwealth, pay you an amount equal to the amount of *indirect tax borne by you in respect of an acquisition (within the meaning of the *GST Act) if:
 (a) you are in a class of entities determined by the *Defence Minister; and
 (b) the acquisition is covered by a determination of the Defence Minister; and
 (c) the acquisition is made:
 (i) by or on behalf of a *visiting force that is; or
 (ii) by a member (within the meaning of the Defence (Visiting Forces) Act 1963) of the visiting force who is; or
 (iii) by any other entity that is;
  covered by a determination of the Defence Minister; and
 (d) at the time of the acquisition, it was intended for:
 (i) the official use of the visiting force; or
 (ii) the use of a member (within the meaning of the Defence (Visiting Forces) Act 1963) of the visiting force; or
 (iii) any other use;
  and that use is covered by a determination of the Defence Minister; and
 (e) you claim the amount in the *approved form.
 (2) The amount is payable:
 (a) in accordance with the conditions and limitations; and
 (b) within the period and manner;
determined by the *Defence Minister.
 (3) The *Defence Minister may only determine an entity under subparagraph (1)(c)(iii) or a use under subparagraph (1)(d)(iii) if the Commonwealth is under an international obligation to grant *indirect tax concessions in relation to the kind of entity or the kind of use.
 (4) A determination under this section is a legislative instrument.
Section 105-125 Refund scheme--international obligations
 (1) The Commissioner must, on behalf of the Commonwealth, pay you, or an entity in a class of entities determined by the Commissioner, an amount equal to the amount of *indirect tax borne by you in respect of an acquisition (within the meaning of the *GST Act) made by you if:
 (a) you are a kind of entity specified in the regulations; and
 (b) the acquisition is of a kind specified in the regulations; and
 (c) you or the entity claims the amount in the *approved form.
 (2) The amount is payable:
 (a) in accordance with the conditions and limitations; and
 (b) within the period and manner;
set out in the regulations.
 (3) The regulations may only specify a kind of entity for the purposes of paragraph  (1)(a) or a kind of acquisition for the purposes of paragraph (1)(b) if the Commonwealth is under an international obligation to grant *indirect tax concessions in relation to the kind of entity or the kind of acquisition.
 (4) A determination by the Commissioner under subsection  (1) is not a legislative instrument.
Subdivision 105-G--Other administrative provisions
Table of sections
Section 105-145 Commissioner must give things in writing
 (1) Any notice, approval, direction, authority or declaration that the Commissioner may give, or must give, to you under an *indirect tax law must be in writing.
 (2) However, this does not prevent the Commissioner giving any of those things to you by electronic transmission if a provision of an *indirect tax law allows the Commissioner to do so.
Division 110--Goods and services tax
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 110
Section 110-F Review of GST decisions
 Guide to Division 110
Section 110-1 What this Division is about
This Division gives you the right to object against reviewable GST decisions that relate to you. Section 110-50 sets out the reviewable GST decisions.
Subdivision 110-F--Review of GST decisions
Table of sections
Section 110-50 Reviewable GST decisions
 (1) You may object, in the manner set out in Part  IVC, against a decision you are dissatisfied with that is:
 (a) a *reviewable GST decision relating to you; or
 (b) a *reviewable GST transitional decision relating to you.
 (2) Each of the following decisions is a reviewable GST decision:
Reviewable GST decisions under GST ActItemDecisionProvision of GST Act under which decision is made1refusing to register yousubsection 25-5(1)2registering yousubsection 25-5(2)3deciding the date of effect of your registrationsection 25-104refusing to cancel your registrationsubsection 25-55(1)5cancelling your registrationsubsection 25-55(2)6refusing to cancel your registrationsection 25-577deciding the date on which the cancellation of your registration takes effectsection 25-608determining that the *tax periods that apply to you are each individual monthsubsection 27-15(1)9deciding the date of effect of a determinationsubsection 27-15(2)10refusing to revoke your election under section 27-Reviewable GST decisions under GST ActItemDecisionProvision of GST Act under which decision is made1refusing to register yousubsection 25-5(1)2registering yousubsection 25-5(2)3deciding the date of effect of your registrationsection 25-104refusing to cancel your registrationsubsection 25-55(1)5cancelling your registrationsubsection 25-55(2)6refusing to cancel your registrationsection 25-577deciding the date on which the cancellation of your registration takes effectsection 25-608determining that the *tax periods that apply to you are each individual monthsubsection 27-15(1)9deciding the date of effect of a determinationsubsection 27-15(2)10refusing to revoke your election under section 27-----------10subsection 27-22(1)11deciding the date of effect of a revocationsubsection 27-22(3)12refusing to revoke a determination under section 27-15subsection 27-25(1)13deciding the date of effect of a revocationsubsection 27-25(2)14determining that a specified period is a *tax period that applies to yousection 27-3015refusing a request for a determinationsection 27-3716revoking a determination under section 27-37subsection 27-38(1)17deciding the date of a revocationsubsection 27-38(2)18refusing to permit you to account on a cash basissubsection 29-45(1)19deciding the date of effect of your permission to account on a cash basissubsection 29-45(2)20revoking your permission to account on a cash basissubsection 29-50(3)21deciding the date of effect of the revocation of your permission to account on a cash basissubsection 29-50(4)22refusing an application for a decision that an event is a *fund-raising eventparagraph 40-165(1)(c)23approving another day of effectparagraph 48-71(1)(b)24revoking an approval of a day of effectsubsection 48-71(2)29refusing an application for approvalsection 49-530refusing an application for approval or revocationsubsection 49-70(1)31revoking an approval under Division 49subsection 49-70(2)32refusing an application for revocationsubsection 49-75(1)33revoking the approval of a *GST religious groupsubsection 49-75(2)34deciding the date of effect of any approval, or any revocation of an approval, under Division 49section 49-8535approving another day of effectparagraph 51-75(1)(b)36subsection 29-50(4)22refusing an application for a decision that an event is a *fund-raising eventparagraph 40-165(1)(c)23approving another day of effectparagraph 48-71(1)(b)24revoking an approval of a day of effectsubsection 48-71(2)29refusing an application for approvalsection 49-530refusing an application for approval or revocationsubsection 49-70(1)31revoking an approval under Division 49subsection 49-70(2)32refusing an application for revocationsubsection 49-75(1)33revoking the approval of a *GST religious groupsubsection 49-75(2)34deciding the date of effect of any approval, or any revocation of an approval, under Division 49section 49-8535approving another day of effectparagraph 51-75(1)(b)36revoking an approval of a day of effectsubsection 51-75(2)42refusing an application for registrationsection 54-543deciding the date of effect of registration as a *GST branchsection 54-1044refusing to cancel the registration of a *GST branchsubsection 54-75(1)45cancelling the registration of a *GST branchsubsection 54-75(2)46deciding the date of effect of the cancellation of the registration of a *GST branchsection 54-8047cancelling the registration of an Australian resident agentsubsection 57-25(1)48determining that the *tax periods that apply to a resident agent are each individual monthsubsection 57-35(1)49deciding the date of effect of a determinationsubsection 57-35(2)49Acancelling the registration of a *representative of an *incapacitated entitysubsection 58-25(1)49Bdeciding to direct a *representative of an *incapacitated entity to give to the Commissioner a *GST returnrevoking an approval of a day of effectsubsection 51-75(2)42refusing an application for registrationsection 54-543deciding the date of effect of registration as a *GST branchsection 54-1044refusing to cancel the registration of a *GST branchsubsection 54-75(1)45cancelling the registration of a *GST branchsubsection 54-75(2)46deciding the date of effect of the cancellation of the registration of a *GST branchsection 54-8047cancelling the registration of an Australian resident agentsubsection 57-25(1)48determining that the *tax periods that apply to a resident agent are each individual monthsubsection 57-35(1)49deciding the date of effect of a determinationsubsection 57-35(2)49Acancelling the registration of a *representative of an *incapacitated entitysubsection 58-25(1)49Bdeciding to direct a *representative of an *incapacitated entity to give to the Commissioner a *GST returnparagraph 58-50(1)(b)50cancelling the registration of a *non-profit sub-entitysubsection 63-35(1)51refusing to allow, or allowing, a further period within which to make an agreement that the margin scheme is to applyparagraph 75-5(1A)(b)52refusing a request to allow an annual apportionment election to take effect from the start of another *tax periodparagraph 131-10(2)(b)53disallowing an annual apportionment electionsubsection 131-20(3)53Arefusing to make requested decision about excess GSTsubsection 142-15(1)55refusing a request to allow an annual *tax period election to take effect from the start of another tax periodparagraph 151-10(2)(b)56refusing a request to be allowed to make an annual *tax period election on a specified daysubsection 151-20(3)57disallowing an annual *tax period electionsubsection 151-25(3)58refusing a request to allow an election to pay *GST by instalments to take effect from the start of another *tax periodparagraph 162-15(2)(b)59refusing a request to be allowed to make an election on a specified daysubsection 162-25(3)paragraph 58-50(1)(b)50cancelling the registration of a *non-profit sub-entitysubsection 63-35(1)51refusing to allow, or allowing, a further period within which to make an agreement that the margin scheme is to applyparagraph 75-5(1A)(b)52refusing a request to allow an annual apportionment election to take effect from the start of another *tax periodparagraph 131-10(2)(b)53disallowing an annual apportionment electionsubsection 131-20(3)53Arefusing to make requested decision about excess GSTsubsection 142-15(1)55refusing a request to allow an annual *tax period election to take effect from the start of another tax periodparagraph 151-10(2)(b)56refusing a request to be allowed to make an annual *tax period election on a specified daysubsection 151-20(3)57disallowing an annual *tax period electionsubsection 151-25(3)58refusing a request to allow an election to pay *GST by instalments to take effect from the start of another *tax periodparagraph 162-15(2)(b)59refusing a request to be allowed to make an election on a specified daysubsection 162-25(3)60disallowing an election to pay *GST by instalmentssubsection 162-30(3)62making a declaration to negate or reduce a GST disadvantagesubsection 165-45(3)63deciding whether to grant a request for a declaration to negate or reduce a GST disadvantagesubsection 165-45(5)
 (3) A decision under section  24B of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax Transition) Act 1999 refusing an application for a determination under that section, or making a determination under that section, is a reviewable GST transitional decision.
Division 111--Wine tax and luxury car tax
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 111
Section 111-C Review of wine tax decisions
Section 111-D Effect on contracts from amendments to laws
 Guide to Division 111
Section 111-1 What this Division is about
This Division gives you the right to object against decisions that relate to you disallowing the whole or part of a claim for a wine tax credit.It also explains how contracts to supply wine or a luxury car are affected if a wine tax law or luxury car tax law changes.
Subdivision 111-C--Review of wine tax decisions
Table of sections
Section 111-50 Reviewable wine tax decisions
 (1) You may object, in the manner set out in Part  IVC, against a decision you are dissatisfied with that is a *reviewable wine tax decision relating to you.
 (2) Each of the following decisions is a reviewable wine tax decision:
Reviewable wine tax decisionsItemDecisionProvision of Wine Tax Act under which decision is made1disallowing the whole or a part of your claim for a *wine tax creditsection 17-452deciding the date of effect of your approval as a New Zealand participantsection 19-73refusing to approve you as a New Zealand participantsection 19-74revoking your approval as a New Zealand participantsection 19-85deciding the date of effect of revocation of your approval as a New Zealand participantsection 19-8
Subdivision 111-D--Effect on contracts from amendments to laws
Table of sections
Section 111-60 Alteration of contracts if cost of complying with agreement is affected by later alteration to wine tax or luxury car tax laws
 (1) If, after a contract involving a *supply, or a *taxable dealing in relation to *wine, has been made, an alteration to the *wine tax law or the *luxury car tax law happens and the alteration directly causes an increase or decrease in the cost to a party to the agreement of complying with the agreement, then the contract is altered as follows:
 (a) if the cost is increased--by allowing the party to add the increase to the contract price;
 (b) if the cost is decreased--by allowing the other party to deduct the decrease from the contract price.
 (2) The contract is not altered if:
 (a) the contract has express written provision to the contrary; or
 (b) it is clear from the terms of the contract that the alteration of the *wine tax law or the *luxury car tax law has been taken into account in the agreed contract price.
Division 112--Fuel tax
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 112
Section 112-E Review of fuel tax decisions
 Guide to Division 112
Section 112-1 What this Division is about
This Division gives you the right to object against reviewable fuel tax decisions that relate to you. Section 112-50 sets out the reviewable fuel tax decisions.
Subdivision 112-E--Review of fuel tax decisions
Table of sections
Section 112-50 Reviewable fuel tax decisions
 (1) You may object, in the manner set out in Part  IVC, against a decision you are dissatisfied with that is a *reviewable fuel tax decision relating to you.
 (2) Each of the following decisions is a reviewable fuel tax decision:
Reviewable fuel tax decisionsItemDecisionProvision of the Fuel Tax Act 2006 under which decision is made2making a declaration to negate or reduce a *fuel tax disadvantagesubsection 75-45(3)3deciding whether or not to grant a request to negate or reduce a *fuel tax disadvantagesubsection 75-45(5)
Part 3-15--Major bank levy
Division 115--General provisions relating to the major bank levy
Section 115-1 What this Division is about
An ADI that is liable to pay levy under the Major Bank Levy Act 2017 must give quarterly returns to the Commissioner.An amount of levy is due and payable when an ADI&#39;s last PAYG instalment within an instalment quarter is due.
Table of sections
Section 115-5 Returns
Section 115-10 When major bank levy is due and payable
Section 115-5 Returns
 (1) An *ADI that is liable to pay levy for a *quarter under the Major Bank Levy Act 2017 must give to the Commissioner a return relating to the levy, in the *approved form.
 (2) The return must be given on or before the *MBL reporting day for the *quarter.
 (3) The MBL reporting day for the *quarter is the day by which the *ADI is required to give to *APRA a report, in accordance with a standard determined by APRA under section 13 of the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001, that:
 (a) relates to the *quarter; and
 (b) states the total liabilities amount (within the meaning of the Major Bank Levy Act 2017) for the quarter in relation to the ADI.
Section 115-10 When major bank levy is due and payable
 (1) An amount of levy under the Major Bank Levy Act 2017 that an *ADI is liable to pay for a *quarter is due and payable on the first day:
 (a) that occurs on or after the *MBL reporting day for the quarter; and
 (b) on which the last instalment that the ADI is liable to pay within an *instalment quarter is due under Subdivision 45-B.
 (2) If that amount remains unpaid after it is due and payable, the *ADI is liable to pay *general interest charge on the unpaid amount for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the amount was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day at the end of which either of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the amount;
 (ii) general interest charge on any of the amount.
Division 117--Anti-avoidance
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 117
Section 117-A Application of this Division
Section 117-B Commissioner may negate effects of schemes for MBL benefits
 Guide to Division 117
Section 117-1 What this Division is about
This Division applies to deter schemes that give entities MBL benefits.If the sole or dominant purpose of entering into a scheme is to give an entity such a benefit, the Commissioner may negate the MBL benefit an entity gets from the scheme by making a determination.
Subdivision 117-A--Application of this Division
Table of sections
Section 117-5 Object of this Division
Section 117-10 Application of this Division
Section 117-15 Meaning of MBL benefit
Section 117-20 Matters to be considered in determining purpose
Section 117-5 Object of this Division
  The object of this Division is to deter *schemes to give entities benefits that reduce or defer liabilities to levy under the Major Bank Levy Act 2017.
Section 117-10 Application of this Division
 (1) This Division applies if:
 (a) an entity gets or got an *MBL benefit from a *scheme; and
 (b) taking account of the matters described in section  117-20, it is reasonable to conclude that an entity that (whether alone or with others) entered into or carried out the scheme, or part of the scheme, did so for the sole or dominant purpose of that entity or another entity getting an MBL benefit from the scheme; and
 (c) the scheme:
 (i) has been or is entered into at or after 7.30 pm, by legal time in the Australian Capital Territory, on 9  May 2017; or
 (ii) has been or is carried out or commenced at or after that time (other than a scheme that was entered into before that time).
 (2) It does not matter whether the *scheme, or any part of the scheme, was entered into or carried out inside or outside Australia.
Section 117-15 Meaning of MBL benefit
 (1) An entity gets an MBL benefit from a *scheme, if:
 (a) an amount of levy under the Major Bank Levy Act 2017 that is payable by the entity under this Act apart from this Division is, or could reasonably be expected to be, smaller than it would be apart from the scheme or a part of the scheme; or
 (b) all or part of an amount of levy under the Major Bank Levy Act 2017 that is payable by the entity under this Act apart from this Division is, or could reasonably be expected to be, payable later than it would have been apart from the scheme or a part of the scheme.
 (2) To avoid doubt, a smaller liability mentioned in paragraph  (1)(a) includes a case where the liability is zero, or there is no such liability for a particular *quarter.
Section 117-20 Matters to be considered in determining purpose
  The following matters are to be taken into account under section  117-10 in considering an entity&#39;s purpose in entering into or carrying out the *scheme, or part of the scheme:
 (a) the manner in which the scheme was entered into or carried out;
 (b) the form and substance of the scheme;
 (c) the time at which the scheme was entered into and the length of the period during which the scheme was carried out;
 (d) the effect that the Major Bank Levy Act 2017, and any other *taxation law to the extent that it applies in relation to that Act, would have in relation to the scheme apart from this Division;
 (e) any change in the financial position of the entity that has resulted, or may reasonably be expected to result, from the scheme;
 (f) any change that has resulted, or may reasonably be expected to result, from the scheme in the financial position of an entity (a connected entity) that has or had a connection or dealing with the entity, whether the connection or dealing is or was of a business or other nature;
 (g) any other consequence for the entity or a connected entity of the scheme having been entered into or carried out;
 (h) the nature of the connection (whether of a business or other nature) between the entity and a connected entity.
Subdivision 117-B--Commissioner may negate effects of schemes for MBL benefits
Table of sections
Section 117-25 Commissioner may negate entity&#39;s MBL benefits
Section 117-30 Determination has effect according to its terms
Section 117-35 Commissioner may disregard scheme in making determinations
Section 117-40 One determination may cover several quarters etc.
Section 117-45 Commissioner must give copy of determination to entity affected
Section 117-50 Objections
Section 117-25 Commissioner may negate entity&#39;s MBL benefits
 (1) For the purpose of negating an *MBL benefit the entity mentioned in paragraph 117-10(1)(a) gets or got from the *scheme, the Commissioner may:
 (a) make a determination stating the amount that is (and has been at all times) the entity&#39;s liability for levy under the Major Bank Levy Act 2017, for a specified *quarter that has ended; or
 (b) make a determination stating the amount that is (and has been at all times) a particular amount mentioned in paragraph  5(2)(a) or (b) of that Act, for a specified quarter that has ended.
 (2) A determination under this section is not a legislative instrument.
 (3) The Commissioner may take such action as the Commissioner considers necessary to give effect to the determination.
Section 117-30 Determination has effect according to its terms
  For the purpose of making an *assessment, a statement in a determination under this Subdivision has effect according to its terms, despite the provisions of a *taxation law outside of this Division.
Section 117-35 Commissioner may disregard scheme in making determinations
  For the purposes of making a determination under this Subdivision, the Commissioner may:
 (a) treat a particular event that actually happened as not having happened; and
 (b) treat a particular event that did not actually happen as having happened and, if appropriate, treat the event as:
 (i) having happened at a particular time; and
 (ii) having involved particular action by a particular entity; and
 (c) treat a particular event that actually happened as:
 (i) having happened at a time different from the time it actually happened; or
 (ii) having involved particular action by a particular entity (whether or not the event actually involved any action by that entity).
Section 117-40 One determination may cover several quarters etc.
  To avoid doubt, statements relating to different *quarters and different *MBL benefits may be included in a single determination under this Subdivision.
Section 117-45 Commissioner must give copy of determination to entity affected
 (1) The Commissioner must give a copy of a determination under this Subdivision to the entity whose liability for levy under the Major Bank Levy Act 2017 is stated in the determination.
 (2) A failure to comply with subsection  (1) does not affect the validity of the determination.
Section 117-50 Objections
  If the entity whose liability for levy under the Major Bank Levy Act 2017 is stated in a determination under this Subdivision is dissatisfied with the determination, the entity may object against it in the manner set out in Part  IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953.
Part 3-17--Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy
Division 125--General provisions relating to Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy
Section 125-1 What this Division is about
You must give the Commissioner a return relating to Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy if you are a leviable entity for a financial year.An amount of levy is due and payable 21 days after the day the Commissioner gives you a notice of assessment.This Division contains other rules relating to the administration of the levy, including rules dealing with charges and assessments.
Table of sections
 Operative provisions
Section 125-5 Returns
Section 125-10 When Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy and related charges are due and payable
Section 125-15 Assessments of Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy
 Operative provisions
Section 125-5 Returns
 (1) You must give the Commissioner a return relating to *Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy in the *approved form if you are a leviable entity (within the meaning of the Offshore Petroleum (Laminaria and Corallina Decommissioning Cost Recovery Levy) Act 2022) for a financial year that is a levy year (within the meaning of that Act).
Note: You are required to give the Commissioner a return in accordance with this subsection even if the amount of that levy you are liable to pay is nil.
 (2) The return must be given within 6 months after the end of the financial year.
Section 125-10 When Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy and related charges are due and payable
Original assessments
 (1) If you are liable to pay an amount of *Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy for a financial year, the amount is due and payable 21 days after the day the Commissioner gives you a notice of assessment for the financial year.
Amended assessments
 (2) If the Commissioner amends your assessment of an amount of *Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy, any extra levy resulting from the amendment is due and payable 21 days after the day the Commissioner gives you notice of the amended assessment.
Shortfall interest charge
 (3) If you are liable to pay an amount of *shortfall interest charge under section 280-102D, the amount is due and payable 21 days after the day the Commissioner gives you notice of the charge.
General interest charge
 (4) If an amount of levy or *shortfall interest charge payable under this section remains unpaid after it is due and payable, you are liable to pay *general interest charge on the unpaid amount for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the amount was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day at the end of which any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the amount of levy or shortfall interest charge;
 (ii) general interest charge on any of the amount of levy or shortfall interest charge.
Section 125-15 Assessments of Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy
 (1) In applying Division  155 in relation to an amount of *Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy:
 (a) apply the provisions of that Division with the modification set out in subsection  (2) of this section; and
 (b) disregard section  155-70.
 (2) Despite subsection  155-35(2), the period of review, for an assessment of an amount of *Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy, is:
 (a) the period:
 (i) starting on the day on which the Commissioner first gives notice of the assessment to you under section  155-10; and
 (ii) ending on the last day of the period of 6 months starting the day after that day; or
 (b) if the period of review is extended under subsection  155-35(3) or (4)--the period as so extended.
Part 3-18--Australian IIR/UTPR tax and Australian DMT tax
Division 127--General provisions relating to Australian IIR/UTPR tax and Australian DMT tax
Table of Subdivisions
  Guide to Division 127
Section 127-A Returns
Section 127-B When taxes are due and payable etc.
 127-C GloBE Excluded Entities
 Guide to Division 127
Section 127-1 What this Division is about
Certain Group Entities of an Applicable MNE Group must give the Commissioner a GloBE Information Return, Australian IIR/UTPR tax return and Australian DMT tax return.An amount of Australian IIR/UTPR tax and Australian DMT tax for a Fiscal Year is usually due and payable on the last day of the 15th month after the end of the Fiscal Year.This Division contains other rules relating to the administration of the taxes, including rules dealing with charges and assessments.
Subdivision 127-A--Returns
Table of sections
 GloBE Information Returns
Section 127-5 GloBE Information Returns
Section 127-10 GloBE Information Returns given by Designated Local Entities
Section 127-15 Meaning of Designated Local Entity
Section 127-20 GloBE Information Returns given to foreign government agencies
Section 127-25 Meaning of Designated Filing Entity
Section 127-30 GloBE Information Returns given to foreign government agencies--notification requirement
Australian IIR/UTPR tax returns
Section 127-35 Australian IIR/UTPR tax returns
Section 127-40 Australian IIR/UTPR tax returns given by Designated Local Entities
Australian DMT tax returns
Section 127-45 Australian DMT tax returns
Section 127-50 Australian DMT tax returns given by Designated Local Entities
Section 127-55 GloBE Joint Ventures and GloBE JV Subsidiaries
Other provisions
Section 127-60 When returns must be given
Section 127-65 GloBE Main Entities and GloBE Permanent Establishments
 GloBE Information Returns
Section 127-5 GloBE Information Returns
Giving GloBE Information Returns
 (1) A *Group Entity of an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year must give the Commissioner a *GloBE Information Return in respect of the Applicable MNE Group for the Fiscal Year if the Group Entity is *GloBE located in Australia for the Fiscal Year.
Note: The Group Entity is required to give the Commissioner a GloBE Information Return even if the amount of Australian IIR/UTPR tax and Australian DMT tax the Group Entity is liable to pay in relation to the Fiscal Year is nil.
 (2) The *GloBE Information Return given under subsection (1) must:
 (a) be *lodged electronically; and
 (b) be in the *approved form.
 (3) A GloBE Information Return, in respect of an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year, is a return that:
 (a) if a determination under subsection  (4) specifies requirements--is in accordance with those requirements; and
 (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply--is in accordance with the standardised return developed in accordance with the *GloBE Implementation Framework, as amended from time to time; and
 (c) contains the following information concerning the Applicable MNE Group:
 (i) identification of the *Constituent Entities of the Applicable MNE Group, including the jurisdiction in which they are *GloBE located for the Fiscal Year and their status under the *GloBE Rules;
 (ii) information on the overall corporate structure of the Applicable MNE group in the Fiscal Year;
 (iii) information relevant to the determination of Effective Tax Rates (within the meaning of the GloBE Rules), Top -up Tax (within the meaning of the GloBE Rules) and allocation of Top-up Tax for the Fiscal Year;
 (iv) elections made, for the Fiscal Year, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the GloBE Rules;
 (v) other information that is agreed as part of the GloBE Implementation Framework and is necessary to carry out the administration of the GloBE Rules.
 (4) For the purposes of paragraph  (3)(a), the Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, make a determination specifying requirements for a return.
Section 127-10 GloBE Information Returns given by Designated Local Entities
 (1) This section applies if a *Designated Local Entity in relation to a *GloBE Information Return in respect of an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year gives the GloBE Information Return to the Commissioner in accordance with subsection  127-5(2).
 (2) Each other *Group Entity of the *Applicable MNE Group that is *GloBE located in Australia for the *Fiscal year is taken to give the *GloBE Information Return to the Commissioner at the time the *Designated Local Entity gives the GloBE Information Return to the Commissioner.
Section 127-15 Meaning of Designated Local Entity
"A" Designated Local Entity, of an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year, is a *Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group that:
 (a) is *GloBE located in Australia for the Fiscal Year; and
 (b) has been appointed by every other Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group that is GloBE located in Australia for the Fiscal Year to give to the Commissioner:
 (i) the *GloBE Information Return in respect of the Applicable MNE Group for the Fiscal Year; or
 (ii) a notice mentioned in paragraph  127-20(2)(b) in respect of the Applicable MNE Group for the Fiscal Year.
Section 127-20 GloBE Information Returns given to foreign government agencies
 (1) This section applies in relation to an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year if:
 (a) either:
 (i) the *GloBE Ultimate Parent Entity of the Applicable MNE Group is *GloBE located in a foreign country or part of a foreign country that has a *Qualifying Competent Authority Agreement in effect with Australia for the Fiscal Year; or
 (ii) a *Designated Filing Entity in relation to the *GloBE Information Return in respect of the Applicable MNE Group for the Fiscal Year is GloBE located in a foreign country or part of a foreign country that has a Qualifying Competent Authority Agreement in effect with Australia for the Fiscal Year; and
 (b) the GloBE Ultimate Parent Entity or Designated Filing Entity gives a GloBE Information Return in respect of the Applicable MNE Group for the Fiscal Year to a *foreign government agency of the foreign country or part of the foreign country no later than the time specified in section  127-60 in relation to the Fiscal Year.
 (2) Each *Group Entity of the *Applicable MNE Group that is required to give a *GloBE Information Return in respect of the Applicable MNE Group for the *Fiscal Year to the Commissioner:
 (a) is taken to give the GloBE Information Return to the Commissioner, in accordance with subsection  127-5(2), at the time the *GloBE Ultimate Parent Entity or *Designated Filing Entity gives the GloBE Information Return to the *foreign government agency; and
 (b) must give the Commissioner a notice in accordance with subsection  127-30(1) in respect of the Applicable MNE Group for the Fiscal Year.
 (3) A foreign country or part of a foreign country has a Qualifying Competent Authority Agreement in effect with Australia for a *Fiscal Year if an agreement or arrangement that:
 (a) is between 2 or more competent authorities:
 (i) at least one of which is a competent authority of Australia; and
 (ii) at least one of which is a competent authority of that foreign country or part of a foreign country; and
 (b) provides for the automatic exchange of annual *GloBE Information Returns for the Fiscal Year;
is in effect.
Commissioner may require Group Entity to give GloBE Information Return
 (4) If:
 (a) under subsection (2), a *Group Entity of the *Applicable MNE Group is taken to give a *GloBE Information Return in respect of the Applicable MNE Group for the *Fiscal Year to the Commissioner because the GloBE Information Return is given to a *foreign government agency; and
 (b) the relevant *Qualifying Competent Authority Agreement provides for the GloBE Information Return to be given to the Commissioner by a specified time; and
 (c) that time has passed, but the GloBE Information Return has not been given to the Commissioner under the Qualifying Competent Authority Agreement;
the Commissioner may, by written notice given to the Group Entity, request the Group Entity to give to the Commissioner a GloBE Information Return in respect of the Applicable MNE Group for the Fiscal Year in accordance with subsection  127-5(2).
 (5) The *Group Entity must comply with the request in accordance with subsection (6).
 (6) The *GloBE Information Return given under subsection (5) must be *lodged electronically.
Section 127-25 Meaning of Designated Filing Entity
"A" Designated Filing Entity, in relation to a *GloBE Information Return in respect of an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year, is a *Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group that has been appointed by the Applicable MNE Group to file the GloBE Information Return on behalf of the Applicable MNE Group.
Section 127-30 GloBE Information Returns given to foreign government agencies--notification requirement
 (1) For the purposes of paragraph  127-20(2)(b), the notice mentioned in that paragraph:
 (a) must be given to the Commissioner no later than the time specified in section  127-60 in relation to the *Fiscal Year; and
 (b) must state:
 (i) the identity of the *GloBE Ultimate Parent Entity or *Designated Filing Entity that gives the *GloBE Information Return to the *foreign government agency; and
 (ii) the jurisdiction in which that GloBE Ultimate Parent Entity or Designated Filing Entity is *GloBE located; and
 (c) must be in the *approved form; and
 (d) must be *lodged electronically.
 (2) Subsection (3) applies if a *Designated Local Entity of the *Applicable MNE Group gives the notice mentioned in subsection  (1) in accordance with that subsection.
 (3) Each other *Group Entity of the *Applicable MNE Group that is *GloBE located in Australia for the *Fiscal year is taken to give the notice to the Commissioner at the time the *Designated Local Entity gives the notice to the Commissioner.
 Australian IIR/UTPR tax returns
Section 127-35 Australian IIR/UTPR tax returns
 (1) The purpose of this section is to provide, for the purposes of administering the *Australian IIR/UTPR tax, for a return that supplements the *GloBE Information Return.
 (2) Subject to subsection  (4), a *Group Entity of an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year must give the Commissioner a return under this subsection (an Australian IIR/UTPR tax return ) for the Fiscal Year if the Group Entity has an *Australian IIR/UTPR tax amount for the Fiscal Year (including a nil amount).
 (3) The return must:
 (a) be *lodged electronically; and
 (b) be in the *approved form.
 (4) However, the return need not be lodged in circumstances set out in a determination under subsection  (5).
 (5) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, make a determination specifying circumstances in which a *Group Entity need not lodge a return under subsection (2).
Section 127-40 Australian IIR/UTPR tax returns given by Designated Local Entities
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) a *Designated Local Entity of an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year has been appointed, by each *Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group that is required to give the Commissioner an *Australian IIR/UTPR tax return for the Fiscal Year, to give an Australian IIR/UTPR tax return for the Fiscal Year to the Commissioner on behalf of the Group Entity; and
 (b) the Designated Local Entity gives an Australian IIR/UTPR tax return for the Fiscal Year to the Commissioner on behalf of those Group Entities in accordance with subsection  127-35(3).
 (2) Each of those *Group Entities is taken to give the *Australian IIR/UTPR tax return to the Commissioner at the time at which the *Designated Local Entity gives the Australian IIR/UTPR tax return to the Commissioner.
 Australian DMT tax returns
Section 127-45 Australian DMT tax returns
 (1) The purpose of this section is to provide, for the purposes of administering the *Australian DMT tax, for a return that supplements the *GloBE Information Return.
 (2) Subject to subsection  (5), a *Group Entity of an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year must give the Commissioner a return under this subsection (an Australian DMT tax return) for the Fiscal Year if the Group Entity has a *Australian DMT tax amount for the Fiscal Year (including a nil amount).
Note: The Group Entity is required to give the Commissioner a DMT return if the Group Entity has an Australian DMT tax amount for the Fiscal Year, even if the amount of Australian DMT tax the Group Entity is liable to pay in relation to the Fiscal Year is nil.
 (3) The return must:
 (a) be *lodged electronically; and
 (b) be in the *approved form.
  (4) However, the return need not be lodged in circumstances set out in a determination under subsection (5).
 (5) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, make a determination specifying circumstances in which a *Group Entity need not lodge a return under subsection (2).
Section 127-50 Australian DMT tax returns given by Designated Local Entities
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) a *Designated Local Entity of an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year has been appointed, by each *Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group that is required to give the Commissioner an *Australian DMT tax return for the Fiscal Year, to give an Australian DMT tax return for the Fiscal Year to the Commissioner on behalf of the Group Entity; and
 (b) the Designated Local Entity gives an Australian DMT tax return for the Fiscal Year to the Commissioner on behalf of those Group Entities in accordance with subsection  127-45(3).
 (2) Each of those *Group Entities is taken to give the *Australian DMT tax return to the Commissioner at the time at which the *Designated Local Entity gives the Australian DMT tax return to the Commissioner.
Section 127-55 GloBE Joint Ventures and GloBE JV Subsidiaries
 (1) This section applies if, in relation to an *Applicable MNE Group, any of the following has an *Australian DMT tax amount for a Fiscal Year (including a nil amount):
 (a) a *GloBE Joint Venture of the Applicable MNE Group;
 (b) a *GloBE JV Subsidiary of a GloBE Joint Venture of the *Applicable MNE Group.
 (2) In addition to the application that they have under this subsection, sections  127-45 and 127-50 apply, for the Fiscal Year, in relation to the *GloBE Joint Venture or the *GloBE JV Subsidiary in the same way they apply in relation to a *Group Entity of an Applicable MNE Group.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), treat:
 (a) the *GloBE Joint Venture and its *GloBE JV Subsidiaries as *Group Entities of a separate *Applicable MNE Group for the *Fiscal Year; and
 (b) the GloBE Joint Venture as the *GloBE Ultimate Parent Entity of that separate Applicable MNE Group.
 (4) Subsection (5) applies if:
 (a) a *Designated Local Entity of the *Applicable MNE Group mentioned in subsection (1) for a *Fiscal Year has been appointed, by each Entity mentioned in paragraphs (1)(a) and (b) that is required to give the Commissioner an *Australian DMT tax return for the Fiscal Year (each of which is a reporting Entity), to give an Australian DMT tax return for the Fiscal Year to the Commissioner on behalf of the reporting Entity; and
 (b) the Designated Local Entity gives an Australian DMT tax return for the Fiscal Year to the Commissioner on behalf of those reporting Entities in accordance with subsection  127-45(3).
 (5) Each of the reporting Entities is taken to give the *Australian DMT tax return to the Commissioner at the time at which the *Designated Local Entity gives the Australian DMT tax return to the Commissioner.
 (6) However, subsection  (5) does not apply to the reporting Entities if any reporting Entity appoints more than one *Designated Local Entity under paragraph  (4)(a) for the Fiscal Year.
Note: In these circumstances, section 127-50 may still apply.
 Other provisions
Section 127-60 When returns must be given
 (1) A *GloBE Information Return, *Australian IIR/UTPR tax return or *Australian DMT tax return for a *Fiscal Year must be given to the Commissioner no later than 15 months after the end of the Fiscal Year.
 (2) However:
 (a) if the *Fiscal Year is the relevant *Applicable MNE Group&#39;s *GloBE Transition Year, the *GloBE Information Return, *Australian IIR/UTPR tax return or *Australian DMT tax return must be given to the Commissioner no later than 18 months after the end of the Fiscal Year; and
 (b) a GloBE Information Return that a *Group Entity is required to give to the Commissioner under subsection 127-20(5) must be given no later than the later of:
 (i) the day by which the Group Entity would, apart from section  127-20, be required to give the GloBE Information Return to the Commissioner under section 127-5; and
 (ii) 21 days after the Commissioner gives the request under subsection  127-20(4) to the Group Entity.
 (3) Section 388-55 (Commissioner may defer time for lodgment) does not apply to the requirement to give a *GloBE Information Return or a notice under paragraph 127-20(2)(b).
Section 127-65 GloBE Main Entities and GloBE Permanent Establishments
 (1) This section applies if a *Group Entity of an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal year is a *GloBE Main Entity in respect of a *GloBE Permanent Establishment.
 (2) This Subdivision:
 (a) applies to the *Group Entity in its own capacity; and
 (b) also applies to the Group Entity in its capacity as the *GloBE Main Entity in respect of the *GloBE Permanent *Establishment.
 (3) If the *Group Entity is not *GloBE located in Australia and the *GloBE Permanent *Establishment is GloBE located in Australia, sections 127-5 to 127-30 apply in relation to the Group Entity in the same way that they apply in relation to a Group Entity that is GloBE located in Australia.
Subdivision 127-B--When taxes are due and payable etc.
Table of sections
 Operative provisions
Section 127-70 When Australian IIR/UTPR tax and Australian DMT tax and related charges are due and payable
Section 127-75 Assessments of Australian IIR/UTPR tax and Australian DMT tax
 Operative provisions
Section 127-70 When Australian IIR/UTPR tax and Australian DMT tax and related charges are due and payable
Original assessments
 (1) If a *Group Entity of an *Applicable MNE Group is liable to pay an amount of *Australian IIR/UTPR tax or *Australian DMT tax for a *Fiscal Year, the amount is due and payable on the last day of the 15th month after the end of the Fiscal Year.
 (2) However, if the *Fiscal Year is the *Applicable MNE Group&#39;s *GloBE Transition Year, the amount is due and payable on the last day of the 18th month after the end of the Fiscal Year.
Amended assessments
 (3) If the Commissioner amends a *Group Entity&#39;s assessment of an amount of *Australian IIR/UTPR tax or *Australian DMT tax, any extra such tax resulting from the amendment is due and payable 21 days after the day the Commissioner gives the Group Entity notice of the amended assessment.
Shortfall interest charge
 (4) If a *Group Entity is liable to pay an amount of *shortfall interest charge under section  280-102E, the amount is due and payable 21 days after the day the Commissioner gives the Group Entity notice of the charge.
General interest charge
 (5) If an amount of *Australian IIR/UTPR tax or *Australian DMT tax or *shortfall interest charge payable under this section remains unpaid after it is due and payable, the *Group Entity is liable to pay *general interest charge on the unpaid amount for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the amount was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day at the end of which any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the amount of such tax or shortfall interest charge;
 (ii) general interest charge on any of the amount of such tax or shortfall interest charge.
Section 127-75 Assessments of Australian IIR/UTPR tax and Australian DMT tax
 (1) In applying Division  155 in relation to an amount of *Australian IIR/UTPR tax or *Australian DMT tax, apply the provisions of that Division with the modification set out in subsection  (2) of this section.
 (2) Despite subsection  155-35(2), the period of review, for an assessment of an amount of *Australian IIR/UTPR tax for a *Fiscal Year, is:
 (a) the period of 4 years starting on the later of:
 (i) the day on which the *GloBE Information Return for the relevant *Applicable MNE Group for the Fiscal Year is given to the Commissioner; and
 (ii) the day on which the *Australian IIR/UTPR tax return for the relevant *Group Entity for the Fiscal Year is given to the Commissioner; or
 (b) if the period of review is extended under subsection  155-35(3) or (4)--the period as so extended.
 (3) Despite subsection  155-35(2), the period of review, for an assessment of an amount of *Australian DMT tax for a *Fiscal Year, is:
 (a) the period of 4 years starting on the later of:
 (i) the day on which the *GloBE Information Return for the relevant *Applicable MNE Group for the Fiscal Year is given to the Commissioner; and
 (ii) the day on which the *Australian DMT tax return for the relevant *Group Entity for the Fiscal Year is given to the Commissioner; or
 (b) if the period of review is extended under subsection  155-35(3) or (4)--the period as so extended.
Subdivision 127-C--GloBE Excluded Entities
Table of sections
 Operative provisions
Section 127-80 Provisions do not apply to GloBE Excluded Entities
 Operative provisions
Section 127-80 Provisions do not apply to GloBE Excluded Entities
  A reference in this Division to a *Group Entity does not include a reference to a *GloBE Excluded Entity.
Division 128--Extended application of tax laws relating to Australian IIR/UTPR tax and Australian DMT tax
Table of Subdivisions
  Guide to Division 128
Section 128-A Additional liability of Entities in Group or JV Group
Section 128-B Extended application to certain types of entity
Section 128-C GloBE Excluded Entities
 Guide to Division 128
Section 128-1 What this Division is about
This Division extends onto other entities the obligations and liabilities of various entities under the Minimum Tax law.
Subdivision 128-A--Additional liability of Entities in Group or JV Group
Table of sections
 128-5 Additional liability of Group Entities of Applicable MNE Group
Section 128-10 Additional liability of Entities in a JV Group
Section 128-5 Additional liability of Group Entities of Applicable MNE Group
 (1) If an amount is payable under the *Minimum Tax law by a *Group Entity of an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year:
 (a) that Group Entity; and
 (b) each other Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group (other than a Group Entity excluded by subsection  (2));
are jointly and severally liable to pay the amount.
 (2) For the purposes of subsection  (1), a *Group Entity is excluded by this subsection if it is, at the time the amount becomes due and payable, prohibited according to the effect of an *Australian law from entering into any arrangement under which the Group Entity becomes subject to a liability referred to in that subsection.
Section 128-10 Additional liability of Entities in a JV Group
 (1) Subsection (2) applies if an amount is payable under the *Minimum Tax law by any of the following:
 (a) a *GloBE Joint Venture of an *Applicable MNE Group;
 (b) a *GloBE JV Subsidiary of a GloBE Joint Venture of an Applicable MNE Group.
 (2) Each of the following Entities (other than an Entity excluded by subsection  (3)) is jointly and severally liable to pay the amount:
 (a) the *GloBE Joint Venture;
 (b) a *GloBE JV Subsidiary of the GloBE Joint Venture;
 (c) a *Group Entity of the *Applicable MNE Group that holds a Direct Ownership Interest (within the meaning of the *Minimum Tax Act) in the GloBE Joint Venture.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), an Entity is excluded by this subsection if it is, at the time the amount becomes due and payable, prohibited according to the effect of an *Australian law from entering into any arrangement under which the Entity becomes subject to a liability referred to in subsection (2).
Subdivision 128-B--Extended application to certain types of entity
Table of sections
 128-15 Trusts
Section 128-20 Partnerships
Section 128-25 Unincorporated GloBE Joint Ventures, etc. and certain unincorporated Group Entities
Section 128-15 Trusts
Obligations
 (1) Subject to subsection  (2), if an obligation is imposed under the *Minimum Tax law on a trust, the obligation is imposed on each of the following entities, but may be discharged by any such entity:
 (a) an entity that is the trustee of the trust at the time the obligation arises;
 (b) an entity that is the trustee of the trust at a time that is:
 (i) after the obligation arises; and
 (ii) before the obligation has been discharged.
Liabilities to pay an amount
 (2) If an amount is payable under the *Minimum Tax law by a trust, joint and several liability to pay the amount is imposed as set out in the table:
Amounts payable by trustsItemColumn 1If the amount is:Column 2then the following entities are jointly and severally liable to pay the amount:1*Australian IIR/UTPR tax or *Australian DMT tax for a *Fiscal Year each of the following entities:(a) an entity that is the trustee of the trust at the end of the Fiscal Year;(b) an entity that is the trustee of the trust at a time that is:(i) after the end of the Fiscal Year; and(ii) before the tax has been paid.2*general interest charge on the unpaid amount of *Australian IIR/UTPR tax or *Australian DMT tax for a *Fiscal Yeareach of the following entities:(a) an entity that is the trustee of the trust at the end of the Fiscal Year;(b) an entity that is the trustee of the trust at a time that is:(i) after the end of the Fiscal Year; and(ii) before the general interest charge has been paid.3*shortfall interest charge in relation to a *Fiscal Yeareach of the following entities:(a) an entity that is the trustee of the trust at the end of the Fiscal Year;(b) an entity that is the trustee of the trust at a time that is:(i) after the end of the Fiscal Year; and(ii) before the shortfall interest charge has been paid.
Commissioner has direct access to trust assets
 (3) For the purpose of ensuring the payment of an amount payable by an entity under this section in relation to a liability of a trust, the Commissioner has the same remedies against the property of the trust as the Commissioner would have against the property of the entity.
Right of indemnity
 (4) An entity that pays an amount of a liability it has under this section is entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of the trust for the liability.
Offences
 (5) Any offence against the *Minimum Tax law that is committed by a trust is taken to have been committed by the trustee of the trust, or, if the trust has more than one trustee, by each of the trustees.
 (6) In a prosecution of an entity for an offence that the entity is taken to have committed because of subsection  (5), it is a defence if the entity proves that the entity:
 (a) did not aid, abet, counsel or procure the relevant act or omission; and
 (b) was not in any way knowingly concerned in, or party to, the relevant act or omission (whether directly or indirectly and whether by any act or omission of the entity).
Note 1: The defence in subsection (6) does not apply in relation to offences under Part  2.4 of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: A defendant bears a legal burden in relation to the matters in subsection (6): see section  13.4 of the Criminal Code.
Section 128-20 Partnerships
Application
 (1) This section applies in relation to a *GloBE partnership that is not:
 (a) a *GloBE Joint Venture of an *Applicable MNE Group; or
 (b) a *GloBE JV Subsidiary of a GloBE Joint Venture of an Applicable MNE Group.
Obligations
 (2) Subject to subsection  (3), if an obligation is imposed under the *Minimum Tax law on the *GloBE partnership, the obligation is imposed on each partner of the GloBE partnership, but may be discharged by any such partner.
Liabilities to pay an amount
 (3) If an amount is payable under the *Minimum Tax law by the *GloBE partnership, the partners of the GloBE partnership are jointly and severally liable to pay the amount.
Offences
 (4) Any offence against the *Minimum Tax law that is committed by the *GloBE partnership is taken to have been committed by each partner of the GloBE partnership.
 (5) In a prosecution of an entity for an offence that the entity is taken to have committed because of subsection  (4), it is a defence if the entity proves that the entity:
 (a) did not aid, abet, counsel or procure the relevant act or omission; and
 (b) was not in any way knowingly concerned in, or party to, the relevant act or omission (whether directly or indirectly and whether by any act or omission of the entity).
Note 1: The defence in subsection (5) does not apply in relation to offences under Part  2.4 of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: A defendant bears a legal burden in relation to the matters in subsection (5): see section  13.4 of the Criminal Code.
Meaning of GloBE partnership
 (6) A GloBE partnership is a partnership (within the meaning of paragraph 13(1)(b) of the *Minimum Tax Act).
 (7) To avoid doubt, section  94K of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (about corporate limited partnerships) does not apply in relation to this section.
Section 128-25 Unincorporated GloBE Joint Ventures, etc. and certain unincorporated Group Entities
Obligations
 (1) Subject to subsection  (2), if an obligation is imposed under the *Minimum Tax law on a *GloBE Entity of a kind specified in an item in the table in subsection  (5), the obligation is imposed on each liable entity specified in the item, but may be discharged by any such entity.
Liabilities to pay an amount
 (2) If an amount is payable under the *Minimum Tax law by a *GloBE Entity of a kind specified in an item in the table in subsection  (5), the liable entities specified in the item are jointly and severally liable to pay the amount.
Offences
 (3) Any offence against the *Minimum Tax law that is committed by a *GloBE Entity of a kind specified in an item in the table in subsection  (5) is taken to have been committed by each liable entity specified in the item.
 (4) In a prosecution of an entity for an offence that the entity is taken to have committed because of subsection  (3), it is a defence if the entity proves that the entity:
 (a) did not aid, abet, counsel or procure the relevant act or omission; and
 (b) was not in any way knowingly concerned in, or party to, the relevant act or omission (whether directly or indirectly and whether by any act or omission of the entity).
Note 1: The defence in subsection (4) does not apply in relation to offences under Part  2.4 of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: A defendant bears a legal burden in relation to the matters in subsection (4): see section  13.4 of the Criminal Code.
Liable entities
 (5) For the purposes of subsections  (1) to (3), the following kinds of *GloBE Entity and liable entities are specified:
Liable EntitiesItemKind of *GloBE EntityLiable entity1unincorporated *GloBE Joint Venture of an *Applicable MNE Group that is a *GloBE partnershipeach partner of the unincorporated GloBE Joint Venture that is a *Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group2unincorporated *GloBE Joint Venture of an *Applicable MNE Group, that is not a trust or a *GloBE partnershipeach *Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group that holds a Direct Ownership Interest (within the meaning of the *Minimum Tax Act) in the GloBE Joint Venture3unincorporated *GloBE JV Subsidiary of a *GloBE Joint Venture of an *Applicable MNE Group, where the GloBE JV Subsidiary is a *GloBE partnershipeach partner of the unincorporated GloBE JV Subsidiary that is:(a) the GloBE Joint Venture; or(b) another GloBE JV Subsidiary of the GloBE Joint Venture; or(c) a *Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group4unincorporated *GloBE JV Subsidiary of a *GloBE Joint Venture of an *Applicable MNE Group, where the GloBE JV Subsidiary is not a trust or a *GloBE partnershipeach of the following:(a) the GloBE Joint Venture;(b) a *Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group that holds a Direct Ownership Interest (within the meaning of the *Minimum Tax Act) in the GloBE Joint Venture5unincorporated *Group Entity of an *Applicable MNE Group that is not a trust or a *GloBE partnershipeach Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group:(a) to which a portion of the unincorporated Group Entity&#39;s assets, income, expenses, cash flows and liabilities belong; or(b) that is a member of the committee of management of the unincorporated Group Entity
Subdivision 128-C--Miscellaneous
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 128-30 Provisions do not apply to GloBE Excluded Entities
Section 128-35 Joint and several liability does not extend to GloBE Securitisation Entities
 Operative provisions
Section 128-30 Provisions do not apply to GloBE Excluded Entities
  A reference in this Division to a *Group Entity does not include a reference to a *GloBE Excluded Entity.
Section 128-35 Joint and several liability does not extend to GloBE Securitisation Entities
 (1) For the purposes of paragraph  128-5(1)(b), treat a *Group Entity that is a *GloBE Securitisation Entity as being a Group Entity excluded by subsection  128-5(2).
 (2) For the purposes of subsection  128-10(2), treat a *Group Entity that is a *GloBE Securitisation Entity as being an Entity excluded by subsection  128-10(3).
Part 3-20--Superannuation
Division 131--Releasing money from superannuation
Table of Subdivisions
Section 131-A Releasing money from superannuation
Subdivision 131-A--Releasing money from superannuation
 Guide to Subdivision 131-A
Section 131-1 What this Subdivision is about
You may request the Commissioner to require the release of an amount from your superannuation interests if you are given: (a) an excess concessional contributions determination or excess non-concessional contributions determination; or (b) a notice of assessment of an amount of Division 293 tax; or (c) a first home super saver determination.The Commissioner may also require the release of an amount from your superannuation interests in related circumstances.Superannuation providers must usually pay the amount required to be released. However, for defined benefit superannuation interests the provider may choose whether or not to pay.Released amounts are paid to the Commissioner. You get a credit for the released amount. Surplus credits are refunded to you under Division  3A of Part IIB.
Table of sections
Requesting a release authority
Section 131-5 Requesting the release of amounts from superannuation interests
Section 131-10 Restrictions on the total amount you can request to be released
Section 131-12 Withdrawing or amending your request for a release authority relating to an FHSS determination
Issuing a release authority to superannuation provider
Section 131-15 Issuing release authorities
Section 131-20 Amount to be stated in a release authority
Section 131-25 Contents of a release authority
Section 131-30 Varying or revoking a release authority
Complying with a release authority
Section 131-35 Obligations of superannuation providers
Section 131-40 Voluntary compliance with a release authority relating to defined benefit interests
Section 131-45 Meaning of maximum available release amount
Section 131-50 Notifying Commissioner
Section 131-55 Notifying you
Section 131-60 Compensation for acquisition of property
Consequences of releasing amounts
Section 131-65 Entitlement to credits
Section 131-70 Interest for late payments of money received by the Commissioner in accordance with release authority
Section 131-75 Income tax treatment of amounts released--proportioning rule does not apply
Repayments if your entitlement to a credit ceases for a release authority relating to an FHSS determination
Section 131-80 Repayments if your entitlement to a credit ceases for a release authority relating to an FHSS determination
 Requesting a release authority
Section 131-5 Requesting the release of amounts from superannuation interests
 (1) You may make a request under this section for a *financial year if you are given any of the following:
 (a) an *excess concessional contributions determination for the financial year;
 (b) an *excess non-concessional contributions determination for the financial year;
 (c) a notice of assessment of an amount of *Division 293 tax payable for the income year that corresponds to the financial year;
 (d) a *first home super saver determination.
 (2) You make the request by:
 (a) notifying the Commissioner of the total amount to be released; and
 (b) identifying your *superannuation interest or interests from which that total amount is to be released; and
 (c) if you identify more than one superannuation interest--stating the amount to be released from each such interest.
 (3) The request must:
 (a) ensure that the total amount to be released for the determination or assessment complies with section  131-10; and
 (b) be in the *approved form; and
 (c) be given to the Commissioner within:
 (i) 60 days after the Commissioner issues the determination or notice referred to in subsection  (1); or
 (ii) a further period allowed by the Commissioner.
Unsuccessful requests--making a further request
 (4) If:
 (a) you make a valid request under this section; and
 (b) the Commissioner gives you a notice under subsection  131-55(1) stating an amount (the unreleased amount) that a *superannuation provider did not pay in relation to a release authority issued for that request;
you may make a further request to release the unreleased amount from another of your *superannuation interests.
 (5) The further request must comply with subsection  (2) and paragraphs (3)(a) and (b), and must be given to the Commissioner within:
 (a) 60 days after the Commissioner issues the notice mentioned in paragraph  (4)(b); or
 (b) a further period allowed by the Commissioner.
Most requests are irrevocable
 (6) Subject to section  131-12 (about requests relating to FHSS determinations), a request under this section is irrevocable.
Section 131-10 Restrictions on the total amount you can request to be released
 (1) The total amount you can request to be released complies with this section if that amount:
 (a) if item 1, 3 or 4 of the following table applies--does not exceed the relevant amount referred to in that item; or
 (b) if item 2 of the following table applies--is nil or equals the relevant amount referred to in that item.
Amount you can request to be releasedItemIf the request relates to this kind of determination or assessment (see subsection 131-5(1)):The relevant amount is:1an *excess concessional contributions determination85% of the contributions stated in that determination2an *excess non-concessional contributions determinationthe *total release amount stated in that determination3an assessment of an amount of *Division 293 taxthat amount of Division 293 tax4a *first home super saver determinationthe *FHSS maximum release amount stated in that determination
 (2) However, for an amended determination or assessment, reduce the relevant amount referred to in the above table by any amount released under this Subdivision for an earlier determination or assessment of that kind that you are given for the *financial year or corresponding income year.
 (3) An amendment of a determination or assessment does not affect the validity of a request you make under section  131-5 before you are given the amended determination or the notice of the amended assessment.
Section 131-12 Withdrawing or amending your request for a release authority relating to an FHSS determination
 (1) You may, by notifying the Commissioner in the *approved form, withdraw or amend your valid request made under section 131-5 if:
 (a) your request relates to a *first home super saver determination given to you; and
 (b) in the case of amending your request--you satisfy paragraphs  138-10(2)(a) and (b); and
 (c) the Commissioner has not already issued a release authority in relation to your request.
 (2) Your amended request is treated as a valid request under section  131-5 if it complies with subsection 131-5(2) and paragraphs 131-5(3)(a) and (c).
 (3) Withdrawing your request does not prevent you from making a later request under section  131-5 in relation to the *first home super saver determination.
 Issuing a release authority to superannuation provider
Section 131-15 Issuing release authorities
Issuing in response to a valid request
 (1) If you make a valid request under section  131-5, the Commissioner must issue a release authority to each *superannuation provider that holds a *superannuation interest identified in the request.
Issuing if you do not make a valid request in response to an excess non-concessional contributions determination etc.
 (2) If:
 (a) on a particular day, the Commissioner issues you with:
 (i) an *excess non-concessional contributions determination for a *financial year; or
 (ii) a notice to which paragraph  131-5(4)(b) applies for such a determination; and
 (b) within 60 days after that day, you do not make a valid request under section  131-5 for that determination;
the Commissioner may issue a release authority to one or more *superannuation providers that hold *superannuation interests for you.
Issuing if you are liable to pay excess non-concessional contributions tax
 (3) If you are given a notice of an *excess non-concessional contributions tax assessment for a *financial year, the Commissioner may issue a release authority to one or more *superannuation providers that hold *superannuation interests for you.
Issuing if you have an unpaid amount of assessed Division 293 tax that is not deferred to a debt account
 (4) If:
 (a) for an income year, you are given a notice of assessment of an amount of *Division 293 tax that is not *deferred to a debt account for a *superannuation interest; and
 (b) on the 60th day after the day the Commissioner issues that notice, the sum of the following falls short of that amount of tax:
 (i) any payments of that tax for the income year that you have already made;
 (ii) any amounts that have already been released under this Subdivision for that assessment;
the Commissioner may issue a release authority to one or more *superannuation providers that hold superannuation interests for you.
Section 131-20 Amount to be stated in a release authority
 (1) The amount to be released from one or more *superannuation interests under a release authority issued under section 131-15 must be:
 (a) for a release authority issued under subsection  131-15(1)--the amount stated in the request; or
 (b) otherwise--worked out so that the total amount stated for all release authorities for the applicable determination or assessment does not exceed:
 (i) for a release authority issued under subsection  131-15(2)--the *total release amount stated in the determination referred to in that subsection; or
 (ii) for a release authority issued under subsection  131-15(3) or (4)--the amount of tax stated in the assessment referred to in that subsection.
 (2) For the purposes of paragraph  (1)(b), disregard an amount stated in another release authority to the extent that a notice given under subsection 131-50(2) states that the amount will not be paid.
Section 131-25 Contents of a release authority
  Each release authority issued under section  131-15 must:
 (a) be issued to a single *superannuation provider; and
 (b) state the amount to be released from each *superannuation interest under the release authority; and
 (c) be dated; and
 (d) contain any other information that the Commissioner considers relevant.
Section 131-30 Varying or revoking a release authority
Release authority not relating to an FHSS determination
 (1) The Commissioner may decide to vary or revoke a release authority issued:
 (a) under section  131-15; and
 (b) in relation to a determination, or assessment, mentioned in paragraph  131-5(1)(a), (b) or (c) and given to you;
at any time before the Commissioner is given a notice under section 131-50 relating to the release authority.
Release authority relating to an FHSS determination
 (2) For a release authority issued under section  131-15 in relation to a *first home super saver determination given to you, the Commissioner may decide to:
 (a) vary the release authority if:
 (i) the varied release authority would be consistent with paragraph  131-5(3)(a); and
 (ii) you satisfy paragraphs  138-10(2)(a) and (b); or
 (b) revoke the release authority;
at any time before the Commissioner begins treating, under Division 3 of Part IIB, any credit to which you have become entitled under section  131-65 in relation to the release authority.
 (3) The Commissioner may make a decision under subsection  (2):
 (a) on the Commissioner&#39;s own initiative; or
 (b) on application by you to the Commissioner in the *approved form.
 (4) If a release authority is varied or revoked under subsection  (2) at a particular time, then any entitlement under section 131-65 you had to a credit relating to the release authority ceases at that time.
 (5) The revocation of a release authority under subsection  (2) does not prevent you from making a later request under section 131-5 in relation to the same *first home super saver determination.
Reissuing varied release authorities
 (6) If the Commissioner varies a release authority under this section at a particular time, then:
 (a) at that time, the release authority (as issued before the variation) ceases to be in force; and
 (b) the Commissioner must reissue the release authority (as varied) under section  131-15.
Review
 (7) If you are dissatisfied with a decision under subsection  (2) by the Commissioner in relation to you:
 (a) to vary or revoke a release authority; or
 (b) not to vary or revoke a release authority;
you may object against it in the manner set out in Part IVC of this Act.
 Complying with a release authority
Section 131-35 Obligations of superannuation providers
 (1) A *superannuation provider issued with a release authority under section 131-15 must, within 10 *business days after the release authority is issued (or a further period allowed by the Commissioner), pay to the Commissioner the lesser of:
 (a) the amount stated in the release authority; and
 (b) the sum of the *maximum available release amounts for each *superannuation interest held by the superannuation provider for you in *superannuation plans.
Note 1: Subsection 288-95(3) provides for an administrative penalty for failing to comply with this section.
Note 2: For the taxation treatment of the payment, see section  131-75.
Exception--defined benefit interests not subject to compulsory release
 (2) However, the *maximum available release amount for a *superannuation interest is not to be included in the sum worked out under paragraph  (1)(b) if the interest is a *defined benefit interest.
Section 131-40 Voluntary compliance with a release authority relating to defined benefit interests
 (1) A *superannuation provider issued with a release authority under section 131-15 may, within 10 *business days after the release authority is issued (or a further period allowed by the Commissioner), pay to the Commissioner the lesser of:
 (a) the amount stated in the release authority; and
 (b) the sum of the *maximum available release amounts for each *defined benefit interest held by the superannuation provider for you in *superannuation plans.
 (2) For the purposes of paragraph  (1)(a), reduce the amount mentioned in that paragraph by any amount the provider pays under section 131-35 in relation to the release authority.
Section 131-45 Meaning of maximum available release amount
  The maximum available release amount for a *superannuation interest at a particular time is the total amount of all the *superannuation lump sums that could be payable from the interest at that time.
Section 131-50 Notifying Commissioner
 (1) A *superannuation provider issued with a release authority under section 131-15 must notify the Commissioner of a payment made in accordance with this Subdivision.
 (2) A *superannuation provider that:
 (a) has been issued with a release authority under section  131-15; and
 (b) is not required to pay an amount under section  131-35, or is required under that section to pay an amount less than the amount stated in the release authority;
must notify the Commissioner that the provider is not required to comply with the release authority.
 (3) A notice under this section must be given in the *approved form within the period applying under subsection 131-35(1) or 131-40(1) for the release authority.
Note: Subsection 286-75(1) provides for an administrative penalty for failing to comply with this section.
Section 131-55 Notifying you
 (1) The Commissioner must notify you if, in relation to a release authority issued under section  131-15 in relation to you, the Commissioner:
 (a) is given a notice from a *superannuation provider under section 131-50; or
 (b) does not receive a payment from a superannuation provider of the full amount stated in the release authority within the time mentioned in subsection  131-35(1) or 131-40(1).
 (2) A notice under subsection  (1) must:
 (a) be in writing; and
 (b) identify the *superannuation provider; and
 (c) state how much of the amount stated in the release authority was not paid within the applicable time.
Section 131-60 Compensation for acquisition of property
 (1) If the operation of section  131-35 would result in an acquisition of property (within the meaning of paragraph 51(xxxi) of the Constitution) from an entity otherwise than on just terms (within the meaning of that paragraph), the Commonwealth is liable to pay a reasonable amount of compensation to the entity.
 (2) If the Commonwealth and the entity do not agree on the amount of the compensation, the entity may institute proceedings in:
 (a) the Federal Court of Australia; or
 (b) the Supreme Court of a State or Territory;
for the recovery from the Commonwealth of such reasonable amount of compensation as the court determines.
 Consequences of releasing amounts
Section 131-65 Entitlement to credits
 (1) If a *superannuation provider pays an amount in relation to a release authority issued under section 131-15 in relation to you, you are entitled to a credit equal to that amount.
Note: Division 3 of Part IIB provides for the treatment of credits that you are entitled to under a taxation law.
 (2) The credit arises on the day the Commissioner receives the amount.
Exception for voluntary payments of Division 293 tax debt account
 (3) However, if the amount paid in relation to the release authority relates to an amount of *assessed Division 293 tax that is *deferred to a debt account for a *superannuation interest:
 (a) subsection (1) does not apply in relation to the payment; and
 (b) treat the payment as if it were a voluntary payment under section  133-70 in relation to that debt account.
Section 131-70 Interest for late payments of money received by the Commissioner in accordance with release authority
 (1) You are entitled to an amount of interest worked out under subsection  (2) if:
 (a) the Commissioner is required under Division  3A of Part IIB to refund all or part of a credit you are entitled to under section 131-65; and
 (b) the Commissioner does not so refund all or part of that credit within 60 days after receiving the payment that gave rise to the credit.
 (2) The interest is to be calculated:
 (a) on so much of the amount of the credit as the Commissioner fails to refund under that Division; and
 (b) for the period:
 (i) beginning 60 days after the day the Commissioner receives the amount; and
 (ii) ending on the day the Commissioner refunds the amount mentioned in paragraph  (1)(a); and
 (c) on a daily basis; and
 (d) at the *base interest rate for the day the interest is calculated.
Section 131-75 Income tax treatment of amounts released--proportioning rule does not apply
  Section 307-125 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the proportioning rule) does not apply to a payment made as required or permitted under this Subdivision.
Note: The income tax treatment of released amounts is also affected by Subdivision  292-B, and section 303-15, of that Act.
 Repayments if your entitlement to a credit ceases for a release authority relating to an FHSS determination
Section 131-80 Repayments if your entitlement to a credit ceases for a release authority relating to an FHSS determination
Repaying the superannuation provider if it still holds a superannuation interest for you
 (1) If:
 (a) a *superannuation provider pays an amount (the released amount) to the Commissioner under section  131-35 or 131-40 in relation to you; and
 (b) your entitlement under section  131-65 to a credit relating to the released amount ceases under subsection 131-30(4) or 138-13(3); and
 (c) the Commissioner reasonably believes that the provider still holds a *superannuation interest for you; and
 (d) the Commissioner reasonably believes that, were the released amount to be repaid to the provider, the provider:
 (i) could allocate the repayment (the repaid amount) to that superannuation interest; and
 (ii) could later pay an amount equal to the repaid amount in response to a release authority issued under this Division in relation to a later *first home super saver determination given to you;
the Commissioner must repay the released amount to the provider.
 (2) The Commissioner must make the repayment within 30 *business days after the day the Commissioner starts holding the reasonable belief necessary to satisfy both paragraphs (1)(c) and (d).
What happens if the original provider cannot be repaid
 (3) However, if the Commissioner cannot repay the released amount under subsection  (1), the Commissioner must only pay an equivalent amount to the released amount if an item of the following table applies.
When the Commissioner must pay the equivalent amountItemIf the Commissioner reasonably believes that:then the Commissioner must pay the equivalent amount to:1(a) another release authority has been issued under section 131-15:(i) to another *superannuation provider in relation to you; and(ii) in relation to a *first home super saver determination (an FHSS determination) given to you; and(b) the other provider still holds a *superannuation interest for you; and(c) were the equivalent amount to be paid to the other provider, the other provider:(i) could allocate the equivalent amount to that superannuation interest; and(ii) could later pay an amount equal to the equivalent amount in response to a release authority issued under this Division in relation to a later FHSS determination given to youthe other *superannuation provider.2(a) another *superannuation provider holds a *superannuation interest for you; and(b) you or your *legal personal representative has notified the Commissioner of this in the *approved formthe other *superannuation provider.3(a) you satisfy a condition of release, with a nil cashing restriction, of benefits specified in a standard referred to in paragraph 31(2)(h) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993; and(b) you or your *legal personal representative has notified the Commissioner of this in the *approved formyou or your *legal personal representative (as applicable).
 (4) The Commissioner must pay the equivalent amount:
 (a) in accordance with the item of the table that is the first to so apply; and
 (b) within 30 *business days after the day that item starts to so apply.
Division 133--Division 293 tax
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 133
Section 133-A Deferral determination
Section 133-B Debt account
Section 133-C Compulsory payment
 Guide to Division 133
Section 133-1 What this Division is about
Payment of Division 293 tax is deferred to the extent to which the tax is attributable to defined benefit interests from which no superannuation benefit has yet become payable.This reflects the fact that money generally cannot be released from defined benefit interests until a superannuation benefit is paid, usually upon retirement.
Subdivision 133-A--Deferral determination
 Guide to Subdivision 133-A
Section 133-5 What this Subdivision is about
The Commissioner determines the amount of your tax that is deferred to a debt account by working out the extent to which your assessed tax is attributable to defined benefit interests.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 133-10 Determination of tax that is deferred to a debt account
Section 133-15 Defined benefit tax
Section 133-20 How to attribute the defined benefit tax to defined benefit interests
Section 133-25 Determination reducing tax deferred to a debt account
Section 133-30 General provisions applying to determinations under this Subdivision
 Operative provisions
Section 133-10 Determination of tax that is deferred to a debt account
 (1) The Commissioner must make a determination specifying the amount the Commissioner has ascertained as being the extent to which your *assessed Division 293 tax for an income year is *defined benefit tax attributable to a *superannuation interest.
Note 1: For variation and revocation, see subsection 33(3) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901.
Note 2: For general provisions, including review, see section 133-30.
 (2) The amount of *assessed Division 293 tax specified in the determination is deferred to a debt account for the *superannuation interest.
 (3) However, the Commissioner must not make a determination under this section in relation to a *superannuation interest if, at the time the determination is to be made, the *end benefit for the superannuation interest has become payable.
Note: For the meaning of end benefit, see section  133-130.
 (4) Subsection (1) does not apply if the Commissioner ascertains that no part of your *assessed Division 293 tax for an income year is *defined benefit tax attributable to a *superannuation interest.
Section 133-15 Defined benefit tax
 (1) Your defined benefit tax for an income year is the amount worked out using the formula:
where:
"defined benefit contribution component" means the amount worked out as follows:
 (a) work out the lesser of the following for the corresponding *financial year:
 (i) your *low tax contributions;
 (ii) the total amount of your *defined benefit contributions in respect of all *defined benefit interests you have in the financial year;
 (b) subtract from the result of paragraph  (a) the difference (if any) between:
 (i) your *taxable contributions for the income year; and
 (ii) your low tax contributions for the corresponding financial year.
Note: A difference may exist for paragraph (b) because of the $250,000 high income threshold: see subsection  293-20(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Exception--defined benefit contribution component is nil or less
 (2) However, if the defined benefit contribution component mentioned in subsection  (1) is nil, or a negative amount, no part of the *Division 293 tax for the income year is defined benefit tax.
Section 133-20 How to attribute the defined benefit tax to defined benefit interests
 (1) If you have one *defined benefit interest in a *financial year, your *defined benefit tax for the corresponding income year is attributable to that interest.
 (2) If you have more than one *defined benefit interest in a *financial year, your *defined benefit tax for the corresponding income year is attributable to each such interest in proportion to the *defined benefit contributions for the interest for the financial year.
Section 133-25 Determination reducing tax deferred to a debt account
 (1) If an amount of *assessed Division 293 tax that is *deferred to a debt account for a *superannuation interest is reduced as a result of an amended assessment, the Commissioner must make a determination under this section in respect of the reduced amount.
 (2) The amount so determined is a deferral reversal for the *superannuation interest.
Note: For variation and revocation, see subsection 33(3) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901.
Section 133-30 General provisions applying to determinations under this Subdivision
 (1) The Commissioner must:
 (a) make a determination as soon as practicable after:
 (i) for a determination under section  133-10--assessing the amount (whether by way of a first assessment or an amended assessment); or
 (ii) for a determination under section  133-25--amending the assessment; and
 (b) give you notice in writing of the determination as soon as practicable after making it.
 (3) The validity of the determination is not affected because any of the provisions of this Act have not been complied with.
Review
 (4) If you are dissatisfied with a determination made under this Subdivision in relation to you, you may object against the determination in the manner set out in Part  IVC.
 (5) If you are dissatisfied with a decision the Commissioner makes not to make a determination under this Subdivision:
 (a) you may object against the decision in the manner set out in Part  IVC; and
 (b) for the purpose of working out the period within which the objection must be lodged, notice of the decision is taken to have been served on you on the day notice is given to you of:
 (i) for a determination under section  133-10--the assessment of the amount; or
 (ii) for a determination under section  133-25--the amended assessment.
Note: For the period within which objections must be lodged, see section 14ZW.
Subdivision 133-B--Debt account
 Guide to Subdivision 133-B
Section 133-55 What this Subdivision is about
The Commissioner keeps debt accounts for tax that is deferred to a debt account for a superannuation interest.You can make voluntary payments of the debt account.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 133-60 Debt account to be kept for deferred tax
Section 133-65 Interest on debt account balance
Section 133-70 Voluntary payments
Section 133-75 Commissioner must notify superannuation provider of debt account
 Operative provisions
Section 133-60 Debt account to be kept for deferred tax
Accounts to be kept
 (1) The Commissioner is to keep a debt account for *Division 293 tax for you for a *superannuation interest, if an amount of your *assessed Division 293 tax is *deferred to a debt account for the superannuation interest.
Account to be debited for Division 293 tax
 (2) The Commissioner must debit the debt account for the amount of *assessed Division 293 tax that is *deferred to a debt account for the *superannuation interest.
Section 133-65 Interest on debt account balance
Interest to be debited at end of financial year
 (1) If a debt account for a *superannuation interest is in debit at the end of a *financial year, the Commissioner is to debit the account for interest on the amount by which the account is in debit, calculated at the *long term bond rate for that financial year.
Note: Interest would not be debited to a debt account that is no longer being kept by the Commissioner because the assessed Division  293 tax liability being tracked in the account has been finally discharged as mentioned in subsection 133-105(3).
Remission of interest--deferral reversal
 (2) The Commissioner may remit the whole or any part of an amount of interest debited, or to be debited, from a debt account under subsection  (1) if:
 (a) the debt account is credited:
 (i) under section  133-70 because of a *deferral reversal; or
 (ii) because a determination under section  133-10 is varied or revoked; and
 (b) the Commissioner is satisfied that, because of that credit, it would be fair and reasonable to do so.
Remission of interest--special circumstances
 (3) The Commissioner may remit the whole or any part of an amount of interest debited, or to be debited, to a debt account under subsection  (1) if the Commissioner is satisfied that, because special circumstances exist, it would be fair and reasonable to do so.
Section 133-70 Voluntary payments
 (1) You may make payments to the Commissioner for the purpose of reducing the amount by which a debt account for a *superannuation interest is in debit.
 (2) The Commissioner is to:
 (a) acknowledge receipt of the payment to you; and
 (b) credit the payment to the debt account; and
 (c) notify you of the revised balance of the debt account.
The credit mentioned in paragraph (b) is to be made when the payment is received.
 (3) The amount of a *deferral reversal for the *superannuation interest is to be treated as if it were a voluntary payment under this section in relation to the debt account for that interest. However, paragraphs  (2)(a) and (c) do not apply in relation to that amount.
Section 133-75 Commissioner must notify superannuation provider of debt account
  If the Commissioner starts to keep a debt account for *Division 293 tax for you for a *superannuation interest, the Commissioner must give the *superannuation provider in relation to the superannuation interest a notice saying so.
Subdivision 133-C--Compulsory payment
 Guide to Subdivision 133-C
Section 133-100 What this Subdivision is about
The deferred tax liability must be paid when a superannuation benefit becomes payable from the superannuation interest.In some cases, the amount that must be paid is capped.
Table of sections
Debt account discharge liability
Section 133-105 Liability to pay debt account discharge liability
Section 133-110 When debt account discharge liability must be paid
Section 133-115 General interest charge
Section 133-120 Meaning of debt account discharge liability
Section 133-125 Notice of debt account discharge liability
End benefit
Section 133-130 Meaning of end benefit
Section 133-135 Superannuation provider may request debt account status
Section 133-140 End benefit notice--superannuation provider
Section 133-145 End benefit notice--material changes or omissions
 Debt account discharge liability
Section 133-105 Liability to pay debt account discharge liability
 (1) You are liable to pay the amount of your *debt account discharge liability for a *superannuation interest if the *end benefit for the interest becomes payable.
 (2) The liability arises:
 (a) unless paragraph (b) applies--at the time the *end benefit becomes payable; or
 (b) if the end benefit is a *superannuation death benefit--just before you die.
Note 1: For paragraph (a), a release authority allows money to be released from the superannuation plan to pay this amount: see subsection  135-10(1).
Note 2: For paragraph (b), the debt will be recovered from your estate: see Subdivision  260-E.
 (3) Payment of your *debt account discharge liability for a *superannuation interest discharges your liability for so much of your total *assessed Division 293 tax for all income years as is *deferred to a debt account for the superannuation interest.
Section 133-110 When debt account discharge liability must be paid
  The amount of your *debt account discharge liability for a *superannuation interest is due and payable at the end of 21 days after the day on which the *end benefit for the superannuation interest is paid.
Section 133-115 General interest charge
  If your *debt account discharge liability remains unpaid after the time by which it is due and payable, you are liable to pay the *general interest charge on the unpaid amount for each day in the period that:
 (a) begins on the day on which the debt account discharge liability was due to be paid; and
 (b) ends on the last day on which, at the end of the day, any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the debt account discharge liability;
 (ii) general interest charge on any of the debt account discharge liability.
Note: The general interest charge is worked out under Part IIA.
Section 133-120 Meaning of debt account discharge liability
 (1) The debt account discharge liability for a *superannuation interest for which the Commissioner keeps a debt account is the amount by which the debt account is in debit at the time the *end benefit for the superannuation interest becomes payable.
 (1A) However, if the end benefit cap for the *superannuation interest stated in a notice given to the Commissioner under subsection (2) of this section or section  133-140 is less than the amount mentioned in subsection (1) of this section, the debt account discharge liability for the superannuation interest is an amount equal to the end benefit cap.
 (2) If requested by the Commissioner, the *superannuation provider in relation to a *superannuation interest must give the Commissioner notice of the amount (the end benefit cap) that is 15% of the employer -financed component of any part of the *value of the superannuation interest that accrued after 1 July 2012.
Note: If a person is dissatisfied with a notice given to the Commissioner under this subsection, the person may make a complaint under the AFCA scheme (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001).
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the *value of the *superannuation interest is to be worked out at the end of the *financial year before the financial year in which the *end benefit becomes payable.
 (4) A notice under subsection  (2) must be given:
 (a) in the *approved form; and
 (b) within 14 days of the Commissioner making the request.
Section 133-125 Notice of debt account discharge liability
 (1) The Commissioner must give you a notice under this section if the *end benefit becomes payable from a *superannuation interest for which the Commissioner keeps a debt account.
 (2) The notice must state that you are liable to pay your *debt account discharge liability for the *superannuation interest and specify:
 (a) the amount of that debt; and
 (b) the day on which that debt is due and payable; and
 (c) whether the amount of that debt is:
 (i) the amount by which the debt account is in debit as mentioned in subsection  133-120(1); or
 (ii) the end benefit cap mentioned in subsection  133-120(1A).
 (3) If you are dissatisfied with a notice given under this section in relation to you, you may object against it in the manner set out in Part  IVC of this Act.
 (4) However, you cannot object against a notice stating that the amount you are liable to pay is the amount by which the debt account is in debit, unless you are seeking to be liable to pay the end benefit cap specified in a notice given to the Commissioner by the *superannuation provider under subsection (2) or section 133-140 (as the case requires).
 End benefit
Section 133-130 Meaning of end benefit
 (1) A *superannuation benefit is the end benefit for a *superannuation interest if it is the first superannuation benefit to become payable from the interest, disregarding a benefit that is any of the following:
 (a) a *roll-over superannuation benefit paid to a *complying superannuation plan that is a *successor fund;
 (b) a benefit that becomes payable under the condition of release specified in item  105 of the table in Schedule 1 to the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994 (about severe financial hardship);
 (c) a benefit that becomes payable under the condition of release specified in item  107 of that table (about compassionate ground);
 (d) a benefit specified in an instrument under subsection  (2).
 (2) The Minister may, by legislative instrument, specify a *superannuation benefit for the purposes of paragraph (1)(d).
Section 133-135 Superannuation provider may request debt account status
 (1) If:
 (a) a *superannuation provider has been given a notice under section 133-75 saying that the Commissioner has started to keep a debt account for a *superannuation interest; and
 (b) the superannuation provider receives a request to pay the *end benefit from the superannuation interest or the end benefit becomes payable from the superannuation interest;
the superannuation provider may, in the *approved form, request the Commissioner to advise as to the status of the debt account.
 (2) If the Commissioner receives a request, the Commissioner must advise the *superannuation provider as soon as practicable whether or not the debt account is in debit.
Section 133-140 End benefit notice--superannuation provider
 (1) If the *end benefit becomes payable from a *superannuation interest for which the Commissioner keeps a debt account, the *superannuation provider in relation to the interest must give the Commissioner a notice stating:
 (a) unless subsection  (1A) applies--the amount of the end benefit cap mentioned in subsection 133-120(2) for the superannuation interest; and
 (b) the expected date of payment of the benefit.
Note: If a person is dissatisfied with a notice given to the Commissioner under this subsection, the person may make a complaint under the AFCA scheme (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001).
 (1A) The notice does not need to state the amount of the end benefit cap if:
 (a) the *superannuation provider has already given the Commissioner notice of the end benefit cap under subsection 133-120(2); or
 (b) before the end of the period mentioned in subsection  (2), the Commissioner has advised the superannuation provider under subsection 133-135(2) that the debt account is not in debit.
 (2) The notice must be given within 14 days after the earlier of:
 (a) the *superannuation provider receiving a request (if any) to pay the *superannuation benefit; and
 (b) the superannuation benefit becoming payable.
 (3) However, this section does not apply if the *superannuation provider has not been given a notice under section 133-75 saying that the Commissioner has started to keep a debt account for the *superannuation interest.
 (4) A notice under this section must be given in the *approved form.
Section 133-145 End benefit notice--material changes or omissions
 (1) If an entity that gives the Commissioner a notice under section  133-140 becomes aware of a material change or material omission in any information given to the Commissioner in the notice, the entity must:
 (a) tell the Commissioner of the change in the *approved form; or
 (b) give the omitted information to the Commissioner in the approved form.
 (2) Information required by this section must be given no later than 7 days after the entity becomes aware of the change or omission.
Division 135--Releasing money from superannuation
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 135
Section 135-A When the Commissioner must issue a release authority
Section 135-B When a release authority can be given to a superannuation provider
Section 135-C Release of superannuation money under a release authority
 Guide to Division 135
Section 135-1 What this Division is about
This Division contains rules about release authorities, which allow money to be released from a superannuation plan to pay your debt account discharge liability.
Subdivision 135-A--When the Commissioner must issue a release authority
 Guide to Subdivision 135-A
Section 135-5 What this Subdivision is about
The Commissioner must issue you with a release authority to allow money to be released from a superannuation plan to pay your debt account discharge liability.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 135-10 Release authorities
 Operative provisions
Section 135-10 Release authorities
 (1) If the condition mentioned in column 1 of an item in the following table is satisfied:
 (a) the Commissioner must issue you with a release authority under that item; and
 (b) you have a release entitlement:
 (i) equal to the amount mentioned in column 2 of that item; and
 (ii) arising at the time mentioned in column 3 of that item.
Release entitlementItemColumn 1Condition:Column 2Amount of the release entitlement:Column 3Time at which the release entitlement arises:3You become liable to pay your *debt account discharge liability for a *superannuation interestThe amount of your debt account discharge liabilityOn the giving of the notice under section 133-125
Note: A release authority issued under item 3 of the table can only be given to the superannuation provider that holds the superannuation interest to which the debt account relates: see subsection  135-40(3).
Requirements for release authority
 (2) A release authority must:
 (a) state the amount of the *release entitlement in respect of which it is given; and
 (b) be dated; and
 (c) contain any other information that the Commissioner considers relevant.
Commissioner may issue a further release authority
 (3) The Commissioner may at any time issue you with a further release authority in respect of a *release entitlement if:
 (a) the Commissioner is satisfied that it is reasonable in the circumstances to do so; and
 (b) the Commissioner has issued you with an earlier release authority in respect of that release entitlement.
Despite paragraph (2)(a), the further release authority must state the amount the Commissioner considers reasonable in the circumstances, but not exceeding the amount of the release entitlement.
Note: For variation and revocation of release authorities, see subsection 33(3) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901.
Release authority not to be issued to trustee of deceased estate
 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not require or permit the Commissioner to issue a release authority to the trustee of a deceased estate.
Subdivision 135-B--When a release authority can be given to a superannuation provider
 Guide to Subdivision 135-B
Section 135-35 What this Subdivision is about
You may give a release authority to a superannuation provider within 120 days of being issued with it.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 135-40 When you may give release authority to superannuation provider
 Operative provisions
Section 135-40 When you may give release authority to superannuation provider
 (1) You may give the release authority to a *superannuation provider that holds a *superannuation interest for you within 120 days after the date of the release authority.
 (2) You may request the *superannuation provider, in writing, to pay a specified amount in relation to the release authority.
Note 1: For the amount that the provider pays under a release authority, see section  135-85.
Note 2: If excess amounts are paid in relation to a release authority:
        (a) the excess is assessable income (see section  304-20 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997); and
        (b) you are liable to an administrative penalty (see section  288-100 in this Schedule).
 (3) However, a release authority issued under item  3 of the table in subsection 135-10(1) (for debt account discharge liability) may only be given to the *superannuation provider that holds the *superannuation interest to which the debt account relates.
Subdivision 135-C--Release of superannuation money under a release authority
 Guide to Subdivision 135-C
Section 135-70 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision sets out a general requirement for a superannuation provider to comply with a release authority.The Subdivision also includes provisions about how much must be paid, who it must be paid to, which interest it is to be paid from, and how the payments are treated by the Commissioner.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 135-75 Requirement for superannuation provider to release money
Section 135-80 Compensation for acquisition of property
Section 135-85 Release amount
Section 135-90 How the Commissioner applies amounts received under a release authority
Section 135-95 Defined benefit interests--releasing amounts to pay debt account discharge liability
Section 135-100 Income tax treatment of amounts released--proportioning rule does not apply
 Operative provisions
Section 135-75 Requirement for superannuation provider to release money
 (1) If:
 (a) a *superannuation provider has been given a release authority in accordance with Subdivision 135-B; and
 (b) the amount mentioned in section  135-85 (the release amount) is greater than nil;
the superannuation provider must pay the release amount within 30 days after receiving the release authority.
Who superannuation provider pays the amount to
 (2) The release amount must be paid to the Commissioner.
Note 1: Section 288-95 provides for an administrative penalty for failing to comply with this section.
Note 2: For the taxation treatment of the payment, see sections 303-20 and 304 -20 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Note 3: For reporting obligations on the superannuation provider in these circumstances, see section  390-65 in this Schedule.
Which superannuation interest the amount is to be paid from
 (4) The payment must be made out of one or more *superannuation interests (other than a *defined benefit interest) held by the *superannuation provider for the individual.
Section 135-80 Compensation for acquisition of property
 (1) If the operation of section  135-75 would result in an acquisition of property (within the meaning of paragraph 51(xxxi) of the Constitution) from an entity otherwise than on just terms (within the meaning of that paragraph), the Commonwealth is liable to pay a reasonable amount of compensation to the entity.
 (2) If the Commonwealth and the entity do not agree on the amount of the compensation, the entity may institute proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction for the recovery from the Commonwealth of such reasonable amount of compensation as the court determines.
Section 135-85 Release amount
  The amount is the least of the following amounts:
 (a) the amount stated in the release authority, as issued by the Commissioner;
 (b) if the individual or Commissioner requests the *superannuation provider, in writing, to pay a specified amount in relation to the release authority--that amount;
 (c) the sum of the *maximum available release amounts for each *superannuation interest (other than a *defined benefit interest) held by the superannuation provider for the individual in *superannuation plans.
Note: For the maximum available release amount, see section  131-45.
Section 135-90 How the Commissioner applies amounts received under a release authority
  If the Commissioner receives a payment under a release authority, it is taken for the purposes of Part  IIB to have been received in respect of a current or anticipated tax debt of the individual.
Note: Part IIB is about running balance accounts and the application of payments and credits.
Section 135-95 Defined benefit interests--releasing amounts to pay debt account discharge liability
  The exclusion of *defined benefit interests from subsection 135-75(4) and paragraph 135-85(c) is to be disregarded for a release authority issued under item  3 of the table in subsection 135-10(1) (about debt account discharge liability).
Section 135-100 Income tax treatment of amounts released--proportioning rule does not apply
  Section 307-125 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the proportioning rule) does not apply to a payment made as required or permitted under this Division.
Note: Further provisions about the income tax treatment of amounts released are in sections  303-20 and 304-20 of that Act.
Division 136--Transfer balance cap
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 136
Section 136-A Excess transfer balance determinations
Section 136-B Commutation authorities
 Guide to Division 136
Section 136-1 What this Division is about
If you have excess transfer balance in your transfer balance account, the Commissioner may require you and your superannuation income stream provider to reduce the total amount of your superannuation income streams that are in the retirement phase.
Subdivision 136-A--Excess transfer balance determinations
 Guide to Subdivision 136-A
Section 136-5 What this Subdivision is about
If your transfer balance account exceeds the transfer balance cap, the excess must be reduced by commuting in full or in part your superannuation income streams that are in the retirement phase.If you have more than one superannuation income stream, you may choose which one to commute.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 136-10 Excess transfer balance determination
Section 136-15 Review
Section 136-20 Electing to commute a different superannuation income stream
Section 136-25 Notifying Commissioner of transfer balance debits
 Operative provisions
Section 136-10 Excess transfer balance determination
 (1) If you have *excess transfer balance in your *transfer balance account at the end of a day, the Commissioner may make a written determination stating the amount of that excess transfer balance.
Note: It is not necessary for the Commissioner to issue a determination under this subsection if the Commissioner becomes aware that you no longer have an excess transfer balance. You are still liable to pay excess transfer balance tax if no determination is issued: see Subdivision  294-F of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (2) A determination under this section is an excess transfer balance determination.
 (3) The amount of *excess transfer balance stated in an *excess transfer balance determination is a crystallised reduction amount.
 (4) The Commissioner may amend or revoke an *excess transfer balance determination at any time before a commutation authority relating to the determination is issued under section  136-55.
 (5) Notice of a determination given by the Commissioner under this section is prima facie evidence of the matters stated in the notice.
Determination to include default commutation notice
 (6) A determination made under subsection  (1) must include a notice:
 (a) stating that, if you do not make an election under section  136-20 within the period specified in that section, the Commissioner will issue one or more commutation authorities; and
 (b) specifying:
 (i) the *superannuation income stream provider or providers to whom a commutation authority will be issued; and
 (ii) the *superannuation income stream or streams that the providers will be obliged to commute in full or in part; and
 (iii) if more than one commutation authority will be issued--the amount to be stated in each commutation authority, or the method the Commissioner will use to work out the amount to be stated in each commutation authority.
 (7) A notice included with an *excess transfer balance determination in accordance with subsection (6) is a default commutation notice .
Section 136-15 Review
 (1) If you are dissatisfied with an *excess transfer balance determination made in relation to you, you may object against the determination in the manner set out in Part IVC.
 (2) However, for the purposes of Part  IVC, the *default commutation notice does not form part of the taxation decision.
Section 136-20 Electing to commute a different superannuation income stream
 (1) This section applies to you if:
 (a) you receive an *excess transfer balance determination under section 136-10; and
 (b) you are the *retirement phase recipient of 2 or more *superannuation income streams.
 (2) You may elect which of those *superannuation income streams is to be fully or partially commuted for the purpose of reducing the *transfer balance in your *transfer balance account by the *crystallised reduction amount.
Requirements for election
 (3) You make an election under subsection  (2) by:
 (a) identifying the *superannuation income stream or streams to be commuted in full or in part and the *superannuation income stream provider for each such stream; and
 (b) if you identify more than one superannuation income stream--stating the amount to be commuted from each such income stream.
 (4) The election must:
 (a) be in the *approved form; and
 (b) be given to the Commissioner within:
 (i) 60 days after the *excess transfer balance determination or amended excess transfer balance determination is issued; or
 (ii) a further period allowed by the Commissioner.
Election is irrevocable
 (5) An election under this section is irrevocable.
Section 136-25 Notifying Commissioner of transfer balance debits
 (1) This section applies to you if you have received an *excess transfer balance determination.
 (2) You may notify the Commissioner in the *approved form of the amount of a *transfer balance debit that arises in your *transfer balance account if the debit arises in the period:
 (a) beginning when the determination is made; and
 (b) ending at the earlier of:
 (i) the time you made an election under section  136-20; and
 (ii) the end of the period within which an election under section  136-20 may be made.
Subdivision 136-B--Commutation authorities
 Guide to Subdivision 136-B
Section 136-50 What this Subdivision is about
The Commissioner must issue a commutation authority to a superannuation income stream provider, unless you have notified the Commissioner that you have already reduced your excess transfer balance by the crystallised reduction amount.A superannuation income stream provider will usually be required to commute the superannuation income stream stated in the authority.
Table of sections
Obligations of Commissioner
Section 136-55 Issuing of commutation authorities
Section 136-60 Varying and revoking a commutation authority
Section 136-65 Issuing further commutation authorities
Section 136-70 Notifying of non-commutable excess transfer balance
Obligations of superannuation income stream providers
Section 136-80 Obligations on superannuation income stream providers
Section 136-85 Notifying the Commissioner
Section 136-90 Notifying you
 Obligations of Commissioner
Section 136-55 Issuing of commutation authorities
Commutation authority must be issued if there is a commutable amount
 (1) The Commissioner must issue a commutation authority under this section to one or more *superannuation income stream providers if:
 (a) an *excess transfer balance determination has been issued to you; and
 (b) the excess transfer balance determination has not been revoked; and
 (c) the period mentioned in subsection  136-20(4) has ended; and
 (d) an amount (the commutable amount) greater than nil remains after reducing the *crystallised reduction amount by the sum of any *transfer balance debits notified to the Commissioner under section 136-25.
Issuing in response to a valid election
 (2) If you have made a valid election under section  136-20, the Commissioner must issue a commutation authority under this section to each *superannuation income stream provider identified in your election.
 (3) If the total of the amounts stated in your election under section  136-20 falls short of the commutable amount, the Commissioner must also issue a commutation authority to one or more *superannuation income stream providers specified in the *default commutation notice.
Issuing if you do not make a valid election
 (4) If you have not made a valid election under section  136-20, the Commissioner must issue a commutation authority to each *superannuation income stream provider specified in the *default commutation notice.
Requirements for commutation authority
 (5) Each commutation authority must:
 (a) specify the *superannuation income stream that the *superannuation income stream provider is to commute, in full or in part; and
 (b) state the amount (the reduction amount) by which the superannuation income stream is to be reduced; and
 (c) be dated; and
 (d) contain any other information that the Commissioner considers relevant.
 (6) The total of all reduction amounts stated in commutation authorities issued under this section relating to an *excess transfer balance determination must not exceed the commutable amount.
Section 136-60 Varying and revoking a commutation authority
  The Commissioner may vary or revoke a commutation authority at any time before the Commissioner receives a notice under section  136-85 relating to the commutation authority.
Section 136-65 Issuing further commutation authorities
 (1) The Commissioner may issue a commutation authority under this section to one or more *superannuation income stream providers under this section if:
 (a) a commutation authority (the original commutation authority) was issued under section 136-55; and
 (b) the *superannuation income stream provider to which the original commutation authority was issued:
 (i) paid a *superannuation lump sum that fell short of the reduction amount stated in the original commutation authority; or
 (ii) did not comply with the original commutation authority.
 (2) A commutation authority issued under this section must include the matters set out in subsection  136-55(5).
 (3) The Commissioner may issue a commutation authority under this section to any *superannuation income stream provider of a *superannuation income stream of which you are the *retirement phase recipient.
 (4) The total of all reduction amounts stated in commutation authorities issued under this section relating to an *excess transfer balance determination must not exceed the difference between:
 (a) the commutable amount mentioned in subsection  136-55(1); and
 (b) the sum of:
 (i) any *superannuation lump sums notified to the Commissioner under section 136-85 in respect of the determination; and
 (ii) any *transfer balance debits arising in your *transfer balance account under item 5 of the table in subsection  294-80(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 because of any original commutation authority.
Section 136-70 Notifying of non-commutable excess transfer balance
 (1) The Commissioner must notify you in writing if, at the end of a day after the Commissioner has issued an *excess transfer balance determination to you:
 (a) the sum of all *transfer balance debits arising in your *transfer balance account since the determination was issued falls short of the *crystallised reduction amount; and
 (b) you have *excess transfer balance in your transfer balance account; and
 (c) either:
 (i) the only *superannuation income streams of which you are a *retirement phase recipient are *capped defined benefit income streams; or
 (ii) you are no longer a retirement phase recipient of any superannuation income stream.
Note: A debit arises in your transfer balance account when the Commissioner issues a notice under this section: see item  7 of the table in subsection 294-80(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (2) A notice under subsection  (1) must state the amount of the *excess transfer balance mentioned in paragraph (1)(b).
 Obligations of superannuation income stream providers
Section 136-80 Obligations on superannuation income stream providers
 (1) A *superannuation income stream provider issued with a commutation authority under this Subdivision must, within 60 days after the commutation authority is issued, pay by way of commutation of the specified *superannuation income stream, a *superannuation lump sum equal to the lesser of:
 (a) the reduction amount stated in the commutation authority; and
 (b) the *maximum available release amount for the *superannuation interest that supports the specified superannuation income stream.
Exception for capped defined benefit income streams
 (2) Despite subsection  (1), if the specified *superannuation income stream is a *capped defined benefit income stream, the *superannuation income stream provider may choose not to comply with the commutation authority.
Exception for deceased member
 (3) Despite subsection  (1), if the *retirement phase recipient has died, the *superannuation income stream provider may choose not to comply with the commutation authority.
Section 136-85 Notifying the Commissioner
 (1) A *superannuation income stream provider issued with a commutation authority under this Subdivision must notify the Commissioner of the amount of a *superannuation lump sum paid in accordance with the commutation authority.
 (2) If a *superannuation income stream provider chooses under subsection 136-80(2) or (3) not to comply with the commutation authority, the provider must notify the Commissioner of that choice.
 (3) A notice under this section must be in the *approved form and must be given within 60 days after the commutation authority is issued.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
Section 136-90 Notifying you
 (1) A *superannuation income stream provider issued with a commutation authority under this Subdivision must notify you if the superannuation income stream provider:
 (a) pays a *superannuation lump sum in accordance with the commutation authority; or
 (b) chooses under subsection  136-80(2) not to comply with the commutation authority.
 (2) A notice under this section must be in the *approved form and must be given within 60 days after the commutation authority is issued.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
Division 138--First home super saver scheme
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 138
Section 138-A First home super saver determination
Section 138-B FHSS maximum release amount
 Guide to Division 138
Section 138-1 What this Division is about
If you have had voluntary contributions into superannuation, you may be eligible to have those contributions and their associated earnings released for the purposes of purchasing or constructing your first home.
Subdivision 138-A--First home super saver determination
 Guide to Subdivision 138-A
Section 138-5 What this Subdivision is about
If you satisfy particular criteria, you may request that the Commissioner make a determination stating your FHSS maximum release amount and the components that make up that amount.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 138-10 First home super saver determination
Section 138-12 Withdrawing or amending your request
Section 138-13 Amending or revoking a first home super saver determination
Section 138-15 Review
 Operative provisions
Section 138-10 First home super saver determination
First home super saver determination
 (1) A first home super saver determination is a written determination stating:
 (a) your *FHSS maximum release amount; and
 (b) the amount of each of the following components that make up your FHSS maximum release amount:
 (i) your *concessional contributions;
 (ii) your *non-concessional contributions;
 (iii) your associated earnings.
Requesting a first home super saver determination
 (2) You may request the Commissioner, in the *approved form, to make a *first home super saver determination if:
 (a) you have never held:
 (i) a legal interest in an estate in fee simple in real property in Australia; or
 (ii) a legal interest in a lease of land in Australia (including a renewal or extension of such a lease) as described in paragraph  104-115(1)(b) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or
 (iii) a company title interest (within the meaning of Part  X of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) in land in Australia; and
 (b) you are 18 years or older; and
 (c) subsection (2C) applies for you.
 (2A) If the Commissioner determines that you have suffered a financial hardship, you are taken to have satisfied paragraph  (2)(a).
 (2B) The regulations may specify the circumstances in which the Commissioner is to determine that a person has suffered a financial hardship for the purposes of subsection  (2A).
 (2C) This subsection applies for you if:
 (a) you have not previously made a valid request for a release authority under Division  131 in relation to a *first home super saver determination made in relation to you; or
 (b) one of the following subparagraphs applies for each of your previous valid requests for such a release authority:
 (i) you have withdrawn the request;
 (ii) the Commissioner has revoked the release authority issued in relation to the request (whether or not the release authority had previously been varied);
 (iii) after one or more amendments of the request, you have withdrawn the latest of those amended requests;
 (iv) the Commissioner has revoked the release authority issued in relation to the latest of one or more amendments of the request (whether or not the release authority had previously been varied).
Making a first home super saver determination etc.
 (3) If you make a valid request under subsection  (2), the Commissioner must make a *first home super saver determination in relation to you.
 (5) Notice of a determination given by the Commissioner under this section is prima facie evidence of the matters stated in the notice.
Section 138-12 Withdrawing or amending your request
 (1) You may, by notifying the Commissioner in the *approved form, withdraw or amend your valid request made under section 138-10 if:
 (a) in the case of amending your request--you satisfy paragraphs  138-10(2)(a) to (c); and
 (b) the Commissioner has not already made a *first home super saver determination in relation to your request.
 (2) Your amended request is treated as a valid request under section  138-10.
 (3) Withdrawing your request does not prevent you from making a later request under section  138-10.
Section 138-13 Amending or revoking a first home super saver determination
 (1) The Commissioner may decide to:
 (a) amend a *first home super saver determination made in relation to you if you satisfy paragraphs 138-10(2)(a) to (c); or
 (b) revoke a first home super saver determination made in relation to you;
at any time before the Commissioner begins treating, under Division 3 of Part IIB, any credit to which you have become entitled under section  131-65 in relation to a release authority relating to the determination.
Note: Like other first home super saver determinations, an amended determination will need to comply with Subdivision  138-B.
 (2) The Commissioner may make a decision under subsection  (1):
 (a) on the Commissioner&#39;s own initiative; or
 (b) on application by you to the Commissioner in the *approved form.
 (3) If a *first home super saver determination is amended or revoked under subsection (1) at a particular time, then at that time:
 (a) each of the following ceases to be valid or in force:
 (i) any request under section  131-5 for a release authority in relation to that determination;
 (ii) any release authority issued in relation to such a request; and
 (b) any entitlement under section  131-65 you had to a credit relating to such a request ceases.
Note: Paragraphs (a) and (b) apply to a request or release authority whether or not it has been amended or varied.
 (4) Notice of an amended determination given by the Commissioner under this section is prima facie evidence of the matters stated in the notice. For the purposes of paragraph  131-5(3)(c), the Commissioner is treated as issuing the amended determination at the time this notice is given.
Section 138-15 Review
  If you are dissatisfied with:
 (a) a *first home super saver determination in relation to you; or
 (b) a decision the Commissioner makes not to make a determination under subsection  138-10(2A); or
 (c) a decision the Commissioner makes under subsection  138-13(1):
 (i) to amend or revoke a determination; or
 (ii) not to amend or revoke a determination;
you may object against the determination, or the decision, as the case requires, in the manner set out in Part IVC.
Subdivision 138-B--FHSS maximum release amount
 Guide to Subdivision 138-B
Section 138-20 What this Subdivision is about
Your FHSS maximum release amount comprises your eligible non-concessional contributions, 85% of your eligible concessional contributions, and your associated earnings.There are limits on the amount of contributions that may be eligible for release.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 138-25 FHSS maximum release amount
Section 138-30 FHSS releasable contributions amount
Section 138-35 Eligible contributions
Section 138-40 Associated earnings
 Operative provisions
Section 138-25 FHSS maximum release amount
  Your FHSS maximum release amount is the sum of:
 (a) your *FHSS releasable contributions amount worked out under section 138-30; and
 (b) your associated earnings worked out under section  138-40.
Section 138-30 FHSS releasable contributions amount
 (1) Your FHSS releasable contributions amount is the sum of the following amounts for each *financial year that starts on 1  July 2017 or a later 1 July:
 (a) your *FHSS eligible non-concessional contributions for the financial year;
 (b) 85% of your *FHSS eligible concessional contributions for the financial year.
Order of counting contributions
 (2) In determining which contributions are to be counted towards your *FHSS releasable contributions amount, contributions are to be counted in the order in which they were made (from earliest to latest).
 (3) For subsection  (2):
 (a) if an *FHSS eligible concessional contribution, and an *FHSS eligible non-concessional contribution, is made in respect of you at the same time, the FHSS eligible non -concessional contribution is taken to have been made first; and
 (b) if, for a particular *financial year, you personally made both *FHSS eligible concessional contributions and *FHSS eligible non-concessional contributions, the FHSS eligible non-concessional contributions are taken to have been made first.
Example: For paragraph (b), in the 2018-2019 financial year, you made voluntary contributions of $1,000 each fortnight, up to a total of $25,000. At the end of the financial year, you claim a deduction for $15,000 (leaving $10,000 of the contributions as non -concessional contributions).
 If all of the non-concessional contributions are eligible to be released under section  138-35, the first 10 contributions made for the financial year are taken to have been the non-concessional contributions, and the later contributions are taken to be the concessional contributions.
Section 138-35 Eligible contributions
Limits on amount of eligible contributions
 (1) For the purposes of this Subdivision:
 (a) the maximum amount of contributions that may be eligible to be released is $50,000; and
 (b) the maximum amount of contributions made in a particular *financial year that may be eligible to be released is $15,000.
Eligible contributions
 (2) A *concessional contribution, or *non-concessional contribution, for a *financial year is not eligible to be released unless it:
 (a) is made in respect of you in the financial year; and
 (b) is:
 (i) an employer contribution that is not a mandated employer contribution (within the meaning of Part  5 of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994); or
 (ii) a member contribution (within the meaning of that Part) that is made by you;
  other than a contribution to the extent it is required to be made because of a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory, or the rules of the relevant *superannuation fund; and
 (c) is not a contribution made in respect of a *defined benefit interest; and
 (d) is not a contribution to a *constitutionally protected fund.
 (3) If:
 (a) you have *excess concessional contributions for a *financial year (your excess amount); and
 (b) your excess amount is greater than your *concessional contributions for the financial year that are not eligible to be released under subsection (2) (your non-eligible contributions );
concessional contributions that are equal to the difference between your excess amount and your non-eligible contributions are not eligible to be released.
 (4) If:
 (a) you have *non-concessional contributions for the *financial year that exceed your non -concessional contributions cap for the financial year (your excess amount); and
 (b) your excess amount is greater than your non -concessional contributions for the financial year that are not eligible to be released under subsection (2) (your non-eligible contributions);
non-concessional contributions that are equal to the difference between your excess amount and your non-eligible contributions are not eligible to be released.
 (5) For the purposes of this section, disregard paragraph  292-90(1)(b) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Note: Under paragraph 292-90(1)(b) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, your non-concessional contributions for a financial year would include the amount of your excess concessional contributions (if any) for the financial year.
Section 138-40 Associated earnings
 (1) You are taken to have associated earnings equal to the sum of the amounts worked out under subsection  (2) for each contribution counted in your *FHSS releasable contributions amount.
 (2) The amount for a contribution is equal to the sum (rounded down to the nearest dollar) of the amounts worked out under the following formula for each of the days during the period mentioned in subsection  (3).
where:
"amount of contribution" means the amount of the contribution that is counted in your *FHSS releasable contributions amount.
"shortfall interest charge rate" means the rate, worked out under subsection 280-105(2), for the day.
"sum of earlier daily proxy amounts" means the sum of the amounts worked out for the contribution under the formula for each of the earlier days (if any) during the period for the contribution.
 (3) The period starts:
 (a) if the contribution is made in the *financial year starting on 1 July 2017--on 1 July 2017; and
 (b) if the contribution is made in the financial year starting on 1  July 2018, or a later financial year--on the first day of the month in which the contribution is made or taken to have been made (see subsection  138-30(2));
and ends on the day the Commissioner makes the *first home super saver determination for which the associated earnings are being worked out.
Part 3-30--Diverted profits tax
Division 145--Assessments of diverted profits tax
 Guide to Division 145
Section 145-1 What this Division is about
The Commissioner can make an assessment of diverted profits tax. The entity that is the subject of the assessment can appeal to the Federal Court against the Commissioner&#39;s decision to make the assessment. Such an appeal can be made generally no earlier than 12 months after the day on which the Commissioner first gives notice of the assessment to the entity.
Table of sections
Section 145-5 DPT assessments--modified application of Division 155
Section 145-10 When DPT assessments can be made
Section 145-15 Period of review of DPT assessments
Section 145-20 Review of assessments
Section 145-25 Restricted DPT evidence
Section 145-5 DPT assessments--modified application of Division  155
  In applying Division 155 in relation to an amount of *diverted profits tax:
 (a) apply the provisions of that Division with the modifications set out in sections  145-10 to 145-25; and
 (b) disregard sections  155-15, 155-20, 155-25, 155-30, 155-40, 155-45, 155 -50, 155-55 and 155-70.
Section 145-10 When DPT assessments can be made
  Despite subsection  155-5(1), the Commissioner can make an assessment (the DPT assessment) of the amount of *diverted profits tax only at a time in the period:
 (a) starting on the day on which the Commissioner first gives the entity that is the subject of the assessment a notice of assessment under Part  IV of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 for the income year mentioned in paragraph  177J(1)(a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (as that paragraph applies in relation to the amount of diverted profits tax); and
 (b) ending on the last day of the period of 7 years starting the day after that day.
Section 145-15 Period of review of DPT assessments
 (1) Despite subsection  155-35(2), the period of review, for the *DPT assessment, is:
 (a) the period:
 (i) starting on the day on which the Commissioner first gives notice of the assessment to the entity that is the subject of the assessment under section  155-10; and
 (ii) ending on the last day of the period of 12 months starting the day after that day; or
 (b) if:
 (i) the entity, by written notice given to the Commissioner, specifies a shorter period in accordance with subsection  (2); and
 (ii) the Federal Court of Australia has not made an order under subsection  (3) in respect of the written notice;
  that shorter period; or
 (c) if the period of review is extended under subsection  155-35(3) or (4)--the period as so extended.
 (2) For the purposes of subparagraph  (1)(b)(i), the shorter period must:
 (a) start on the day mentioned in subparagraph  (1)(a)(i); and
 (b) end on a day that is at least 30 days after the day on which the entity gives the written notice to the Commissioner.
 (3) For the purposes of subparagraph  (1)(b)(ii), the Federal Court of Australia may make an order under this subsection in respect of the written notice if:
 (a) the Commissioner has started to examine the entity&#39;s affairs in relation to the assessment; and
 (b) the Commissioner has not completed the examination within the shorter period specified in the written notice; and
 (c) the Commissioner, within 30 days after the day on which the entity gives the written notice to the Commissioner, applies to the Court for the order; and
 (d) the Court is satisfied that it was not reasonably practicable, or it was inappropriate, for the Commissioner to complete the examination within the shorter period specified in the written notice, because of:
 (i) any action taken by the entity; or
 (ii) any failure by the entity to take action that it would have been reasonable for the entity to take.
 (4) Despite subsection  155-35(5), in relation to the *DPT assessment:
 (a) an order may be made under subsection  155-35(3) only once; and
 (b) consent may be given under subsection  155-35(4) only once.
Section 145-20 Review of assessments
 (1) Section 155-90 does not apply during the *period of review mentioned in section  145-15.
 (2) In applying Part IVC of this Act as a result of section  155-90 after the end of that *period of review:
 (a) have regard only to the provisions of that Part mentioned in subsection  (3); and
 (b) apply those provisions with the modifications set out in subsection  (4); and
 (c) disregard the other provisions of that Part; and
 (d) apply section  145-25 (restricted DPT evidence).
 (3) For the purposes of paragraph  (2)(a), the provisions of that Part are as follows:
 (a) sections 14ZL and 14ZP;
 (b) subsection 14ZR(1);
 (c) subsection 14ZZ(1);
 (d) Division 5 (apart from section  14ZZS).
 (4) For the purposes of paragraph  (2)(b), the modifications are as follows:
 (a) treat the Commissioner&#39;s decision to make the *DPT assessment as an objection decision;
 (b) treat subsection  14ZZ(1) as reading &quot;The entity that is the subject of the DPT assessment may appeal to the Federal Court of Australia against the objection decision.&quot;;
 (c) treat the reference in section  14ZZN to &quot;within 60 days after the person appealing is served with notice of the decision&quot; as being a reference to &quot;within 60 days after the end of the period of review mentioned in section  145-15 in Schedule 1&quot;;
 (d) disregard paragraph  14ZZO(a);
 (e) treat paragraph  14ZZO(b) as reading &quot;the appellant has the burden of proving that the DPT assessment is excessive or otherwise incorrect and what the DPT assessment should have been&quot;;
 (f) treat the reference in section  14ZZR to a taxation decision as being a reference to the Commissioner&#39;s decision to make the DPT assessment.
Section 145-25 Restricted DPT evidence
 (1) *Restricted DPT evidence is not admissible in evidence in proceedings under Part IVC on an appeal to the Federal Court of Australia related to the *DPT assessment.
 (2) Restricted DPT evidence means information or documents that:
 (a) the entity that is the subject of the *DPT assessment (or an associate (within the meaning of section 318 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) of that entity), had in its custody or under its control at a time before, during or after the *period of review; and
 (b) the Commissioner did not have in his or her custody or under his or her control at any time in the period of review.
 (3) Subsection (1) does not prevent *restricted DPT evidence from being admissible in evidence in the proceedings if:
 (a) the Commissioner consents to the admission of the restricted DPT evidence in accordance with subsection  (4); or
 (b) the court in which the proceedings take place considers that the admission of the restricted DPT evidence is necessary in the interests of justice; or
 (c) the restricted DPT evidence is expert evidence that:
 (i) comes into existence after the *period of review; and
 (ii) is based on evidence that the Commissioner had in his or her custody or under his or her control at any time in the period of review.
 (4) For the purposes of paragraph  (3)(a), the Commissioner may give the consent if the Commissioner considers that it is reasonable to do so.
 (5) In making a decision under paragraph  (3)(a) or (b), the Commissioner or the court must have regard to:
 (a) whether, if the *restricted DPT evidence were not admissible in evidence in the proceedings, the remaining information or documents that are relevant to the proceedings are, or are likely to be, misleading; and
 (b) whether it would have been reasonable for the entity that is the subject of the *DPT assessment (or the associate of that entity mentioned in paragraph (2)(a)) to have given the Commissioner the restricted DPT evidence within the *period of review.
 (6) The Commissioner must give a consent for the purposes of paragraph  (3)(a) if failure to do so would have the effect, for the purposes of the Constitution, of making any tax or penalty incontestable.
 (7) A consent for the purposes of paragraph  (3)(a) is to be in writing.
 (8) If the Commissioner gives a consent for the purposes of paragraph  (3)(a), the Commissioner must give the entity that is the subject of the *DPT assessment a copy of the consent as soon as practicable afterwards.
Chapter 4--Generic assessment, collection and recovery rules
Part 4-1--Returns and assessments
Division 155--Assessments
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 155
Section 155-A Making assessments
Section 155-B Amending assessments
Section 155-C Validity and review of assessments
Section 155-D Miscellaneous
 Guide to Division 155
Section 155-1 What this Division is about
This Division contains rules relating to assessments.The rules in this Division deal with the following: (a) how assessments are made or amended and their effect; (b) review of assessments.
Subdivision 155-A--Making assessments
Table of sections
Section 155-5 Commissioner may make assessment
Section 155-10 Commissioner must give notice of assessment
Section 155-15 Self-assessment
Section 155-20 Assessment of indirect tax on importations and customs dealing
Section 155-25 Special assessment
Section 155-30 Delays in making assessments
Section 155-5 Commissioner may make assessment
 (1) The Commissioner may at any time make an assessment of an *assessable amount (including an assessment that the amount is nil).
Note 1: For amendment of assessments, see Subdivision 155-B.
Note 2: An assessment can be reviewed: see Subdivision 155-C.
 (2) Each of the following is an assessable amount:
 (a) a *net amount;
 (b) a *net fuel amount;
 (c) an amount of *indirect tax not included in an amount covered by another paragraph of this subsection;
 (d) a credit under an *indirect tax law not included in an amount covered by another paragraph of this subsection;
 (f) an amount of *Division 293 tax payable for an income year in relation to an individual&#39;s *taxable contributions for the income year;
 (g) an amount of *excess exploration credit tax for an income year;
 (h) an amount of *excess transfer balance tax payable for an *excess transfer balance period;
 (i) an amount of levy under the Major Bank Levy Act 2017 for a *quarter;
 (ia) an amount of *Australian IIR/UTPR tax;
 (ib) an amount of *Australian DMT tax;
 (j) an amount of *diverted profits tax;
Note: This Division has a modified operation in relation to diverted profits tax (see Division  145).
 (k) an amount of *first home super saver tax for an income year;
 (l) an amount of *Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy for a financial year;
 (m) an amount of *build to rent development misuse tax.
Section 155-10 Commissioner must give notice of assessment
 (1) The Commissioner must give you notice of an assessment of an *assessable amount of yours as soon as practicable after the assessment is made.
Note: This section also applies to an amended assessment: see section  155-80.
 (2) The Commissioner may give you the notice electronically if you are required to lodge, or have lodged, the return (if any) that relates to the *assessable amount electronically.
Section 155-15 Self-assessment
 (1) The Commissioner is treated as having made an assessment under section  155-5 of an *assessable amount mentioned in an item of the following table, if the document mentioned in the item is given to the recipient mentioned in the item:
Self-assessed amountsItemColumn 1Assessable amountColumn 2RecipientColumn 3Document1your *net amount for a *tax periodthe Commissioneryour *GST return for the tax period2your *net fuel amount for a *tax periodthe Commissioneryour *fuel tax return for the tax period3the *GST payable by you on a *taxable importationthe Collector (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901) or the Department administered by the Minister administering Part XII of that Actreturn, given as described in one of the following provisions, in relation to the importation:(a) paragraph 69(8)(a), (b), (c) or (da), or 70(7)(a), of the Customs Act 1901;(b) regulations prescribed for the purposes of paragraph 69(8)(d) of that Act4an amount of *excess exploration credit tax for an income yearthe Commissionerreturn given under section 418-160 for the income year5an amount of levy under the Major Bank Levy Act 2017 for a *quarterthe Commissionerreturn given under section 115-5 for the quarter6Self-assessed amountsItemColumn 1Assessable amountColumn 2RecipientColumn 3Document1your *net amount for a *tax periodthe Commissioneryour *GST return for the tax period2your *net fuel amount for a *tax periodthe Commissioneryour *fuel tax return for the tax period3the *GST payable by you on a *taxable importationthe Collector (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901) or the Department administered by the Minister administering Part XII of that Actreturn, given as described in one of the following provisions, in relation to the importation:(a) paragraph 69(8)(a), (b), (c) or (da), or 70(7)(a), of the Customs Act 1901;(b) regulations prescribed for the purposes of paragraph 69(8)(d) of that Act4an amount of *excess exploration credit tax for an income yearthe Commissionerreturn given under section 418-160 for the income year5an amount of levy under the Major Bank Levy Act 2017 for a *quarterthe Commissionerreturn given under section 115-5 for the quarter6an amount of *Australian IIR/UTPR tax for a *Fiscal Yearthe Commissioner*Australian IIR/UTPR tax return given under section 127-35 for the Fiscal Year7an amount of *Australian DMT tax for a *Fiscal Yearthe Commissioner*Australian DMT tax return given under section 127-45 for the Fiscal Year
Note: There is no self-assessment of Division 293 tax, excess transfer balance tax or first home super saver tax.
 (2) The assessment is treated as having been made on the day the document is given to the recipient mentioned in column 2.
 (3) The amount assessed is:
 (a) if the document is required to state the *assessable amount--the amount (including a nil amount) stated; or
 (b) otherwise--the amount (including a nil amount) worked out in accordance with the information stated in the document.
 (4) The document is treated as being a notice of the assessment:
 (a) signed by the Commissioner; and
 (b) given to you under section  155-10 on the day the document is given to the recipient.
 (5) This section does not apply to an *assessable amount if the Commissioner has already assessed the assessable amount on or before the day mentioned in paragraph (4)(b).
Section 155-20 Assessment of indirect tax on importations and customs dealing
 (1) The Commissioner is treated as having made an assessment under section  155-5 of the *GST, *luxury car tax or *wine tax (whichever is applicable) payable by you on a *taxable importation, *taxable importation of a luxury car or *customs dealing, if:
 (a) the document mentioned in column 1 of an item of the following table is communicated to the Department administered by the Minister administering Part  XII of the Customs Act 1901, in respect of the importation or dealing; and
 (b) a Collector (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901) gives the document mentioned in column 2 of the item to an entity in respect of the importation or dealing.
Customs documentsItemColumn 1Document communicatedColumn 2Document given to an entity1an *import declarationan *import declaration advice2a self-assessed clearance declaration (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901)a *self-assessed clearance declaration advice
 (2) The assessment is treated as having been made on the day a Collector (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901) gives the document mentioned in paragraph (1)(b) to the entity.
 (3) The amount assessed is the amount (including a nil amount) worked out in accordance with the information stated in the 2 documents.
 (4) The 2 documents are treated as together being a notice of the assessment:
 (a) signed by the Commissioner; and
 (b) given to you under section  155-10 on the day a Collector (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901) gives the document mentioned in paragraph  (1)(b) of this section to the entity.
 (5) This section does not apply if the Commissioner has already assessed the *GST, *luxury car tax or *wine tax on or before the day mentioned in paragraph (4)(b).
Section 155-25 Special assessment
  For the purposes of making, under section  155-5, an assessment of an *assessable amount that relates to a period (e.g. a tax period), the Commissioner may treat part of the period as being the whole period.
Section 155-30 Delays in making assessments
 (1) You may give the Commissioner a written notice requiring the Commissioner to make an assessment of an *assessable amount of yours, if, 6 months after the day on which the relevant return (if any) for the assessable amount is given to the Commissioner, the Commissioner has not given to you notice of an assessment of the assessable amount under section  155-10.
 (2) You may object, in the manner set out in Part  IVC of this Act, against the Commissioner&#39;s failure to make the assessment if the Commissioner does not make the assessment within 30 days after the day the notice is given under subsection  (1).
 (3) This section does not apply to the following *assessable amounts:
 (a) the *Division 293 tax payable by you in relation to an income year in relation to your *taxable contributions for the income year;
 (b) the *excess transfer balance tax payable by you for an *excess transfer balance period;
 (c) the *first home super saver tax payable by you for an income year;
 (d) the *Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy payable by you for a financial year;
 (e) the *build to rent development misuse tax payable by you for an income year.
Subdivision 155-B--Amending assessments
Table of sections
When Commissioner may amend assessments
Section 155-35 Amendment during period of review
Section 155-40 Amendment during period of review--certain applications taken to be notices
Section 155-45 Amendment on application
Section 155-50 Amendment to give effect to private ruling
Section 155-55 Amendment to give effect to certain anti -avoidance declarations
Section 155-60 Amendment because of review, objection or fraud
Special rules about amending amended assessments
Section 155-65 Amending amended assessments
Section 155-70 Refreshed period of review
General rules
Section 155-75 Refunds of amounts overpaid
Section 155-80 Amended assessments are assessments
 When Commissioner may amend assessments
Section 155-35 Amendment during period of review
Amendment
 (1) The Commissioner may amend an assessment of an *assessable amount within the *period of review for the assessment.
Note 1: An amendment of an assessment can be reviewed: see Subdivision  155-C.
Note 2: This section also applies to amended assessments: see section  155-80. However, there are limits on how amended assessments can be amended: see sections 155-65 and 155 -70.
Meaning of period of review
 (2) The period of review, for an assessment of an *assessable amount of yours, is:
 (a) the period:
 (i) starting on the day on which the Commissioner first gives notice of the assessment to you under section  155-10; and
 (ii) ending on the last day of the period of 4 years starting the day after that day; or
 (b) if the period of review is extended under subsection  (3) or (4) of this section--the period as so extended.
Extensions
 (3) The Federal Court of Australia may order an extension of the *period of review for an assessment of an *assessable amount of yours for a specified period, if:
 (a) the Commissioner has started to examine your affairs in relation to the assessment; and
 (b) the Commissioner has not completed the examination within the period of review for the assessment; and
 (c) the Commissioner, during the period of review, applies to the Federal Court of Australia for an order extending the period; and
 (d) the Court is satisfied that it was not reasonably practicable, or it was inappropriate, for the Commissioner to complete the examination within the period of review, because of:
 (i) any action taken by you; or
 (ii) any failure by you to take action that it would have been reasonable for you to take.
 (4) You may, by written notice given to the Commissioner, consent to the extension of the *period of review for an assessment of an *assessable amount of yours for a specified period, if:
 (a) the Commissioner has started to examine your affairs in relation to the assessment; and
 (b) the Commissioner has not completed the examination within the period of review for the assessment; and
 (c) the Commissioner, during the period of review, requests you to consent to extending the period of review.
 (5) An order may be made under subsection  (3), or consent given under subsection (4), in relation to an assessment of an *assessable amount more than once.
Section 155-40 Amendment during period of review--certain applications taken to be notices
 (1) An application made by you for an amendment of an assessment of an *assessable amount of yours is treated as being a notice of the amended assessment given to you by the Commissioner under section  155-10, if:
 (a) the application is in the *approved form; and
 (b) the Commissioner makes the amendment:
 (i) to give effect to the decision on the application; and
 (ii) during the *period of review for the assessment; and
 (c) the amendment the Commissioner makes is the entire amendment for which you applied, and nothing else.
 (2) The notice is treated as having been given to you on whichever of the following is applicable:
 (a) the first day the Commissioner adjusts the balance of an *RBA of yours as a result of the amendment;
 (b) the day a Collector (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901) gives an *import declaration advice, or a *self-assessed clearance declaration advice, to an entity in respect of the relevant *taxable importation, *taxable importation of a luxury car or *customs dealing as a result of the amendment.
Section 155-45 Amendment on application
  The Commissioner may amend an assessment of an *assessable amount of yours at any time, if you apply for an amendment in the *approved form during the *period of review for the assessment. The Commissioner may amend the assessment to give effect to his or her decision on the application.
Note: The Commissioner must give you notice of the amended assessment under section  155-10: see section 155-80.
Section 155-50 Amendment to give effect to private ruling
  The Commissioner may amend an assessment of an *assessable amount of yours at any time, if:
 (a) you apply for a *private ruling during the *period of review for the assessment; and
 (b) the Commissioner makes a private ruling because of the application.
The Commissioner may amend the assessment to give effect to the ruling.
Section 155-55 Amendment to give effect to certain anti -avoidance declarations
  The Commissioner may amend an assessment of an *assessable amount at any time, if:
 (a) the Commissioner makes a declaration under subsection  165-45(3) of the *GST Act (about compensating adjustments for anti-avoidance declarations); or
 (b) the Commissioner makes a declaration under subsection  75-45(3) of the Fuel Tax Act 2006 (about compensating adjustments for anti-avoidance declarations).
The Commissioner may amend the assessment to give effect to the declaration.
Section 155-60 Amendment because of review, objection or fraud
  Despite anything in this Subdivision, the Commissioner may amend an assessment of an *assessable amount of yours at any time:
 (a) to give effect to a decision on a review or appeal; or
 (b) as a result of an objection made by you, or pending a review or appeal; or
 (c) if he or she is of the opinion there has been fraud or evasion.
 Special rules about amending amended assessments
Section 155-65 Amending amended assessments
  The Commissioner cannot amend an amended assessment of an *assessable amount under section 155-35 if the *period of review for the assessment has ended.
Note: The Commissioner can amend amended assessments at any time under sections  155-45 to 155-60.
Section 155-70 Refreshed period of review
 (1) This section applies if the Commissioner has made one or more amendments of an assessment of an *assessable amount of yours under section 155-35 about a particular.
 (2) Despite section  155-65, the Commissioner may amend (the later amendment) the amended assessment after the end of the *period of review for the assessment, if:
 (a) the Commissioner makes the later amendment before the end of the period of 4 years starting on the day after the day on which the Commissioner gave notice of the last of the amendments mentioned in subsection  (1) to you under section  155-10; and
 (b) the later amendment is about the particular mentioned in subsection  (1) of this section; and
 (c) the Commissioner has not previously amended the assessment under this section about that particular.
 General rules
Section 155-75 Refunds of amounts overpaid
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) an assessment of an *assessable amount of yours is amended; and
 (b) as a result of the amendment, a *tax-related liability (the earlier liability) of yours is reduced.
 (2) For the purposes of any *taxation law that applies the *general interest charge, the amount by which the *tax-related liability is reduced is taken never to have been payable.
Note 1: The general interest charge is worked out under Part IIA of this Act.
Note 2: Subsection 8AAB(4) of this Act lists the provisions that apply the charge.
 (3) The Commissioner must apply the amount of any *tax-related liability overpaid in accordance with Divisions 3 and 3A of Part IIB of this Act (about running balance accounts and the application of payments and credits).
 (4) However, if:
 (a) a later amendment of an assessment of an *assessable amount is made; and
 (b) all or some of your earlier liability in relation to a particular is reinstated;
this section is taken not to have applied to the extent that the earlier liability is reinstated.
Section 155-80 Amended assessments are assessments
  An amended assessment of an *assessable amount is an assessment for all purposes of any *taxation law.
Note: The Commissioner must give notice of the amended assessment under section  155-10. Under section 155-40, an application for an amendment is treated as being a notice of the amendment in certain circumstances.
Subdivision 155-C--Validity and review of assessments
Table of sections
Section 155-85 Validity of assessment
Section 155-90 Review of assessments
Section 155-85 Validity of assessment
  The validity of any assessment of an *assessable amount is not affected by non-compliance with the provisions of this Act or of any other *taxation law.
Section 155-90 Review of assessments
  You may object, in the manner set out in Part  IVC of this Act, against an assessment of an *assessable amount of yours if you are dissatisfied with the assessment.
Note: If an individual is dissatisfied with a statement given to the Commissioner by a superannuation provider under section  390-5 in this Schedule, the individual may make a complaint under the AFCA scheme (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001 ).
Subdivision 155-D--Miscellaneous
Table of sections
Section 155-95 Entities
  This Division applies, in relation to an *assessable amount under a *taxation law, to an entity under that taxation law in the same way as the Division applies to an entity under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Part 4-15--Collection and recovery of tax-related liabilities and other amounts
Division 250--Introduction
Table of Subdivisions
Section 250-A Guide to Part 4-15
Section 250-B Object of this Part
Subdivision 250-A--Guide to Part 4-15
Section 250-1 What this Part is about
This Part deals with the methods by which the Commissioner may collect and recover amounts of taxes and other liabilities.These rules may affect you if you are liable to pay an amount of a tax-related liability (see, for example, Division  255). Some of the rules may also affect you because of your relationship with someone else who is liable for such an amount (see Division 260).
Table of sections
Section 250-5 Some important concepts about tax-related liabilities
Section 250-10 Summary of tax-related liabilities
Section 250-5 Some important concepts about tax-related liabilities
 (1) A tax-related liability may arise for an entity before it becomes due and payable by that entity.
Example: Under Part 2-5, an entity&#39;s liability to pay a withheld amount may arise before the amount is due and payable.
 (2) For some tax-related liabilities, an assessment needs to be made before the amount of the relevant liability becomes due and payable.
Example: Under Division 5 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 , an amount of income tax needs to be assessed before it becomes due and payable.
 (3) An amount of a tax -related liability may become payable by an entity (for example, when the amount has been assessed) before it is due and payable by that entity.
Section 250-10 Summary of tax-related liabilities
 (1) The following table is an index of each tax -related liability under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936. The key provision for the liability, as set out in the table, specifies when the liability becomes due and payable.
Note 1: The Commissioner may vary the time at which the amount becomes due and payable. See Subdivision  255-B.
Note 2: Members and former members of consolidated groups and MEC groups may be jointly and severally liable to pay certain tax -related liabilities related to the group&#39;s activities (see Division 721 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997).
Tax-related liabilities under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936ItemTopicProvision5trustee beneficiary non-disclosure tax102UO10withholding tax on dividend, interest or royalty128C(1)15special tax payable on dealings by offshore banking units128NB(3)20mining withholding tax128W(1)50late lodgment penaltyformer subsection 163A(3)70excessive tax offset refunds172A(2)75shortfall interest charge for excessive tax offset refunds172A(2A)80diverted profits taxsubsection 177P(3)85shortfall interest charge for diverted profits taxsection 177R90family trust distribution tax271-75 in Schedule 2F100Tax-related liabilities under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936ItemTopicProvision5trustee beneficiary non-disclosure tax102UO10withholding tax on dividend, interest or royalty128C(1)15special tax payable on dealings by offshore banking units128NB(3)20mining withholding tax128W(1)50late lodgment penaltyformer subsection 163A(3)70excessive tax offset refunds172A(2)75shortfall interest charge for excessive tax offset refunds172A(2A)80diverted profits taxsubsection 177P(3)85shortfall interest charge for diverted profits taxsection 177R90family trust distribution tax271-75 in Schedule 2F100interest payable under section 102AAM (about distributions from non-resident trust estates)5-5 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997
 (2) The following table is an index of each tax -related liability under other Acts. The key provision for the liability, as set out in the table, specifies when the liability becomes due and payable.
Note 1: The Commissioner may vary the time at which the amount becomes due and payable. See Subdivision  255-B.
Note 2: Members and former members of consolidated groups and MEC groups may be jointly and severally liable to pay certain tax -related liabilities related to the group&#39;s activities (see Division 721 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997).
Note 3: Companies that are or were members of the same wholly-owned group as an NZ franking company may be jointly and severally liable to pay certain tax -related liabilities of the NZ franking company (see Division 220 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ).
Note 4: Penalties under Division 175 of the Australian Charities and Not -for-profits Commission Act 2012, and related general interest charge, are treated in the same way as tax -related liabilities: see subsection 175-70(2) of that Act.
Note 5: A liability for a fee that is due and payable under subsection 113(5) of the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 is a tax-related liability if the power of the Treasurer to recover the fee under that subsection is delegated to the Commissioner of Taxation under section  137 of that Act (see subsections 138(1) and (2) of that Act).
Tax-related liabilities under other legislationItemTopicProvisionAct5assessed net amount, including amounts in respect of luxury car tax and wine equalisation tax33-3, 33-5, 35-5(2)A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 199910amount of assessed GST on importations33-15A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 199912Aassessed GST on supplies made in settlement of claims under insurance policies78-90A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 199912Bassessed GST on supplies made in satisfaction of debts105-20A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 199913repayments of amounts paid under tourist refund scheme168-10A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 199915amount of assessed luxury car tax on importation13-20A New Tax System (Luxury Car Tax) Act 199916Tax-related liabilities under other legislationItemTopicProvisionAct5assessed net amount, including amounts in respect of luxury car tax and wine equalisation tax33-3, 33-5, 35-5(2)A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 199910amount of assessed GST on importations33-15A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 199912Aassessed GST on supplies made in settlement of claims under insurance policies78-90A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 199912Bassessed GST on supplies made in satisfaction of debts105-20A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 199913repayments of amounts paid under tourist refund scheme168-10A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 199915amount of assessed luxury car tax on importation13-20A New Tax System (Luxury Car Tax) Act 199916excess luxury car tax credits17-15A New Tax System (Luxury Car Tax) Act 199918excess wine tax credits17-25A New Tax System (Wine Equalisation Tax) Act 199920amount of assessed wine tax on customs dealings23-5A New Tax System (Wine Equalisation Tax) Act 199921repayments of amounts paid under tourist refund scheme25-10A New Tax System (Wine Equalisation Tax) Act 199922Aamount of advance to be repaid14ADiesel and Alternative Fuels Grants Scheme Act 199922Bamount payable as a result of an amended assessment15EDiesel and Alternative Fuels Grants Scheme Act 199924excise duty54Excise Act 190124Aaccounting for excisable goods60(1), (1A), (1B) and (1C)Excise Act 190124Btobacco leaf stock deficiency77AAExcise Act 1901excess luxury car tax credits17-15A New Tax System (Luxury Car Tax) Act 199918excess wine tax credits17-25A New Tax System (Wine Equalisation Tax) Act 199920amount of assessed wine tax on customs dealings23-5A New Tax System (Wine Equalisation Tax) Act 199921repayments of amounts paid under tourist refund scheme25-10A New Tax System (Wine Equalisation Tax) Act 199922Aamount of advance to be repaid14ADiesel and Alternative Fuels Grants Scheme Act 199922Bamount payable as a result of an amended assessment15EDiesel and Alternative Fuels Grants Scheme Act 199924excise duty54Excise Act 190124Aaccounting for excisable goods60(1), (1A), (1B) and (1C)Excise Act 190124Btobacco leaf stock deficiency77AAExcise Act 190124Caccounting for spirit77FHExcise Act 190124CApenalty for using LPG for excisable LPG use77MExcise Act 190124Dfee for an action that does not relate to an application or a notice113(5)Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 (but see note 5 to this subsection)24Evacancy fee115FForeign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 197525fringe benefits tax90Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 198635fringe benefits tax instalments103Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 198636assessed net fuel amount61-5(2), 61-10Fuel Tax Act 200636Acompulsory repayment amount under the Higher Education Support Act 20035-5Income Tax Assessment Act 199736AAcompulsory VETSL repayment amount under the VET Student Loans Act 20165-5Income Tax Assessment Act 199736Bcompulsory SSL repayment amount under the Social Security Act 19915-5Income Tax Assessment Act 199736Ccompulsory ABSTUDY SSL repayment amount under the Student Assistance Act 19735-5Income Tax Assessment Act 199736Dcompulsory AASL repayment amount under the Australian Apprenticeship Support Loans Act 20145-5Income Tax Assessment Act 199737income tax5-5Income Tax Assessment Act 199737AAshortfall interest charge on income tax5-10Income Tax Assessment Act 199737ABshortfall interest charge on excess non-concessional contributions tax5-10Income Tax Assessment Act 199737ACshortfall interest charge on Division 293 tax5-10Income Tax Assessment Act 199737ADbuild to rent development misuse tax44-40 and 44-455Income Tax Assessment Act 199736Bcompulsory SSL repayment amount under the Social Security Act 19915-5Income Tax Assessment Act 199736Ccompulsory ABSTUDY SSL repayment amount under the Student Assistance Act 19735-5Income Tax Assessment Act 199736Dcompulsory AASL repayment amount under the Australian Apprenticeship Support Loans Act 20145-5Income Tax Assessment Act 199737income tax5-5Income Tax Assessment Act 199737AAshortfall interest charge on income tax5-10Income Tax Assessment Act 199737ABshortfall interest charge on excess non-concessional contributions tax5-10Income Tax Assessment Act 199737ACshortfall interest charge on Division 293 tax5-10Income Tax Assessment Act 199737ADbuild to rent development misuse tax44-40 and 44-45Income Tax Assessment Act 199737Auntainting tax197-70Income Tax Assessment Act 199738franking tax214-150(1), (2), (3) and (4)Income Tax Assessment Act 199738Bexcess non-concessional contributions tax292-385Income Tax Assessment Act 199738BBDivision 293 tax293-65 and 293-70Income Tax Assessment Act 199738BCexcess transfer balance tax294-240 and 294-245Income Tax Assessment Act 199738BDfirst home super saver tax313-65 and 313-70Income Tax Assessment Act 199738Dexcess exploration credit tax418-155Income Tax Assessment Act 199739TSA liability721-30Income Tax Assessment Act 199739AIncome Tax Assessment Act 199737Auntainting tax197-70Income Tax Assessment Act 199738franking tax214-150(1), (2), (3) and (4)Income Tax Assessment Act 199738Bexcess non-concessional contributions tax292-385Income Tax Assessment Act 199738BBDivision 293 tax293-65 and 293-70Income Tax Assessment Act 199738BCexcess transfer balance tax294-240 and 294-245Income Tax Assessment Act 199738BDfirst home super saver tax313-65 and 313-70Income Tax Assessment Act 199738Dexcess exploration credit tax418-155Income Tax Assessment Act 199739TSA liability721-30Income Tax Assessment Act 199739Amanaged investment trust withholding tax840-810(1)Income Tax Assessment Act 199739AAlabour mobility program withholding tax840-910Income Tax Assessment Act 199739Bmanaged investment trust withholding tax840-810(1)Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 199739Creturn of PPL superannuation contribution115G(2)Paid Parental Leave Act 201039Dreturn of underpaid amount of PPL superannuation contribution115L(2)Paid Parental Leave Act 201039EOverpayments of PPL superannuation contribution115P(3)Paid Parental Leave Act 201039Fgeneral interest charge relating to PPL superannuation contribution115QPaid Parental Leave Act 201040petroleum resource rent tax82Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 198741shortfall interest charge on petroleum resource rent tax82Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 1987managed investment trust withholding tax840-810(1)Income Tax Assessment Act 199739AAlabour mobility program withholding tax840-910Income Tax Assessment Act 199739Bmanaged investment trust withholding tax840-810(1)Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 199739Creturn of PPL superannuation contribution115G(2)Paid Parental Leave Act 201039Dreturn of underpaid amount of PPL superannuation contribution115L(2)Paid Parental Leave Act 201039EOverpayments of PPL superannuation contribution115P(3)Paid Parental Leave Act 201039Fgeneral interest charge relating to PPL superannuation contribution115QPaid Parental Leave Act 201040petroleum resource rent tax82Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 198741shortfall interest charge on petroleum resource rent tax82Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 198745petroleum resource rent tax instalments95Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 198745Ainstalment transfer interest charge98C(4)Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 198745Bliability for excess private health insurance premium reduction or refund282-18Private Health Insurance Act 200746amount of advance to be repaid13Product Grants and Benefits Administration Act 2000 47amount payable as a result of an amended assessment20Product Grants and Benefits Administration Act 200048penalty under section 3536Product Grants and Benefits Administration Act 200050superannuation contributions surcharge15(3)Superannuation Contributions Tax (Assessment and Collection) Act 199755superannuation contributions surcharge15(8)Superannuation Contributions Tax (Members of Constitutionally Protected Superannuation Funds) Assessment and Collection Act 199760superannuation guarantee charge45petroleum resource rent tax instalments95Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 198745Ainstalment transfer interest charge98C(4)Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 198745Bliability for excess private health insurance premium reduction or refund282-18Private Health Insurance Act 200746amount of advance to be repaid13Product Grants and Benefits Administration Act 2000 47amount payable as a result of an amended assessment20Product Grants and Benefits Administration Act 200048penalty under section 3536Product Grants and Benefits Administration Act 200050superannuation contributions surcharge15(3)Superannuation Contributions Tax (Assessment and Collection) Act 199755superannuation contributions surcharge15(8)Superannuation Contributions Tax (Members of Constitutionally Protected Superannuation Funds) Assessment and Collection Act 199760superannuation guarantee charge46Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 199265additional superannuation guarantee charge47Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 199267Superannuation (Self Managed Funds) Levy15DBSuperannuation (Self Managed Superannuation Funds) Taxation Act 198767Apayment of unclaimed money to the Commissioner17Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199967Bpayment from Commissioner that cannot be credited18CSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199968payment in respect of a superannuation interest to the Commissioner20FSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment20MSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969AApayment of value of inactive low-balance accounts to the Commissioner20QDSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969ABpayment from Commissioner that cannot be credited20QLSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199946Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 199265additional superannuation guarantee charge47Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 199267Superannuation (Self Managed Funds) Levy15DBSuperannuation (Self Managed Superannuation Funds) Taxation Act 198767Apayment of unclaimed money to the Commissioner17Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199967Bpayment from Commissioner that cannot be credited18CSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199968payment in respect of a superannuation interest to the Commissioner20FSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969repayment of Commissioner&#39;s payment20MSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969AApayment of value of inactive low-balance accounts to the Commissioner20QDSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969ABpayment from Commissioner that cannot be credited20QLSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969ACpayment of value of eligible rollover fund accounts to the Commissioner21CSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969ADpayment from Commissioner that cannot be credited21HSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969AEpayment of amounts to the Commissioner22Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969AFpayment from Commissioner that cannot be credited22FSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969Apayment of value of lost member accounts to the Commissioner24ESuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969Bpayment from Commissioner that cannot be credited24LSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969BApayment from Commissioner that cannot be credited24NBSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199970general interest charge8AAETaxation Administration Act 195385RBA deficit debt8AAZH(1)payment of value of eligible rollover fund accounts to the Commissioner21CSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969ADpayment from Commissioner that cannot be credited21HSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969AEpayment of amounts to the Commissioner22Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969AFpayment from Commissioner that cannot be credited22FSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969Apayment of value of lost member accounts to the Commissioner24ESuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969Bpayment from Commissioner that cannot be credited24LSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199969BApayment from Commissioner that cannot be credited24NBSuperannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 199970general interest charge8AAETaxation Administration Act 195385RBA deficit debt8AAZH(1)Taxation Administration Act 195390administrative overpayment made by Commissioner8AAZNTaxation Administration Act 195395TFN withholding tax14-55 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953100TFN withholding tax (ESS)14-155 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953101payment of amount to Commissioner14-200 or 14-205 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953105payment of withheld amount to Commissioner16-75 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953110PAYG withholding non-compliance tax18-145 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953115quarterly PAYG instalment45-61 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953115Amonthly PAYG instalment45-67 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953Taxation Administration Act 195390administrative overpayment made by Commissioner8AAZNTaxation Administration Act 195395TFN withholding tax14-55 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953100TFN withholding tax (ESS)14-155 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953101payment of amount to Commissioner14-200 or 14-205 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953105payment of withheld amount to Commissioner16-75 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953110PAYG withholding non-compliance tax18-145 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953115quarterly PAYG instalment45-61 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953115Amonthly PAYG instalment45-67 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953120annual PAYG instalment45-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953125general interest charge on shortfall in quarterly instalment worked out on basis of varied rate45-230(4) in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953130general interest charge on shortfall in quarterly instalment worked out on basis of estimated benchmark tax45-232 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953135general interest charge on shortfall in annual instalment45-235(5) in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953135Ramount in accordance with excess superannuation contributions release authority131-35 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136amount of major bank levy115-10 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136AAamount of Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy125-10 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136ABshortfall interest charge on Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy125-10 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953120annual PAYG instalment45-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953125general interest charge on shortfall in quarterly instalment worked out on basis of varied rate45-230(4) in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953130general interest charge on shortfall in quarterly instalment worked out on basis of estimated benchmark tax45-232 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953135general interest charge on shortfall in annual instalment45-235(5) in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953135Ramount in accordance with excess superannuation contributions release authority131-35 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136amount of major bank levy115-10 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136AAamount of Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy125-10 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136ABshortfall interest charge on Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy125-10 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136ACAustralian IIR/UTPR tax127-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136ADAustralian DMT tax127-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136AEshortfall interest charge on Australian IIR/UTPR tax127-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136AFshortfall interest charge on Australian DMT tax127-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136Adebt account discharge liability133-105 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953137amount to be recovered from a debtor under a registered foreign revenue claim263-30 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953138estimate of payable amounts268-20 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953139penalty under Subdivision 269-B269-20 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953140administrative penalties136ACAustralian IIR/UTPR tax127-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136ADAustralian DMT tax127-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136AEshortfall interest charge on Australian IIR/UTPR tax127-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136AFshortfall interest charge on Australian DMT tax127-70 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953136Adebt account discharge liability133-105 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953137amount to be recovered from a debtor under a registered foreign revenue claim263-30 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953138estimate of payable amounts268-20 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953139penalty under Subdivision 269-B269-20 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953140administrative penalties298-15 in Schedule 1Taxation Administration Act 1953142cash flow boost overpaymentssubsection 9(3)Boosting Cash Flow for Employers (Coronavirus Economic Response Package) Act 2020143overpayments of Coronavirus economic response paymentssubsection 9(3)Coronavirus Economic Response Package (Payments and Benefits) Act 2020
Subdivision 250-B--Object of this Part
Section 250-25 Object
  The object of this Part  is to ensure that unpaid amounts of *tax-related liabilities and other related amounts are collected or recovered in a timely manner.
Division 255--General rules about collection and recovery
Table of Subdivisions
Section 255-A Tax-related liabilities
Section 255-B Commissioner&#39;s power to vary payment time
Section 255-C Service of documents if person absent from Australia or cannot be found
Section 255-D Security deposits
Subdivision 255-A--Tax-related liabilities
Table of sections
Section 255-1 Meaning of tax-related liability
Section 255-5 Recovering a tax-related liability that is due and payable
Section 255-1 Meaning of tax-related liability
 (1) A tax-related liability is a pecuniary liability to the Commonwealth arising directly under a *taxation law (including a liability the amount of which is not yet due and payable).
Note 1: See section 250-10 for an index of tax-related liabilities.
Note 2: A taxation law, or a provision of it, may be excluded from being applied to this Part. See section  265-65.
 (2) A civil penalty under Division  290 of this Schedule or Part 5 of the Tax Agent Services Act 2009 is not a tax-related liability.
Section 255-5 Recovering a tax -related liability that is due and payable
 (1) An amount of a *tax-related liability that is due and payable:
 (a) is a debt due to the Commonwealth; and
 (b) is payable to the Commissioner.
 (2) The Commissioner, a *Second Commissioner or a *Deputy Commissioner may sue in his or her official name in a court of competent jurisdiction to recover an amount of a *tax-related liability that remains unpaid after it has become due and payable.
Note: The tables in section 250-10 set out each provision that specifies when an amount of a tax -related liability becomes due and payable. The Commissioner may vary that time under Subdivision 255-B.
Subdivision 255-B--Commissioner&#39;s power to vary payment time
Table of sections
Section 255-10 To defer the payment time
Section 255-15 To permit payments by instalments
Section 255-20 To bring forward the payment time in certain cases
Section 255-10 To defer the payment time
Deferrals for particular taxpayers
 (1) The Commissioner may, having regard to the circumstances of your particular case, defer the time at which an amount of a *tax-related liability is, or would become, due and payable by you (whether or not the liability has already arisen). If the Commissioner does so, that time is varied accordingly.
Note: General interest charge or any other relevant penalty, if applicable for any unpaid amount of the liability, will begin to accrue from the time as varied. See, for example, paragraph  5-15(a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (2) The Commissioner must do so by written notice given to you.
Deferrals for classes of taxpayers
 (2A) The Commissioner, having regard to the circumstances of the case, may, by notice published on the Australian Taxation Office website, defer the time at which amounts of *tax-related liabilities are, or would become, due and payable by a class of taxpayers (whether or not the liabilities have already arisen).
 (2B) If the Commissioner does so, that time is varied accordingly.
Note: General interest charge and any other relevant penalties, if applicable for any unpaid amounts of the liabilities, will begin to accrue from the time as varied. See, for example, paragraph  5-15(a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (2C) A notice published under subsection  (2A) is not a legislative instrument.
Deferral does not affect time for giving form
 (3) A deferral under this section does not defer the time for giving an *approved form to the Commissioner.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
Section 255-15 To permit payments by instalments
 (1) The Commissioner may, having regard to the circumstances of your particular case, permit you to pay an amount of a *tax-related liability by instalments under an *arrangement between you and the Commissioner (whether or not the liability has already arisen).
 (2) The *arrangement does not vary the time at which the amount is due and payable.
Note: Despite an arrangement under this section, any general interest charge or other relevant penalty, if applicable for any unpaid amount of the liability, begins to accrue when the liability is due and payable under the relevant taxation law, or at that time as varied under section  255-10 or 255 -20.
Section 255-20 To bring forward the payment time in certain cases
 (1) If the Commissioner reasonably believes that you may leave Australia before the time at which an amount of a *tax-related liability becomes due and payable by you, the Commissioner may bring that time forward. If the Commissioner does so, that time is varied accordingly.
Note: General interest charge or any other relevant penalty, if applicable for any unpaid amount of the liability, will begin to accrue from the time as varied. See, for example, paragraph  5-15(a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (2) The Commissioner must do so by written notice given to you.
Subdivision 255-C--Service of documents if person absent from Australia or cannot be found
 Guide to Subdivision 255-C
Section 255-35 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision deals with the service of documents on people who are absent from Australia or cannot be found.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 255-40 Service of documents if person absent from Australia or cannot be found
 Operative provisions
Section 255-40 Service of documents if person absent from Australia or cannot be found
 (1) This section applies if a document needs to be served on a person in respect of a proceeding to recover an amount of a *tax-related liability, and the Commissioner, after making reasonable inquiries, is satisfied that:
 (a) the person is absent from Australia and does not have any agent in Australia on whom the document can be served; or
 (b) the person cannot be found.
 (2) The Commissioner may, without the court&#39;s leave, serve the document by posting it, or a sealed copy of it, in a letter addressed to the person at any Australian address of the person (including the person&#39;s Australian place of business or residence) that is last known to the Commissioner.
 (3) If the Commissioner, after making reasonable inquiries, is satisfied that the person has an address in a foreign country, a constituent part of a foreign country or a foreign territory (an overseas address), the Commissioner may, without the court&#39;s leave, serve the document on the person at that overseas address in accordance with an agreement between Australia and:
 (a) a foreign country or a constituent part of a foreign country; or
 (b) a foreign territory;
that deals with the service of documents on tax matters.
Subdivision 255-D--Security deposits
Table of sections
Section 255-100 Commissioner may require security deposit
Section 255-105 Notice of requirement to give security
Section 255-110 Offence
Section 255-115 Order to comply with requirement
Section 255-120 Offence
Section 255-100 Commissioner may require security deposit
 (1) The Commissioner may require you to give security for the due payment of an existing or future *tax-related liability of yours if:
 (a) the Commissioner has reason to believe that:
 (i) you are establishing or *carrying on an *enterprise in Australia; and
 (ii) you intend to carry on that enterprise for a limited time only; or
 (b) the Commissioner reasonably believes that the requirement is otherwise appropriate, having regard to all relevant circumstances.
Note: A requirement to give security under this section is not a tax -related liability. As such, the collection and recovery provisions in this Part do not apply to it.
 (2) The Commissioner may require you to give the security:
 (a) by way of a bond or deposit (including by way of payments in instalments); or
 (b) by any other means that the Commissioner reasonably believes is appropriate.
 (3) The Commissioner may require you to give security under this section:
 (a) at any time the Commissioner reasonably believes is appropriate; and
 (b) as often as the Commissioner reasonably believes is appropriate.
Example: The Commissioner may require additional security if he or she reasonably believes that the original security requirement underestimated the amount of the likely tax -related liability.
Section 255-105 Notice of requirement to give security
Commissioner must give notice of requirement to give security
 (1) If the Commissioner requires you to give security under section  255-100, he or she must give you written notice of the requirement.
Content of notice
 (2) The notice must:
 (a) state that you are required to give the security to the Commissioner; and
 (b) explain why the Commissioner requires the security; and
 (c) set out the amount of the security; and
 (d) describe the means by which you are required to give the security under subsection  255-100(2); and
 (e) specify the time by which you are required to give the security; and
 (f) explain how you may have the Commissioner&#39;s decision to require you to give the security reviewed.
 (3) To avoid doubt, a single notice may relate to security for the payment of 2 or more existing or future *tax-related liabilities, but must comply with subsection (2) in relation to each of them.
When notice is given
 (4) Despite section 29 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901, a notice under subsection (1) is taken to be given at the time the Commissioner leaves or posts it.
Note: Section 28A of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 may be relevant to giving a notice under subsection (1).
Miscellaneous
 (5) A failure to comply with this section does not affect the validity of the requirement to give the security under section  255-100.
Section 255-110 Offence
  You commit an offence if:
 (a) the Commissioner requires you to give security under section  255-100; and
 (b) you fail to give that security as required.
Penalty: 100 penalty units.
Section 255-115 Order to comply with requirement
 (1) The Federal Court of Australia may, on the application of the Commissioner, order you to comply with a requirement to give security under section  255-100, if the Commissioner has given you notice of the requirement under subsection  255-105(1).
 (2) If the Court makes an order under subsection  (1), the Court may also order you to comply with such other requirements made, or that could be made, in relation to you under the taxation law as the Court considers necessary to ensure the effectiveness of the requirement referred to in that subsection.
 (3) An order under subsection  (1) or (2) may require you to comply with the requirement on or before a day specified in the order.
 (4) If an order under subsection  (1) or (2) is not given to you orally by the court, the proper officer of the court must cause a copy of the order to be served on you in the prescribed manner, or otherwise as may be ordered by the court.
Section 255-120 Offence
 (1) You commit an offence if:
 (a) you are subject to an order under subsection  255-115(1) or (2); and
 (b) you fail to comply with the order.
Penalty: 50 penalty units or imprisonment for 12 months, or both.
 (2) An offence against subsection  (1) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code .
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to the extent that you are not capable of complying with the order.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (3): see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Division 260--Special rules about collection and recovery
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 260
Section 260-A From third party
Section 260-B From liquidator
Section 260-C From receiver
Section 260-D From agent winding up business for foreign resident principal
Section 260-E From deceased person&#39;s estate
 Guide to Division 260
Section 260-1 What this Division is about
This Division deals with the collection and recovery of an amount from a person who is not personally liable to pay that amount. Apart from Subdivision  260-A, which covers a wider range of amounts, this Division primarily deals with amounts of tax-related liabilities.
Subdivision 260-A--From third party
Table of sections
Section 260-5 Commissioner may collect amounts from third party
Section 260-10 Notice to Commonwealth, State or Territory
Section 260-15 Indemnity
Section 260-20 Offence
Section 260-5 Commissioner may collect amounts from third party
Amount recoverable under this Subdivision
 (1) This Subdivision applies if any of the following amounts (the debt) is payable to the Commonwealth by an entity (the debtor) (whether or not the debt has become due and payable):
 (a) an amount of a *tax-related liability;
 (b) a judgment debt for a *tax-related liability;
 (c) costs for such a judgment debt;
 (d) an amount that a court has ordered the debtor to pay to the Commissioner following the debtor&#39;s conviction for an offence against a *taxation law.
Commissioner may give notice to an entity
 (2) The Commissioner may give a written notice to an entity (the third party) under this section if the third party owes or may later owe money to the debtor.
Third party regarded as owing money in these circumstances
 (3) The third party is taken to owe money (the available money) to the debtor if the third party:
 (a) is an entity by whom the money is due or accruing to the debtor; or
 (b) holds the money for or on account of the debtor; or
 (c) holds the money on account of some other entity for payment to the debtor; or
 (d) has authority from some other entity to pay the money to the debtor.
The third party is so taken to owe the money to the debtor even if:
 (e) the money is not due, or is not so held, or payable under the authority, unless a condition is fulfilled; and
 (f) the condition has not been fulfilled.
How much is payable under the notice
 (4) A notice under this section must:
 (a) require the third party to pay to the Commissioner the lesser of, or a specified amount not exceeding the lesser of:
 (i) the debt; or
 (ii) the available money; or
 (b) if there will be amounts of the available money from time to time--require the third party to pay to the Commissioner a specified amount, or a specified percentage, of each amount of the available money, until the debt is satisfied.
When amount must be paid
 (5) The notice must require the third party to pay an amount under paragraph  (4)(a), or each amount under paragraph (4)(b):
 (a) immediately after; or
 (b) at or within a specified time after;
the amount of the available money concerned becomes an amount owing to the debtor.
Debtor must be notified
 (6) The Commissioner must send a copy of the notice to the debtor.
Setting-off amounts
 (7) If an entity other than the third party has paid an amount to the Commissioner that satisfies all or part of the debt:
 (a) the Commissioner must notify the third party of that fact; and
 (b) any amount that the third party is required to pay under the notice is reduced by the amount so paid.
Section 260-10 Notice to Commonwealth, State or Territory
  If the third party is the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory, the Commissioner may give the notice to a person who:
 (a) is employed by the Commonwealth, or by the State or Territory (as appropriate); and
 (b) has the duty of disbursing public money under a law of the Commonwealth, or of the State or Territory (as appropriate).
Section 260-15 Indemnity
  An amount that the third party pays to the Commissioner under this Subdivision is taken to have been authorised by:
 (a) the debtor; and
 (b) any other person who is entitled to all or a part of the amount;
and the third party is indemnified for the payment.
Section 260-20 Offence
 (1) The third party must not fail to comply with the Commissioner&#39;s notice.
Penalty: 20 penalty units
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of criminal responsibility.
Note 2: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
 (2) The court may, in addition to imposing a penalty on a person convicted of an offence against subsection  (1) in relation to failing to pay an amount under the notice, order the person to pay to the Commissioner an amount not exceeding that amount.
Subdivision 260-B--From liquidator
Table of sections
Section 260-40 Subdivision does not apply to superannuation guarantee charge
Section 260-45 Liquidator&#39;s obligation
Section 260-50 Offence
Section 260-55 Joint liability of 2 or more liquidators
Section 260-60 Liquidator&#39;s other obligation or liability
Section 260-40 Subdivision does not apply to superannuation guarantee charge
  This Subdivision does not apply to a *tax-related liability that is superannuation guarantee charge imposed by the Superannuation Guarantee Charge Act 1992 .
Section 260-45 Liquidator&#39;s obligation
 (1) This Subdivision applies to a person who becomes a liquidator of a company.
 (2) Within 14 days after becoming liquidator, the liquidator must give written notice of that fact to the Commissioner.
 (3) The Commissioner must, as soon as practicable, notify the liquidator of the amount (the notified amount) that the Commissioner considers is enough to discharge any *outstanding tax-related liabilities that the company has when the notice is given.
 (4) The liquidator must not, without the Commissioner&#39;s permission, part with any of the company&#39;s assets before receiving the Commissioner&#39;s notice.
 (5) However, subsection  (4) does not prevent the liquidator from parting with the company&#39;s assets to pay debts of the company not covered by either of the following paragraphs:
 (a) the *outstanding tax-related liabilities;
 (b) any debts of the company which:
 (i) are unsecured; and
 (ii) are not required, by an *Australian law, to be paid in priority to some or all of the other debts of the company.
 (6) After receiving the Commissioner&#39;s notice, the liquidator must set aside, out of the assets available for paying amounts covered by paragraph  (5)(a) or (b) (the ordinary debts), assets with a value calculated using the following formula:
where:
"amount of remaining ordinary debts" means the sum of the company&#39;s ordinary debts other than the *outstanding tax-related liabilities.
 (7) The liquidator must, in his or her capacity as liquidator, discharge the *outstanding tax-related liabilities, to the extent of the value of the assets that the liquidator is required to set aside.
 (8) The liquidator is personally liable to discharge the liabilities, to the extent of that value, if the liquidator contravenes this section.
Section 260-50 Offence
  The liquidator must not fail to comply with subsection  260-45(2), (4), (5), (6) or (7).
Penalty: 10 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of criminal responsibility.
Note 2: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Section 260-55 Joint liability of 2 or more liquidators
  If there are 2 or more persons who become liquidators of the company, the obligations and liabilities under this Subdivision:
 (a) apply to all the liquidators; but
 (b) may be discharged by any of them.
Section 260-60 Liquidator&#39;s other obligation or liability
  This Subdivision does not reduce any obligation or liability of a liquidator arising elsewhere.
Subdivision 260-C--From receiver
Table of sections
Section 260-75 Receiver&#39;s obligation
Section 260-80 Offence
Section 260-85 Joint liability of 2 or more receivers
Section 260-90 Receiver&#39;s other obligation or liability
Section 260-75 Receiver&#39;s obligation
 (1) This Subdivision applies to a person (the receiver) who, in the capacity of receiver, or of receiver and manager, takes possession of a company&#39;s assets for the company&#39;s debenture holders.
 (2) Within 14 days after taking possession of the assets, the receiver must give written notice of that fact to the Commissioner.
 (3) The Commissioner must, as soon as practicable, notify the receiver of the amount (the notified amount) that the Commissioner considers is enough to discharge any *outstanding tax-related liabilities that the company has when the notice is given.
 (4) The receiver must not, without the Commissioner&#39;s permission, part with any of the company&#39;s assets before receiving the Commissioner&#39;s notice.
 (5) However, subsection  (4) does not prevent the receiver from parting with the company&#39;s assets to pay debts of the company not covered by either of the following paragraphs:
 (a) the *outstanding tax-related liabilities;
 (b) any debts of the company which:
 (i) are unsecured; and
 (ii) are not required, by an *Australian law, to be paid in priority to some or all of the other debts of the company.
 (6) After receiving the Commissioner&#39;s notice, the receiver must set aside, out of the assets available for paying amounts covered by paragraph  (5)(a) or (b) (the ordinary debts), assets with a value calculated using the following formula:
where:
"amount of remaining ordinary debts" means the sum of the company&#39;s ordinary debts other than the *outstanding tax-related liabilities.
 (7) The receiver must, in his or her capacity as receiver, or as receiver and manager, discharge the *outstanding tax-related liabilities, to the extent of the value of the assets that the receiver is required to set aside.
 (8) The receiver is personally liable to discharge the liabilities, to the extent of that value, if the receiver contravenes this section.
Section 260-80 Offence
  The receiver must not fail to comply with subsection  260-75(2), (4), (5), (6) or (7).
Penalty: 10 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of criminal responsibility.
Note 2: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Section 260-85 Joint liability of 2 or more receivers
  If 2 or more persons (the receivers) take possession of a company&#39;s assets, for the company&#39;s debenture holders, in the capacity of receiver, or of receiver and manager, the obligations and liabilities under this Subdivision apply to:
 (a) all the receivers; but
 (b) may be discharged by any of them.
Section 260-90 Receiver&#39;s other obligation or liability
  This Subdivision does not reduce any obligation or liability of the receiver or receivers arising elsewhere.
Subdivision 260-D--From agent winding up business for foreign resident principal
Table of sections
Section 260-105 Obligation of agent winding up business for foreign resident principal
Section 260-110 Offence
Section 260-115 Joint liability of 2 or more agents
Section 260-120 Agent&#39;s other obligation or liability
Section 260-105 Obligation of agent winding up business for foreign resident principal
 (1) This Subdivision applies to an agent whose principal:
 (a) is a foreign resident; and
 (b) has instructed the agent to wind up so much of the principal&#39;s business as is carried on in Australia.
 (2) Within 14 days after receiving the instructions, the agent must give written notice of that fact to the Commissioner.
 (3) The Commissioner must, as soon as practicable after receiving the notice, notify the agent of the amount (the notified amount) that the Commissioner considers is enough to discharge any *outstanding tax-related liabilities that the principal has when the notice is given.
 (4) Before receiving the Commissioner&#39;s notice, the agent must not, without the Commissioner&#39;s permission, part with any of the principal&#39;s assets that are available for discharging the *outstanding tax-related liabilities.
 (5) After receiving the notice, the agent must set aside:
 (a) out of the assets available for discharging the *outstanding tax-related liabilities, assets to the value of the notified amount; or
 (b) all of the assets so available, if their value is less than the notified amount.
 (6) The agent must, in that capacity, discharge the *outstanding tax-related liabilities, to the extent of the value of the assets that the agent is required to set aside.
 (7) The agent is personally liable to discharge the liabilities, to the extent of that value, if the agent contravenes this section.
Section 260-110 Offence
  A person must not fail to comply with subsection  260-105(2), (4), (5) or (6).
Penalty: 10 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of criminal responsibility.
Note 2: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of penalty units.
Section 260-115 Joint liability of 2 or more agents
  If 2 or more agents are jointly instructed by the principal to wind up the business, the obligations and liabilities under this Subdivision:
 (a) apply to all the agents; but
 (b) may be discharged by any of them.
Section 260-120 Agent&#39;s other obligation or liability
  This Subdivision does not reduce any obligation or liability of the agent or agents arising elsewhere.
Subdivision 260-E--From deceased person&#39;s estate
Table of sections
Section 260-140 Administered estate
Section 260-145 Unadministered estate
Section 260-150 Commissioner may authorise amount to be recovered
Section 260-140 Administered estate
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) a person has an *outstanding tax-related liability when the person dies; and
 (b) either of the following is granted after the death:
 (i) probate of the person&#39;s will;
 (ii) letters of administration of the person&#39;s estate.
 (2) The Commissioner may, in respect of the liability, deal with the trustee of the deceased person&#39;s estate as if:
 (a) the deceased person were still alive; and
 (b) the trustee were the deceased person.
 (3) Without limiting subsection  (2), the trustee must:
 (a) provide any returns and other information that the deceased person was liable to provide, or would have been liable to provide if he or she were still alive; and
 (b) provide any additional returns or other information relating to the liability that the Commissioner requires; and
 (c) in the trustee&#39;s representative capacity, discharge the liability and any penalty imposed in respect of the liability under a *taxation law (including any *general interest charge) for which the deceased person would be liable if he or she were still alive.
 (4) If:
 (a) the amount of the liability requires an *assessment under a *taxation law but the assessment has not been made; and
 (b) the trustee fails to provide a return or other information in relation to assessing that amount as required by the Commissioner;
the Commissioner may assess that amount. If the Commissioner does so, the assessment has the same effect as if it were made under that taxation law.
 (5) A trustee who is dissatisfied with an *assessment under subsection (4) may object in the manner set out in Part IVC.
 (6) Part IVC applies in relation to the objection as if the trustee were the deceased person.
Section 260-145 Unadministered estate
 (1) This section applies if neither of the following is granted within 6 months after a person&#39;s death:
 (a) probate of the person&#39;s will;
 (b) letters of administration of the person&#39;s estate.
 (2) The Commissioner may determine the total amount of *outstanding tax-related liabilities that the person had at the time of death.
 (3) The Commissioner must publish notice of the determination in a manner that results in the notice being accessible to the public and reasonably prominent.
 (4) A notice of the determination is conclusive evidence of the *outstanding tax-related liabilities, unless the determination is amended.
 (5) A person who is dissatisfied with the determination may object in the manner set out in Part  IVC if the person:
 (a) claims an interest in the estate; or
 (b) is granted probate of the deceased person&#39;s will or letters of administration of the estate.
 (6) Part IVC applies in relation to the objection as if the person making it were the deceased person.
Section 260-150 Commissioner may authorise amount to be recovered
 (1) The Commissioner may, in writing, authorise a person (the authorised person) who is:
 (a) a member or a special member of the Australian Federal Police; or
 (b) a member of the police force of a State or Territory; or
 (c) any other person;
to recover:
 (d) the total amount of the *outstanding tax-related liabilities of a deceased person as determined under section 260-145 (about unadministered estates); and
 (e) any reasonable costs incurred by the authorised person in recovering that amount;
by seizing and disposing of any property of the deceased person.
 (2) The authorised person may seize and dispose of the property as prescribed by the regulations.
Division 263--Mutual assistance in the administration of foreign tax laws
Table of Subdivisions
Section 263-A Foreign revenue claims
Section 263-B Service of documents in Australia on behalf of foreign revenue authorities
Subdivision 263-A--Foreign revenue claims
 Guide to Subdivision 263-A
Section 263-5 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision can be activated if there is in force an agreement between Australia and a foreign country or territory that contains an article relating to assistance in collection of foreign tax debts.The Commissioner can collect from an entity an amount in respect of a tax debt that the person owes to such a country or territory or take action to conserve assets of the entity.The Commissioner is required to remit amounts collected to the foreign country or territory concerned.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 263-10 Meaning of foreign revenue claim
Section 263-15 Requirements for foreign revenue claims
Section 263-20 Foreign Revenue Claims Register
Section 263-25 Registering claims
Section 263-30 When amount is due and payable
Section 263-35 Amending the Register etc.
Section 263-40 Payment to competent authority
 Operative provisions
Section 263-10 Meaning of foreign revenue claim
  A foreign revenue claim is a claim made to the Commissioner:
 (a) in accordance with an agreement (the international agreement) between Australia and:
 (i) a foreign country or a constituent part of a foreign country; or
 (ii) a foreign territory; and
 (b) for one or both of these purposes:
 (i) the recovery by the Commissioner of an amount from an entity (the debtor) in respect of taxes imposed otherwise than by an *Australian law (including any associated amounts);
 (ii) the conserving of assets for the purposes of a recovery of that kind.
Section 263-15 Requirements for foreign revenue claims
  A *foreign revenue claim must:
 (a) be made by or on behalf of an entity that is, under the relevant international agreement, the competent authority; and
 (b) be consistent with the provisions of that agreement; and
 (c) be made in the *approved form; and
 (d) specify the amount owed by the debtor in Australian currency (calculated as at the day the claim is made); and
 (e) be accompanied by a declaration by the competent authority stating that the claim fulfils the requirements of that agreement.
Section 263-20 Foreign Revenue Claims Register
 (1) The Commissioner must keep a register called the Foreign Revenue Claims Register (the Register).
 (2) The regulations may make provision in relation to the form in which the Register may be kept.
 (3) The register is not a legislative instrument.
Section 263-25 Registering claims
  If the Commissioner is satisfied that a *foreign revenue claim has been made in accordance with section 263-15, the Commissioner must register the claim by entering particulars of it in the Register within 90 days after receiving the claim.
Section 263-30 When amount is due and payable
 (1) When particulars of a *foreign revenue claim are entered in the Register, the amount owed by the debtor becomes a pecuniary liability to the Commonwealth by the debtor.
Note 1: The amount to be recovered from the debtor will be a primary tax debt for the purposes of Part IIB and the Commissioner may allocate the debt to a running balance account under that Part.
Note 2: For provisions about collection and recovery of the debt, see Part  4-15.
 (1A) To avoid doubt, the amount owed by the debtor may not be the same as the amount (if any) entered in the Register.
 (2) The amount owed by the debtor becomes due and payable 30 days after notice of the particulars of the *foreign revenue claim is given to the debtor or on a later day specified in the notice.
 (3) If that amount remains unpaid after it is due and payable, the debtor is liable to pay *general interest charge on the unpaid amount for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the amount was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day at the end of which either of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the amount;
 (ii) general interest charge on any of the amount.
Section 263-35 Amending the Register etc.
 (1) The Commissioner may, with the agreement of the relevant competent authority, amend the Register to correct an error.
 (2) The Commissioner may, with the agreement of the relevant competent authority:
 (a) remove from the Register the particulars of a *foreign revenue claim; or
 (b) reduce an amount to be recovered from a debtor under the claim.
 (2A) To avoid doubt, the Commissioner may reduce an amount to be recovered from a debtor under paragraph  (2)(b) without amending the Register.
 (3) A debtor may, after receiving a copy of the particulars of a *foreign revenue claim entered in the Register, apply to the Commissioner in the *approved form to have those particulars removed from the Register.
 (4) The Commissioner may, after considering the application, remove those particulars from the Register.
 (5) If the Commissioner removes particulars of a *foreign revenue claim relating to the recovery of an amount from the Register under paragraph (2)(a) or subsection (4), the debtor is entitled to a credit for the purposes of Part  IIB equal to the sum of:
 (a) the amount (as reduced by any previous application of subsection  (6)); and
 (b) any *general interest charge for which the debtor is liable as a result of the foreign revenue claim.
Note: How the credit is applied is set out in Part IIB.
 (6) If the Commissioner reduces the amount to be recovered from a debtor under a *foreign revenue claim under paragraph (2)(b), the debtor is entitled to a credit for the purposes of Part  IIB equal to the amount of the reduction.
Note: How the credit is applied is set out in Part IIB.
Section 263-40 Payment to competent authority
 (1) The Commissioner must, if the Commissioner recovers all or part of an amount to be recovered from a debtor under a registered *foreign revenue claim, pay that amount to the competent authority concerned or to another entity on behalf of that competent authority.
 (2) The Commissioner may also pay to the competent authority all or part of an amount that the Commissioner has received and that is attributable to *general interest charge in relation to the claim.
 (3) The Commissioner may also pay to the competent authority all or part of an amount that the Commissioner has received and that is attributable to any of the following in relation to the claim:
 (a) judgment interest;
 (b) costs that:
 (i) have been recovered in the course of legal proceedings; and
 (ii) represent an amount that has previously been paid by the competent authority to the Commonwealth in relation to the recovery of the claim.
Subdivision 263-B--Service of documents in Australia on behalf of foreign revenue authorities
 Guide to Subdivision 263-B
Section 263-55 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision can be activated if there is in force an agreement between Australia and a foreign country or foreign territory that deals with service of documents on tax matters.If a foreign government agency asks the Commissioner to serve a document relating to foreign taxes on an entity in Australia in accordance with the agreement, the Commissioner may serve the document in the same way as a similar document under an Australian taxation law may be served.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 263-60 Meaning of foreign service of document request
Section 263-65 Service of document subject to foreign service of document request
 Operative provisions
Section 263-60 Meaning of foreign service of document request
  A foreign service of document request is a request made to the Commissioner:
 (a) in accordance with an agreement (the international agreement) between Australia and:
 (i) a foreign country or a constituent part of a foreign country; or
 (ii) a foreign territory;
  that deals with service of documents on tax matters; and
 (b) by a *foreign government agency; and
 (c) for the service of one or more documents on an entity in Australia in relation to taxes imposed otherwise than by an *Australian law.
Section 263-65 Service of document subject to foreign service of document request
 (1) If a *foreign service of document request is made to the Commissioner, the Commissioner may serve a document covered by the request in the same way that a similar document under a *taxation law may be served.
 (2) The Commissioner must also serve a translation of the document into English, or a summary of the document in English, if:
 (a) the document is in a language other than English; and
 (b) the Commissioner is satisfied that the entity being served would not understand the language of the document.
 (3) Before serving a translation of the document into English, or a summary of the document in English, the Commissioner must be satisfied that the translation or summary is accurate.
Division 265--Other matters
Table of Subdivisions
Section 265-A Right of person to seek recovery or contribution
Section 265-B Application of laws
Subdivision 265-A--Right of person to seek recovery or contribution
 Guide to Subdivision 265-A
Section 265-35 What this Subdivision is about
This Division deals with a person&#39;s right to recover from another person an amount paid in discharge of a tax -related liability if:&bull;  the person has paid the amount for or on behalf of the other person;&bull;  the persons are jointly liable to pay the amount.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 265-40 Right of recovery if another person is liable
Section 265-45 Right of contribution if persons are jointly liable
 Operative provisions
Section 265-40 Right of recovery if another person is liable
  A person who has paid an amount of a *tax-related liability for or on behalf of another person may:
 (a) recover that amount from the other person as a debt (together with the costs of recovery) in a court of competent jurisdiction; or
 (b) retain or deduct the amount out of money held by the person that belongs to, or is payable to, the other person.
Section 265-45 Right of contribution if persons are jointly liable
 (1) If 2 or more persons are jointly liable to pay an amount of a *tax-related liability, they are each liable for the whole of the amount.
 (2) If one of the persons has paid an amount of the liability, the person may recover in a court of competent jurisdiction, as a debt, from another of those persons:
 (a) an amount equal to so much of the amount paid; and
 (b) an amount equal to so much of the costs of recovery under this section;
as the court considers just and equitable.
Note: Item 15 of Schedule 6 to the Tax Laws Amendment (Repeal of Inoperative Provisions) Act 2006 has the effect that, in addition to its normal application in relation to tax-related liabilities arising on or after 1  July 2000, subsection (2) also applies to such liabilities arising before that date, where amounts of the liabilities are paid after the commencement of that item.
Subdivision 265-B--Application of laws
Table of sections
Section 265-65 Non-application of certain taxation laws
  This Part does not apply in relation to a *taxation law, or a provision of a taxation law, that is prescribed by the regulations.
Subdivision 265-C--Direction to pay superannuation guarantee charge
 Guide to Subdivision 265-C
Section 265-85 What this Subdivision is about
If you are liable to pay an amount of superannuation guarantee charge or certain related liabilities, the Commissioner may direct you to pay the amount.If the amount is not paid, you may commit an offence.
Table of sections
Section 265-90 Direction to pay superannuation guarantee charge
Section 265-95 Offence
Section 265-100 Variation or revocation
Section 265-105 Effect of liability being reduced or ceasing to exist
Section 265-110 Taxation objection
Section 265-115 Extension of period to comply if taxation objection made
Section 265-90 Direction to pay superannuation guarantee charge
 (1) The Commissioner may, by written notice, give you a direction requiring you to pay to the Commissioner:
 (a) an amount of superannuation guarantee charge that is payable by you under the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992; or
 (b) if an estimate under Division  268 in this Schedule of an amount of a liability of yours to pay superannuation guarantee charge for a quarter under section 16 of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 is in force as referred to in subsection 268-10(5)--the amount of the estimate.
Note: The direction does not create a separate liability to pay the amount. However, it may result in you committing an offence against subsection  265-95(1) if the amount is not paid.
 (2) In deciding whether to give a direction under subsection  (1), the Commissioner must have regard to the following matters:
 (a) your history of compliance with obligations to pay superannuation guarantee charge, and obligations to pay estimates under Division  268 of superannuation guarantee charge;
 (b) your history of compliance with other obligations under *taxation laws;
 (c) whether the amount mentioned in paragraph  (1)(a) or (b) is substantial, having regard to the size and nature of your business;
 (d) any steps that you have taken to discharge the liability to pay the amount or dispute that the liability exists;
 (e) any other matter that the Commissioner considers relevant.
 (3) The direction must:
 (a) set out the amount that you are required to pay to the Commissioner; and
 (b) if the amount referred to in paragraph  (1)(a) or (b) relates to a *quarter--set out the quarter; and
 (c) specify the period before the end of which you must comply with the direction (which must end at least 21 days after the day the direction is given); and
 (d) explain the consequences of failing to comply with the direction; and
 (e) explain how you may have the Commissioner&#39;s decision to give the direction reviewed.
 (4) To avoid doubt, a single notice may relate to 2 or more directions, but must comply with subsection  (3) in relation to each of them.
 (5) A notice given under subsection  (1) is not a legislative instrument.
Section 265-95 Offence
 (1) You commit an offence if:
 (a) you are given a direction under subsection 265-90(1); and
 (b) the liability to pay the amount set out in the direction is not discharged (whether by you or by another entity) before the end of the period specified in the direction under paragraph  265-90(3)(c).
Penalty: 50 penalty units or imprisonment for 12 months, or both.
 (2) An offence against subsection  (1) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code .
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply if both of the following apply:
 (a) you took all reasonable steps to comply with the direction before the end of the period specified in the direction under paragraph  265-90(3)(c);
 (b) you took all reasonable steps to ensure that the liability was discharged before the direction was given.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (3): see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 265-100 Variation or revocation
 (1) If the Commissioner has given you a direction under subsection  265-90(1), the Commissioner may, at any time before the end of the period specified in the direction under paragraph  265-90(3)(c), by written notice given to you:
 (a) vary the direction to reduce the amount that you are required to pay to the Commissioner in order to comply with the direction; or
 (b) vary the direction to extend the period specified in the notice of the direction under paragraph  265-90(3)(c); or
 (c) revoke the direction.
 (2) To avoid doubt, the variation or revocation of a direction under subsection  (1) does not affect any liability that you may have to pay an amount referred to in the direction.
Section 265-105 Effect of liability being reduced or ceasing to exist
 (1) If:
 (a) you have been given a direction under subsection  265-90(1) requiring you to pay an amount of a liability referred to in that subsection to the Commissioner; and
 (b) the period specified in the direction under paragraph  265-90(3)(c) has not expired; and
 (c) the liability is reduced (but not to nil);
the amount set out in the direction is taken to be reduced by the amount of the reduction referred to in paragraph (c).
 (2) If:
 (a) you have been given a direction under subsection  265-90(1) requiring you to pay an amount of a liability referred to in that subsection to the Commissioner; and
 (b) the period specified in the direction under paragraph  265-90(3)(c) has not expired; and
 (c) either:
 (i) the liability is reduced to nil; or
 (ii) the liability ceases to exist;
the direction is taken to be revoked.
 (3) You may be convicted of an offence against subsection  265-95(1) in relation to a direction under subsection 265-90(1) requiring you to pay an amount of a liability referred to in subsection  265-90(1) to the Commissioner even if:
 (a) the liability is reduced, or ceases to exist, after the end of the period specified in the direction under paragraph  265-90(3)(c); or
 (b) the liability is discharged after the end of that period; or
 (c) the liability is, after the end of that period, taken never to have existed, or taken not to have existed at a time on or before the end of that period.
Section 265-110 Taxation objection
  If you are dissatisfied with a decision of the Commissioner to give you a direction under subsection  265-90(1), you may, at any time before the end of the period specified in the direction under paragraph  265-90(3)(c), object against the decision in the manner set out in Part IVC.
Section 265-115 Extension of period to comply if taxation objection made
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) the Commissioner gives you a direction under subsection  265-90(1); and
 (b) the period specified in the direction under paragraph  265-90(3)(c) has not expired; and
 (c) you:
 (i) make an objection in accordance with section  265-110 in relation to the Commissioner&#39;s decision to give you the direction; or
 (ii) make an objection in the manner set out in Part  IVC against a taxation decision that relates to your liability to pay an amount referred to in the direction.
 (2) The period specified in the direction under paragraph  265-90(3)(c) is extended by one day for each day in the period that begins on the day the objection is made and ends at the end of the later of the following days:
 (a) the day 21 days after the day the Commissioner notifies you of the Commissioner&#39;s decision under section  14ZY in relation to the objection;
 (b) if, before the end of the day referred to in paragraph  (a), you:
 (i) apply to the *ART in accordance with Division 4 of Part IVC for review of the Commissioner&#39;s decision; or
 (ii) lodge an appeal against the Commissioner&#39;s decision with the Federal Court of Australia under Division  5 of that Part;
  the day the review or the appeal is finally determined.
 (3) To avoid doubt, the extension of the period under subsection  (2) does not affect any liability that you may have to pay an amount referred to in the direction.
Division 268--Estimates
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 268
Section 268-A Object
Section 268-B Making estimates
Section 268-C Liability to pay estimates
Section 268-D Reducing and revoking estimates
Section 268-E Late payment of estimates
Section 268-F Miscellaneous
 Guide to Division 268
Section 268-1 What this Division is about
This Division enables the Commissioner to make an estimate of: (a) amounts not paid as required by Part 2-5 of this Act (Pay as you go (PAYG) withholding); or (b) unpaid superannuation guarantee charge; or (c) net amounts in respect of GST, wine equalisation tax and luxury car tax;and to recover the amount of the estimate.If you are given an estimate, you are liable to pay the amount of the estimate. That liability is distinct from your liability to pay the amounts required by Part  2-5 or the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992. In the case of an estimate of a net amount that has been assessed by the Commissioner, that liability is distinct from your liability to pay the amount of the assessment. However, you can ensure that the Commissioner does not require you to pay more than the relevant unpaid amounts.Other Divisions of this Part provide for the recovery of amounts payable under this Division.
Subdivision 268-A--Object
Table of sections
Section 268-5 Object of Division
  The object of this Division is to enable the Commissioner to take prompt and effective action to recover:
 (a) amounts not paid as required by Part  2-5 (Pay as you go (PAYG) withholding); or
 (b) unpaid superannuation guarantee charge that has not been assessed; or
 (c) *net amounts under the *GST Act.
Subdivision 268-B--Making estimates
Table of sections
Section 268-10 Commissioner may make estimate
Section 268-15 Notice of estimate
Section 268-10 Commissioner may make estimate
Estimate
 (1) The Commissioner may estimate the unpaid and overdue amount of a liability (the underlying liability) of yours:
 (a) under section  16-70 in this Schedule (requirement to pay to the Commissioner amounts you have withheld under the Pay as you go withholding rules); or
 (b) to pay superannuation guarantee charge for a *quarter under section 16 of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992, to the extent the superannuation guarantee charge has not been assessed before the Commissioner makes the estimate; or
 (c) to pay a *net amount for a *tax period, to the extent that the net amount has not been assessed before the Commissioner makes the estimate.
 (1A) For the purposes of this Division, your superannuation guarantee charge for a *quarter is treated as being payable on the day by which you must lodge a superannuation guarantee statement for the quarter under section  33 of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992, even if, on that day, the charge has not been assessed under that Act.
 (1B) For the purposes of this Division, if you have a *net amount for a *tax period:
 (a) you are treated as being liable to pay that net amount; and
 (b) that liability is treated as having arisen on the day by which you must give your *GST return for the tax period to the Commissioner in accordance with Division 31 of the *GST Act; and
 (c) that liability is treated as being payable on that day; and
 (d) the entire amount of that liability is treated as being unpaid.
Amount of estimate
 (2) The amount of the estimate must be what the Commissioner thinks is reasonable.
 (3) In making the estimate, the Commissioner may have regard to anything he or she thinks relevant.
Example 1: In the case of an underlying liability under section 16-70 (requirement to pay to the Commissioner amounts you have withheld under the Pay as you go withholding rules), the Commissioner may have regard to information about amounts you withheld under the Pay as you go rules before the period in relation to which the underlying liability arose.
Example 2: In the case of an underlying liability to pay superannuation guarantee charge for a quarter, the Commissioner may have regard to information about your contributions to RSAs and complying superannuation funds for earlier quarters.
Only one estimate for each liability
 (4) While the estimate is in force, the Commissioner cannot make another estimate relating to the underlying liability.
 (5) For the purposes of subsection  (4), the estimate is in force if:
 (a) the Commissioner has given you notice of the estimate; and
 (b) the estimate has not been revoked; and
 (c) your liability to pay the estimate has not been discharged.
Section 268-15 Notice of estimate
Commissioner must give notice of estimate
 (1) The Commissioner must give you written notice of the estimate.
Content of notice
 (2) The notice must:
 (a) identify the underlying liability; and
 (b) specify the date of the estimate; and
 (c) set out the amount of the estimate; and
 (d) state that the amount of the estimate is due and payable; and
 (e) explain how you may have the amount of the estimate reduced or the estimate revoked.
 (3) To avoid doubt, a single notice may relate to 2 or more estimates, but must comply with subsection  (2) in relation to each of them.
When notice is given
 (4) Despite section 29 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901, a notice under subsection (1) is taken to be given at the time the Commissioner leaves or posts it.
Note: Section 28A of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 may be relevant to giving a notice under subsection (1).
Subdivision 268-C--Liability to pay estimates
Table of sections
Section 268-20 Nature of liability to pay estimate
Section 268-25 Accuracy of estimate irrelevant to liability to pay
Section 268-30 Estimate provable in bankruptcy or winding up
Section 268-20 Nature of liability to pay estimate
Liability to pay amount of estimate
 (1) You must pay to the Commissioner the amount of the estimate if the Commissioner gives you notice of the estimate in accordance with section  268-15. The amount is due and payable when the Commissioner gives you the notice.
Note: The amount of the estimate may be reduced, or the estimate revoked, under Subdivision  268-D.
Liability to pay amount of estimate is distinct from underlying liability
 (2) Your liability to pay the amount of the estimate is separate and distinct from the underlying liability. It is separate and distinct for all purposes.
Example: In a case covered by paragraph  268-10(1)(a) or (b), the Commissioner may take:
        (a) proceedings to recover the unpaid amount of the estimate; or
        (b) proceedings to recover the unpaid amount of the underlying liability; or
        (c) proceedings of both kinds.
Discharging one liability discharges other liabilities
 (3) Despite subsection  (2), if, at a particular time, one of the liabilities to which this subsection applies is discharged, to the extent of an amount, for either of the following reasons, each of the other liabilities to which this subsection applies is discharged to the extent of the same amount:
 (a) an amount is paid or applied towards discharging the liability;
 (b) the liability is discharged because of section  269-40 (Effect of director paying penalty or company discharging liability).
 (4) Subsection (3) applies to whichever of the following liabilities are in existence at the particular time:
 (a) your liability to pay the amount of the estimate;
 (b) the underlying liability;
 (c) a liability of yours under a judgment, to the extent that it is based on a liability referred to in paragraph  (a) or (b).
 (4A) In a case covered by paragraph  268-10(1)(c) (estimate of liability in relation to net amount under GST Act), treat the reference in paragraph (4)(b) to the underlying liability as being a reference to a liability under Division  33 or 35 of the *GST Act for an *assessed net amount in respect of the underlying liability.
 (5) Subsection (3) does not discharge a liability to a greater extent than the amount of the liability.
Section 268-25 Accuracy of estimate irrelevant to liability to pay
  You are liable to pay the unpaid amount of the estimate even if:
 (a) the underlying liability never existed or has been discharged in full; or
 (b) the unpaid amount of the underlying liability is less than the unpaid amount of the estimate.
Note 1: Section 268-40 revokes the estimate if you give the Commissioner a statutory declaration, or file an affidavit, to the effect that the underlying liability never existed.
Note 2: Subdivision 268-D provides ways in which you can challenge the estimate or its amount.
Section 268-30 Estimate provable in bankruptcy or winding up
 (1) Your liability (the estimate liability) to pay the unpaid amount of the estimate is provable in a bankruptcy or winding up, even if the estimate was made after:
 (a) the date of the bankruptcy; or
 (b) the relevant date (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001).
 (2) However, the estimate liability is provable only to the extent that the underlying liability would be provable if the unpaid amount of the underlying liability were the same as the unpaid amount of the estimate.
Example: Subsection (2) prevents proof of the estimate liability if the underlying liability could not be proved because, for example, of when it arose.
 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply if:
 (a) the underlying liability has already been admitted to proof; and
 (b) the proof has not been set aside.
 (4) If the estimate liability has been admitted to proof at a particular amount, the underlying liability is provable only to the extent the unpaid amount of the underlying liability exceeds that particular amount.
 (4A) In a case covered by paragraph  268-10(1)(c) (estimate of liability in relation to net amount under GST Act), treat the references in paragraph (3)(a) and subsection  (4) to the underlying liability as being references to a liability under Division 33 or 35 of the *GST Act for an *assessed net amount in respect of the underlying liability.
 (5) To the extent that a liability is provable because of this section, it is taken, for the purposes of the Bankruptcy Act 1966, to be provable in bankruptcy under that Act.
Subdivision 268-D--Reducing and revoking estimates
Table of sections
Section 268-35 How estimate may be reduced or revoked--Commissioner&#39;s powers
Section 268-40 How estimate may be reduced or revoked--statutory declaration or affidavit
Section 268-45 How estimate may be reduced or revoked--rejection of proof of debt
Section 268-50 How estimate may be reduced--amount paid or applied
Section 268-55 When reduction or revocation takes effect
Section 268-60 Consequences of reduction or revocation--refund
Section 268-65 Consequences of reduction or revocation--statutory demand changed or set aside
Section 268-70 Consequences of reduction or revocation--underlying liability
Section 268-35 How estimate may be reduced or revoked--Commissioner&#39;s powers
Reduction
 (1) The Commissioner may at any time reduce the amount of the estimate, but is not obliged to consider whether or not to do so.
 (2) If the Commissioner reduces the amount of the estimate under subsection  (1), he or she must give you a written notice that:
 (a) identifies the underlying liability; and
 (b) sets out the reduced amount of the estimate.
Note: The estimate is taken always to have had effect as reduced: see section  268-55.
Revocation
 (3) The Commissioner may at any time revoke the estimate, but is not obliged to consider whether or not to do so.
 (4) If the Commissioner revokes the estimate under subsection  (3), he or she must give you a written notice that:
 (a) identifies the underlying liability; and
 (b) states that the estimate has been revoked.
Note: The estimate is taken never to have been made: see section  268-55.
Matters for Commissioner to consider
 (5) In exercising his or her power under this section to reduce the amount of the estimate, or to revoke the estimate, the Commissioner must have regard to:
 (a) the following principles:
 (i) the estimate is of the unpaid amount of the underlying liability as at a particular time;
 (ii) the purpose of reducing the amount of the estimate is to bring it closer to the unpaid amount of the underlying liability as at the time the estimate was made;
 (iii) reductions of the unpaid amount of the underlying liability that happen after the time the estimate was made are dealt with by section  268-20 (Nature of liability to pay estimate) and so should not be taken into account in exercising such a power; and
 (b) the effects of sections  268-55 and 268-70 (effect of reduction or revocation on liabilities).
Section 268-40 How estimate may be reduced or revoked--statutory declaration or affidavit
Scope
 (1) This section applies as set out in the following table:
Statutory declaration or affidavitItemThis section applies if ...and ...within ...1the Commissioner gives you notice of the estimateyou give the Commissioner a statutory declaration for the purposes of this section(a) 7 days after the Commissioner gives you the notice; or(b) a longer period allowed by the Commissioner.2you are a party to proceedings before a court that relate to the recovery of the unpaid amount of the estimateyou:(a) file an affidavit for the purposes of this section; and(b) serve a copy on the Commissioner(a) 14 days after you first take a procedural step as a party to the proceedings; or(b) a longer period allowed by the court.3(a) the estimate is of the unpaid amount of a liability of a company; and(b) the Commissioner serves on the company a *statutory demand relating to the company&#39;s liability to pay the unpaid amount of the estimate; and(c) an application is made to a court under section 234, 459P, 462 or 464 of the Corporations Act 2001 for the company to be wound upthe company:(a) files an affidavit for the purposes of this section; and(b) serves a copy on the applicant(a) 14 days after notice of the application was served on the company; or(b) a longer period allowed by the court.
Example: For the purposes of item 2 of the table, taking a procedural step as a party to proceedings includes entering an appearance, filing a notice of intention to defend, or applying to set aside judgment entered in default of appearance.
Note 1: Section 459C of the Corporations Act 2001 creates a presumption that a company is insolvent, and may be wound up, if the company fails to comply with a statutory demand.
Note 2: See section 268-90 for what the statutory declaration or affidavit must contain and who must make, swear or affirm it.
Reduction
 (2) The amount of the estimate is reduced if the statutory declaration is to the effect, or the affidavit verifies facts sufficient to prove, that a specified lesser amount is the unpaid amount of the underlying liability.
Example: Subsection (2) will apply if the statutory declaration etc. is to the effect that the underlying liability has been discharged in full (and therefore the unpaid amount of the liability is nil).
 (3) The amount of the reduction is the amount by which the unpaid amount of the estimate (just before the reduction) exceeds the amount specified.
Note: The effect of subsection (3) is to reduce the unpaid amount of the estimate to the amount specified.
Revocation
 (4) The estimate is revoked if the statutory declaration is to the effect, or the affidavit verifies facts sufficient to prove, that the underlying liability never existed.
Section 268-45 How estimate may be reduced or revoked--rejection of proof of debt
Scope
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) the Commissioner lodges a proof of debt relating to the unpaid amount of the estimate; and
 (b) section 268-95 applies to an entity (your supervising entity ) in relation to you.
Rejection of proof of debt
 (2) Your supervising entity may give the Commissioner a statutory declaration to the effect that:
 (a) the underlying liability has been discharged in full; or
 (b) the unpaid amount of the underlying liability is a specified, lesser amount; or
 (c) the underlying liability never existed.
Note: See section 268-90 for what the statutory declaration must contain and who must make it.
 (3) If your supervising entity does so, he or she may reject the proof of debt (in whole or in part) on the ground made out in the statutory declaration.
 (4) If the Commissioner appeals, or applies for review of, your supervising entity&#39;s decision to reject the proof of debt, nothing in subsection (2) or (3) prevents evidence being adduced to contradict statements in the declaration.
Note: Such evidence might also be relevant to a prosecution for an offence, such as an offence against section  11 of the Statutory Declarations Act 1959 (False declarations).
Revocation or reduction of estimate
 (5) The following table applies in relation to the outcome following all (if any) appeals from, and applications for review of, your supervising entity&#39;s decision to reject the proof of debt. (If there are no appeals or applications for review, the outcome is your supervising entity&#39;s decision as originally made.)
Rejecting proof of debtItemIf the outcome is that ...then ...1the proof is rejected in whole on the ground that the estimate has been discharged in fullthe amount of the estimate is reduced by the unpaid amount of the estimate (just before the reduction).2the proof is rejected in partthe amount of the estimate is reduced by so much of the unpaid amount of the estimate (just before the reduction) as is rejected.3the proof is rejected in whole on the ground that the underlying liability never existedthe estimate is revoked.
Note 1: The effect of item 1 of the table is to reduce the unpaid amount of the estimate to nil.
Note 2: The effect of item 2 of the table is to reduce the unpaid amount of the estimate to the amount admitted to proof.
Section 268-50 How estimate may be reduced--amount paid or applied
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) an amount is paid or applied towards discharging your liability to pay the amount of the estimate; and
 (b) the amount paid or applied exceeds the unpaid amount of the underlying liability as at the time just before the payment or application.
 (2) The amount of the estimate is reduced so that it does not exceed the unpaid amount, at the time mentioned in paragraph  (1)(b), of the underlying liability.
Section 268-55 When reduction or revocation takes effect
Scope
 (1) This section applies for the purposes of the following:
 (a) Subdivision 268-C (Liability to pay estimates);
 (b) section 268-60 (refund of overpayments);
 (c) Subdivision 268-E (Late payment of estimates);
 (d) Division 269 (Penalties for directors of non -complying companies).
When reduction or revocation takes effect
 (2) If the amount of the estimate is reduced, the estimate has effect, and is taken always to have had effect, as if the original amount of the estimate had been the reduced amount.
 (3) If the estimate is revoked, the estimate is taken never to have been made.
Section 268-60 Consequences of reduction or revocation--refund
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) an amount is paid or applied towards discharging your liability to pay the amount of the estimate; and
 (b) the amount paid or applied exceeds the unpaid amount of the estimate as at the time just before the payment or application.
Example: You pay an amount towards discharging the estimate and the estimate is later reduced to a lesser amount.
Note: Section 268-50 provides for the reduction of the amount of the estimate in the case of overpayment.
 (2) The Commissioner must pay you the excess.
Note: See Division 3A of Part IIB of this Act for the rules about how the Commissioner must pay you. Division  3 of that Part allows the Commissioner to apply the amount owing as a credit against tax debts that you owe the Commonwealth.
Section 268-65 Consequences of reduction or revocation--statutory demand changed or set aside
Scope
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) the estimate is of the unpaid amount of a liability of a company; and
 (b) the Commissioner has served a *statutory demand on the company relating to the company&#39;s liability to pay the unpaid amount of the estimate; and
 (c) the amount of the estimate is later reduced, or the estimate is revoked.
Statutory demand changed
 (2) The *statutory demand is changed accordingly.
 (3) The *statutory demand is taken to have had effect (as so changed) from the time the Commissioner served it on the company.
Statutory demand set aside
 (4) The *statutory demand is set aside if subsection (2) reduces the amount of the debt (or the total of the amounts of the debts) below the statutory minimum (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001).
Section 268-70 Consequences of reduction or revocation--underlying liability
  Reduction of the amount of the estimate, or revocation of the estimate, does not affect the Commissioner&#39;s rights or remedies in relation to the underlying liability (except to the extent that this Division expressly provides otherwise).
Subdivision 268-E--Late payment of estimates
Table of sections
Section 268-75 Liability to pay the general interest charge
Section 268-80 Effect of paying the general interest charge
Section 268-75 Liability to pay the general interest charge
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) your liability to pay the amount of the estimate remains undischarged at the end of 7 days after the Commissioner gives you notice of the estimate; and
 (b) the underlying liability is not a liability to pay superannuation guarantee charge.
 (2) You are liable to pay the *general interest charge on the unpaid amount of the estimate for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the underlying liability was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day on which, at the end of the day, any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the amount of the estimate;
 (ii) general interest charge on any of the amount of the estimate.
Note: The general interest charge is worked out under Part IIA of this Act.
Section 268-80 Effect of paying the general interest charge
Scope
 (1) If you are liable to pay the *general interest charge under section 268-75 in relation to the estimate, this section applies to the following liabilities:
 (a) your liability to pay the general interest charge;
 (b) a liability of yours to pay a general interest charge, under a corresponding provision of Subdivision  16-B, because the underlying liability remains undischarged;
 (c) liability under a judgment, to the extent that it is based on a liability referred to in paragraph  (a) or (b);
 (d) a liability of yours to pay interest carried by a judgment debt, to the extent that the judgment debt is based on:
 (i) the liability to pay the estimate; or
 (ii) the liability to pay the general interest charge under section  268-75 on an unpaid amount of the estimate.
 (1A) In a case covered by paragraph  268-10(1)(c) (estimate of liability in relation to net amount under GST Act), treat the reference in paragraph (1)(b) to the underlying liability as being a reference to a liability under Division  33 or 35 of the *GST Act for an *assessed net amount in respect of the underlying liability.
Discharging one liability discharges other liabilities
 (2) If, at a particular time, an amount is paid or applied towards discharging one of the liabilities, each of the other liabilities that is in existence at that time is discharged to the extent of the same amount.
 (3) However, this section does not discharge a liability to a greater extent than the amount of the liability.
 (4) If, because a judgment debt carries interest, section  8AAH of this Act reduces the amount of a *general interest charge payable as mentioned in paragraph (1)(b) of this section, the amount of the reduction is taken, for the purposes of subsection  (2) of this section, to have been applied towards discharging your liability to the charge.
Subdivision 268-F--Miscellaneous
Table of sections
Section 268-85 Effect of judgment on liability on which it is based
Section 268-90 Requirements for statutory declaration or affidavit
Section 268-95 Liquidators, receivers and trustees in bankruptcy
Section 268-100 Division not to limit or exclude Corporations or Bankruptcy Act
Section 268-85 Effect of judgment on liability on which it is based
Estimate payable despite judgment
 (1) The unpaid amount of the estimate, or of the underlying liability, does not stop being payable merely because a judgment has been given by, or entered in, a court.
Division applies to liability under judgment
 (2) This Division applies in relation to liability under a judgment, to the extent that it is based on your liability to pay the amount of the estimate, in the same way as this Division applies to that estimate liability.
 (3) This Division applies in relation to liability under a judgment, to the extent that it is based on the underlying liability, in the same way as this Division applies to the underlying liability.
 (4) Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply for the purposes of the following:
 (a) section 268-20 (Nature of liability to pay estimate);
 (b) section 268-30 (Estimate provable in bankruptcy or winding up);
 (c) section 268-45 (rejection of proof of debt).
Judgment conclusive as to amount of liability
 (5) Nothing in this Division affects the conclusiveness of a judgment as to the amount of a liability on which it is based.
Section 268-90 Requirements for statutory declaration or affidavit
Scope
 (1) This section applies to a statutory declaration given, or an affidavit filed, for the purposes of section  268-40 or 268-45 in relation to the estimate.
Content
 (2) In a case covered by paragraph  268-10(1)(a) (estimate of liability under requirement to pay to the Commissioner amounts you have withheld under the Pay as you go withholding rules), the statutory declaration or affidavit must verify the following facts:
 (a) whichever of the following are applicable:
 (i) the sum of all amounts you withheld under Division  12 during the relevant period, or the fact that you did not withhold any such amounts during the period;
 (ii) the sum of all amounts you were required to pay under Division  13 (Alienated personal services payments) during the relevant period, or the fact that you were not required to pay any such amounts during the period;
 (iii) the sum of all amounts you were required to pay under Division  14 (non-cash benefits and accruing gains) during the relevant period, or the fact that you were not required to pay any such amounts during the period;
 (b) what has been done to comply with Division  16 (Payer&#39;s obligations and rights) in relation to the amounts referred to in paragraph (a).
 (2A) In a case covered by paragraph  268-10(1)(b) (estimate of liability to pay superannuation guarantee charge), the statutory declaration or affidavit must verify the following facts:
 (a) your name and address;
 (b) for each employee for whom you have an *individual superannuation guarantee shortfall for the relevant *quarter:
 (i) the employee&#39;s name and postal address and, if the employee has *quoted the employee&#39;s *tax file number to you, the employee&#39;s tax file number; and
 (ii) the amount of the shortfall;
 (c) what has been done to comply with your obligation to pay the relevant superannuation guarantee charge to the Commissioner.
Note: The amount of the individual superannuation guarantee shortfall mentioned in paragraph (b) is a factor in determining the amount of the superannuation guarantee charge mentioned in paragraph  268-10(1)(b). The lesser amount mentioned in subsection  268-40(2) may therefore differ from the amount of that shortfall.
 (2B) In a case covered by paragraph  268-10(1)(c) (estimate of liability in relation to net amount under GST Act), the statutory declaration or affidavit must verify the following facts:
 (a) your *net amount for the *tax period;
 (b) what has been done to comply with Division  31 and 33 of the *GST Act (obligation to give GST return and liability in respect of assessed net amounts) in relation to that tax period;
 (c) your *taxable supplies and *creditable acquisitions that are attributable to that tax period;
 (d) your assessable dealings (within the meaning of the *Wine Tax Act) and *wine tax credits that are attributable to that tax period.
Maker or deponent
 (3) The statutory declaration or affidavit must be made, sworn or affirmed by:
 (a) an individual specified in the following table; or
 (b) your liquidator, receiver or trustee in bankruptcy (if and as applicable).
Who must make the statutory declaration or swear or affirm the affidavitItemA statutory declaration or affidavit in relation to an estimate of a liability of ...must be made, sworn or affirmed by ...1an individualthat individual.2a body corporate(a) in the case of a company that has a director or a company secretary (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001)--a director of the company or the company secretary; or(b) in the case of an *Australian government agency--an individual prescribed by the regulations; or  (c) in any case--the public officer of the body corporate (for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936).3a body politican individual prescribed by the regulations.4a partnershipa partner of the partnership.5any other unincorporated association or body of persons(a) a member of the association&#39;s or body&#39;s committee of management; or(b) the public officer of the association or body (for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936).6a trust(a) the trustee of the trust; or(b) the public officer of the trust (for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936).7a *superannuation fund or an *approved deposit fund(a) the trustee of the fund; or(b) if the fund does not have a trustee--the entity managing the fund.
 (4) If the entity specified in the table in subsection  (3) is not an individual, the table is taken to specify the individual who, under that subsection, would be eligible to make a statutory declaration in relation to an estimate of a liability of that entity.
Section 268-95 Liquidators, receivers and trustees in bankruptcy
Scope
 (1) This section applies to an entity (your supervising entity), in relation to you, if:
 (a) the entity is your liquidator, receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or administrator, or the administrator of a deed of company arrangement executed by you; or
 (b) your property is vested in the entity, or the entity has control of your property.
 (2) For the purposes of this Division, this section applies to an entity in relation to a partnership if it applies to the entity in relation to a partner of the partnership.
Notices from the Commissioner
 (3) For the purposes of this Division, a notice given by the Commissioner to your supervising entity is taken to have been given to you.
 (4) You must give your supervising entity a copy of any notice given to you by the Commissioner under this Division. You must do so as soon as practicable, and in any event within 7 days, after:
 (a) if the Commissioner gave you the notice before the day when your property vested in, or control of your property passed to, the supervising entity--that day; or
 (b) if subsection (2) applies and the Commissioner gave you the notice before the day when the relevant partner&#39;s property vested in, or control of the relevant partner&#39;s property passed to, the supervising entity--that day; or
 (c) otherwise--the day when the Commissioner gave you the notice.
 (5) If the Commissioner gives you and your supervising entity a notice at different times, each notice is taken to have been given at the later of those times.
Action taken by your supervising entity
 (6) For the purposes of this Division, a statutory declaration given to the Commissioner by your supervising entity is taken to have been given by you.
 (7) For the purposes of this Division, an affidavit filed by your supervising entity is taken to have been filed by you.
 (8) For the purposes of item  2 in the table in subsection 268-40(1) (recovery proceedings), a procedural step taken by your supervising entity is taken to have been taken by you.
Multiple supervising entities
 (9) If you have 2 or more supervising entities, anything this Division provides for to be done by or in relation to your supervising entity may be done by or in relation to any of them.
Section 268-100 Division not to limit or exclude Corporations or Bankruptcy Act
  This Division is not intended to limit or exclude the operation of Chapter  5 (External administration) or Schedule 2 to the Corporations Act 2001, or the Bankruptcy Act 1966 , to the extent those provisions or that Act can operate concurrently with this Division.
Note: Section 268-30 and Subdivision  268-D affect the operation of Chapter 5 of the Corporations Act 2001 and the Bankruptcy Act 1966.
Division 269--Penalties for directors of non-complying companies
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 269
Section 269-A Object and scope
Section 269-B Obligations and penalties
Section 269-C Discharging liabilities
Section 269-D Miscellaneous
 Guide to Division 269
Section 269-1 What this Division is about
This Division deals with obligations of a company: (a) under Subdivision 16-B in this Schedule (obligation to pay withheld amounts to the Commissioner); and (b) under Division 268 in this Schedule (obligation to pay estimates); and (c) under Part 3 of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 (obligation to pay superannuation guarantee charge); and (d) under Divisions 33 and 35 of the GST Act in respect of assessed net amounts; and (e) under Division 162 of the GST Act in respect of GST instalments.The directors of a company have a duty to ensure that the company either: (a) meets those obligations; or (b) goes promptly into voluntary administration or restructuring under the Corporations Act 2001 or into liquidation.The directors&#39; duties are enforced by penalties.Note: The duties this Division imposes on the directors of the company are in addition to the similar duties imposed on the public officer of the company. See subsection  252(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.
Subdivision 269-A--Object and scope
Table of sections
Section 269-5 Object of Division
Section 269-10 Scope of Division
Section 269-5 Object of Division
  The object of this Division is to ensure that a company either:
 (a) meets its obligations under:
 (i) Subdivision 16-B (obligation to pay withheld amounts to the Commissioner); and
 (ii) Division 268 (estimates of PAYG withholding liabilities and superannuation guarantee charge); and
 (iii) Part 3 of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 (obligation to pay superannuation guarantee charge); and
 (iv) Divisions 33 and 35 of the *GST Act in respect of *assessed net amounts; and
 (v) Division 162 of the GST Act in respect of GST instalments (within the meaning of the GST Act); or
 (b) goes promptly into voluntary administration or restructuring under the Corporations Act 2001 or into liquidation.
Note: The directors&#39; duties are enforced by penalties on the directors. A penalty recovered under this Division is applied towards meeting the company&#39;s obligation.
Section 269-10 Scope of Division
 (1) This Division applies as set out in the following table:
Obligations that directors must cause company to comply withItemColumn 1This Division applies if, on a particular day (the initial day), a company is a company registered under the Corporations Act 2001, and on the initial day ... Column 2and the company is obliged to pay to the Commissioner on or before a particular day (the due day) ... 1the company withholds an amount under Division 12that amount in accordance with Subdivision 16-B.2the company receives an *alienated personal services paymentan amount in respect of that alienated personal services payment in accordance with Division 13 and Subdivision 16-B.3the company provides a *non-cash benefitan amount in respect of that benefit in accordance with Subdivision 16-B.5a *quarter endssuperannuation guarantee charge for the quarter in accordance with the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992.6a *tax period endsan *assessed net amount for the tax period in accordance with the *GST Act.7a GST instalment quarter (within the meaning of the *GST Act) endsa GST instalment (within the meaning of the GST Act) for the quarter in accordance with the GST Act.
 (2) This Division applies in relation to an amount that the company purports to withhold under Division  12, but is not required to withhold, as if the company were required to withhold the amount.
Superannuation guarantee charge
 (3) For the purposes of this Division, the company&#39;s superannuation guarantee charge for a *quarter under the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 is treated as being payable on the day by which the company must lodge a superannuation guarantee statement for the quarter under section  33 of that Act, even if the charge is not assessed under that Act on or before that day.
Estimates
 (4) This Division also applies if:
 (a) a company is a company registered under the Corporations Act 2001; and
 (b) the company is given notice of an estimate under Division  268; and
 (c) the company is obliged to pay the amount of the estimate to the Commissioner on or before a particular day (the due day).
 (5) If this Division applies because of subsection  (4), then for the purposes of this Division:
 (a) in the case of an estimate of an underlying liability referred to in paragraph  268-10(1)(a) (PAYG withholding liabilities)--the initial day is:
 (i) for a company that is a *medium withholder or a *small withholder on the last day of the period identified in the notice of the estimate under section  268-15 as the period to which the underlying liability relates--the last day of that period; or
 (ii) for any other company--the day by which the company is obliged to pay the amount of the underlying liability to the Commissioner; and
 (b) in the case of an estimate of an underlying liability referred to in paragraph  268-10(1)(b) (superannuation guarantee charge)--the initial day is the last day of the *quarter to which the estimate relates; and
 (ba) in the case of an estimate of an underlying liability referred to in paragraph  268-10(1)(c) (net amount under GST Act)--the initial day is the last day of the *tax period to which the estimate relates; and
 (c) the company&#39;s obligation to pay the amount of the estimate is taken to have begun on the day after the initial day identified in paragraph  (a) or (b) of this subsection.
 (6) For the purposes of subsection  (5), assume that the underlying liability exists as identified in the notice of the estimate under section 268-15.
Subdivision 269-B--Obligations and penalties
Table of sections
Section 269-15 Directors&#39; obligations
Section 269-20 Penalty
Section 269-25 Notice
Section 269-30 Effect on penalty of directors&#39; obligation ending before end of notice period
Section 269-35 Defences
Section 269-15 Directors&#39; obligations
Directors&#39; obligations
 (1) The directors (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) of the company (from time to time) on or after the initial day must cause the company to comply with its obligation.
 (2) The directors of the company (from time to time) continue to be under their obligation until:
 (a) the company complies with its obligation; or
 (b) an administrator of the company is appointed under section  436A, 436B or 436C of the Corporations Act 2001; or
 (ba) a small business restructuring practitioner for the company is appointed under section  453B of that Act; or
 (c) the company begins to be wound up (within the meaning of that Act).
 (2A) To avoid doubt, if the obligation of the company is an obligation to pay the amount of an estimate of an underlying liability under Division  268, a director is subject to his or her obligation under subsection (1):
 (a) even if the underlying liability never existed or has been discharged in full; and
 (b) even if the unpaid amount of the underlying liability is less than the unpaid amount of the estimate; and
 (c) at all times on and after the day referred to in paragraph  269-10(5)(b) until the director&#39;s obligation ceases under subsection (2) of this section, including at any such times before the Commissioner has made the estimate or given notice of the estimate.
Instalment arrangements
 (3) The Commissioner must not commence, or take a procedural step as a party to, proceedings to enforce an obligation, or to recover a penalty, of a director under this Division if an *arrangement that covers the company&#39;s obligation is in force under section  255-15 (Commissioner&#39;s power to permit payments by instalments).
Note 1: The arrangement may also cover other obligations of the company.
Note 2: Subsection (3) does not prevent the Commissioner from giving a director a notice about a penalty under section  269-25.
Section 269-20 Penalty
Penalty for director on or before due day
 (1) You are liable to pay to the Commissioner a penalty if:
 (a) at the end of the due day, the directors of the company are still under an obligation under section  269-15; and
 (b) you were under that obligation at or before that time (because you were a director).
Note: Paragraph (1)(b) applies even if you stopped being a director before the end of the due day: see subsection  269-15(2).
 (2) The penalty is due and payable at the end of the due day.
Note: The Commissioner must not commence proceedings to recover the penalty until the end of 21 days after the Commissioner gives you notice of the penalty under section  269-25.
Penalty for new director
 (3) You are also liable to pay to the Commissioner a penalty if:
 (a) after the due day, you became a director of the company and began to be under an obligation under section  269-15; and
 (b) 30 days later, you are still under that obligation.
 (4) The penalty is due and payable at the end of that 30th day.
Note: The Commissioner must not commence proceedings to recover the penalty until the end of 21 days after the Commissioner gives you notice of the penalty under section  269-25.
Amount of penalty
 (5) The amount of a penalty under this section is equal to the unpaid amount of the company&#39;s liability under its obligation.
Note 1: See section 269-40 for the effect on your penalty of the company discharging its obligation, or of another director paying his or her penalty.
Note 2: See section 269-45 for your rights of indemnity and contribution.
Section 269-25 Notice
Commissioner must give notice of penalty
 (1) The Commissioner must not commence proceedings to recover from you a penalty payable under this Subdivision until the end of 21 days after the Commissioner gives you a written notice under this section.
Content of notice
 (2) The notice must:
 (a) set out what the Commissioner thinks is the unpaid amount of the company&#39;s liability under its obligation; and
 (b) state that you are liable to pay to the Commissioner, by way of penalty, an amount equal to that unpaid amount because of an obligation you have or had under this Division; and
 (c) explain the main circumstances in which the penalty will be remitted.
 (3) To avoid doubt, a single notice may relate to 2 or more penalties, but must comply with subsection  (2) in relation to each of them.
When notice is given
 (4) Despite section 29 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901, a notice under subsection (1) is taken to be given at the time the Commissioner leaves or posts it.
Note 1: Section 28A of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 may be relevant to giving a notice under subsection (1).
Note 2: Section 269-50 of this Act is also relevant to giving a notice under subsection  (1).
Section 269-30 Effect on penalty of directors&#39; obligation ending before end of notice period
 (1) Subject to subsection  (2), a penalty of yours under this Division is remitted if the directors of the company stop being under the relevant obligation under section  269-15:
 (a) before the Commissioner gives you notice of the penalty under section  269-25; or
 (b) within 21 days after the Commissioner gives you notice of the penalty under that section.
  (2) The following table has effect:
When appointing administrator or restructuring practitioner or winding up company does not affect penaltyItemColumn 1If the company&#39;s obligation is to pay to the Commissioner, on or before the due day ... Column 2and, because of paragraph 269-15(2)(b), (ba) or (c) (an administrator or a restructuring practitioner is appointed, or the company begins to be wound up), the directors stop being under the relevant obligation after ... Column 3subsection (1) does not apply ... 1an amount in accordance with Subdivision 16-B (obligation to pay withheld amounts to the Commissioner),the last day of the 3 months after the due day,to the extent the company does not, on or before the last day mentioned in column 2, notify the Commissioner:(a) under section 16-150 of the amount the company is obliged to pay; or(b) under section 389-5 of the amount the company is obliged to withhold.2the amount of an estimate under Division 268 of a liability referred to in paragraph 268-10(1)(a) (PAYG withholding liabilities),the last day of the 3 months after the day by which the company was obliged to pay the underlying liability to which the estimate relates,to any extent.3superannuation guarantee charge for a *quarter,the due day,(a) if the company, on or before the last day mentioned in column 2, lodges under section 33 of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 a superannuation guarantee statement for the quarter--the extent (if any) to which the sum mentioned in paragraph 35(1)(e) of that Act is less than the amount of the superannuation guarantee charge the company is obliged to pay for the quarter; or(b) otherwise--to any extent.4the amount of an estimate under Division 268 of a liability referred to in paragraph 268-10(1)(b) (superannuation guarantee charge),the day by which the company was obliged to pay the underlying liability to which the estimate relates,to any extent.5an *assessed net amount for a *tax periodWhen appointing administrator or restructuring practitioner or winding up company does not affect penaltyItemColumn 1If the company&#39;s obligation is to pay to the Commissioner, on or before the due day ... Column 2and, because of paragraph 269-15(2)(b), (ba) or (c) (an administrator or a restructuring practitioner is appointed, or the company begins to be wound up), the directors stop being under the relevant obligation after ... Column 3subsection (1) does not apply ... 1an amount in accordance with Subdivision 16-B (obligation to pay withheld amounts to the Commissioner),the last day of the 3 months after the due day,to the extent the company does not, on or before the last day mentioned in column 2, notify the Commissioner:(a) under section 16-150 of the amount the company is obliged to pay; or(b) under section 389-5 of the amount the company is obliged to withhold.2the amount of an estimate under Division 268 of a liability referred to in paragraph 268-10(1)(a) (PAYG withholding liabilities),the last day of the 3 months after the day by which the company was obliged to pay the underlying liability to which the estimate relates,to any extent.3superannuation guarantee charge for a *quarter,the due day,(a) if the company, on or before the last day mentioned in column 2, lodges under section 33 of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 a superannuation guarantee statement for the quarter--the extent (if any) to which the sum mentioned in paragraph 35(1)(e) of that Act is less than the amount of the superannuation guarantee charge the company is obliged to pay for the quarter; or(b) otherwise--to any extent.4the amount of an estimate under Division 268 of a liability referred to in paragraph 268-10(1)(b) (superannuation guarantee charge),the day by which the company was obliged to pay the underlying liability to which the estimate relates,to any extent.5an *assessed net amount for a *tax periodthe last day of the 3 months after the due day,(a) if the company, on or before the last day mentioned in column 2, lodges its *GST return, for the tax period for the relevant *net amount--the extent (if any) to which the net amount (worked out from the information in the GST return and any other information that the company gives the Commissioner on or before that last day) is less than the company&#39;s assessed net amount for the tax period; or(b) otherwise--to any extent.6the amount of an estimate under Division 268 of a liability referred to in paragraph 268-10(1)(c) (net amount under GST Act),the last day of the 3 months after the day by which the company was obliged to give its *GST return, for the tax period for the relevant *net amount, to the Commissioner in accordance with Division 31 of the *GST Act,to any extent.
Note 1: An administrator or a small business restructuring practitioner of the company being appointed, or the company beginning to be wound up, after the last day mentioned in column 2 will, to the extent mentioned in column 3, have no effect on the penalty.
Note 2: The sum mentioned in paragraph 35(1)(e) of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 is the sum of:
        (a) the total of the company&#39;s individual superannuation guarantee shortfalls; and
        (b) the company&#39;s nominal interest component; and
        (c) the company&#39;s administration component;
 specified in the superannuation guarantee statement.
Note 3: This subsection will not affect the operation of subsection (1) in respect of penalties that relate to GST instalments.
 (3) If you become a director of the company during or after the 3 months mentioned in item  1, 2, 5 or 6, treat the reference in the item to the 3 months as being a reference to the 3 months after the day you become a director of the company.
Section 269-35 Defences
Illness
 (1) You are not liable to a penalty under this Division if, because of illness or for some other good reason, it would have been unreasonable to expect you to take part, and you did not take part, in the management of the company at any time when:
 (a) you were a director of the company; and
 (b) the directors were under the relevant obligations under subsection  269-15(1).
All reasonable steps
 (2) You are not liable to a penalty under this Division if:
 (a) you took all reasonable steps to ensure that one of the following happened:
 (i) the directors caused the company to comply with its obligation;
 (ii) the directors caused an administrator of the company to be appointed under section  436A, 436B or 436C of the Corporations Act 2001;
 (iia) the directors caused a small business restructuring practitioner for the company to be appointed under section  453B of that Act;
 (iii) the directors caused the company to begin to be wound up (within the meaning of that Act); or
 (b) there were no reasonable steps you could have taken to ensure that any of those things happened.
 (3) In determining what are reasonable steps for the purposes of subsection  (2), have regard to:
 (a) when, and for how long, you were a director and took part  in the management of the company; and
 (b) all other relevant circumstances.
 (3AA) If the obligation referred to in subparagraph  (2)(a)(i) is an obligation to pay an amount of an estimate of an underlying liability under Division 268, that reference to an obligation includes a reference to the obligation to pay the underlying liability.
 (3AB) For the purposes of subsection  (3AA), assume that the underlying liability exists as identified in the notice of the estimate under section 268-15.
Superannuation guarantee charge and assessed net amounts--reasonably arguable position
 (3A) You are not liable to a penalty under this Division to the extent that the penalty resulted from the company treating the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 or the *GST Act as applying to a matter or identical matters in a particular way that was *reasonably arguable, if the company took reasonable care in connection with applying that Act to the matter or matters.
When you can rely on this section
 (4) For the purposes of:
 (a) proceedings in a court to recover from you a penalty payable under this Division; or
 (b) proceedings in a court against you in relation to a right referred to in paragraph  269-45(2)(b) (directors jointly and severally liable as guarantors);
subsection (1) or (2) of this section does not apply unless you prove the matters mentioned in that subsection.
 (4A) For the purpose of the Commissioner recovering from you a penalty payable under this Division (other than as mentioned in subsection  (4)), subsection (1) or (2) does not apply unless:
 (a) you provide information to the Commissioner during the period of 60 days starting on the day the Commissioner:
 (i) in the case of the Commissioner recovering the penalty under section  260-5 (Commissioner may collect amounts from third party)--gives you a notice under subsection 260-5(6) in relation to the penalty; or
 (ii) otherwise--notifies you in writing that he or she has recovered any of the penalty; and
 (b) the Commissioner is satisfied of the matters mentioned in subsection  (1) or (2) of this section on the basis of that information.
Power of courts to grant relief
 (5) Section 1318 of the Corporations Act 2001 does not apply to an obligation or liability of a director under this Division.
Subdivision 269-C--Discharging liabilities
Table of sections
Section 269-40 Effect of director paying penalty or company discharging liability
Section 269-45 Directors&#39; rights of indemnity and contribution
Section 269-40 Effect of director paying penalty or company discharging liability
Liabilities
 (1) This section applies to the following liabilities:
 (a) the liability of the company under its obligation referred to in section  269-10;
 (b) the liability of each director (or former director) to pay a penalty under this Division in relation to the liability of the company referred to in paragraph  (a);
 (c) a liability under a judgment, to the extent that it is based on a liability referred to in paragraph  (a) or (b).
Discharging one liability discharges other liabilities
 (2) If an amount is paid or applied at a particular time towards discharging one of the liabilities, each of the other liabilities in existence at that time is discharged to the extent of the same amount.
 (3) If, because of section 268-20 (Nature of liability to pay estimate), one of the liabilities is discharged at a particular time to the extent of a particular amount, each of the other liabilities in existence at that time is discharged to the extent of the same amount.
 (4) This section does not discharge a liability to a greater extent than the amount of the liability.
Section 269-45 Directors&#39; rights of indemnity and contribution
 (1) This section applies if you pay a penalty under this Division in relation to a liability of the company under an obligation referred to in section  269-10.
 (2) You have the same rights (whether by way of indemnity, subrogation, contribution or otherwise) against the company or anyone else as if:
 (a) you made the payment under a guarantee of the liability of the company; and
 (b) under the guarantee you and every other person who has paid, or from whom the Commissioner is entitled to recover, a penalty under this Division in relation to the company&#39;s obligation were jointly and severally liable as guarantors.
Subdivision 269-D--Miscellaneous
Table of sections
Section 269-50 How notice may be given
Section 269-52 Copies of notices
Section 269-55 Division not to limit or exclude Corporations Act
Section 269-50 How notice may be given
  The Commissioner may give you a notice under section  269-25 by leaving it at, or posting it to, an address that appears, from information held by *ASIC, to be, or to have been within the last 7 days, your place of residence or *business.
Section 269-52 Copies of notices
 (1) If:
 (a) the Commissioner gives you a notice under section  269-25 in accordance with section 269-50; and
 (b) you have given the address of a *registered tax agent to the Commissioner as your address for service for the purposes of any *taxation law;
the Commissioner may also give you a copy of the notice.
 (2) The Commissioner may do so by leaving the copy at, or posting the copy to, the address of the *registered tax agent.
 (3) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect:
 (a) whether the Commissioner has given you the actual notice; or
 (b) how the Commissioner may give you the actual notice.
Section 269-55 Division not to limit or exclude Corporations Act
  To avoid doubt, this Division is not intended to limit or exclude the operation of Chapter  5 (External administration) or Schedule 2 to the Corporations Act 2001, to the extent those provisions can operate concurrently with this Division.
Part 4-25--Charges and penalties
Division 280--Shortfall interest charge
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 280
Section 280-A Object of Division
Section 280-B Shortfall interest charge
Section 280-C Remitting shortfall interest charge
 Guide to Division 280
Section 280-1 Guide to Division 280
The shortfall interest charge applies to shortfalls of income tax, petroleum resource rent tax, excess non -concessional contributions tax, Division 293 tax, diverted profits tax, Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy, Australian IIR/UTPR tax or Australian DMT tax that are revealed when the Commissioner amends your assessment.The shortfall interest charge also applies if an amendment of your assessment by the Commissioner reveals that excessive tax offset refunds have been credited to you and you are liable to pay the amount of the excess.The charge is applied at a uniform rate that is lower than the general interest charge rate.The Commissioner has a discretion to remit shortfall interest charge.
Subdivision 280-A--Object of Division
Table of sections
Section 280-50 Object of Division
  The object of this Division is to neutralise benefits that taxpayers could otherwise receive from:
 (a) shortfalls of income tax, *petroleum resource rent tax, *excess non-concessional contributions tax, *Division 293 tax, *diverted profits tax, *Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy, *Australian IIR/UTPR tax or *Australian DMT tax; or
 (b) excessive tax offset refunds;
so that they do not receive an advantage in the form of a free loan over those who assess correctly.
Subdivision 280-B--Shortfall interest charge
Table of sections
Section 280-100 Liability to shortfall interest charge--income tax
Section 280-101 Liability to shortfall interest charge--excess exploration credit tax
Section 280-102 Liability to shortfall interest charge--petroleum resource rent tax
Section 280-102A Liability to shortfall interest charge--excess non -concessional contributions tax
Section 280-102B Liability to shortfall interest charge--Division  293 tax
Section 280-102C Liability to shortfall interest charge--diverted profits tax
Section 280-102D Liability to shortfall interest charge--Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy
Section 280-102E Liability to shortfall interest charge--Australian IIR/UTPR tax and Australian DMT tax
Section 280-102F Liability to shortfall interest charge--excessive tax offset refunds
Section 280-103 Liability to shortfall interest charge--general
Section 280-105 Amount of shortfall interest charge
Section 280-110 Notification by Commissioner
Section 280-100 Liability to shortfall interest charge--income tax
 (1) You are liable to pay *shortfall interest charge on an additional amount of income tax that you are liable to pay because the Commissioner amends your assessment for an income year.
 (2) The liability is for each day in the period:
 (a) beginning at the start of the day on which income tax under your first assessment for that income year was due to be paid, or would have been due to be paid if there had been any; and
 (b) ending at the end of the day before the day on which the Commissioner gave you notice of the amended assessment.
 (3) However, if an amended assessment reinstates all or part of a liability in relation to a particular that had been reduced by an earlier amended assessment, the period for the reinstated liability begins at the start of the day on which income tax under the earlier amended assessment was due to be paid, or would have been due to be paid if there had been any.
Note: See Division 5 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for when the amount of income tax and shortfall interest charge becomes due and payable. That Division also provides for general interest charge on any part of the additional amount (plus any shortfall interest charge) that remains unpaid after the additional amount is due and payable.
Liability arising because of a financial benefit under a look-through earnout right
 (5) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) you provide or receive a *financial benefit under a *look-through earnout right; and
 (b) you request the Commissioner to amend your assessment for an income year (the taxing year) to take account of the financial benefit; and
 (c) you make that request at or before the time:
 (i) you are required to lodge your *income tax return for the income year in which the financial benefit is provided or received; or
 (ii) you would be so required if you were required to lodge an income tax return for that income year; and
 (d) as a result of paragraph  (a), you are liable to pay an additional amount of income tax for the taxing year.
Section 280-101 Liability to shortfall interest charge--excess exploration credit tax
 (1) You are liable to pay *shortfall interest charge on an additional amount of *excess exploration credit tax that you are liable to pay because the Commissioner amends your assessment for an income year.
 (2) The liability is for each day in the period:
 (a) beginning at the start of the day on which *excess exploration credit tax under your first assessment for that income year was due to be paid, or would have been due to be paid if there had been any; and
 (b) ending at the end of the day before the day on which the Commissioner gave you notice of the amended assessment.
 (3) However, if an amended assessment reinstates all or part of a liability in relation to a particular that had been reduced by an earlier amended assessment, the period for the reinstated liability begins at the start of the day on which *excess exploration credit tax under the earlier amended assessment was due to be paid, or would have been due to be paid if there had been any.
Note: See Subdivision 418-F of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for when the amount of excess exploration credit tax and shortfall interest charge becomes due and payable. That Subdivision also provides for general interest charge on any part of the additional amount (plus any shortfall interest charge) that remains unpaid after the additional amount is due and payable.
Section 280-102 Liability to shortfall interest charge--petroleum resource rent tax
 (1) You are liable to pay *shortfall interest charge on an additional amount of *petroleum resource rent tax that you are liable to pay because the Commissioner amends your assessment under the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 1987 for a year of tax (within the meaning of that Act).
 (2) The liability is for each day in the period:
 (a) beginning at the start of the day on which *petroleum resource rent tax under your first assessment for that year of tax was due to be paid, or would have been due to be paid if there had been any; and
 (b) ending at the end of the day before the day on which the Commissioner gave you notice of the amended assessment.
 (3) However, if an amended assessment reinstates all or part of a liability in relation to a particular that had been reduced by an earlier amended assessment, the period for the reinstated liability begins at the start of the day on which *petroleum resource rent tax under the earlier amended assessment was due to be paid, or would have been due to be paid if there had been any.
Note: See section 82 of the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 1987 for when the amount of petroleum resource rent tax and shortfall interest charge becomes due and payable. Section 85 of that Act provides for general interest charge on any part of the additional amount (plus any shortfall interest charge) that remains unpaid after the additional amount is due and payable.
Section 280-102A Liability to shortfall interest charge--excess non -concessional contributions tax
 (1) You are liable to pay *shortfall interest charge on an additional amount of *excess non-concessional contributions tax that you are liable to pay because the Commissioner amends your *excess non-concessional contributions tax assessment for a financial year.
 (2) The liability is for each day in the period:
 (a) beginning at the start of the day on which *excess non-concessional contributions tax under your first *excess non -concessional contributions tax assessment for that year was due to be paid; and
 (b) ending at the end of the day before the day on which the Commissioner gave you notice of the amended assessment.
 (3) However, if an amended assessment reinstates all or part of a liability in relation to a particular that had been reduced by an earlier amended assessment, the period for the reinstated liability begins at the start of the day on which *excess non-concessional contributions tax under the earlier amended assessment was due to be paid.
Note: See section 292-385 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for when the amount of excess non-concessional contributions tax becomes due and payable. See section 5-10 of that Act for when the amount of shortfall interest charge becomes due and payable. Section  292-390 of that Act provides for general interest charge on any part of the additional amount (plus any shortfall interest charge) that remains unpaid after the additional amount is due and payable.
Liability arising because of a financial benefit under a look-through earnout right
 (4) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) you provide or receive a *financial benefit under a *look-through earnout right; and
 (b) you request the Commissioner to amend your *excess non-concessional contributions tax assessment for a *financial year to take account of the financial benefit; and
 (c) you make that request at or before the time:
 (i) you are required to lodge your *income tax return for the income year in which the financial benefit is provided or received; or
 (ii) you would be so required if you were required to lodge an income tax return for that income year; and
 (d) as a result of paragraph  (a), you are liable to pay an additional amount of *excess non-concessional contributions tax for the financial year.
Section 280-102B Liability to shortfall interest charge--Division  293 tax
 (1) You are liable to pay *shortfall interest charge on an additional amount of *Division 293 tax that you are liable to pay because the Commissioner amends your assessment of an amount of Division  293 tax payable in relation to an income year.
 (2) However, subsection  (1) does not apply to the extent the additional amount of *Division 293 tax is *deferred to a debt account for a *superannuation interest.
 (3) The liability is for each day in the period:
 (a) beginning on the day on which *Division 293 tax under your first assessment of Division 293 tax for that income year was due to be paid; and
 (b) ending on the day before the day on which the Commissioner gave you notice of the amended assessment.
 (4) However, if an amended assessment reinstates all or part of a liability in relation to a particular that had been reduced by an earlier amended assessment, the period for the reinstated liability begins at the start of the day on which *Division 293 tax under the earlier amended assessment was due to be paid.
Note 1: See section 5-10 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for when the amount of shortfall interest charge becomes due and payable.
Note 2: See Subdivision 293-C of that Act for when the amount of assessed Division  293 tax becomes due and payable. That Subdivision also provides for general interest charge on any part of the additional amount (plus any shortfall interest charge) that remains unpaid after the additional amount is due and payable.
Liability arising because of a financial benefit under a look-through earnout right
 (5) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) you provide or receive a *financial benefit under a *look-through earnout right; and
 (b) you request the Commissioner to amend your assessment of *Division 293 tax payable in relation to an income year (the taxing year ) to take account of the financial benefit; and
 (c) you make that request at or before the time:
 (i) you are required to lodge your *income tax return for the income year in which the financial benefit is provided or received; or
 (ii) you would be so required if you were required to lodge an income tax return for that income year; and
 (d) as a result of paragraph  (a), you are liable to pay an additional amount of Division 293 tax for the taxing year.
Section 280-102C Liability to shortfall interest charge--diverted profits tax
 (1) Subsection (2) applies if:
 (a) the Commissioner has given an entity an assessment of income tax for an income year; and
 (b) the Commissioner subsequently gives the entity a *DPT assessment for that income year.
 (2) The entity is liable to pay *shortfall interest charge equal to the amount of shortfall interest charge that the entity would be liable to pay under section 280-100 if:
 (a) the Commissioner amended the assessment of income tax mentioned in paragraph  (1)(a) on the day that the Commissioner gave the entity the *DPT assessment mentioned in paragraph  (1)(b); and
 (b) the entity were liable to pay an additional amount of income tax because of that amendment; and
 (c) the Commissioner made that amendment on the basis that the *tax benefit or tax benefits to which the DPT assessment related were cancelled.
 (3) An entity is also liable to pay *shortfall interest charge on an additional amount of *diverted profits tax that the entity is liable to pay because the Commissioner amends the entity&#39;s *DPT assessment in respect of an income year.
 (4) The liability is for each day in the period:
 (a) beginning at the start of the day on which *diverted profits tax under the entity&#39;s first *DPT assessment for that income year was due to be paid, or would have been due to be paid if there had been any; and
 (b) ending at the end of the day before the day on which the Commissioner gave the entity notice of the amended *DPT assessment.
 (5) However, if an amended *DPT assessment reinstates all or part of a liability in relation to a particular that had been reduced by an earlier amended DPT assessment, the period for the reinstated liability begins at the start of the day on which *diverted profits tax under the earlier amended DPT assessment was due to be paid.
Note 1: See subsection 177P(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 for when the amount of diverted profits tax becomes due and payable.
Note 2: Section 177Q of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 provides for general interest charge on any part of the additional amount (plus any shortfall interest charge) that remains unpaid after the additional amount is due and payable.
Note 3: See section 177R of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 for when the amount of shortfall interest charge becomes due and payable.
Section 280-102D Liability to shortfall interest charge--Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy
 (1) You are liable to pay *shortfall interest charge on an additional amount of *Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy that you are liable to pay because the Commissioner amends your assessment of an amount of levy payable for a financial year.
 (2) The liability is for each day in the period:
 (a) beginning at the start of the day on which levy under your first assessment for that financial year was due to be paid, or would have been due to be paid if there had been any; and
 (b) ending at the end of the day before the day on which the Commissioner gave you the notice of the amended assessment.
 (3) However, if an amended assessment reinstates all or part of a liability in relation to a particular that had been reduced by an earlier amended assessment, the period for the reinstated liability begins at the start of the day on which levy under the earlier amended assessment was due to be paid, or would have been due to be paid if there had been any.
Note: See section 125-10 for when the amount of levy and shortfall interest charge becomes due and payable. That section also provides for general interest charge on any part of the additional amount (plus any shortfall interest charge) that remains unpaid after the additional amount is due and payable.
Section 280-102E Liability to shortfall interest charge--Australian IIR/UTPR tax and Australian DMT tax
  (1) A *Group Entity is liable to pay *shortfall interest charge on an additional amount of *Australian GloBE tax that the Group Entity is liable to pay because the Commissioner amends the Group Entity&#39;s assessment of an amount of such tax payable for a *Fiscal Year.
 (2) The liability is for each day in the period:
 (a) beginning at the start of the day on which such tax under the *Group Entity&#39;s first assessment for such tax for that *Fiscal Year was due to be paid, or would have been due to be paid if there had been any; and
 (b) ending at the end of the day before the day on which the Commissioner gave the Group Entity notice of the amended assessment.
 (3) However, if an amended assessment reinstates all or part of a liability in relation to a particular that had been reduced by an earlier amended assessment, the period for the reinstated liability begins at the start of the day on which such tax under the earlier amended assessment was due to be paid, or would have been due to be paid if there had been any.
Note: See section 127-70 for when the amount of such tax and shortfall interest charge becomes due and payable. That section also provides for general interest charge on any part of the additional amount (plus any shortfall interest charge) that remains unpaid after the additional amount is due and payable.
Joint Ventures
 (4) A reference in this section to a *Group Entity is taken to include a reference to a *GloBE Joint Venture or *GloBE JV Subsidiary that, under the *Minimum Tax Rules, is treated as a *Constituent Entity of a separate *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year for the purposes of computing its *Australian GloBE tax for the Fiscal Year.
Section 280-102F Liability to shortfall interest charge--excessive tax offset refunds
 (1) You are liable to pay *shortfall interest charge on an amount (an amount of excess) that you are liable to pay under subsection  172A(2) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 because the Commissioner amends your assessment for an income year.
 (2) The liability is for each day in the period:
 (a) beginning at the start of the day on which the amount of excess was applied in accordance with Divisions  3 and 3A of Part IIB of this Act; and
 (b) ending at the end of the day before the day on which the Commissioner gave you notice of the amended assessment.
Note: See section 172A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 for when the amount of excess, and the shortfall interest charge, become due and payable. That section also provides for general interest charge on any part of the amount of excess (plus any shortfall interest charge) that remains unpaid after it is due and payable.
Section 280-103 Liability to shortfall interest charge--general
 (1) Your liability to pay *shortfall interest charge exists whether or not you are liable to any penalty under this Act.
 (2) Neither the Commonwealth nor an authority of the Commonwealth is liable to pay *shortfall interest charge.
Section 280-105 Amount of shortfall interest charge
 (1) The *shortfall interest charge for a day is worked out by multiplying the rate worked out under subsection (2) for that day by the sum of these amounts:
 (a) the additional amount of income tax, *excess exploration credit tax, *petroleum resource rent tax, *excess non-concessional contributions tax or *Division 293 tax, or the amount that you are liable to pay shortfall interest charge on under subsection  280-102F(1); and
 (b) the shortfall interest charge on that amount from previous days.
 (2) The rate is:
Section 280-110 Notification by Commissioner
 (1) The Commissioner must give you a notice stating the amount of the *shortfall interest charge you are liable to pay for the period applicable under section 280-100, 280 -101, 280-102, 280-102A, 280-102B, 280-102D, 280-120E or 280 -102F.
 (3) A notice given by the Commissioner under this section is prima facie evidence of the matters stated in the notice.
Subdivision 280-C--Remitting shortfall interest charge
Table of sections
Section 280-160 Remitting shortfall interest charge
Section 280-165 Commissioner must give reasons for not remitting in certain cases
Section 280-170 Objecting against remission decision
Section 280-160 Remitting shortfall interest charge
 (1) The Commissioner may remit all or a part of an amount of *shortfall interest charge you are liable to pay if the Commissioner considers it fair and reasonable to do so.
 (2) Without limiting subsection  (1), in deciding whether to remit, the Commissioner must have regard to:
 (a) the principle that remission should not occur just because the benefit you received from the temporary use of the shortfall amount is less than the *shortfall interest charge; and
 (b) the principle that remission should occur where the circumstances justify the Commonwealth bearing part or all of the cost of delayed payments.
Section 280-165 Commissioner must give reasons for not remitting in certain cases
  The Commissioner must give you a written statement of the reasons for a decision not to remit an amount of *shortfall interest charge you are liable to pay if you requested the Commissioner, in the *approved form, to remit the amount.
Note: Section 25D of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 sets out rules about the contents of a statement of reasons.
Section 280-170 Objecting against remission decision
  You may object, in the manner set out in Part  IVC, against a decision of the Commissioner not to remit an amount of *shortfall interest charge you are liable to pay on an additional amount of income tax, *petroleum resource rent tax, *excess non-concessional contributions tax or *Division 293 tax, if the amount of the charge that was not remitted is more than 20% of the additional amount.
Division 284--Administrative penalties for statements, unarguable positions and schemes
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 284
Section 284-A General provisions
Section 284-B Penalties relating to statements
Section 284-C Penalties relating to schemes
Section 284-D Provisions common to Subdivisions 284-B and 284 -C
Section 284-E Special rules about unarguable positions for cross-border transfer pricing
 Guide to Division 284
Section 284-5 What this Division is about
This Division sets out the circumstances in which administrative penalties apply for: (a) making false or misleading statements; and (b) taking a position that is not reasonably arguable; and (c) entering into schemes.It also sets out the amounts of those penalties.
Subdivision 284-A--General provisions
Table of sections
Section 284-10 Object of Division
Section 284-15 When a matter is reasonably arguable
Section 284-20 Which statements this Division applies to
Section 284-25 Statements by agents
Section 284-27 GloBE Information Returns, Australian IIR/UTPR tax returns and Australian DMT tax returns lodged on your behalf
Section 284-30 Application of Division to trusts
Section 284-35 Application of Division to partnerships
Section 284-10 Object of Division
  The object of this Division is to provide a uniform administrative penalty regime for all *taxation laws to enable administrative penalties to apply to entities that fail to meet their obligations under those laws in relation to:
 (a) making false or misleading statements; and
 (b) taking a position that is not reasonably arguable; and
 (c) entering into *schemes; and
 (d) refusing to provide documents to the Commissioner.
Section 284-15 When a matter is reasonably arguable
 (1) A matter is reasonably arguable if it would be concluded in the circumstances, having regard to relevant authorities, that what is argued for is about as likely to be correct as incorrect, or is more likely to be correct than incorrect.
Note: For the effect of transfer pricing documentation on when a matter is reasonably arguable, see Subdivision  284-E.
 (2) To the extent that a matter involves an assumption about the way in which the Commissioner will exercise a discretion, the matter is only reasonably arguable if, had the Commissioner exercised the discretion in the way assumed, a court would be about as likely as not to decide that the exercise of the discretion was in accordance with law.
 (3) Without limiting subsection  (1), these authorities are relevant:
 (a) a *taxation law;
 (b) material for the purposes of subsection  15AB(1) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901;
 (c) a decision of a court (whether or not an Australian court), the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, the *ART or a Board of Review;
 (d) a *public ruling.
Section 284-20 Which statements this Division applies to
  This Division applies to a statement made orally, in a document or in any other way (including electronically) for a purpose connected with a *taxation law.
Section 284-25 Statements by agents
  This Division applies to a statement made by your agent as if it had been made by you.
Section 284-27 GloBE Information Returns, Australian IIR/UTPR tax returns and Australian DMT tax returns lodged on your behalf
 (1) Subsection (2) applies if, under section  127-10, 127-20, 127-40 or 127-50, you are taken to give a *GloBE Information Return, *Australian IIR/UTPR tax return or *Australian DMT tax return (the return) to the Commissioner because an entity gives the return to the Commissioner or a *foreign government agency.
 (2) This Division applies in relation to a statement in the return, as if the return, or a statement made by you in relation to the return, were given to the Commissioner:
 (a) by the entity, acting as your *agent; and
 (b) for a purpose connected with a *taxation law.
Section 284-30 Application of Division to trusts
  If you are a trustee of a trust and:
 (a) you make a statement to the Commissioner or to an officer who is exercising powers or performing functions under a *taxation law about the trust; and
 (b) the statement:
 (i) is false or misleading in a material particular, whether because of things in it or omitted from it; or
 (ii) treated an *income tax law as applying to a matter or identical matters in a particular way that was not *reasonably arguable; or
 (iii) treated a taxation law as applying in a particular way to a *scheme;
this Division applies to you as if any *shortfall amount or *scheme shortfall amount of a beneficiary of the trust as a result of the statement were your shortfall amount or scheme shortfall amount.
Section 284-35 Application of Division to partnerships
 (1) If you are a partner in a partnership and:
 (a) a statement about the partnership net income or partnership loss is made by a partner or the partnership&#39;s agent to the Commissioner or to an entity who is exercising powers or performing functions under a *taxation law about the partnership; and
 (b) the statement:
 (i) is false or misleading in a material particular, whether because of things in it or omitted from it; or
 (ii) treated an *income tax law as applying to a matter or identical matters in a particular way that was not *reasonably arguable;
this Division applies to you as if you had made the statement.
 (2) If you are a partner in a partnership and:
 (a) the partnership participated in a *scheme; and
 (b) the partnership net income would have been greater, or the partnership loss would have been smaller, apart from the scheme;
this Division applies to you as if the proportion of the *scheme benefit that is the same as your share of the partnership net income or partnership loss were your scheme benefit.
Subdivision 284-B--Penalties relating to statements
 Guide to Subdivision 284-B
Section 284-70 What this Subdivision is about
You are liable to an administrative penalty if: (a) you make a false or misleading statement about a tax-related matter; or (b) you take a position that is not reasonably arguable about a tax-related matter; or (c) the Commissioner determines a tax-related liability of yours without documents you were required to provide.This Subdivision sets out when the penalties apply and how the amounts of the penalties are calculated.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 284-75 Liability to penalty
Section 284-80 Shortfall amounts
Section 284-85 Amount of penalty
Section 284-90 Base penalty amount
Section 284-95 Joint and several liability of directors of corporate trustee that makes a false or misleading statement
 Operative provisions
Section 284-75 Liability to penalty
 (1) You are liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you make a statement to the Commissioner or to an entity that is exercising powers or performing functions under a *taxation law (other than the *Excise Acts); and
 (b) the statement is false or misleading in a material particular, whether because of things in it or omitted from it.
Note: This section applies to a statement made by your agent as if it had been made by you: see section  284-25.
 (2) You are liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you make a statement to the Commissioner or to an entity that is exercising powers or performing functions under an *income tax law, the *Minimum Tax law or the *petroleum resource rent tax law; and
 (b) in the statement, you treated an income tax law, the Minimum Tax law, or the petroleum resource rent tax law, as applying to a matter or identical matters in a particular way that was not *reasonably arguable; and
 (d) item 4, 5, 6 or 6A of the table in subsection  284-90(1) applies to you.
 (3) You are liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you fail to give a return, notice or other document to the Commissioner by the day it is required to be given; and
 (b) that document is necessary for the Commissioner to determine a *tax-related liability (other than one arising under the *Excise Acts) of yours accurately; and
 (c) the Commissioner determines the tax -related liability without the assistance of that document.
Note: You are also liable to an administrative penalty for failing to give the document on time: see Subdivision  286-C.
 (4) You are liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you make a statement to an entity other than:
 (i) the Commissioner; and
 (ii) an entity exercising powers or performing functions under a *taxation law (other than the *Excise Acts); and
 (b) the statement is, or purports to be one that:
 (i) is required or permitted by a taxation law (other than the Excise Acts); or
 (ii) might reasonably be expected to be used, by an entity in determining, for the purposes of the *GST law, whether you are an Australian consumer (within the meaning of the *GST Act); or
 (iii) might reasonably be expected to be used, by an entity in determining, for the purposes of the GST law, whether a supply made to you is connected with the indirect tax zone (within the meaning of that Act) because of Subdivision  84-C of that Act; and
 (c) the statement is false or misleading in a material particular, whether because of things in it or omitted from it.
Exceptions to subsections (1) and (4)
 (5) You are not liable to an administrative penalty under subsection  (1) or (4) for a statement that is false or misleading in a material particular if you, and your *agent (if relevant), took reasonable care in connection with the making of the statement.
 (6) You are not liable to an administrative penalty under subsection  (1) or (4) if:
 (a) you engage a *registered tax agent or BAS agent; and
 (b) you give the registered tax agent or BAS agent all relevant taxation information; and
 (c) the registered tax agent or BAS agent makes the statement; and
 (d) the false or misleading nature of the statement did not result from:
 (i) intentional disregard by the registered tax agent or BAS agent of a *taxation law (other than the *Excise Acts); or
 (ii) recklessness by the agent as to the operation of a taxation law (other than the Excise Acts).
 (7) If you wish to rely on subsection  (6), you bear an evidential burden in relation to paragraph (6)(b).
Further exceptions to subsection (1)
 (8) You are not liable to an administrative penalty under subsection  (1) if:
 (a) you made the statement (the original statement) under section 389-5 notifying an amount under item 1, 2 or 2A of the table in subsection  389-5(1) (and no other item in that table); and
 (b) the original statement related to the *financial year in which you made it; and
 (c) you make a further statement to a taxation officer that corrects the original statement in each of the respects in which it is false or misleading in a material particular; and
 (d) the further statement:
 (i) is in the *approved form; and
 (ii) if subsection  389-25(1) in that Schedule provides for a period for correcting the original statement--is made within that period; and
 (iii) without limiting subparagraph  (ii), is made within 14 days after the end of the financial year in which the original statement was made.
 (9) You are not liable to an administrative penalty under subsection  (1) if:
 (a) you made the statement (the original statement) under section 390-5; and
 (b) you make a further statement to a taxation officer that corrects the original statement in each of the respects in which it is false or misleading in a material particular; and
 (c) subsection 390-7(1) provides for a period for correcting the original statement; and
 (d) the further statement:
 (i) is in the *approved form; and
 (ii) is made within the period referred to in paragraph  (c) of this subsection.
Section 284-80 Shortfall amounts
 (1) You have a shortfall amount if an item in this table applies to you. That amount is the amount by which the relevant liability, or the payment or credit, is less than or more than it would otherwise have been.
Shortfall amountsItemYou have a shortfall amount in this situation:1A *tax-related liability of yours for an accounting period, or for a *taxable importation, or under the Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999, worked out on the basis of the statement is less than it would be if the statement were not false or misleading2An amount that the Commissioner must pay or credit to you under a *taxation law (other than the *Excise Acts) for an accounting period, or under a tourist refund scheme under Division 168 of the *GST Act or Division  25 of the A New Tax System (Wine Equalisation Tax) Act 1999, worked out on the basis of the statement is more than it would be if the statement were not false or misleading3A *tax-related liability of yours for an accounting period worked out on the basis of the statement is less than it would be if the statement did not treat an *income tax law, the *Minimum Tax law or the *petroleum resource rent tax law as applying in a way that was not *reasonably arguable4An amount that the Commissioner must pay or credit to you under an *income tax law, the *Minimum Tax law or the *petroleum resource rent tax law for an accounting period worked out on the basis of the statement is more than it would be if the statement did not treat an income tax law or the petroleum resource rent tax law as applying in a way that was not *reasonably arguable5You are liable to pay to the Commissioner an amount of *excess exploration credit tax
 (2) However, if:
 (a) your shortfall amount arises in the situation covered by both item  1 in the table and item 1, 2 or 3 in the table in subsection 284-90(1); and
 (b) the statement is false or misleading because of errors mentioned in section  705-315 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 that were made in it and it was made before the Commissioner became aware of the errors, your shortfall amount is instead the amount worked out using the formula:
where:
"adjusted reset cost base asset setting amount" means:
 (a) the *tax cost setting amount, worked out under Division 705 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, for all assets of a kind referred to in section 705-35 of that Act as reset cost base assets that the *head company of the relevant group held continuously from the time when the *subsidiary member referred to in subsection  705-315(2) of that Act joined the group until the start of the head company&#39;s income year in which the Commissioner became aware of the errors mentioned in section  705-315 of that Act;
less:
 (b) the head company&#39;s deductions under Division  40 (except under Subdivision 40-F, 40-G, 40-H or 40-I) or Subdivision  328-D of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for those assets for all income years before the income year in which the Commissioner became aware of the errors.
"original reset cost base asset setting amount" means the *tax cost setting amount, worked out under Division  705 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, for all reset cost base assets that the *subsidiary member held at the time it joined the group, other than assets that the *head company no longer held at the start of the earliest income year for which the Commissioner could amend the head company&#39;s assessment to correct any of the errors.
"tax on capital gain" means the product of:
 (a) the *capital gain that the *head company makes as a result of *CGT event L6 happening as mentioned in section  104-525 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; and
 (b) the *corporate tax rate in respect of taxable income for the income year in which that CGT event happens.
Section 284-85 Amount of penalty
 (1) Work out the *base penalty amount under section 284-90. If the base penalty amount is not increased under section  284-220 or reduced under section 284-225, this is the amount of the penalty.
 (2) Otherwise, use this formula:
where:
"BPA" is the *base penalty amount.
"increase %" is the percentage increase (if any) under section 284-220.
"reduction %" is the percentage reduction (if any) under section 284-225.
Section 284-90 Base penalty amount
 (1) The base penalty amount under this Subdivision is worked out using this table and subsections  (1A) to (2), and section 284-224 if relevant:
Base penalty amountItemIn this situation:The base penalty amount is:1You have a *shortfall amount as a result of a statement described in subsection 284-75(1) or (4) and the amount, or part of the amount, resulted from intentional disregard of a *taxation law (other than the *Excise Acts) by you or your agent75% of your *shortfall amount or part2You have a *shortfall amount as a result of a statement described in subsection 284-75(1) or (4) and the amount, or part of the amount, resulted from recklessness by you or your agent as to the operation of a *taxation law (other than the *Excise Acts)50% of your *shortfall amount or part3You have a *shortfall amount as a result of a statement described in subsection 284-75(1) or (4) and the amount, or part of the amount, resulted from a failure by you or your agent to take reasonable care to comply with a *taxation law (other than the *Excise Acts)25% of your *shortfall amount or part3AA statement described in subsection 284-75(1) or (4) was false or misleading because of intentional disregard of a *taxation law (other than the *Excise Acts) by you or your *agent but did not result in you having a *shortfall amount60 penalty units3BA statement described in subsection 284-75(1) or (4) was false or misleading because of recklessness by you or your *agent as to the operation of a *taxation law (other than the *Excise Acts) but did not result in you having a *shortfall amount40 penalty units3CA statement described in subsection 284-75(1) or (4) was false or misleading because of a failure by you or your *agent to take reasonable care to comply with a *taxation law (other than the *Excise Acts) but did not result in you having a *shortfall amount20 penalty units4You have a *shortfall amount, all or part of which resulted from you or your agent treating an *income tax law or the *petroleum resource rent tax law as applying to a matter or identical matters in a particular way that was not *reasonably arguable, and that amount is more than your *reasonably arguable threshold.25% of your *shortfall amount or part5You have a *shortfall amount because of section 284-30 (about trusts) and:(a) your shortfall amount or part of it resulted from you or your agent treating an *income tax law as applying to a matter or identical matters in a particular way that was not *reasonably arguable; and(b) because of that treatment, the trust&#39;s net income would have been reduced, or the trust&#39;s *tax loss would have been increased, for the income year by more than the trust&#39;s *reasonably arguable threshold25% of your *shortfall amount or part6You have a *shortfall amount because of section 284-35 (about partnerships) and:(a) your shortfall amount or part of it resulted from you or your agent treating an *income tax law as applying to a matter or identical matters in a particular way that was not *reasonably arguable; and(b) because of that treatment, the partnership net income would have been reduced, or the partnership loss would have been increased, for the income year by more than the partnership&#39;s *reasonably arguable threshold25% of your *shortfall amount or part6A(a) you have a *shortfall amount for a *Fiscal Year, all or part of which resulted from you or your agent treating the *Minimum Tax law as applying to a matter or identical matters in a particular way that was not *reasonably arguable; and(b) that amount is more than your threshold for the Fiscal Year under subsection (3A).25% of your shortfall amount or part7You are liable to an administrative penalty under subsection 284-75(3)75% of the tax-related liability concerned
 (1A) The *base penalty amount in an item of the table in subsection (1) that applies to you is taken to be doubled if:
 (a) on or before the day (your trigger day) applying to you under subsection (4) for that table item:
 (i) the Commissioner has made an assessment of your income tax for one or more income years; or
 (ii) the Commissioner has made a determination under subsection  960-555(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 in relation to you, or in relation to the *global parent entity for the group of which you are a member, for a period; or
 (iii) you have given the Commissioner statements in accordance with Subdivision  815-E of that Act for an income year or another 12 month period; or
 (iv) you were a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group or a *MEC group for one or more income years, and the Commissioner has made an assessment of the income tax of another entity that was a *member of the group for one or more of those income years; and
 (b) you were a *significant global entity for:
 (i) whichever of those income years or periods that ends on the most recent day; or
 (ii) if more than one of them ends on that most recent day--any of those income years or periods that ends on that most recent day.
Note: For subparagraph (a)(iii), you may be allowed to give statements for a 12 month period other than an income year (see section  815-360 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997).
 (1B) However, subsection  (1A) is taken never to have applied to you in relation to your trigger day if:
 (a) the Commissioner makes an assessment of:
 (i) your income tax for the income year that includes your trigger day; or
 (ii) if you were a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group or a *MEC group for the income year that includes your trigger day--the income tax, for that income year, of another *member of that group; and
 (b) you are not a *significant global entity for that income year.
 (1C) The *base penalty amount in an item of the table in subsection (1) that applies to a *Group Entity of an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year is taken to be doubled if the base penalty amount arises in relation to *Australian IIR/UTPR tax or *Australian DMT tax in relation to the Applicable MNE Group.
 (2) If 2 or more items in that table apply and one of them produces a greater *base penalty amount than any of the others, use that item.
 (3) An entity&#39;s reasonably arguable threshold for an income year is:
 (a) unless paragraph (b) applies--the greater of $10,000 or 1% of whichever of the following applies:
 (i) the income tax payable by the entity for the income year, worked out on the basis of the entity&#39;s *income tax return;
 (ii) the *petroleum resource rent tax payable by the entity for the year of tax (within the meaning of the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Act 1987) most closely corresponding to the income year, worked out on the basis of the entity&#39;s return under Division  1 of Part VI of that Act; or
 (b) if the entity is a trust or partnership--the greater of the following amounts:
 (i) $20,000;
 (ii) 2% of the entity&#39;s *net income (if any) for the income year worked out on the basis of the entity&#39;s *income tax return.
 (3A) For the purposes of item  6A of the table in subsection (1), an entity&#39;s threshold for a *Fiscal Year is the greater of:
 (a) $10,000; and
 (b) 1% of whichever of the following applies:
 (i) the amount of *Australian IIR/UTPR tax payable by the entity for the Fiscal Year, worked out on the basis of the entity&#39;s *Australian IIR/UTPR tax return for the Fiscal Year;
 (ii) the amount of *Australian DMT tax payable by the entity for the Fiscal Year, worked out on the basis of the entity&#39;s *Australian DMT tax return for the Fiscal Year.
 (4) For the purposes of paragraph  (1A)(a), the following day applies to you for the relevant item of the table in subsection (1):
 (a) for any of table items  1 to 3C--the day you made the statement referred to in that item;
 (b) for any of table items  4 to 6A --the day you made the statement to which that item relates and that is referred to in subsection 284-75(2);
 (c) for table item 7--the day the return, notice or other document to which that item relates, and that is referred to in subsection  284-75(3), was required to be given.
Section 284-95 Joint and several liability of directors of corporate trustee that makes a false or misleading statement
 (1) This section applies if a trustee of a *self managed superannuation fund, or of a fund that is treated as a self managed superannuation fund under subsection 10(4) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993:
 (a) is liable to an administrative penalty under subsection  284-75(1) or (4); and
 (b) is a body corporate.
 (2) The directors of the body corporate at the time it becomes liable to the penalty are jointly and severally liable to pay the amount of the *tax-related liability in respect of the penalty.
Note: See section 265-45 for rules on joint liability.
Subdivision 284-C--Penalties relating to schemes
 Guide to Subdivision 284-C
Section 284-140 What this Subdivision is about
You are liable to an administrative penalty if you attempt to reduce your tax-related liabilities or increase your credits through a scheme.This Subdivision sets out when the penalties apply and how the amounts of the penalties are calculated.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 284-145 Liability to penalty
Section 284-150 Scheme benefits and scheme shortfall amounts
Section 284-155 Amount of penalty
Section 284-160 Base penalty amount: schemes
Section 284-165 Exception--threshold for penalty arising from cross-border transfer pricing
 Operative provisions
Section 284-145 Liability to penalty
 (1) You are liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you would, apart from a provision of a *taxation law or action taken under such a provision (the adjustment provision), get a *scheme benefit from a *scheme; and
 (b) having regard to any relevant matters, it is reasonable to conclude that:
 (i) an entity that (alone or with others) entered into or carried out the scheme, or part of it, did so with the sole or dominant purpose of that entity or another entity getting a scheme benefit from the scheme; or
 (ia) for a scheme to which Part  IVA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 applies because of section 177DA of that Act--an entity that (alone or with others) entered into or carried out the scheme, or part of it, did so for a principal purpose of, or for more than one principal purpose that includes a purpose of, that entity or another entity getting a scheme benefit from the scheme; or
 (ii) for a scheme referred to in Division  165 of the *GST Act or Division 75 of the Fuel Tax Act 2006--the principal effect of the scheme, or of part of the scheme, is that you would, apart from the adjustment provision, get the scheme benefit from the scheme directly or indirectly.
 (2A) You are also liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you would, apart from a determination under section  815-30 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (also the adjustment provision ), get a *scheme benefit from a *scheme; and
 (b) neither subparagraph  (1)(b)(i) nor subparagraph (1)(b)(ia) is satisfied for the scheme.
 (2B) You are also liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) to give effect to Subdivision  815-B or 815-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (also the adjustment provision) in relation to a *scheme, the Commissioner:
 (i) amends your assessment for an income year; or
 (ii) serves you with one or more notices under subsection  128C(7) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 in respect of income that is taken because of the application of the adjustment provision to have been derived in the income year; and
 (b) as a result, you are liable to pay an additional amount of income tax or *withholding tax (as the case requires).
Note: Subdivisions 815-B and 815-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 apply the arm&#39;s length principle (about transfer pricing) to entities and permanent establishments respectively.
 (2C) You are also liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you are the trustee of a *managed investment trust in relation to an income year; and
 (b) to give effect to Subdivision  275-L of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (also the adjustment provision ) in relation to a *scheme, the Commissioner amends your assessment for the income year; and
 (c) as a result, you are liable to pay an additional amount of income tax (as the case requires).
Note: Subdivision 275-L of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 applies to non-arm&#39;s length income of managed investment trusts.
 (3) It does not matter whether the *scheme, or any part of the scheme, was entered into or carried out inside or outside Australia.
Section 284-150 Scheme benefits and scheme shortfall amounts
 (1) An entity gets a scheme benefit from a *scheme if:
 (a) a *tax-related liability of the entity for an accounting period is, or could reasonably be expected to be, less than it would be apart from the scheme or a part of the scheme; or
 (b) an amount that the Commissioner must pay or credit to the entity under a *taxation law for an accounting period is, or could reasonably be expected to be, more than it would be apart from the scheme or a part of the scheme.
 (2) The amount of the *scheme benefit that you would, apart from the adjustment provision, have got from the *scheme is called your scheme shortfall amount.
 (3) However, to the extent that your scheme shortfall amount is due to errors mentioned in section  705-315 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 that were made in a statement that was made before the Commissioner became aware of the errors, your scheme shortfall amount is instead the amount worked out using the formula:
where:
"adjusted reset cost base asset setting amount" means:
 (a) the *tax cost setting amount, worked out under Division 705 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, for all assets of a kind referred to in section  705-35 of that Act as reset cost base assets that the *head company of the relevant group held continuously from the time when the *subsidiary member referred to in subsection 705-315(2) of that Act joined the group until the start of the head company&#39;s income year in which the Commissioner became aware of the errors mentioned in section  705-315 of that Act;
less:
 (b) the head company&#39;s deductions under Division  40 (except under Subdivision 40-F, 40-G, 40-H or 40-I) or Subdivision  328-D of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for those assets for all income years before the income year in which the Commissioner became aware of the errors.
"original reset cost base asset setting amount" means the *tax cost setting amount, worked out under Division  705 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, for all reset cost base assets that the *subsidiary member held at the joining time, other than assets that the *head company no longer held at the start of the earliest income year for which the Commissioner could amend the head company&#39;s assessment to correct any of the errors.
"tax on capital gain" means the product of:
 (a) the *capital gain that the *head company makes as a result of *CGT event L6 happening as mentioned in section  104-525 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; and
 (b) the *corporate tax rate in respect of taxable income for the income year in which that CGT event happens.
Scheme shortfall amount for cross-border transfer pricing
 (4) Despite subsection  (2), your scheme shortfall amount for a *scheme to which subsection  284-145(2B) applies is the total amount of additional income tax and *withholding tax you are liable to pay as mentioned in that subsection.
 (5) Disregard your *scheme shortfall amount for a *scheme to which subsection 284-145(1) applies to the extent that scheme shortfall amount is attributable to additional tax that is, or is part of, your scheme shortfall amount for a scheme to which subsection  284-145(2B) applies.
Scheme shortfall amount for managed investment trust non-arm&#39;s length income
 (6) Despite subsection  (2), your scheme shortfall amount for a *scheme to which subsection 284-145(2C) applies is the total amount of additional income tax you are liable to pay as mentioned in that subsection.
 (7) Disregard your *scheme shortfall amount for a *scheme to which subsection 284-145(1) applies to the extent that scheme shortfall amount is attributable to additional tax that is, or is part of, your scheme shortfall amount for a scheme to which subsection  284-145(2C) applies.
Section 284-155 Amount of penalty
 (1) Work out the *base penalty amount under section 284-160. If the base penalty amount is not increased under section  284-220 or reduced under section 284-225, this is the amount of the penalty.
 (2) Otherwise, use this formula:
where:
"BPA" is the *base penalty amount.
"increase %" is the percentage increase (if any) under section 284-220.
"reduction %" is the percentage reduction (if any) under section 284-225.
 (3) However, the amount of the penalty is twice the amount worked out under subsection  (1) or (2) of this section if:
 (a) you are a *significant global entity during an income year that consists of, or includes all or part of, the accounting period to which your *scheme shortfall amount relates; and
 (b) it is not *reasonably arguable that the adjustment provision does not apply.
Section 284-160 Base penalty amount: schemes
 (1) The base penalty amount for a *scheme to which subsection 284-145(1) or (2C) applies is, subject to section  284-224:
 (a) 50% of your *scheme shortfall amount; or
 (b) 25% of your scheme shortfall amount if it is *reasonably arguable that the adjustment provision does not apply.
 (2) The base penalty amount for a *scheme to which subsection 284-145(2A) applies is, subject to section  284-224:
 (a) 25% of your *scheme shortfall amount; or
 (b) 10% of your scheme shortfall amount if it is *reasonably arguable that the adjustment provision does not apply.
 (3) The base penalty amount for a *scheme to which subsection 284-145(2B) applies is worked out using this table and section  284-224 if relevant:
Base penalty amountItemColumn 1In this situation:Column 2The base penalty amount is:1having regard to any relevant matters, it is reasonable to conclude that an entity that (alone or with others) entered into or carried out the *scheme, or part of it, did so with the sole or dominant purpose of that entity or another entity getting a *transfer pricing benefit from the schemethe sum of:(a) 50% of your *scheme shortfall amount, to the extent that it is not attributable as mentioned in paragraph  (b); and(b) 25% of your scheme shortfall amount, to the extent (if any) that it is attributable to the entity, or the entity&#39;s agent, treating the adjustment provision as applying (including not applying) to a matter (or identical matters) in a particular way that is *reasonably arguable2item 1 does not applythe sum of:(a) 25% of your *scheme shortfall amount, to the extent that it is not attributable as mentioned in paragraph (b); and(b) 10% of your scheme shortfall amount, to the extent (if any) that it is attributable to the entity, or the entity&#39;s agent, treating the adjustment provision as applying (including not applying) to a matter (or identical matters) in a particular way that is *reasonably arguable
Note: For special rules about when transfer pricing treatment is not reasonably arguable, see Subdivision  284-E.
Section 284-165 Exception--threshold for penalty arising from cross -border transfer pricing
 (1) You are not liable to an administrative penalty under subsection  284-145(2B) if your *scheme shortfall amount is equal to or less than your *reasonably arguable threshold.
 (2) You are also not liable to an administrative penalty under that subsection if:
 (a) you have the *scheme shortfall amount because of section 284-30 (about trusts); and
 (b) the amount by which the trust would, apart from the application of Subdivision  815-B or 815-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, have had a greater *net income, or a lesser *tax loss, is equal to or less than the trust&#39;s *reasonably arguable threshold.
 (3) You are also not liable to an administrative penalty under that subsection if:
 (a) you have the *scheme shortfall amount because you are a partner in a partnership that participated in the *scheme; and
 (b) the amount by which the partnership would, apart from the application of Subdivision  815-B or 815-C of that Act, have had a greater *net income, or a lesser *partnership loss, is equal to or less than the partnership&#39;s *reasonably arguable threshold.
Nil amounts
 (4) For the purposes of this section:
 (a) treat a trust or a partnership that has no *net income for an income year as having a net income for the year of a nil amount; and
 (b) treat a trust that has no *tax loss for an income year as having a tax loss for the year of a nil amount; and
 (c) treat a partnership that has no *partnership loss for an income year as having a partnership loss for the year of a nil amount.
Subdivision 284-D--Provisions common to Subdivisions 284-B and 284-C
Table of sections
Section 284-220 Increase in base penalty amount
Section 284-224 Reduction of base penalty amount if law was applied in an accepted way
Section 284-225 Reduction of base penalty amount if you voluntarily tell the Commissioner
Section 284-220 Increase in base penalty amount
 (1) The *base penalty amount is increased by 20% if:
 (a) you took steps to prevent or obstruct the Commissioner from finding out about a *shortfall amount, or the false or misleading nature of a statement, in relation to which the base penalty amount was calculated; or
 (b) you:
 (i) became aware of such a shortfall amount after a statement had been made to the Commissioner about the relevant *tax-related liability; or
 (ii) became aware of the false or misleading nature of a statement made to the Commissioner or another entity after the statement had been made;
  and you did not tell the Commissioner or other entity about it within a reasonable time; or
 (c) the base penalty amount was worked out using item  1, 2 or 3 of the table in subsection 284-90(1) and a base penalty amount for you was worked out under one of those items previously; or
 (ca) the base penalty amount was worked out using item  3A, 3B or 3C of the table in subsection 284-90(1) and a base penalty amount for you was worked out under one of those items previously; or
 (d) the base penalty amount was worked out using item  4, 5, 6 or 6A of that table and a base penalty amount for you was worked out under that item previously; or
 (e) your liability to a penalty arises under subsection  284-75(3) and you were previously liable to a penalty under that subsection.
 (2) The *base penalty amount for your *scheme shortfall amount, or for part of it, for an accounting period is increased by 20% if:
 (a) you took steps to prevent or obstruct the Commissioner from finding out about the scheme shortfall amount or the part; or
 (b) a base penalty amount for you was worked out under section  284-160 for a previous accounting period.
Section 284-224 Reduction of base penalty amount if law was applied in an accepted way
 (1) If, apart from this section, you would have a *base penalty amount because you or your *agent treated a *taxation law as applying in a particular way, and that way agreed with:
 (a) advice given to you or your agent by or on behalf of the Commissioner; or
 (b) general administrative practice under that law; or
 (c) a statement in a publication approved in writing by the Commissioner;
your base penalty amount is reduced to the extent that it was caused by that treatment.
 (2) For the purposes of subsection  (1) it does not matter whether the *base penalty amount also relates to:
 (a) a statement; or
 (b) a failure to give the Commissioner a return, notice or other document when required; or
 (c) a *scheme.
Section 284-225 Reduction of base penalty amount if you voluntarily tell the Commissioner
 (1) The *base penalty amount for your *shortfall amount or *scheme shortfall amount, for part of it or for your false or misleading statement is reduced by 20% if:
 (a) the Commissioner tells you that an examination is to be made of your affairs relating to a *taxation law for a relevant period; and
 (b) after that time, you voluntarily tell the Commissioner, in the *approved form, about the shortfall, the part of it or the false or misleading nature of the statement; and
 (c) telling the Commissioner can reasonably be estimated to have saved the Commissioner a significant amount of time or significant resources in the examination.
 (2) The *base penalty amount for your *shortfall amount or *scheme shortfall amount, for part of it or for your false or misleading statement is reduced under subsection  (3), (4) or (4A) if you voluntarily tell the Commissioner, in the *approved form, about the shortfall amount, the part of it or the false or misleading nature of the statement before:
 (a) the day the Commissioner tells you that an examination is to be made of your affairs relating to a *taxation law for a relevant period; or
 (b) if the Commissioner makes a public statement requesting entities to make a voluntary disclosure by a particular earlier day about a *scheme or transaction that applies to your affairs--that earlier day.
 (3) The *base penalty amount for your *shortfall amount, or for part of it, is:
 (a) reduced by 80% if the shortfall amount, or the part of it, is $1,000 or more; or
 (b) reduced to nil if the shortfall amount, or the part of it, is less than $1,000.
 (4) The *base penalty amount for your *scheme shortfall amount, or for part of it, is reduced by 80%.
 (4A) The *base penalty amount for your false or misleading statement that does not result in you having a *shortfall amount is reduced to nil.
 (5) If you voluntarily tell the Commissioner, in the *approved form, about your *shortfall amount or *scheme shortfall amount, part of it or the false or misleading nature of the statement after the Commissioner tells you that an examination is to be conducted of your affairs relating to a *taxation law for a relevant period, the Commissioner may treat you as having done so before being told about the examination if the Commissioner considers it appropriate to do so in the circumstances.
Subdivision 284-E--Special rules about unarguable positions for cross-border transfer pricing
Table of sections
Section 284-250 Undocumented transfer pricing treatment not reasonably arguable
Section 284-255 Documentation requirements
Section 284-250 Undocumented transfer pricing treatment not reasonably arguable
  This Division has effect in relation to an entity as if a matter was not *reasonably arguable if:
 (a) the matter is a particular way of applying (including not applying) Subdivision  815-B or 815-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 to a matter (or identical matters); and
 (b) the entity does not have records that meet the requirements in this Subdivision for the application of the Subdivision mentioned in paragraph  (a) to that matter (or those matters) in that way.
Note: For the Commissioner&#39;s power to remit an administrative penalty imposed by this Part, see section  298-20.
Section 284-255 Documentation requirements
 (1) Records kept by an entity meet the requirements in this Subdivision for the application (or non -application) of Subdivision 815-B or 815-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 to a matter (or identical matters) in a particular way if the records:
 (a) are prepared before the time by which the entity lodges its *income tax return for the income year relevant to the matter (or matters); and
 (b) are in English, or readily accessible and convertible into English; and
 (c) explain the particular way in which the Subdivision applies (or does not apply) to the matter (or matters); and
 (d) explain why the application of the Subdivision to the matter (or matters) in that way best achieves the consistency mentioned in section  815-135 or 815-235 of that Act (as the case requires) (about guidance material).
 (2) Without limiting subsection  (1), the records must allow each of the following to be readily ascertained:
 (a) the *arm&#39;s length conditions relevant to the matter (or matters);
 (b) the particulars of the method used and comparable circumstances relevant to identifying those arm&#39;s length conditions;
 (c) unless the records are for the non -application of the Subdivision to a matter (or matters)--the result that the application of the Subdivision in that particular way, as compared to the non-application of the Subdivision, has for the operation of this Act in relation to the entity;
 (d) for Subdivision  815-B--the actual conditions relevant to the matter (or matters);
 (e) for Subdivision  815-C:
 (i) the actual profits mentioned in paragraph  815-220(1)(a) of that Act and the *arm&#39;s length profits, to the extent that they are relevant to the matter (or matters); and
 (ii) the particulars of the activities and circumstances mentioned in subsection  815-225(1) of that Act, to the extent they are relevant to the matter (or matters).
Division 286--Penalties for failing to lodge documents on time
Table of Subdivisions
Section 286-A Guide to Division 286
Section 286-B Object of Division
Section 286-C Penalties for failing to lodge documents on time
Subdivision 286-A--Guide to Division 286
Section 286-1 What this Division is about
You are liable to an administrative penalty if you are required to give a return, statement, notice or other document by a particular time and you do not do so.This Division sets out when the penalty applies and how the amounts of the penalty are calculated.
Subdivision 286-B--Object of Division
Table of sections
Section 286-25 Object of Division
  The object of this Division is to provide a uniform administrative penalty regime for all *taxation laws to enable administrative penalties to apply for failure to give returns, notices, statements or other documents on time.
Subdivision 286-C--Penalties for failing to lodge documents on time
Table of sections
Section 286-75 Liability to penalty
Section 286-80 Amount of penalty
Section 286-75 Liability to penalty
 (1) You are liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you are required under a *taxation law to give a return, notice, statement or other document to the Commissioner in the *approved form by a particular day; and
 (b) you do not give the return, notice, statement or document to the Commissioner in the approved form by that day.
Note: You may not be liable to a penalty in relation to a failure to notify an amount referred to in item  1, 2 or 2A of the table in subsection 389-5(1) during the period provided for by subitem 22(2) of Schedule  23 to the Budget Savings (Omnibus) Act 2016 (see also item 16 of Schedule 3 to the Treasury Laws Amendment (2018 Measures No. 4) Act 2019).
 (1A) However, you are not liable to an administrative penalty under subsection  (1) if:
 (a) you engage a *registered tax agent or BAS agent; and
 (b) you give the registered tax agent or BAS agent all relevant taxation information to enable the agent to give a return, notice, statement or other document to the Commissioner in the *approved form by a particular day; and
 (c) the registered tax agent or BAS agent does not give the return, notice, statement or other document to the Commissioner in the approved form by that day; and
 (d) the failure to give the return, notice, statement or other document to the Commissioner did not result from:
 (i) intentional disregard by the registered tax agent or BAS agent of a *taxation law; or
 (ii) recklessness by the agent as to the operation of a taxation law.
 (1B) If you wish to rely on subsection  (1A), you bear an evidential burden in relation to paragraph (1A)(b).
 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a return, notice, statement or other document under any of these Acts:
 (a) the Superannuation Contributions Tax (Assessment and Collection) Act 1997;
 (b) the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992; or
 (c) the Superannuation (Self Managed Superannuation Funds) Supervisory Levy Imposition Act 1991.
 (2AA) You are also liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you are required under section  136-90 (about commutation authorities) to give a notice to an entity (other than the Commissioner) in the *approved form by a particular day; and
 (b) you do not give the notice in the approved form to the entity by that day.
 (2AB) You are also liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you are required under section  276-455 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (AMMA statements) to give information to an entity (other than the Commissioner) by a particular day; and
 (b) you do not give the information to the entity by that day.
 (2A) You are also liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you are required under Division  390 to give a statement to an entity (other than the Commissioner) in the *approved form by a particular day; and
 (b) you do not give the statement in the approved form to the other entity by that day.
 (2BA) You are also liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you are required under Division  392 (Employee share scheme reporting) to give a statement to an entity (other than the Commissioner) in the *approved form by a particular day; and
 (b) you do not give the statement in the approved form to the entity by that day.
 (4) You are also liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you are required under section  713-540 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 to notify another entity of the happening of an event by a particular day; and
 (b) you do not notify the other entity of the happening of that event by that day.
 (5) Subsection (6) applies if:
 (a) an entity is liable to an administrative penalty under subsection  (1) or (2A) as the *superannuation provider in relation to a *self managed superannuation fund; and
 (b) the entity is a body corporate.
 (6) The directors of the body corporate at the time it becomes liable to the penalty are jointly and severally liable to pay the amount of the *tax-related liability in respect of the penalty.
Note: See section 265-45 for rules on joint liability.
 (7) You are also liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you are required under subsections  57-7(2) and (3) of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 to notify another entity by a particular day; and
 (b) you do not give the notice in the *approved form to the entity by that day.
Section 286-80 Amount of penalty
 (1) The amount of the penalty is worked out in this way:
 (a) work out the *base penalty amount under subsection (2); and
 (b) work out whether the base penalty amount is increased under subsection  (3), (4), (4A) or (4C).
 (2) The base penalty amount is:
 (a) for failing to give a return, notice or other document on time or in the *approved form, as mentioned in subsection 286-75(1), (2AA), (2AB), (2A), (2B), (2BA) or (2C)--1 penalty unit for each period of 28 days or part of a period of 28 days starting on the day when the document is due and ending when you give it (up to a maximum of 5 penalty units); or
 (c) for failing to notify the happening of an event as mentioned in subsection  286-75(4)--1 penalty unit for each period of 28 days or part of a period of 28 days starting on the day when the notification is due and ending when you notify the happening of the event (up to a maximum of 5 penalty units).
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Example: An entity lodges a return 31 days late. The base penalty amount under subsection (2) is 2 penalty units.
 (3) The *base penalty amount is multiplied by 2 if:
 (a) the entity concerned is a *medium withholder for the month in which the return, notice or other document was required to be given; or
 (b) the entity&#39;s assessable income for the income year in which the return, notice or other document is required to be given is more than $1 million but less than $20 million; or
 (c) the entity&#39;s *current GST turnover worked out at a time in the month in which the return, notice or other document was required to be given is more than $1 million but less than $20 million.
 (4) The *base penalty amount is multiplied by 5 if:
 (a) the entity concerned is a *large withholder for the month when the return, notice or other document was required to be given; or
 (b) the entity&#39;s assessable income for the income year in which the return, notice or other document is required to be given is $20 million or more; or
 (c) the entity&#39;s *current GST turnover worked out at a time in the month in which the return, notice or other document was required to be given is $20 million or more.
 (4A) Neither subsection  (3) nor (4) applies to the entity, and the *base penalty amount is multiplied by 500, if:
 (a) the failure referred to in subsection  (2) is a failure to give a return, notice or other document on time or in the *approved form, as mentioned in subsection  286-75(1); and
 (b) on or before the day the return, notice or other document is required to be given:
 (i) the Commissioner has made an assessment of the entity&#39;s income tax for one or more income years; or
 (ii) the Commissioner has made a determination under subsection  960-555(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 in relation to the entity, or in relation to the *global parent entity for the group of which the entity is a member, for a period; or
 (iii) the entity has given the Commissioner statements in accordance with Subdivision  815-E of that Act for an income year or another 12 month period; or
 (iv) the entity was a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group or a *MEC group for one or more income years, and the Commissioner has made an assessment of the income tax of another entity that was a *member of the group for one or more of those income years; and
 (c) the entity was a *significant global entity for:
 (i) whichever of those income years or periods that ends on the most recent day; or
 (ii) if more than one of them ends on that most recent day--any of those income years or periods that ends on that most recent day.
Note: For subparagraph (b)(iii), an entity may be allowed to give statements for a 12 month period other than an income year (see section  815-360 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997).
 (4B) However, subsection  (4A) is taken never to have applied to the entity in relation to the day the return, notice or other document is required to be given if:
 (a) the Commissioner makes an assessment of:
 (i) the entity&#39;s income tax for the income year that includes that day; or
 (ii) if the entity was a *subsidiary member of a *consolidated group or a *MEC group for the income year that includes that day--the income tax, for that income year, of another *member of that group; and
 (b) the entity is not a *significant global entity for that income year.
 (4C) Neither subsection  (3) nor (4) applies to the entity, and the *base penalty amount is multiplied by 500, if:
 (a) the base penalty amount arises in relation to *Australian IIR/UTPR tax or *Australian DMT tax in relation to an *Applicable MNE Group for a *Fiscal Year; and
 (b) the entity concerned is a *Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group.
 (5) In working out the *base penalty amount, the amount of a penalty unit is the amount applying at the start of the relevant 28 day period.
 (6) The fact that you have not yet given the relevant return, notice or other document does not prevent the Commissioner notifying you that you are liable to an administrative penalty under this Subdivision. That penalty may be later increased under this section.
Note: The Commissioner is required to notify you of an administrative penalty: see section  298-10.
Division 288--Miscellaneous administrative penalties
Table of sections
Section 288-10 Penalty for non-electronic notification
Section 288-20 Penalty for non-electronic payment
Section 288-25 Penalty for failure to keep or retain records
Section 288-30 Penalty for failure to retain or produce declarations
Section 288-35 Penalty for preventing access etc.
Section 288-40 Penalty for failing to register or cancel registration
Section 288-45 Penalty for failing to issue tax invoice etc.
Section 288-46 Penalty for failing to ensure tax information about supplies of low value goods is included in customs documents
Section 288-50 Penalty for both principal and agent issuing certain documents
Section 288-70 Administrative penalties for life insurance companies
Section 288-75 Administrative penalty for a copyright or resale royalty collecting society
Section 288-80 Administrative penalty for over declaring conduit foreign income
Section 288-85 Failure by Reporting Financial Institution to obtain self -certification
Section 288-95 Failing to comply etc. with release authority
Section 288-100 Excess money paid under release authority
Section 288-105 Superannuation provider to calculate crystallised pre-July 83 amount of superannuation interest by 30  June 2008
Section 288-110 Contravention of superannuation data and payment regulation or standard
Section 288-115 AMIT under or over resulting from intentional disregard of or recklessness as to taxation law
Section 288-120 Prohibited offsets of liabilities using interest etc. accrued on farm management deposits
Section 288-125 Producing or supplying electronic sales suppression tools
Section 288-130 Possessing electronic sales suppression tools
Section 288-135 Incorrectly keeping records using electronic sales suppression tools
Section 288-140 Penalty for failing to publish information on time
Section 288-10 Penalty for non-electronic notification
  An entity that:
 (a) under subsection  31-25(2) of the *GST Act, is required to *lodge a *GST return electronically; or
 (aa) under subsection  45-20(2A) in this Schedule, is required to give a notification electronically; or
 (b) under section  388-80 in this Schedule, is required to notify another *BAS amount electronically;
but lodges, gives or notifies it in another way, is liable to an administrative penalty of 5 penalty units.
Note 1: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Note 2: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative and civil penalties.
Section 288-20 Penalty for non-electronic payment
  An entity that:
 (a) under subsection  33-10(2) of the *GST Act, is required to pay an *assessed net amount for a tax period electronically; or
 (b) under section 8AAZMA, or section  45-72 in this Schedule, is required to pay an amount electronically;
but pays it another way, is liable to an administrative penalty of 5 penalty units for each payment of one or more such amounts.
Note 1: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Note 2: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative and civil penalties.
Section 288-25 Penalty for failure to keep or retain records
 (1) You are liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if:
 (a) a provision of a *taxation law requires you to keep or retain a record; and
 (b) you do not keep or retain that record in the manner required by that law.
 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to:
 (a) documents required to be retained under Part  X of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986 (about statutory evidentiary documents); or
 (b) documents required to be kept or retained under Division  900 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about substantiation of expenses); or
 (c) if you are given a *tax-records education direction--documents to which a record-keeping failure specified in the direction relates, unless you have not complied with the direction.
Note 1: For paragraph (c):
        (a) for tax-records education directions, see section  384-12; and
        (b) for whether you have complied with the direction, see subsection  384-15(3).
Note 2: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Section 288-30 Penalty for failure to retain or produce declarations
  You are liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if:
 (a) a provision of a *taxation law requires you to retain or produce a declaration you made about an agent giving an *approved form to the Commissioner on your behalf; and
 (b) you do not retain or produce that declaration in the manner required by that law.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Section 288-35 Penalty for preventing access etc.
  You are liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if:
 (a) a provision of a *taxation law confers a power on an officer authorised under that law:
 (i) to enter or remain on land, premises or a place that you occupy; or
 (ii) to have access to documents, goods or other property in your possession; or
 (iii) to inspect, copy or take extracts from documents in your possession; or
 (iv) to inspect, examine, count, measure, weigh, gauge, test or analyse any goods or other property in your possession and, to that end, take samples; and
 (b) you refuse to provide the officer with all reasonable facilities for the officer effectively to exercise that power in accordance with that law.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Section 288-40 Penalty for failing to register or cancel registration
  You are liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if you fail to apply for registration, or to apply for cancellation of registration, as required by the *GST Act.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Section 288-45 Penalty for failing to issue tax invoice etc.
 (1) You are liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if you fail to issue a tax invoice as required by section  29-70 of the *GST Act.
 (2) You are liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if you fail to issue an adjustment note as required by section  29-75 of the *GST Act.
 (2A) You are liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if you fail to give a notice as required by subsection  84-89(3) of the *GST Act.
 (3) You are liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if you fail to issue a third party adjustment note as required by section  134-20 of the *GST Act.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Section 288-46 Penalty for failing to ensure tax information about supplies of low value goods is included in customs documents
  You are liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if:
 (a) you are required by section  84-93 of the *GST Act to ensure that the information set out in subsection  84-93(2) of that Act is included in one or more of the documents referred to in subsection 84-93(3) of that Act; but
 (b) you fail to take reasonable steps to do so.
Section 288-50 Penalty for both principal and agent issuing certain documents
  An entity is liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if both the entity and its agent issue:
 (a) separate tax invoices relating to the same taxable supply, contrary to subsection  153-15(2) of the *GST Act; or
 (b) separate adjustment notes, or third party adjustment notes, for the same decreasing adjustment, contrary to subsection  153-20(2) of that Act.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Section 288-70 Administrative penalties for life insurance companies
Complying superannuation asset pool--calculation of an amount
 (1) A *life insurance company is liable to an administrative penalty if the company:
 (a) is required to calculate a particular amount under section  320-175 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; but
 (b) fails to do so within the period of 60 days that is required by that section.
Complying superannuation asset pool--transfer following valuation
 (2) A *life insurance company is liable to an administrative penalty if the company:
 (a) is required to transfer assets having a particular *transfer value from its *complying superannuation assets under subsection  320-180(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; but
 (b) fails to do so within the period of 30 days that is required by subsection  320-180(2) of that Act.
Segregated exempt assets--calculation of an amount
 (3) A *life insurance company is liable to an administrative penalty if the company:
 (a) is required to calculate a particular amount under section  320-230 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; but
 (b) fails to do so within the period of 60 days that is required by that section.
Segregated exempt assets--transfer following valuation
 (4) A *life insurance company is liable to an administrative penalty if the company:
 (a) is required to transfer assets having a particular *transfer value from its *segregated exempt assets under subsection  320-235(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; but
 (b) fails to do so within the period of 30 days that is required by subsection  320-235(2) of that Act.
How to work out the administrative penalty
 (5) The administrative penalty under subsection  (1), (2), (3) or (4) for a failure to make a calculation or transfer is equal to 5 penalty units for each period of 28 days or part of a period of 28 days:
 (a) starting immediately after the end of the period mentioned in paragraph  (b) of that subsection; and
 (b) ending at the end of the day on which the calculation or transfer is made.
However, the maximum penalty for that failure must not exceed 25 penalty units.
Note 1: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Note 2: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for the penalties provided by this section.
Section 288-75 Administrative penalty for a copyright or resale royalty collecting society
 (1) A *copyright collecting society is liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if the society fails to give a notice as required by section  410-5 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (2) The *resale royalty collecting society is liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if the society fails to give a notice as required by section  410-50 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Section 288-80 Administrative penalty for over declaring conduit foreign income
 (1) An *Australian corporate tax entity is liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) the entity makes a *frankable distribution that has an *unfranked part; and
 (b) the entity declares an amount of the unfranked part to be *conduit foreign income; and
 (c) the sum of the amounts declared exceeds the amount of the entity&#39;s conduit foreign income at:
 (i) if the entity declares the distribution before making the distribution--the time of the declaration; or
 (ii) otherwise--the time the distribution is made.
 (2) The amount of the penalty is the sum of the amounts worked out under subsections  (3) and (4).
 (3) The amount is:
where:
"Australian membership interests" means the number of *membership interests or *non-share equity interests in the entity that are not covered by the definition of foreign membership interests in subsection (4).
"total membership interests" means the number of *membership interests or *non-share equity interests in the entity held by entities that are entitled to receive the *distribution.
 (4) The amount is:
where:
"applicable withholding tax rate" means 50% of the rate of tax set out in paragraph 7(a) of the Income Tax (Dividends, Interest and Royalties Withholding Tax) Act 1974.
"foreign membership interests" means the number of *membership interests or *non-share equity interests in the entity held by entities that are entitled to receive the *distribution and in relation to whom the entity is required to withhold amounts under section  12-210 disregarding the operation of section 12-300 (about limits on the amount withheld).
"total membership interests" means the number of *membership interests or *non-share equity interests in the entity held by entities that are entitled to receive the *distribution.
Section 288-85 Failure by Reporting Financial Institution to obtain self -certification
  An entity that:
 (a) is:
 (i) a Reporting Financial Institution (within the meaning of the *CRS); or
 (ii) an institution that a notice under subsection  396-130(5) requires to act as a Reporting Financial Institution; and
 (b) is required to obtain a self -certification, in relation to an account maintained by the institution, when applying the due diligence procedures described in the CRS; and
 (c) fails to obtain the self -certification:
 (i) if the account is a Reportable Account (within the meaning of the CRS) or an account that a notice under subsection  396-130(2) requires the entity to treat as a Reportable Account--by the time by which a statement under subsection  396-105(2) relating to the account must be given to the Commissioner; or
 (ii) otherwise--by the time by which such a statement would be required to be given to the Commissioner if the account were such a Reportable Account;
is liable to an administrative penalty of 1 penalty unit.
Section 288-95 Failing to comply etc. with release authority
 (2) A *superannuation provider that has been given a transitional release authority in accordance with section 292-80B of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 and that fails to comply with subsection 292-80C(1) of that Act is liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units.
 (3) A *superannuation provider that fails to comply with section 131-35 (about release authorities for superannuation) is liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units.
 (4) A *superannuation provider that fails to comply with section 135-75 (about release authorities for debt account discharge liabilities) is liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units.
Section 288-100 Excess money paid under release authority
 (1) A person is liable for an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if:
 (a) the person gives one or more *superannuation providers a release authority in accordance with section 292-80B of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 ; and
 (b) the total of the amounts paid by the superannuation provider or providers to the person and the Commissioner as a result of being given the release authority exceeds the amount required to be paid in respect of the release authority under section  292-80C of that Act.
 (2) An individual is liable to an administrative penalty of 20 penalty units if one or more *superannuation benefits that the individual receives (or is taken to receive), paid in relation to a release authority issued in accordance with Subdivision  135-A in this Schedule, is assessable income to any extent.
Section 288-105 Superannuation provider to calculate crystallised pre -July 83 amount of superannuation interest by 30 June 2008
 (1) An entity is liable to an administrative penalty of 5 penalty units if:
 (a) the entity is the *superannuation provider in relation to a *superannuation plan (other than a *constitutionally protected fund) on 30 June 2008; and
 (b) the entity has not ensured that the crystallised pre -July 83 amount in relation to each superannuation interest in the plan has been calculated on or before that day.
 (2) For the purpose of paragraph  (1)(b), disregard a *superannuation interest unless the *element taxed in the fund of the *taxable component of the interest exceeds nil just before 1 July 2007.
 (3) For the purpose of paragraph  (1)(b), disregard a *superannuation interest that supported a *superannuation income stream just before 1  July 2007.
Section 288-110 Contravention of superannuation data and payment regulation or standard
Liability to penalty--RSA providers and trustees of eligible superannuation entities
 (1) An entity is liable to an administrative penalty if the entity contravenes:
 (a) subsection 34M(1) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993; or
 (b) subsection 45D(1) of the Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997.
 (2) An entity is liable to an administrative penalty if the entity contravenes:
 (a) subsection 34P(6) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993; or
 (b) subsection 45F(6) of the Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997.
Liability to penalty--employers
 (3) An entity is liable to an administrative penalty if the entity contravenes:
 (a) subsection 34N(1) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993; or
 (b) subsection 45E(1) of the Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997.
 (4) An entity is liable to an administrative penalty if the entity contravenes:
 (a) subsection 34Q(6) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993; or
 (b) subsection 45G(6) of the Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997.
Amount of the penalty
 (5) The amount of the penalty is:
 (a) for an administrative penalty under subsection  (1) or (3)--4 penalty units; or
 (b) for an administrative penalty under subsection  (2) or (4)--10 penalty units.
Note: The Commissioner is required to notify you of an administrative penalty: see section  298-10.
Section 288-115 AMIT under or over resulting from intentional disregard of or recklessness as to taxation law
 (1) An entity is liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) the entity is a trustee of an *AMIT for an income year (the base year); and
 (b) the AMIT has an *under or *over for the base year; and
 (c) at least one of the items in the table in subsection  (3) applies in respect of the under or over.
 (2) To avoid doubt, subsection  (1) has a separate operation in respect of each *under or *over mentioned in paragraph  (1)(b).
 (3) The amount of the penalty is 47% of the amount worked out using this table:
Amount of penaltyItemColumn 1In this situation ... Column 2in the case of an *under or *over covered by subsection (5), the amount is:Column 3in the case of an *under or *over covered by subsection (6), the amount is:1if the *under or *over resulted from intentional disregard of a *taxation law (other than the *Excise Acts) by the trustee of the *AMIT or the trustee&#39;s agent75% of the under or over30% of the under or over2if the *under or *over resulted from recklessness by the trustee of the *AMIT or the trustee&#39;s agent as to the operation of a *taxation law (other than the *Excise Acts)50% of the under or over20% of the under or over
 (4) Despite subsection  (3):
 (a) if the penalty specified under column 3 of item  1 of the table in that subsection is less than 60 penalty units--the amount of the penalty is 60 penalty units; and
 (b) if the penalty specified under column 3 of item  2 of the table in that subsection is less than 40 penalty units--the amount of the penalty is 40 penalty units.
 (5) This subsection covers the following:
 (a) an *under of:
 (i) a character relating to assessable income; or
 (ii) a character relating to *exempt income; or
 (iii) a character relating to *non-assessable non-exempt income;
 (b) an *over of a character relating to a *tax offset.
 (6) This subsection covers the following:
 (a) an *over of:
 (i) a character relating to assessable income; or
 (ii) a character relating to *exempt income; or
 (iii) a character relating to *non-assessable non-exempt income;
 (b) an *under of a character relating to a *tax offset.
 (7) If both items in the table in subsection  (3) apply, use item 1 and not item 2.
 (8) If the income year corresponds to a financial year that is a temporary budget repair levy year (within the meaning of section  4-11 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997), treat the reference in subsection  (3) to 47% as instead being a reference to 49%.
Section 288-120 Prohibited offsets of liabilities using interest etc. accrued on farm management deposits
 (1) The person who made or is making a *farm management deposit is liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) the fact that the person made or is making the deposit is the reason why, or one of the reasons why, an amount of interest payable to the *FMD provider in respect of loans or other debts falls short of what it would otherwise be; and
 (b) the shortfall:
 (i) contravenes a requirement, contained in the agreement mentioned in paragraph  393-20(1)(b) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 in relation to the deposit, as set out in item  8 of the table in section 393-35 of that Act; or
 (ii) would contravene such a requirement if it were contained in that agreement.
 (2) The amount of the penalty is 200% of so much of the shortfall as contravenes that requirement, or would contravene such a requirement.
Section 288-125 Producing or supplying electronic sales suppression tools
 (1) You are liable to an administrative penalty of 60 penalty units if you:
 (a) manufacture, develop or publish an *electronic sales suppression tool; or
 (b) *supply or make available for use:
 (i) an electronic sales suppression tool; or
 (ii) a *right to use an electronic sales suppression tool; or
 (c) provide a service to an entity that involves the use of an electronic sales suppression tool.
 (2) You are liable to an administrative penalty of 60 penalty units if you aid, abet, counsel or procure conduct for which subsection  (1) makes an entity liable to an administrative penalty.
Note: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
 (3) You are not liable to an administrative penalty under this section for conduct undertaken for the purpose of preventing or deterring tax evasion or enforcing a *taxation law.
Section 288-130 Possessing electronic sales suppression tools
 (1) You are liable to an administrative penalty of 30 penalty units if:
 (a) you are required under, or pursuant to, a *taxation law (other than an *Excise Act) to keep or make a record; and
 (b) you acquire, or have possession or control of:
 (i) an *electronic sales suppression tool; or
 (ii) a *right to use an electronic sales suppression tool.
 (2) You are liable to an administrative penalty of 30 penalty units if you aid, abet, counsel or procure conduct for which subsection  (1) makes an entity liable to an administrative penalty.
Note: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
 (3) You are not liable to an administrative penalty under this section for conduct undertaken for the purpose of preventing or deterring tax evasion or enforcing a *taxation law.
Section 288-135 Incorrectly keeping records using electronic sales suppression tools
 (1) You are liable to an administrative penalty of 60 units if:
 (a) you are required under, or pursuant to, a *taxation law (other than an *Excise Act) to keep or make a record; and
 (b) the record is kept, made or altered with the use of an *electronic sales suppression tool, or is prevented by the use of an electronic sales suppression tool from being kept, made or altered; and
 (c) as a result of the use:
 (i) the record does not correctly record and explain the matter, transaction, act or operation to which it relates; or
 (ii) you do not keep or make the record in accordance with the taxation law.
 (2) You are liable to an administrative penalty of 60 penalty units if you aid, abet, counsel or procure conduct for which subsection  (1) makes an entity liable to an administrative penalty.
Note: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
Section 288-140 Penalty for failing to publish information on time
 (1) You are liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) you are required under subsection  3D(3) or 3DB(2) to publish information by giving a document containing the information to the Commissioner in the *approved form by a particular day; and
 (b) you do not publish the information by giving the document to the Commissioner in the approved form by that day.
 (2) The amount of the penalty is 500 penalty units for each period of 28 days or part of a period of 28 days:
 (a) starting on the day mentioned in paragraph  (1)(a); and
 (b) ending when you publish the information by giving the document to the Commissioner in the approved form;
up to a maximum of 2,500 penalty units.
Note: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
Division 290--Promotion and implementation of schemes
Table of Subdivisions
Section 290-A Preliminary
Section 290-B Civil penalties
Section 290-C Injunctions
Section 290-D Voluntary undertakings
Subdivision 290-A--Preliminary
Table of sections
Section 290-5 Objects of this Division
Section 290-10 Extra-territorial application
Section 290-5 Objects of this Division
  The objects of this Division are:
 (a) to deter the promotion of tax avoidance *schemes and tax evasion schemes; and
 (aa) to deter the promotion of schemes on the basis of conformity with a *public ruling, *private ruling or *oral ruling if the scheme is materially different from that described in the ruling; and
 (b) to deter the implementation of schemes that have been promoted on the basis of conformity with a public ruling, private ruling or oral ruling in a way that is materially different from that described in the ruling.
Section 290-10 Extra-territorial application
  This Division extends to acts, omissions, matters and things outside Australia.
Subdivision 290-B--Civil penalties
Table of sections
Section 290-50 Civil penalties
Section 290-55 Exceptions
Section 290-60 Meaning of promoter
Section 290-65 Meaning of tax exploitation scheme
Section 290-50 Civil penalties
Promoter of tax exploitation scheme
 (1) An entity must not engage in conduct that results in that or another entity being a *promoter of a *tax exploitation scheme.
Promoting scheme otherwise than in accordance with ruling
 (1A) An entity must not engage in conduct that results in a *scheme that is materially different from that described in a *public ruling, *private ruling or *oral ruling being promoted on the basis of conformity with that ruling.
Implementing scheme otherwise than in accordance with ruling
 (2) An entity must not engage in conduct that results in a *scheme that has been promoted on the basis of conformity with a *public ruling, *private ruling or *oral ruling (whether or not the ruling actually relates to the scheme) being implemented in a way that is materially different from that described in the ruling.
Note: A scheme will not have been implemented in a way that is materially different from that described in a ruling if the tax outcome for participants in the scheme is the same as that described in the ruling.
 (2A) For the purposes of subsections  (1A) and (2), disregard:
 (a) subsection 82KZMGA(1A) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; and
 (b) subsection 394-10(5A) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Note 1: Those 2 subsections relate to forestry managed investment schemes.
Note 2: The effect of this subsection is that a scheme will have been implemented in a way that is materially different from that described in a ruling if the tax outcome for participants in the scheme is the same as that described in the ruling only because of the operation of the subsections mentioned in paragraphs  (a) and (b).
Civil penalty
 (3) If the Federal Court of Australia is satisfied, on application by the Commissioner, that an entity has contravened subsection  (1), (1A) or (2), the Court may order the entity to pay a civil penalty to the Commonwealth.
Note: If the entity is a registered tax agent or BAS agent, being penalised under this subsection may affect the continued registration of the entity: see section  20-45 and Subdivision 40-A of the Tax Agent Services Act 2009 .
 Amount of penalty
 (4) The maximum amount of the penalty for a contravention by an entity is the greater of:
 (a) 5,000 penalty units; and
 (b) 3 times the total value of all benefits received or receivable (directly or indirectly) by the entity and *associates of the entity in respect of the *scheme.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
 (4A) Despite subsection  (4), the maximum amount of the penalty for a contravention by an entity that is a body corporate is the greatest of the following:
 (a) 50,000 penalty units;
 (b) 3 times the total value of all benefits received or receivable (directly or indirectly) by the entity and *associates of the entity in respect of the *scheme;
 (c) either:
 (i) 10% of the *aggregated turnover of the entity for the most recent income year to end before the entity contravened, or began to contravene, the provision; or
 (ii) if the amount worked out under subparagraph  (i) is greater than an amount equal to 2.5 million penalty units--2.5 million penalty units.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
 (4B) Despite subsections  (4) and (4A), the maximum amount of the penalty for a contravention by an entity that is:
 (a) a partner in a partnership that is a *significant global entity; or
 (b) a trustee of a trust that is a significant global entity;
is the greatest of the following:
 (c) 50,000 penalty units;
 (d) 3 times the total value of all benefits received or receivable (directly or indirectly) by the significant global entity and *associates of the significant global entity in respect of the *scheme;
 (e) either:
 (i) 10% of the *aggregated turnover of the significant global entity for the most recent income year to end before the entity contravened, or began to contravene, the provision; or
 (ii) if the amount worked out under subparagraph  (i) is greater than an amount equal to 2.5 million penalty units--2.5 million penalty units.
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Principles relating to penalties
 (5) In deciding what penalty is appropriate for a contravention of subsection  (1), (1A) or (2) by an entity, the Federal Court of Australia may have regard to all matters it considers relevant, including:
 (a) the amount of the benefit received or receivable (directly or indirectly) by the entity and *associates of the entity in respect of the *scheme; and
 (b) the deterrent effect that any penalty may have; and
 (c) the amount of loss or damage incurred by scheme participants; and
 (d) the nature and extent of the contravention; and
 (e) the circumstances in which the contravention took place, including the deliberateness of the entity&#39;s conduct and whether there was an honest and reasonable mistake of law; and
 (f) the period over which the conduct extended; and
 (g) whether the entity took any steps to avoid the contravention; and
 (h) whether the entity has previously been found by the Court to have engaged in the same or similar conduct; and
 (i) the degree of the entity&#39;s cooperation with the Commissioner.
Recovery of penalty
 (6) The penalty is a civil debt payable to the Commonwealth, and the Commissioner may, on behalf of the Commonwealth, enforce an order for an entity to pay the penalty as if it were an order made in civil proceedings against the entity to recover a debt due by the entity. The debt arising from the order is taken to be a judgment debt.
Section 290-55 Exceptions
Reasonable mistake or reasonable precautions
 (1) The Federal Court of Australia must not order the entity to pay a civil penalty if the entity satisfies the Court:
 (a) that the conduct in respect of which the proceedings were instituted was due to a reasonable mistake of fact; or
 (b) that:
 (i) the conduct in respect of which the proceedings were instituted was due to the act or default of another entity, to an accident or to some other cause beyond the entity&#39;s control; and
 (ii) the entity took reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to avoid the conduct.
 (2) The other entity referred to in paragraph  (1)(b) does not include:
 (a) someone who was an employee or agent of the entity when the alleged conduct occurred; or
 (b) if the entity is a body corporate--someone who was a director of the entity when the alleged conduct occurred; or
 (c) if the entity is a partner in a partnership--someone who was also a partner in the partnership when the alleged conduct occurred; or
 (d) if the entity is a trustee of a trust that has more than one trustee--someone who was also a trustee of the trust when the alleged conduct occurred.
Reliance on advice from the Commissioner
 (3) The Commissioner must not make an application under section  290-50 for conduct referred to in subsection 290-50(1) in relation to an entity&#39;s involvement in a *scheme if:
 (a) the scheme is based on treating a *taxation law as applying in a particular way; and
 (b) that way agrees with:
 (i) advice given to the entity or the entity&#39;s agent by or on behalf of the Commissioner; or
 (ii) a statement in a publication approved in writing by the Commissioner.
Time limitation
 (4) The Commissioner must not make an application under section  290-50 in relation to an entity&#39;s involvement in a *tax exploitation scheme more than 6 years after the entity last engaged in conduct that resulted in the entity or another entity being a *promoter of the tax exploitation scheme.
 (5) The Commissioner must not make an application under section  290-50 in relation to an entity&#39;s involvement in a *scheme that has been promoted on the basis of conformity with a *public ruling, *private ruling or *oral ruling more than 6 years after the entity last engaged in conduct in relation to:
 (a) if the scheme has been implemented--the implementation of the scheme; or
 (b) if the scheme has not been implemented--the promotion of the scheme.
 (6) However, the limitation in subsection  (4) or (5) does not apply to *schemes that involve, or if implemented would involve, tax evasion.
Exception where entity does not know result of conduct
 (7) The Federal Court of Australia must not order an entity to pay a civil penalty in relation to the entity&#39;s engaging in conduct:
 (a) that results in another entity being a *promoter of a *tax exploitation scheme; or
 (aa) that results in a *scheme that is materially different from that described in a *public ruling, *private ruling or *oral ruling being promoted on the basis of conformity with that ruling; or
 (b) that results in a scheme that has been promoted on the basis of conformity with a public ruling, private ruling or oral ruling being implemented in a way that is materially different from that described in the ruling;
if the entity satisfies the Court that the entity did not know, and could not reasonably be expected to have known, that the entity&#39;s conduct would produce that result.
 (7A) The other entity referred to in paragraph  (7)(a) does not include:
 (a) if the entity mentioned first in subsection  (7) is a partner in a partnership:
 (i) the partnership; or
 (ii) someone who was a partner in the partnership when the alleged conduct occurred; or
 (b) if the entity mentioned first in subsection  (7) is a trustee of a trust:
 (i) the trust; or
 (ii) if the trust has more than one trustee--someone who was also a trustee of the trust when the alleged conduct occurred.
Employees
 (8) The Commissioner must not make an application under section  290-50 in relation to an individual&#39;s involvement in a *scheme as an employee if the Federal Court of Australia has ordered the individual&#39;s employer to pay a civil penalty under this Division in relation to the same scheme.
Section 290-60 Meaning of promoter
 (1) An entity is a promoter of a *tax exploitation scheme if:
 (a) the entity:
 (i) markets the scheme; or
 (ii) otherwise encourages the growth of the scheme or interest in it; and
 (b) the entity or an *associate of the entity receives (directly or indirectly) a benefit in respect of that marketing or encouragement; and
 (c) having regard to all relevant matters, it is reasonable to conclude that the entity has had a substantial role in respect of that marketing or encouragement.
 (2) However, an entity is not a promoter of a *tax exploitation scheme merely because the entity provides advice about the *scheme.
 (3) An employee is not to be taken to have had a substantial role in respect of that marketing or encouragement merely because the employee distributes information or material prepared by another entity.
Section 290-65 Meaning of tax exploitation scheme
 (1) A *scheme is a tax exploitation scheme if, at the time of the conduct mentioned in subsection  290-50(1):
 (a) one of these conditions is satisfied:
 (i) if the scheme has been implemented--it is reasonable to conclude that an entity that (alone or with others) entered into or carried out the scheme did so with the sole or dominant purpose of that entity or another entity getting a *scheme benefit from the scheme;
 (ii) if the scheme has not been implemented--it is reasonable to conclude that, if an entity (alone or with others) had entered into or carried out the scheme, it would have done so with the sole or dominant purpose of that entity or another entity getting a scheme benefit from the scheme; and
 (b) one of these conditions is satisfied:
 (i) if the scheme has been implemented--it is not *reasonably arguable that the scheme benefit is available at law;
 (ii) if the scheme has not been implemented--it is not reasonably arguable that the scheme benefit would be available at law if the scheme were implemented.
Note: The condition in paragraph (b) would not be satisfied if the implementation of the scheme for all participants were in accordance with binding advice given by or on behalf of the Commissioner of Taxation (for example, if that implementation were in accordance with a public ruling under this Act, or all participants had private rulings under this Act and that implementation were in accordance with those rulings).
 (1A) A *scheme is also a tax exploitation scheme if, at the time of the conduct mentioned in subsection  290-50(1):
 (a) one of these conditions is satisfied:
 (i) if the scheme has been implemented--Part  IVA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 applies to the scheme because of section 177DA or 177J of that Act;
 (ii) if the scheme has not been implemented--it is reasonable to conclude that, had the scheme been entered into or carried out, Part  IVA of that Act would apply to the scheme because of section 177DA or 177J of that Act; and
 (b) one of these conditions is satisfied:
 (i) if the scheme has been implemented--it is reasonable to conclude that an entity that (alone or with others) entered into or carried out the scheme, or part of it, did so for a principal purpose of, or for more than one principal purpose that includes a purpose of, that entity or another entity getting a *scheme benefit from the scheme;
 (ii) if the scheme has not been implemented--it is reasonable to conclude that if an entity (alone or with others) had entered into or carried out the scheme, it would have done so for a principal purpose of, or for more than one principal purpose that includes a purpose of, that entity or another entity getting a scheme benefit from the scheme; and
 (c) one of these conditions is satisfied:
 (i) if the scheme has been implemented--it is not *reasonably arguable that the scheme benefit is available at law;
 (ii) if the scheme has not been implemented--it is not reasonably arguable that the scheme benefit would be available at law if the scheme were implemented.
 (2) In deciding whether it is *reasonably arguable that a *scheme benefit would be available at law, take into account any thing that the Commissioner can do under a *taxation law.
Example: The Commissioner may cancel a tax benefit obtained by a taxpayer in connection with a scheme under section  177F of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.
Subdivision 290-C--Injunctions
Table of sections
Section 290-120 Conduct to which this Subdivision applies
Section 290-125 Injunctions
Section 290-130 Interim injunctions
Section 290-135 Delay in making ruling
Section 290-140 Discharge etc. of injunctions
Section 290-145 Certain limits on granting injunctions not to apply
Section 290-150 Other powers of the Federal Court unaffected
Section 290-120 Conduct to which this Subdivision applies
  This Subdivision applies to conduct of the kind referred to in subsection  290-50(1), (1A) or (2).
Section 290-125 Injunctions
  If an entity has engaged, is engaging or is proposing to engage in conduct to which this Subdivision applies or would apply, the Federal Court of Australia may, on the application of the Commissioner, grant an injunction:
 (a) restraining the entity from engaging in the conduct; and
 (b) if, in the Court&#39;s opinion, it is desirable to do so--requiring the entity to do something.
Section 290-130 Interim injunctions
  The Federal Court of Australia may, before considering an application for an injunction under section  290-125, grant an interim injunction restraining an entity from engaging in conduct to which this Subdivision applies.
Section 290-135 Delay in making ruling
  If:
 (a) an entity applied in writing to the Commissioner for a *public ruling, *private ruling or *oral ruling in relation to a *scheme; and
 (b) the Commissioner has neither made the ruling nor told the entity in writing that the Commissioner has declined to make the ruling;
the Commissioner must not make an application under section 290-125 in relation to conduct or proposed conduct by an entity in relation to the scheme until the Commissioner makes the ruling or tells the entity in writing that the Commissioner has declined to make the ruling.
Section 290-140 Discharge etc. of injunctions
  The Federal Court of Australia may discharge or vary an injunction granted under this Subdivision.
Section 290-145 Certain limits on granting injunctions not to apply
Restraining injunctions
 (1) The power of the Federal Court of Australia under this Subdivision to grant an injunction restraining an entity from engaging in conduct of a particular kind may be exercised:
 (a) if the Court is satisfied that the entity has engaged in conduct of that kind--whether or not it appears to the Court that the entity intends to engage again, or to continue to engage, in conduct of that kind; or
 (b) if it appears to the Court that, if an injunction is not granted, it is likely that the entity will engage in conduct of that kind--whether or not the entity has previously engaged in conduct of that kind and whether or not there is an imminent danger of substantial damage to anyone if the entity engages in conduct of that kind.
Performance injunctions
 (2) The power of the Federal Court of Australia under this Subdivision to grant an injunction requiring an entity to do something may be exercised:
 (a) if the Court is satisfied that the entity has refused or failed to do that thing--whether or not it appears to the Court that the entity intends to refuse or fail again, or to continue to refuse or fail, to do that thing; or
 (b) if it appears to the Court that, if an injunction is not granted, it is likely that the entity will refuse or fail to do that thing--whether or not the entity has previously refused or failed to do that act or thing and whether or not there is an imminent danger of substantial damage to anyone if the entity refuses or fails to do that act or thing.
Section 290-150 Other powers of the Federal Court unaffected
  The powers conferred on the Federal Court of Australia under this Subdivision are in addition to, and not instead of, any other powers of the Court, however conferred.
Subdivision 290-D--Voluntary undertakings
Table of sections
Section 290-200 Voluntary undertakings
 (1) The Commissioner may accept a written undertaking given by an entity for the purposes of this section in connection with furthering the objects of this Division.
 (2) The entity may withdraw or vary the undertaking at any time, but only with the consent of the Commissioner.
 (3) If the Commissioner considers that the entity that gave the undertaking has breached any of its terms, the Commissioner may apply to the Federal Court of Australia for an order under subsection  (4).
 (4) If the Court is satisfied that the entity has breached a term of the undertaking, the Court may make one or both of the following orders:
 (a) an order directing the entity to comply with that term of the undertaking;
 (b) any other order that the Court considers appropriate.
Division 295--Miscellaneous civil penalties
Table of Subdivisions
Section 295-B Civil penalty for possession of tobacco without relevant documentation
Subdivision 295-B--Civil penalty for possession of tobacco without relevant documentation
 Guide to Subdivision 295-B
Section 295-70 What this Subdivision is about
A person is liable to a civil penalty if the person possesses 2 kilograms or more of tobacco and the person: (a) does not provide certain documents (such as a tax invoice) indicating how the person obtained the tobacco; or (b) has stated that the possession was engaged in on behalf of or at the request of another person, but does not provide information enabling the other person to be identified and located.However, the person will not be liable to the civil penalty in certain circumstances, such as where: (a) the person is an individual, and possesses the tobacco for his or her personal use; or (b) the person has reasonable grounds to suspect that excise duty or customs duty has been paid on the tobacco, or excise duty and customs duty is not payable on the tobacco.
Table of sections
Section 295-75 Possession of tobacco without relevant documentation etc.
Section 295-80 Things treated as tobacco
Section 295-75 Possession of tobacco without relevant documentation etc.
 (1) A person contravenes this subsection if:
 (a) the person possesses a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco; and
 (c) the place in which the person possesses the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) the condition in subsection  (2) is satisfied; and
 (e) the weight of the tobacco equals or exceeds 2 kilograms.
 (2) For the purposes of paragraph  (1)(d), the condition in this subsection is satisfied if:
 (a) the person has not provided any of the following:
 (i) a *tax invoice indicating how the person obtained the tobacco;
 (ii) a bill of lading indicating how the person obtained the tobacco;
 (iii) a customs declaration indicating how the person obtained the tobacco; or
 (b) the person:
 (i) has stated that the possession was engaged in on behalf of or at the request of another person; and
 (ii) has not provided information enabling the other person to be identified and located.
 (3) A person is liable to a civil penalty if the person contravenes subsection  (1).
Penalty: 100 penalty units.
 (4) Section 308-510 applies to this section in the same way that it applies to Division  308.
 (5) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is an individual; and
 (b) the person possesses the tobacco for his or her personal use.
 (6) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person has permission (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901):
 (i) to possess the tobacco; or
 (ii) to move the tobacco; or
 (b) the tobacco is covered by an authority under section  55 of that Act; or
 (c) the tobacco has been deemed to be entered for home consumption under subsection  61C(2) of that Act.
 (9) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) any of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; or
 (b) the person has reasonable grounds to suspect that any of those circumstances exist.
 (10) If person wishes to rely on subsection  (5), (6), (7), (8) or (9) in civil penalty proceedings, the person bears an *evidential burden in relation to that matter.
Section 295-80 Things treated as tobacco
 (1) For the purposes of this Division, treat as tobacco any thing (including moisture) added to the tobacco leaf during manufacturing or processing.
 (2) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of this Division:
 (a) treat tobacco seed, tobacco plant (whether or not in the ground) and tobacco leaf as tobacco; and
 (b) treat cigars, cigarettes and snuff as tobacco.
Division 298--Machinery provisions for penalties
Subdivision 298-A--Administrative penalties
Table of sections
Section 298-5 Scope of Subdivision
Section 298-10 Notification of liability
Section 298-15 Due date for penalty
Section 298-20 Remission of penalty
Section 298-25 General interest charge on unpaid penalty
Section 298-30 Assessment of penalties under Division 284 or section  288-115
Section 298-5 Scope of Subdivision
  This Subdivision applies if:
 (a) an administrative penalty is imposed on an entity by another Division in this Part; or
 (b) a penalty is imposed on an entity by Subdivision  162-D of the *GST Act; or
 (c) an administrative penalty is imposed on an entity by a provision of Subdivision  12-H, 14-D or 14-E, Division 16 or section  384-17, 420-5, 426-120 or 426-195 in this Schedule; or
 (d) an administrative penalty is imposed on an entity by section  166 of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993.
Section 298-10 Notification of liability
  The Commissioner must give written notice to the entity of the entity&#39;s liability to pay the penalty and of the reasons why the entity is liable to pay the penalty. The Commissioner is not required to give reasons if he or she decides to remit all of the penalty.
Note: Section 25D of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 sets out rules about the contents of a statement of reasons.
Section 298-15 Due date for penalty
  The penalty becomes due for payment on the day specified in the notice, which must be at least 14 days after the notice is given to the entity.
Note: For provisions about collection and recovery of the penalty, see Part  4-15.
Section 298-20 Remission of penalty
 (1) The Commissioner may remit all or a part of the penalty.
 (2) If the Commissioner decides:
 (a) not to remit the penalty; or
 (b) to remit only part of the penalty;
the Commissioner must give written notice of the decision and the reasons for the decision to the entity.
Note: Section 25D of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 sets out rules about the contents of a statement of reasons.
 (3) If:
 (a) the Commissioner refuses to any extent to remit an amount of penalty; and
 (b) the amount of penalty payable after the refusal is more than 2 penalty units; and
Note: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
 (c) the entity is dissatisfied with the decision;
the entity may object against the decision in the manner set out in Part IVC.
Section 298-25 General interest charge on unpaid penalty
  If any of the penalty remains unpaid after it is due, the entity is liable to pay the *general interest charge on the unpaid amount of the penalty for each day in the period that:
 (a) started at the beginning of the day by which the amount was due to be paid; and
 (b) finishes at the end of the last day, at the end of which, any of the following remains unpaid:
 (i) the amount;
 (ii) general interest charge on any of the amount.
Note: The general interest charge is worked out under Part IIA.
Section 298-30 Assessment of penalties under Division  284 or section 288-115
 (1) The Commissioner must make an assessment of the amount of an administrative penalty under Division  284 or section 288-115.
 (2) An entity that is dissatisfied with such an assessment made about the entity may object against it in the manner set out in Part  IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953.
Subdivision 298-B--Civil penalties
Table of sections
Section 298-80 Application of Subdivision
Section 298-85 Civil evidence and procedure rules for civil penalty orders
Section 298-90 Civil proceedings after criminal proceedings
Section 298-95 Criminal proceedings during civil proceedings
Section 298-100 Criminal proceedings after civil proceedings
Section 298-105 Evidence given in proceedings for penalty not admissible in criminal proceedings
Section 298-110 Civil double jeopardy
Section 298-80 Application of Subdivision
  This Subdivision applies for the purposes of the following provisions (the civil penalty provisions):
 (a) Division 290 of this Schedule (civil penalties for the promotion and implementation of schemes);
 (aa) subsection 295-75(1) in this Schedule (possession of tobacco without relevant documentation);
 (b) Part 5 of the Tax Agent Services Act 2009 (civil penalties for providing tax agent services while unregistered and for certain conduct when providing tax agent services).
Section 298-85 Civil evidence and procedure rules for civil penalty orders
  The Federal Court of Australia must apply the rules of evidence and procedure for civil matters when hearing proceedings for a civil penalty order under the civil penalty provisions.
Section 298-90 Civil proceedings after criminal proceedings
  The Court must not make a civil penalty order under the civil penalty provisions against an entity if the entity has been convicted of an offence constituted by conduct that is substantially the same as the conduct in relation to which the civil penalty order would be made.
Section 298-95 Criminal proceedings during civil proceedings
 (1) Proceedings for a civil penalty order under the civil penalty provisions against an entity are stayed if:
 (a) criminal proceedings are started or have already been started against the entity for an offence; and
 (b) the offence is constituted by conduct that is substantially the same as the conduct in relation to which the civil penalty order would be made.
 (2) The proceedings for the order may be resumed if the entity is not convicted of the offence. Otherwise, the proceedings for the order are dismissed.
Section 298-100 Criminal proceedings after civil proceedings
  Criminal proceedings may be started against an entity for conduct that is substantially the same as conduct in relation to which a civil penalty order under the civil penalty provisions could be made regardless of whether a civil penalty order has been made against the entity.
Section 298-105 Evidence given in proceedings for penalty not admissible in criminal proceedings
  Evidence of information given or evidence of production of documents by an entity is not admissible in criminal proceedings against the entity if:
 (a) the entity previously gave the evidence or produced the documents in proceedings for a civil penalty order under the civil penalty provisions against the entity (whether or not the order was made); and
 (b) the conduct alleged to constitute the offence is substantially the same as the conduct in relation to which the civil penalty order was sought.
However, this does not apply to a criminal proceeding in respect of the falsity of the evidence given by the entity in the proceedings for the civil penalty order.
Section 298-110 Civil double jeopardy
  If an entity is ordered to pay a civil penalty under the civil penalty provisions in respect of particular conduct, the entity is not liable to a civil penalty under some other provision of a *Commonwealth law in respect of that conduct.
Chapter 4--Generic assessment, collection and recovery rules
Part 4-30--Offences and prosecutions
Division 308--Offences relating to tobacco
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 308
Section 308-A Reasonable suspicion offences relating to tobacco
Section 308-B Fault-based offences of possession, production and manufacture
Section 308-C Offences relating to equipment relating to the manufacture or production of tobacco
Section 308-E Other provisions
 Guide to Division 308
Section 308-1 What this Division is about
This Division sets out offences and related provisions relating to tobacco.
Subdivision 308-A--Reasonable suspicion offences relating to tobacco
 Guide to Subdivision 308-A
Section 308-5 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision sets out offences for the possession, sale or buying of tobacco of various quantities where it is reasonable to suspect that none of the following circumstances exist: (a) excise duty has been paid on the tobacco; (b) customs duty has been paid on the tobacco; (c) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; (d) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth.This Subdivision sets out defences to those offences, such as where an accused person has a relevant permission or licence under excise or customs legislation.
Table of sections
Section 308-10 Possession of tobacco (500 kilograms or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
Section 308-15 Possession of tobacco (100 kilograms or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
Section 308-20 Possession of tobacco (5 kg or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
Section 308-25 Sale of tobacco (500 kilograms or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
Section 308-30 Sale of tobacco (100 kilograms or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
Section 308-35 Sale of tobacco (5 kg or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
Section 308-40 Buying of tobacco (500 kilograms or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
Section 308-45 Buying of tobacco (100 kilograms or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
Section 308-50 Buying of tobacco (5 kg or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
Section 308-55 Matters taken to satisfy &quot;reasonable to suspect&quot; requirement
Section 308-10 Possession of tobacco (500 kilograms or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person possesses a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco (other than tobacco seed or tobacco plant); and
 (c) the place in which the person possesses the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) it is reasonable to suspect that none of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; and
 (e) the weight of the tobacco is 500 kilograms or above.
Penalty: 5 years imprisonment or the greater of the following, or both 5 years imprisonment and the greater of the following:
 (a) 1,000 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection (3); or
 (b) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(d).
 (6) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(e).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (9) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person has permission (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901):
 (i) to possess the tobacco; or
 (ii) to move the tobacco; or
 (b) the tobacco is covered by an authority under section  55 of that Act; or
 (c) the tobacco has been deemed to be entered for home consumption under subsection  61C(2) of that Act.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (9) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (10) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) any of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; or
 (b) the person has reasonable grounds to suspect that any of those circumstances exist.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (10) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-15 Possession of tobacco (100 kilograms or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person possesses a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco (other than tobacco seed or tobacco plant); and
 (c) the place in which the person possesses the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) it is reasonable to suspect that none of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; and
 (e) the weight of the tobacco is 100 kilograms or above.
Penalty: 2 years imprisonment or the greater of the following, or both 2 years imprisonment and the greater of the following:
 (a) 500 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection (3); or
 (b) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(d).
 (6) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(e).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (9) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person has permission (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901):
 (i) to possess the tobacco; or
 (ii) to move the tobacco; or
 (b) the tobacco is covered by an authority under section  55 of that Act; or
 (c) the tobacco has been deemed to be entered for home consumption under subsection  61C(2) of that Act.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (9) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (10) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) any of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; or
 (b) the person has reasonable grounds to suspect that any of those circumstances exist.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (10) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-20 Possession of tobacco (5 kg or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person possesses a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco (other than tobacco seed or tobacco plant); and
 (c) the place in which the person possesses the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) it is reasonable to suspect that none of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; and
 (e) the weight of the tobacco is 5 kilograms or above.
Penalty: The greater of the following:
 (a) 200 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection (3); or
 (b) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(d).
 (6) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(e).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (9) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person has permission (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901):
 (i) to possess the tobacco; or
 (ii) to move the tobacco; or
 (b) the tobacco is covered by an authority under section  55 of that Act; or
 (c) the tobacco has been deemed to be entered for home consumption under subsection  61C(2) of that Act.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (9) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (10) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) any of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; or
 (b) the person has reasonable grounds to suspect that any of those circumstances exist.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (10) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-25 Sale of tobacco (500 kilograms or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person sells a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco (other than tobacco seed or tobacco plant); and
 (c) the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) it is reasonable to suspect that none of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; and
 (e) the weight of the tobacco is 500 kilograms or above.
Penalty: 5 years imprisonment or the greater of the following, or both 5 years imprisonment and the greater of the following:
 (a) 1,000 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection (3); or
 (b) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(d).
 (6) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(e).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (9) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person has permission (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901):
 (i) to possess the tobacco; or
 (ii) to move the tobacco; or
 (b) the tobacco is covered by an authority under section  55 of that Act; or
 (c) the tobacco has been deemed to be entered for home consumption under subsection  61C(2) of that Act.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (9) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (10) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) any of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; or
 (b) the person has reasonable grounds to suspect that any of those circumstances exist.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (10) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-30 Sale of tobacco (100 kilograms or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person sells a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco (other than tobacco seed or tobacco plant); and
 (c) the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) it is reasonable to suspect that none of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; and
 (e) the weight of the tobacco is 100 kilograms or above.
Penalty: 2 years imprisonment or the greater of the following, or both 2 years imprisonment and the greater of the following:
 (a) 500 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection (3); or
 (b) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(d).
 (6) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(e).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (9) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person has permission (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901):
 (i) to possess the tobacco; or
 (ii) to move the tobacco; or
 (b) the tobacco is covered by an authority under section  55 of that Act; or
 (c) the tobacco has been deemed to be entered for home consumption under subsection  61C(2) of that Act.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (9) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (10) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) any of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; or
 (b) the person has reasonable grounds to suspect that any of those circumstances exist.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (10) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-35 Sale of tobacco (5 kg or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person sells a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco (other than tobacco seed or tobacco plant); and
 (c) the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) it is reasonable to suspect that none of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; and
 (e) the weight of the tobacco is 5 kilograms or above.
Penalty: The greater of the following:
 (a) 200 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection (3); or
 (b) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(d).
 (6) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(e).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (9) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person has permission (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901):
 (i) to possess the tobacco; or
 (ii) to move the tobacco; or
 (b) the tobacco is covered by an authority under section  55 of that Act; or
 (c) the tobacco has been deemed to be entered for home consumption under subsection  61C(2) of that Act.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (9) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (10) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) any of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; or
 (b) the person has reasonable grounds to suspect that any of those circumstances exist.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (10) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-40 Buying of tobacco (500 kilograms or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person buys a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco (other than tobacco seed or tobacco plant); and
 (c) the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) it is reasonable to suspect that none of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; and
 (e) the weight of the tobacco is 500 kilograms or above.
Penalty: 5 years imprisonment or the greater of the following, or both 5 years imprisonment and the greater of the following:
 (a) 1,000 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection (3); or
 (b) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(d).
 (6) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(e).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (9) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person has permission (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901):
 (i) to possess the tobacco; or
 (ii) to move the tobacco; or
 (b) the tobacco is covered by an authority under section  55 of that Act; or
 (c) the tobacco has been deemed to be entered for home consumption under subsection  61C(2) of that Act.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (9) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (10) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) any of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; or
 (b) the person has reasonable grounds to suspect that any of those circumstances exist.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (10) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-45 Buying of tobacco (100 kilograms or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person buys a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco (other than tobacco seed or tobacco plant); and
 (c) the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) it is reasonable to suspect that none of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; and
 (e) the weight of the tobacco is 100 kilograms or above.
Penalty: 2 years imprisonment or the greater of the following, or both 2 years imprisonment and the greater of the following:
 (a) 500 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection (3); or
 (b) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(d).
 (6) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(e).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (9) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person has permission (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901):
 (i) to possess the tobacco; or
 (ii) to move the tobacco; or
 (b) the tobacco is covered by an authority under section  55 of that Act; or
 (c) the tobacco has been deemed to be entered for home consumption under subsection  61C(2) of that Act.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (9) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (10) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) any of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; or
 (b) the person has reasonable grounds to suspect that any of those circumstances exist.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (10) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-50 Buying of tobacco (5 kg or above)--reasonable suspicion offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person buys a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco (other than tobacco seed or tobacco plant); and
 (c) the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) it is reasonable to suspect that none of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; and
 (e) the weight of the tobacco is 5 kilograms or above.
Penalty: The greater of the following:
 (a) 200 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection (3); or
 (b) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(d).
 (6) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(e).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (9) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person has permission (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901):
 (i) to possess the tobacco; or
 (ii) to move the tobacco; or
 (b) the tobacco is covered by an authority under section  55 of that Act; or
 (c) the tobacco has been deemed to be entered for home consumption under subsection  61C(2) of that Act.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (9) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (10) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) any of the following circumstances exist:
 (i) *excise duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (ii) *customs duty has been paid on the tobacco;
 (iii) excise duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth;
 (iv) customs duty is not payable on the tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth; or
 (b) the person has reasonable grounds to suspect that any of those circumstances exist.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (10) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-55 Matters taken to satisfy &quot;reasonable to suspect&quot; requirement
 (1) Without limiting paragraphs 308 -10(1)(d), 308-15(1)(d), 308-20(1)(d), 308-25(1)(d), 308-30(1)(d), 308-35(1)(d), 308 -40(1)(d), 308-45(1)(d) and 308-50(1)(d), those paragraphs are taken to be satisfied if any of the following circumstances exist:
 (a) the tobacco is not in retail packaging that complies with the requirements in Chapter  3 of the Public Health (Tobacco and Other Products) Act 2023;
 (b) the tobacco does not comply with the requirements for a tobacco product in Chapter  3 of the Public Health (Tobacco and Other Products) Act 2023;
 (c) in the case of buying or selling:
 (i) an information standard has been made under subsection  134(1) or 135(1) of Schedule 2 to the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 for tobacco (or for a particular kind of tobacco); and
 (ii) the supplier does not comply with the standard in supplying the tobacco;
 (d) if a safety standard has been made or declared under subsection  104(1) or 105(1) of Schedule 2 to the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 for tobacco (or for a particular kind of tobacco)--the tobacco does not comply with the standard;
 (e) a permanent ban or an interim ban on consumer goods in force under Part  3-3 of Schedule 2 to the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 applies to the tobacco;
 (ea) a permanent ban under Chapter  4 of the Public Health (Tobacco and Other Products) Act 2023 applies to the tobacco;
 (f) in the case of buying or selling--the price of the tobacco, or the advertised or offered price for the tobacco, is less than the sum of the following amounts:
 (i) the lower of the amount of *excise duty or *customs duty that would apply to the tobacco, assuming that such duty were applicable to the tobacco and that no exemption or reduction of such duty were applicable;
 (ii) the amount of *GST that would apply to the sale of the tobacco, assuming that GST were applicable to the sale;
 (g) in the case of buying or selling:
 (i) a law of a State or Territory that applies to the buying or selling of the tobacco makes it unlawful to buy or sell tobacco in certain circumstances; and
 (ii) the buying or selling happens in such circumstances;
 (h) the person has not provided any of the following:
 (i) a *tax invoice indicating how the person obtained the tobacco;
 (ii) a bill of lading indicating how the person obtained the tobacco;
 (iii) a customs declaration indicating how the person obtained the tobacco;
 (i) the person:
 (i) has stated that the possession, selling or buying was engaged in on behalf of or at the request of another person; and
 (ii) has not provided information enabling the other person to be identified and located;
 (j) in the case of selling:
 (i) the *GST law requires the person to give the buyer of the tobacco a tax invoice in respect of the sale; and
 (ii) the person fails to meet that requirement;
 (k) the tobacco is tobacco leaf that:
 (i) has not been subjected to any process; or
 (ii) has been subjected only to the process of curing the leaf as stripped from the plant.
 (2) To avoid doubt, subsection  (1) does not apply for the purposes of subsections 308-10(10), 308-15(10), 308-20(10), 308 -25(10), 308-30(10), 308-35(10), 308-40(10), 308-45(10) and 308-50(10).
Subdivision 308-B--Fault-based offences of possession, production and manufacture
 Guide to Subdivision 308-B
Section 308-105 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision sets out offences for the possession, manufacturing or production of tobacco of various quantities where: (a) the tobacco is excisable goods, tobacco seed or tobacco plant, or tobacco leaf that has not been subjected to any relevant process; and (b) if excise duty is payable on the tobacco, the full amount of that excise duty has not been paid.This Subdivision sets out defences to those offences, such as where an accused person has a relevant permission or licence under excise or customs legislation.
Table of sections
Section 308-110 Possession of tobacco (500 kg or above)--fault-based offence
Section 308-115 Possession of tobacco (100 kg or above)--fault-based offence
Section 308-120 Possession of tobacco (5 kg or above)--fault-based offence
Section 308-125 Manufacture or production of tobacco (500 kg or above)--fault-based offence
Section 308-130 Manufacture or production of tobacco (100 kg or above)--fault-based offence
Section 308-135 Manufacture or production of tobacco (5 kg or above)--fault-based offence
Section 308-110 Possession of tobacco (500 kg or above)--fault -based offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person possesses a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco; and
 (c) the place in which the person possesses the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) the tobacco is:
 (i) *excisable goods; or
 (ii) tobacco seed or tobacco plant; or
 (iii) tobacco leaf that has not been subjected to any process, or has been subjected only to the process of curing the leaf as stripped from the plant; and
 (e) in a case where the tobacco is excisable goods:
 (i) *excise duty is payable on the tobacco; and
 (ii) the full amount of excise duty has not been paid on the tobacco; and
 (f) the weight of the tobacco is 500 kilograms or above.
Penalty: 10 years imprisonment or the greater of the following, or both 10 years imprisonment and the greater of the following:
 (a) 1,500 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco plant or tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (b) for tobacco plant or tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that:
 (i) for tobacco plant--the weight of the tobacco were equal to the potential weight of tobacco that could be produced from the plant if it were fully grown and it had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (ii) for tobacco leaf--the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco plant or tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(f).
 (6) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (6) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person has permission (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901):
 (i) to possess the tobacco; or
 (ii) to move the tobacco; or
 (b) the tobacco is covered by an authority under section  55 of that Act; or
 (c) the tobacco has been deemed to be entered for home consumption under subsection  61C(2) of that Act.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-115 Possession of tobacco (100 kg or above)--fault -based offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person possesses a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco; and
 (c) the place in which the person possesses the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) the tobacco is:
 (i) *excisable goods; or
 (ii) tobacco seed or tobacco plant; or
 (iii) tobacco leaf that has not been subjected to any process, or has been subjected only to the process of curing the leaf as stripped from the plant; and
 (e) in a case where the tobacco is excisable goods:
 (i) *excise duty is payable on the tobacco; and
 (ii) the full amount of excise duty has not been paid on the tobacco; and
 (f) the weight of the tobacco is 100 kilograms or above.
Penalty: 5 years imprisonment or the greater of the following, or both 5 years imprisonment and the greater of the following:
 (a) 1,000 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco plant or tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (b) for tobacco plant or tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that:
 (i) for tobacco plant--the weight of the tobacco were equal to the potential weight of tobacco that could be produced from the plant if it were fully grown and it had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (ii) for tobacco leaf--the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco plant or tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(f).
 (6) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (6) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply if the person has permission (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901):
 (a) to possess the tobacco; or
 (b) to move the tobacco; or
 (c) to deliver the tobacco for home consumption without entering it for that purpose.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-120 Possession of tobacco (5 kg or above)--fault -based offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person possesses a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco; and
 (c) the place in which the person possesses the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) the tobacco is:
 (i) *excisable goods; or
 (ii) tobacco seed or tobacco plant; or
 (iii) tobacco leaf that has not been subjected to any process, or has been subjected only to the process of curing the leaf as stripped from the plant; and
 (e) in a case where the tobacco is excisable goods:
 (i) *excise duty is payable on the tobacco; and
 (ii) the full amount of excise duty has not been paid on the tobacco; and
 (f) the weight of the tobacco is 5 kilograms or above.
Penalty: The greater of the following:
 (a) 500 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco plant or tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (b) for tobacco plant or tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that:
 (i) for tobacco plant--the weight of the tobacco were equal to the potential weight of tobacco that could be produced from the plant if it were fully grown and it had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (ii) for tobacco leaf--the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco plant or tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(f).
 (6) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (6) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply if the person has permission (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901):
 (a) to possess the tobacco; or
 (b) to move the tobacco; or
 (c) to deliver the tobacco for home consumption without entering it for that purpose.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-125 Manufacture or production of tobacco (500 kg or above)--fault -based offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person manufactures or produces a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco; and
 (c) the place in which the person manufactures or produces the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) the tobacco is:
 (i) *excisable goods; or
 (ii) tobacco seed or tobacco plant; or
 (iii) tobacco leaf that has not been subjected to any process, or has been subjected only to the process of curing the leaf as stripped from the plant; and
 (e) in a case where the tobacco is excisable goods:
 (i) *excise duty is payable on the tobacco; and
 (ii) the full amount of excise duty has not been paid on the tobacco; and
 (f) the weight of the tobacco is 500 kilograms or above.
Penalty: 10 years imprisonment or the greater of the following, or both 10 years imprisonment and the greater of the following:
 (a) 1,500 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco plant or tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (b) for tobacco plant or tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that:
 (i) for tobacco plant--the weight of the tobacco were equal to the potential weight of tobacco that could be produced from the plant if it were fully grown and it had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (ii) for tobacco leaf--the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco plant or tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(f).
 (6) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (6) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-130 Manufacture or production of tobacco (100 kg or above)--fault -based offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person manufactures or produces a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco; and
 (c) the place in which the person manufactures or produces the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) the tobacco is:
 (i) *excisable goods; or
 (ii) tobacco seed or tobacco plant; or
 (iii) tobacco leaf that has not been subjected to any process, or has been subjected only to the process of curing the leaf as stripped from the plant; and
 (e) in a case where the tobacco is excisable goods:
 (i) *excise duty is payable on the tobacco; and
 (ii) the full amount of excise duty has not been paid on the tobacco; and
 (f) the weight of the tobacco is 100 kilograms or above.
Penalty: 5 years imprisonment or the greater of the following, or both 5 years imprisonment and the greater of the following:
 (a) 1,000 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco plant or tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (b) for tobacco plant or tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that:
 (i) for tobacco plant--the weight of the tobacco were equal to the potential weight of tobacco that could be produced from the plant if it were fully grown and it had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (ii) for tobacco leaf--the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco plant or tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(f).
 (6) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (6) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-135 Manufacture or production of tobacco (5 kg or above)--fault -based offence
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person manufactures or produces a thing; and
 (b) the thing is tobacco; and
 (c) the place in which the person manufactures or produces the tobacco is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (d) the tobacco is:
 (i) *excisable goods; or
 (ii) tobacco seed or tobacco plant; or
 (iii) tobacco leaf that has not been subjected to any process, or has been subjected only to the process of curing the leaf as stripped from the plant; and
 (e) in a case where the tobacco is excisable goods:
 (i) *excise duty is payable on the tobacco; and
 (ii) the full amount of excise duty has not been paid on the tobacco; and
 (f) the weight of the tobacco is 5 kilograms or above.
Penalty: The greater of the following:
 (a) 500 penalty units;
 (b) the amount mentioned in subsection  (2) multiplied by 5.
 (2) For the purposes of the penalty in subsection  (1), the amount is:
 (a) for tobacco (other than tobacco plant or tobacco leaf)--the amount of excise duty that would be payable assuming that the tobacco were *excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (b) for tobacco plant or tobacco leaf, if regulations have been made for the purposes of this paragraph--the amount of excise duty that would be payable, as worked out under the regulations, assuming that:
 (i) for tobacco plant--the weight of the tobacco were equal to the potential weight of tobacco that could be produced from the plant if it were fully grown and it had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (ii) for tobacco leaf--the tobacco had been manufactured into excisable goods and entered for home consumption on the day mentioned in subsection  (3); or
 (c) for tobacco plant or tobacco leaf, if regulations have not been made for the purposes of paragraph  (b)--nil.
 (3) For the purposes of subsection  (2), the day is:
 (a) if the Court knows the day, or days, on which the offence was committed--that day, or the earliest of those days; or
 (b) otherwise--the day on which the prosecution for the offence is instituted.
 (4) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(c).
 (5) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(f).
 (6) Subsection (1) does not apply if the tobacco is kept or stored at premises for which there is in force:
 (a) a licence (within the meaning of the Excise Act 1901) that relates to tobacco; or
 (b) a depot licence (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901), or a warehouse licence (within the meaning of that Act), that relates to tobacco.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (6) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person is specified in a movement permission under section  44 of the Excise Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (b) the person is specified in a permission under section  71E of the Customs Act 1901 in relation to tobacco; or
 (c) the person has an authority to take the tobacco into warehousing under subsection  71DJ(4) of the Customs Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (7) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Subdivision 308-C--Offences relating to equipment relating to the manufacture or production of tobacco
 Guide to Subdivision 308-C
Section 308-200 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision sets out offences for the possession of equipment for use in illegal manufacture or production of tobacco, or of equipment designed or adapted to manufacture or produce tobacco.
Table of sections
Section 308-205 Possession of equipment for use in illegal manufacture or production of tobacco
Section 308-210 Possession of equipment designed or adapted to manufacture or produce tobacco
Section 308-205 Possession of equipment for use in illegal manufacture or production of tobacco
 (1) A person (the first person) commits an offence if:
 (a) the first person possesses equipment at a time; and
 (b) the place in which the first person possesses the equipment is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (c) the first person is reckless as to whether a particular person (whether or not the first person) will, at a later time, use the equipment to manufacture or produce tobacco; and
 (d) the first person intends to possess the equipment at that later time; and
 (e) that manufacture or production by that particular person at that later time would constitute an offence against any of the following provisions:
 (i) section 308-125, 308-130 or 308-135;
 (ii) section 25 or 28 of the Excise Act 1901.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 12 months or 120 penalty units, or both.
 (2) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(b).
 (3) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(e).
 (4) Subsection (1) does not apply if the first person has no reasonable ground to consider that the manufacture or production by the particular person at the later time would constitute an offence against any of the provisions mentioned in paragraph  (1)(e).
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (4) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Section 308-210 Possession of equipment designed or adapted to manufacture or produce tobacco
 (1) A person commits an offence if:
 (a) the person possesses equipment at a time; and
 (b) the place in which the person possesses the equipment is in Australia but not in an external Territory; and
 (c) a reasonable person, with a full knowledge and understanding of the functioning of the equipment, would conclude that the equipment is designed or adapted specifically to manufacture or produce tobacco; and
 (d) on the assumption that, at the time mentioned in paragraph  (a), the person used the equipment to manufacture or produce tobacco, the person would commit an offence against any of the following provisions:
 (i) section 308-125, 308-130 or 308-135;
 (ii) section 25 or 28 of the Excise Act 1901.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 12 months or 120 penalty units, or both.
 (2) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(b).
 (3) Absolute liability applies to paragraph  (1)(d).
 (4) Subsection (1) does not apply if the person possesses the equipment:
 (a) for the sole purpose of the disposal or destruction of the equipment; or
 (b) for the sole purpose of the export of the equipment.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (4) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
 (5) Subsection (1) does not apply if:
 (a) the person possesses the equipment on behalf of another person; and
 (b) assuming that, at the time mentioned in paragraph  (a), the other person used the equipment in Australia (but not in an external Territory) to manufacture or produce tobacco, the other person would not commit an offence under any of the following provisions:
 (i) section 308-125,308-130 or 308-135;
 (ii) section 25 or 28 of the Excise Act 1901.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (5) (see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code).
Subdivision 308-E--Other provisions
 Guide to Subdivision 308-E
Section 308-500 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision sets out various miscellaneous rules that relate to the offences in other provisions of this Division, including rules that treat certain things as tobacco and certain matters as possession.
Table of sections
Section 308-505 Things treated as tobacco
Section 308-510 Matters treated as possession
Section 308-515 Where excise duty or customs duty is treated as not payable for the purpose of the reasonable suspicion offences
Section 308-520 Section 8ZD does not apply to this Division
Section 308-505 Things treated as tobacco
 (1) For the purposes of this Division, treat as tobacco any thing (including moisture) added to the tobacco leaf during manufacturing or processing.
 (2) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of this Division:
 (a) treat tobacco seed, tobacco plant (whether or not in the ground) and tobacco leaf as tobacco; and
 (b) treat cigars, cigarettes and snuff as tobacco.
Section 308-510 Matters treated as possession
 (1) For the purposes of this Division, treat a person as possessing a thing if the person:
 (a) receives or obtains possession of the thing; or
 (b) has control over the disposition of the thing (whether or not the thing is in the custody of the person); or
 (c) has joint possession of the thing with one or more other persons.
 (2) To avoid doubt, subsection  (1) does not limit, for the purposes of this Division, when a person possesses a thing.
 (3) For the purposes of this Division, a person may possess tobacco plant even if the plant is in the ground.
Section 308-515 Where excise duty or customs duty is treated as not payable for the purpose of the reasonable suspicion offences
 (1) For the purposes of Subdivision  308-A, treat *excise duty as not payable on tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth if:
 (a) a &quot;free&quot; rate of *excise duty applies on the tobacco; or
 (b) there is a remission of all of the excise duty payable on the tobacco.
 (2) For the purposes of Subdivision  308-A, treat *customs duty as not payable on tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth if:
 (a) a &quot;free&quot; rate of *customs duty applies on the tobacco; or
 (b) there is a remission of all of the customs duty payable on the tobacco.
 (3) To avoid doubt, subsections  (1) and (2) do not limit, for the purposes of Subdivision 308-A, when *excise duty or *customs duty is not payable on tobacco because of an exemption under a law of the Commonwealth.
Section 308-520 Section 8ZD does not apply to this Division
  Section 8ZD does not apply for the purposes of this Division.
Part 4-50--Release from particular liabilities
Division 340--Commissioner&#39;s power in cases of hardship
 Guide to Division 340
Section 340-1 What this Division is about
The Commissioner may release you from a particular liability that you have incurred if you are an individual, or a trustee of the estate of a deceased person, and satisfying the liability would cause serious hardship.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 340-5 Release from particular liabilities in cases of serious hardship
Section 340-10 Liabilities to which this section applies
Section 340-15 Commissioner may take action to give effect to a release decision
Section 340-20 Extinguishing your liability to pay a fringe benefits tax instalment if you are released
Section 340-25 Extinguishing your liability to pay a PAYG instalment if you are released
 Operative provisions
Section 340-5 Release from particular liabilities in cases of serious hardship
Applying for release
 (1) You may apply to the Commissioner to release you, in whole or in part, from a liability of yours if section  340-10 applies to the liability.
 (2) The application must be in the *approved form.
 (3) The Commissioner may release you, in whole or in part, from the liability if you are an entity specified in the column headed &quot;Entity&quot; of the following table and the condition specified in the column headed &quot;Condition&quot; of the table is satisfied.
Entity and conditionItemEntityCondition1an individualyou would suffer serious hardship if you were required to satisfy the liability2a trustee of the estate of a deceased individualthe dependants of the deceased individual would suffer serious hardship if you were required to satisfy the liability
Effect of the Commissioner&#39;s decision
 (4) If the Commissioner:
 (a) refuses to release you in whole from the liability; or
 (b) releases you in part from the liability;
nothing in this section prevents you from making a further application or applications under subsection (1) in relation to the liability.
Notification of the Commissioner&#39;s decision
 (5) The Commissioner must notify you in writing of the Commissioner&#39;s decision within 28 days after making the decision.
 (6) A failure to comply with subsection  (5) does not affect the validity of the Commissioner&#39;s decision.
Objections against the Commissioner&#39;s decision
 (7) If you are dissatisfied with the Commissioner&#39;s decision, you may object against the decision in the manner set out in Part  IVC.
Section 340-10 Liabilities to which this section applies
 (1) This section applies to a liability if it is a liability of the following kind:
 (a) fringe benefits tax;
 (b) an instalment of fringe benefits tax;
 (c) *Medicare levy;
 (d) *Medicare levy (fringe benefits) surcharge;
 (e) a *PAYG instalment.
 (2) This section also applies to a liability if it is a liability that is specified in the column headed &quot;Liabilities&quot; of the following table and the liability is a liability under a provision or provisions of an Act specified in the column headed &quot;Provision(s)&quot; of the table:
Liabilities and provision(s)ItemLiabilitiesProvision(s)1additional tax(a) section 93 or 112B of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986; or(b) former section 163B or subsection 221YDB(1), (1AAA), (1AA) or (1ABA) or Part VII of the Income Tax Assessment Act 19362administrative penalty in relation to fringe benefits tax or *taxPart 4-25 in this Schedule3general interest charge(a) former section 163AA, former section 170AA, former subsection 204(3) or former subsection 221AZMAA(1), 221AZP(1), 221YD(3) or 221YDB(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; or(aa) section 5-15 in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or(b) section 45-80 or 45-620 or subsection 45-230(2), 45-232(2), 45 -235(2) or 45-235(3) in this Schedule3Ashortfall interest chargeDivision 280 in this Schedule4interestsection 102AAM of the Income Tax Assessment Act 19365penaltyformer section 163A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 19366*tax(a) section 128B of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; or(b) section 128V of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; or(c) section 4-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or(d) section 840-805 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or(da) section 840-905 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or(e) sectionLiabilities and provision(s)ItemLiabilitiesProvision(s)1additional tax(a) section 93 or 112B of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986; or(b) former section 163B or subsection 221YDB(1), (1AAA), (1AA) or (1ABA) or Part VII of the Income Tax Assessment Act 19362administrative penalty in relation to fringe benefits tax or *taxPart 4-25 in this Schedule3general interest charge(a) former section 163AA, former section 170AA, former subsection 204(3) or former subsection 221AZMAA(1), 221AZP(1), 221YD(3) or 221YDB(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; or(aa) section 5-15 in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or(b) section 45-80 or 45-620 or subsection 45-230(2), 45-232(2), 45 -235(2) or 45-235(3) in this Schedule3Ashortfall interest chargeDivision 280 in this Schedule4interestsection 102AAM of the Income Tax Assessment Act 19365penaltyformer section 163A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 19366*tax(a) section 128B of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; or(b) section 128V of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; or(c) section 4-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or(d) section 840-805 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or(da) section 840-905 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or(e) section 840-805 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997
Section 340-15 Commissioner may take action to give effect to a release decision
 (1) If the Commissioner decides to release you from a liability to which section 340-10 applies, the Commissioner may take such action as is necessary to give effect to the decision.
 (2) Without limiting subsection  (1), the Commissioner may amend an assessment within the meaning of the following provisions:
 (a) subsection 6(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936;
 (b) subsection 136(1) of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986;
by making such alterations or additions to the assessment as the Commissioner thinks necessary.
 (3) Subsection (2) does not limit the power of the Commissioner to amend the assessment in accordance with any other provision of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 or the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986 .
Section 340-20 Extinguishing your liability to pay a fringe benefits tax instalment if you are released
 (1) This section applies if the Commissioner releases you from a liability to pay an instalment of fringe benefits tax.
 (2) If your liability to pay the instalment is released in whole, you are taken, for the purposes of Division  2 of Part VII of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986, not to be liable to pay the instalment.
Note: This means that for the purposes of section 105 of that Act you are not entitled to a credit for the instalment.
 (3) If your liability to pay the instalment is released in part, you are taken, for the purposes of Division  2 of Part VII of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986, to be liable to pay the instalment to the extent to which your liability has not been released.
Note: This means that for the purposes of section 105 of that Act you are entitled to a credit for the instalment to the extent to which your liability to pay the instalment has not been released.
Section 340-25 Extinguishing your liability to pay a PAYG instalment if you are released
 (1) This section applies if the Commissioner releases you from a liability to pay a *PAYG instalment.
 (2) If your liability to pay the instalment is released in whole, you are taken, for the purposes of Division  45 of Part 2-10, not to be liable to pay the instalment.
Note: This means that for the purposes of section 45-30 you are not entitled to a credit for the instalment.
 (3) If your liability to pay the instalment is released in part, you are taken, for the purposes of Division  45 of Part 2-10, to be liable to pay the instalment to the extent to which your liability has not been released.
Note: This means that for the purposes of section 45-30 you are entitled to a credit for the instalment to the extent to which your liability to pay the instalment has not been released.
Division 342--Commissioner&#39;s power relating to proceeds of crime proceedings
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 342
Section 342-A Power to waive right to payment of tax-related liabilities
 Guide to Division 342
Section 342-1 What this Division is about
To facilitate the starting, conduct and ending of proceedings under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, the Commissioner may waive the right to payment of certain tax -related liabilities.
Subdivision 342-A--Power to waive right to payment of tax-related liabilities
Table of sections
Section 342-5 Object of this Subdivision
Section 342-10 Power to waive right to payment of tax-related liability
Section 342-5 Object of this Subdivision
  The object of this Subdivision is to facilitate the starting, conduct and ending of proceedings under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 by allowing the Commissioner to waive the right to payment of certain liabilities to the Commonwealth arising under *taxation laws.
Note: The Commissioner may also exercise other powers so as to facilitate the starting, conduct and ending of proceedings under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002. Examples of those other powers include:
        (a) the power under section 255-10 to defer the time a tax -related liability is due and payable; and
        (b) the power under section 8AAG to remit general interest charge.
Section 342-10 Power to waive right to payment of tax -related liability
 (1) The Commissioner may waive the Commonwealth&#39;s right to payment of all or part of a *tax-related liability if the Commissioner is satisfied that:
 (a) the waiver will facilitate the starting, conduct or ending (by settlement or otherwise) of proceedings under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002; and
 (b) the liability is connected with circumstances associated with the proceedings.
Note: The Commissioner may waive the right to payment only after the liability has arisen, but may do so whether or not the liability is due and payable.
Example: A liability is connected with circumstances associated with the proceedings if the liability arose because of activities constituting an offence to which the proceedings relate.
 (2) In deciding whether to waive the right, the Commissioner must consider:
 (a) the amount the Commonwealth will forgo as a result of the waiver and the time the Commonwealth could reasonably be expected to receive that amount apart from the waiver; and
 (b) the amount the Commonwealth could reasonably be expected to receive as a result of the proceedings and the time the Commonwealth could reasonably be expected to receive that amount.
 (3) Subsection (2) does not limit the matters that the Commissioner may consider in making the decision.
Extended operation of this section
 (4) This section (except this subsection) applies in relation to a pecuniary liability to the Commonwealth that arises directly under a *taxation law, but is not a *tax-related liability, in the same way as this section applies in relation to a tax-related liability.
Example: This section applies to a civil penalty under Division 290 (which penalises certain conduct involving promotion of schemes) in the same way as this section applies to a tax -related liability.
Part 4-90--Evidence
Division 350--Evidence
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 350
Section 350-A Evidence
 Guide to Division 350
Section 350-1 What this Division is about
The rules in this Division deal with the evidentiary effect of official tax documents for the purposes of taxation laws.This Division also deals with procedural and evidentiary matters relating to proceedings to recover an amount of a tax -related liability.
Subdivision 350-A--Evidence
Table of sections
Section 350-5 Application of Subdivision
Section 350-10 Evidence
Section 350-12 Prima facie evidence--particulars stated in evidentiary certificate
Section 350-15 Judicial notice of signature
Section 350-20 Certain statements or averments in proceedings to recover tax-related liabilities
Section 350-25 Evidence by affidavit in proceedings to recover tax-related liabilities
Section 350-5 Application of Subdivision
  This Subdivision applies in relation to all *taxation laws.
Section 350-10 Evidence
Conclusive evidence
 (1) The following table has effect:
Conclusive evidenceItemColumn 1The production of ... Column 2is conclusive evidence that ... 1(a) a Gazette containing a notice purporting to be issued by the Commissioner for the purposes of a *taxation law; or(b) a document that:(i) is under the hand of the Commissioner, a *Second Commissioner, a *Deputy Commissioner or a delegate of the Commissioner; and(ii) purports to be a copy of, or extract from, a document issued by the Commissioner, a Second Commissioner, a Deputy Commissioner or a delegate of the Commissioner for the purposes of a taxation law;the notice or document was so issued.2a notice of *assessment under a *taxation law;(a) the assessment was properly made; and(b) except in proceedings under Part IVC of this Act on a review or appeal relating to the assessment--the amounts and particulars of the assessment are correct.3a notice under any of the following:(a) section 18-140 in this Schedule;(b) section 102UR, 177EA or 177EB of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936;(c) section 271-90 in Schedule 2F to that Act;(a) the notice was properly given; and(b) except in proceedings under Part IVC of this Act on a review or appeal relating to the notice--the amounts and particulars of the notice are correct.4a declaration under:(a) subsection 165-40(1) or 165-45(3) of the *GST Act; or(b) subsection 75-40(1) or 75-45(3) of the Fuel Tax Act 2006;(a) the declaration was properly made; and(b) except in proceedings under Part IVC of this Act on a review or appeal relating to the declaration--the amounts and particulars of the declaration are correct.5a *public ruling or *private ruling;the ruling was properly made.
Prima facie evidence
 (3) The production of a certificate that:
 (a) is signed by the Commissioner, a *Second Commissioner, a *Deputy Commissioner or a delegate of the Commissioner; and
 (b) states that, from the time specified in the certificate, an amount was payable under a *taxation law (whether to or by the Commissioner);
is prima facie evidence that:
 (c) the amount is payable from that time; and
 (d) the particulars stated in the certificate are correct.
 (3A) A document that is provided to the Commissioner under a *taxation law, and that purports to be made or signed by or on behalf of an entity, is prima facie evidence that the document was made by the entity or with the authority of the entity.
Signed copies are evidence
 (4) The production of a document that:
 (a) appears to be a copy of, or extract from, any document (the original document) made or given by or to an entity for the purposes of a *taxation law; and
 (b) is signed by the Commissioner, a *Second Commissioner, a *Deputy Commissioner or a delegate of the Commissioner;
is evidence of a matter to the same extent as the original document would have been evidence of the matter.
Section 350-12 Prima facie evidence--particulars stated in evidentiary certificate
 (1) Without limiting subsection  350-10(3), the particulars that may be stated in a certificate under that subsection include the matters in subsections (2) and (3) of this section.
 (2) The certificate may state:
 (a) that a person named in the certificate has a *tax-related liability; or
 (b) that an *assessment relating to a tax-related liability has been made, or is taken to have been made, under a *taxation law; or
 (c) that notice of an assessment, or any other notice required to be served on a person in respect of an amount of a tax -related liability, was, or is taken to have been, served on the person under a *taxation law; or
 (d) that the particulars of a notice covered by paragraph  (c) are as stated in the certificate; or
 (e) that a sum specified in the certificate is, as at the date specified in the certificate, a debt due and payable by a person to the Commonwealth.
 (3) The certificate may state:
 (a) that a *foreign revenue claim for an amount specified in the certificate has been made by the competent authority under the relevant international agreement; or
 (b) that the relevant requirements of the relevant international agreement have been complied with in relation to the foreign revenue claim; or
 (c) that the claim was registered under Division  263 on the date specified in the certificate; or
 (d) that, as at the date of the certificate, the Commissioner has or has not received advice from the competent authority under the relevant international agreement about the reduction or discharge of an amount to be recovered under the claim; or
 (e) that the particulars of any reduction or discharge of an amount to be recovered under the claim are as specified in the certificate.
Section 350-15 Judicial notice of signature
  All courts, and all persons having by law or consent of parties authority to hear, receive and examine evidence, must take judicial notice of the signature of every person who is or has been:
 (a) the Commissioner; or
 (b) a *Second Commissioner; or
 (c) a *Deputy Commissioner; or
 (d) a delegate of the Commissioner;
if the signature is attached or appended to an official document for the purposes of a *taxation law.
Section 350-20 Certain statements or averments in proceedings to recover tax -related liabilities
 (1) In a proceeding to recover an amount of a *tax-related liability, a statement or averment about a matter in the plaintiff&#39;s complaint, claim or declaration is prima facie evidence of the matter.
 (2) This section applies even if the matter is a mixed question of law and fact. However, the statement or averment is prima facie evidence of the fact only.
 (3) This section applies even if evidence is given in support or rebuttal of the matter or of any other matter.
 (4) Any evidence given in support or rebuttal of the matter stated or averred must be considered on its merits. This section does not increase or diminish the credibility or probative value of the evidence.
 (5) This section does not lessen or affect any onus of proof otherwise falling on a defendant.
Section 350-25 Evidence by affidavit in proceedings to recover tax -related liabilities
  In a proceeding to recover an amount of a *tax-related liability:
 (a) a person may give evidence by affidavit; and
 (b) the court may require the person to attend before it:
 (i) to be cross-examined on that evidence; or
 (ii) to give other evidence relating to the proceedings.
Chapter 5--Administration
Part 5-1--The Australian Taxation Office
Division 352--Commissioner&#39;s reporting obligations
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 352
Section 352-A Accountability of the Commissioner in respect of indirect tax laws
Section 352-C Reporting on working holiday makers
 Guide to Division 352
Section 352-1 What this Division is about
This Division requires the Commissioner to prepare annual reports on the working of the indirect tax laws and on working holiday makers.
Subdivision 352-A--Accountability of the Commissioner in respect of indirect tax laws
Table of sections
Section 352-5 Commissioner must prepare annual report on indirect tax laws
 (1) As soon as practicable after 30  June in each year, the Commissioner must prepare and give to the Minister a report on the working of the *indirect tax laws during the year ending on that 30  June.
 (2) The report must include a report on any breaches or evasions of the *indirect tax laws that the Commissioner knows about.
 (3) The Minister must cause a copy of the report to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after the day on which the Minister receives the report.
Subdivision 352-C--Reporting on working holiday makers
Table of sections
Section 352-25 Commissioner must prepare annual report on working holiday makers
 (1) As soon as practicable after 30  June in each year, the Commissioner must prepare and give to the Minister a report relating to:
 (a) the taxation of *working holiday makers; and
 (b) the registration process referred to in sections  16-146 to 16-148.
 (2) Without limiting subsection  (1), the report must include statistics and information derived by the Commissioner from that registration process.
 (3) The Minister must cause a copy of the report to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after the day on which the Minister receives the report.
Division 353--Powers to obtain information and evidence
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 353
Section 353-A Powers to obtain information and evidence
Section 353-B Powers to obtain information and evidence from overseas
 Guide to Division 353
Section 353-1 What this Division is about
This Division gives the Commissioner powers to obtain information and evidence.
Subdivision 353-A--Powers to obtain information and evidence
Table of sections
Section 353-10 Commissioner&#39;s power
Section 353-15 Access to premises, documents etc.
Section 353-20 Checking status of specifically listed deductible gift recipients
Section 353-10 Commissioner&#39;s power
 (1) The Commissioner may by notice in writing require you to do all or any of the following:
 (a) to give the Commissioner any information that the Commissioner requires for the purpose of the administration or operation of a *taxation law;
 (b) to attend and give evidence before the Commissioner, or an individual authorised by the Commissioner, for the purpose of the administration or operation of a taxation law;
 (c) to produce to the Commissioner any documents in your custody or under your control for the purpose of the administration or operation of a taxation law.
Note: Failing to comply with a requirement can be an offence under section 8C or 8D.
 (2) The Commissioner may require the information or evidence:
 (a) to be given on oath or affirmation; and
 (b) to be given orally or in writing.
For that purpose, the Commissioner or the officer may administer an oath or affirmation.
 (3) The regulations may prescribe scales of expenses to be allowed to entities required to attend before the Commissioner or the officer.
Section 353-15 Access to premises, documents etc.
 (1) For the purposes of a *taxation law, the Commissioner, or an individual authorised by the Commissioner for the purposes of this section:
 (a) may at all reasonable times enter and remain on any land, premises or place; and
 (b) is entitled to full and free access at all reasonable times to any documents, goods or other property; and
 (c) may inspect, examine, make copies of, or take extracts from, any documents; and
 (d) may inspect, examine, count, measure, weigh, gauge, test or analyse any goods or other property and, to that end, take samples.
 (2) An individual authorised by the Commissioner for the purposes of this section is not entitled to enter or remain on any land, premises or place if, after having been requested by the occupier to produce proof of his or her authority, the individual does not produce an authority signed by the Commissioner stating that the individual is authorised to exercise powers under this section.
 (3) You commit an offence if:
 (a) you are the occupier of land, premises or a place; and
 (b) an individual enters, or proposes to enter, the land, premises or place under this section; and
 (c) the individual is the Commissioner or authorised by the Commissioner for the purposes of this section; and
 (d) you do not provide the individual with all reasonable facilities and assistance for the effective exercise of powers under this section.
Penalty: 30 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of criminal responsibility.
Note 2: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
 (4) Strict liability applies to paragraphs (3)(a) and (c).
Note: For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code .
Section 353-20 Checking status of specifically listed deductible gift recipients
 (1) The Commissioner may require a *deductible gift recipient covered by this section to give the Commissioner information or a document that is relevant to the deductible gift recipient&#39;s status as a deductible gift recipient. The deductible gift recipient must comply with the requirement.
Note: Failure to comply with this subsection is an offence against section  8C.
 (2) If the Commissioner is satisfied of any of the matters set out in subsection  (4) in relation to a *deductible gift recipient covered by this section, the Commissioner must, within 28 days, give written notice to the Minister about that fact.
 (3) The Minister may only disclose information provided under subsection  (2) for a purpose relating to the removal of the name of the *deductible gift recipient from Division 30 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (4) The matters are as follows:
 (a) the *deductible gift recipient fails or ceases to use gifts, contributions or money received solely for the principal purpose of the relevant fund, authority or institution;
 (b) there is a change in the principal purpose of the relevant fund, authority or institution;
 (c) the deductible gift recipient fails or ceases to comply with any rules or conditions made by the Prime Minister or any other Minister relating to the recipient being or becoming a deductible gift recipient.
 (5) The requirement in subsection  (1):
 (a) is to be made by notice in writing to the *deductible gift recipient; and
 (b) may ask the deductible gift recipient to give the information in writing; and
 (c) must specify:
 (i) the information or document the deductible gift recipient is to give; and
 (ii) the period within which the deductible gift recipient is to give the information or document.
The period specified under subparagraph (c)(ii) must end at least 28 days after the notice is given.
 (6) This section covers *deductible gift recipients, other than:
 (a) an entity or *government entity that is endorsed under Subdivision 30-BA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 as a deductible gift recipient; and
 (b) an entity or government entity that is endorsed under that Subdivision as a deductible gift recipient for the operation of a fund, authority or institution.
 (7) In a prosecution of a person for an offence against section  8C of this Act because of this section as it applies because of Division 444, it is a defence if the person proves that the person:
 (a) did not aid, abet, counsel or procure the act or omission because of which the offence is taken to have been committed; and
 (b) was not in any way, by act or omission, directly or indirectly, knowingly concerned in, or party to, the act or omission because of which the offence is taken to have been committed.
Subdivision 353-B--Powers to obtain information and evidence from overseas
Table of sections
Section 353-25 Offshore information notices
Section 353-30 Offshore information notices--consequence of not complying
Section 353-25 Offshore information notices
 (1) The Commissioner may, by notice in writing (an offshore information notice) given to you, request you to do all or any of the following:
 (a) to give the Commissioner any information that the Commissioner reasonably believes is:
 (i) relevant to the *assessment of a *tax-related liability of yours; and
 (ii) *offshore information;
 (b) to produce to the Commissioner any documents that the Commissioner reasonably believes are:
 (i) relevant to the assessment of a tax -related liability of yours; and
 (ii) *offshore documents;
 (c) to make copies of any documents the Commissioner could request you to produce under paragraph  (b), and to produce those copies to the Commissioner.
 (2) An offshore information notice:
 (a) must specify a period, of at least 90 days after it is given to you, within which you are to give the information or produce the documents or copies; and
 (b) must set out the effect of section  353-30; and
 (c) may set out how the request is to be complied with; and
 (d) may be included in the same document as a notice under section  353-10.
A notice is not invalid merely because it does not comply with paragraph (b).
 (3) The Commissioner may, by notice in writing, extend the period within which you are to give the information or produce the documents or copies, if, before the end of that period, you apply for the extension in the *approved form.
 (4) If the Commissioner does not notify you, in writing, before the end of the period of the Commissioner&#39;s decision on an application you make under subsection  (3), then the period is extended until the day on which the Commissioner so notifies you.
 (5) An offshore information notice may be varied or revoked in accordance with subsection  33(3) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901, however a variation:
 (a) must not have the effect of shortening the period within which you must give particular *offshore information or produce particular *offshore documents or copies; and
 (b) must not have the effect that the period within which you must give particular offshore information, or produce particular offshore documents or copies, is less than 90 days.
 (6) Nothing in this section affects the operation of section  353-10 and nothing in that section affects the operation of this section.
 (7) Offshore information is any information that is one or more of the following:
 (a) within the knowledge (whether exclusive or otherwise) of an entity outside Australia;
 (b) recorded (whether exclusively or otherwise) in a document outside Australia;
 (c) stored (whether exclusively or otherwise) by any means whatsoever outside Australia.
 (8) An offshore document is any document that is outside Australia (whether or not copies are in Australia or, if the documents are copies of other documents, whether or not those other documents are in Australia).
Section 353-30 Offshore information notices--consequence of not complying
 (1) Section 8C does not apply to a request set out in an offshore information notice under section  353-25.
 (2) If you refuse or fail to comply with a request set out in an offshore information notice (including a request you are not able to comply with), the following are not admissible in evidence in proceedings under Part  IVC on a review or appeal relating to a *tax-related liability of yours, except with the consent of the Commissioner:
 (a) the *offshore information;
 (b) the contents of the *offshore documents or copies.
 (3) In deciding whether to consent, the Commissioner must:
 (a) have regard to whether, because of the absence of that information or those documents or copies, the remaining information or documents that are relevant to the proceedings are, or are likely to be, misleading; and
 (b) not have regard to the consequences (whether direct or indirect) of an obligation arising under a *foreign law relating to the secrecy of the information, documents or copies; and
 (c) consent if refusal would have the effect, for the purposes of the Constitution, of making any tax or penalty incontestable.
 (4) If, before the hearing of a proceeding under Part  IVC on a review or appeal relating to a *tax-related liability of yours, the Commissioner forms the views that:
 (a) you have refused or failed to comply with a request under section  353-25; and
 (b) the Commissioner is unlikely to give the consent mentioned in subsection  (3);
the Commissioner must, by notice in writing, inform you that the Commissioner has formed those views. However, a failure to do so does not affect the validity of the Commissioner&#39;s decision under subsection  (3).
Division 354--Power to obtain information about rights or interests in property
Section 354-5 Power to obtain information about rights or interests in property
 (1) The Commissioner may by notice in writing require you to give the Commissioner information required for the purpose of the administration or operation of a *taxation law if:
 (a) both of the following apply:
 (i) you have a legal or equitable interest in real or personal property;
 (ii) the information is about any other *property right or interest in the property; or
 (b) both of the following apply:
 (i) the Commissioner is satisfied that you may have information about a property right or interest in property;
 (ii) the information is about the property right or interest.
Note: Failing to comply with a requirement may be an offence under section 8C.
 (2) A property right or interest is:
 (a) a legal or equitable interest in the property; or
 (b) a right, power or privilege in connection with the property;
whether present or future and whether vested or contingent.
Content of notice
 (3) The notice must specify the following:
 (a) the property to which the notice applies;
 (b) the information required;
 (c) the period within which the information must be given;
 (d) the manner of giving the information.
 (4) The information required may include the following:
 (a) details of your interest in the property;
 (b) details (including name and address) of any person who has a *property right or interest in the property;
 (c) details of any class of person who has a property right or interest in the property;
 (d) details of each property right or interest in the property, including:
 (i) the nature and extent of the right or interest; and
 (ii) the circumstances giving rise to the right or interest.
 (5) If:
 (a) you are given a notice under paragraph  (1)(a); and
 (b) you do not have the information required but another person has the information;
you must make all reasonable efforts to obtain the information.
 (6) To avoid doubt, you may be required as a result of a notice under this section to create a document giving the information required.
 (7) The period specified in the notice must be:
 (a) at least 14 days after the notice is given (except if paragraph  (b) applies); or
 (b) if the Commissioner is satisfied that a shorter period is necessary--the shorter period.
Relationship with section 353-10
 (8) Nothing in this section affects the operation of section  353-10 and nothing in that section affects the operation of this section.
Division 355--Confidentiality of taxpayer information
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 355
Section 355-A Objects and application of Division
Section 355-B Disclosure of protected information by taxation officers
Section 355-C On-disclosure of protected information by other people
Section 355-D Disclosure of protected information that has been unlawfully acquired
Section 355-E Other matters
 Guide to Division 355
Section 355-1 What this Division is about
The disclosure of information about the tax affairs of a particular entity is prohibited, except in certain specified circumstances.Those exceptions are designed having regard to the principle that disclosure of information should be permitted only if the public benefit derived from the disclosure outweighs the entity&#39;s privacy.
Note: This Division contains the main circumstances in which protected tax information can be disclosed. A number of other Commonwealth laws also allow for the disclosure of, or access to, such information in limited circumstances. Some of these other laws are as follows:
      sections 32 and 33 of the Auditor-General Act 1997 ;      section 9 of the Ombudsman Act 1976;      section 44 of the Privacy Act 1988.
Subdivision 355-A--Objects and application of Division
Table of sections
Section 355-10 Objects of Division
Section 355-15 Application of Division
Section 355-10 Objects of Division
  The objects of this Division are:
 (a) to protect the confidentiality of taxpayers&#39; affairs by imposing strict obligations on *taxation officers (and others who acquire protected tax information), and so encourage taxpayers to provide correct information to the Commissioner; and
 (b) to facilitate efficient and effective government administration and law enforcement by allowing disclosures of protected tax information for specific, appropriate purposes.
Section 355-15 Application of Division
  This Division applies in relation to the following entities in the same way as it applies in relation to *taxation officers:
 (a) an entity engaged to provide services relating to the Australian Taxation Office;
 (b) an individual employed by, or otherwise performing services for, an entity referred to in paragraph  (a);
 (c) an individual:
 (i) appointed or employed by, or performing services for, the Commonwealth or an authority of the Commonwealth; and
 (ii) performing functions or exercising powers under or for the purposes of a *taxation law.
Subdivision 355-B--Disclosure of protected information by taxation officers
 Guide to Subdivision 355-B
Section 355-20 What this Subdivision is about
The main protection for taxpayer confidentiality is in this Subdivision. It is an offence for taxation officers to disclose tax information that identifies an entity, or is reasonably capable of being used to identify an entity, except in certain specified circumstances.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 355-25 Offence--disclosure of protected information by taxation officers
Section 355-30 Meaning of protected information and taxation officer
Section 355-35 Consent is not a defence
Section 355-40 Generality of Subdivision not limited
Section 355-45 Exception--disclosure of publicly available information
Section 355-47 Exception--disclosure of periodic aggregate tax information
Section 355-50 Exception--disclosure in performing duties
Section 355-55 Exception--disclosure to Ministers
Section 355-60 Limits on disclosure to Ministers
Section 355-65 Exception--disclosure for other government purposes
Section 355-66 Major disaster support programs
Section 355-67 Exception--disclosure to registrars
Section 355-70 Exception--disclosure for law enforcement and related purposes
Section 355-72 Exception--disclosure to credit reporting bureaus
Section 355-75 Limits on disclosure to courts and tribunals
 Operative provisions
Section 355-25 Offence--disclosure of protected information by taxation officers
 (1) An entity commits an offence if:
 (a) the entity is or was a *taxation officer; and
 (b) the entity:
 (i) makes a record of information; or
 (ii) discloses information to another entity (other than the entity to whom the information relates or an entity covered by subsection  (2) or (3)) or to a court or tribunal; and
 (c) the information is *protected information; and
 (d) the information was acquired by the first -mentioned entity as a taxation officer.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 2 years.
 (2) An entity (the covered entity) is covered by this subsection in relation to *protected information that relates to another entity (the primary entity) if:
 (a) the covered entity is the primary entity&#39;s *registered tax agent or BAS agent; or
 (b) the covered entity is a *legal practitioner representing the primary entity in relation to the primary entity&#39;s affairs relating to one or more *taxation laws; or
 (ba) the covered entity is a public officer (within the meaning of section  252 or 252A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) of the primary entity; or
 (c) the primary entity is an *incapacitated entity and the covered entity is a *representative of the incapacitated entity; or
 (d) the covered entity is the primary entity&#39;s *legal personal representative; or
 (e) the covered entity is the primary entity&#39;s guardian where the primary entity is a minor or suffers from mental incapacity; or
 (f) the covered entity and the primary entity are members of the same *consolidated group or *MEC group; or
 (g) the covered entity is a representative of the primary entity who has been nominated by the primary entity in the *approved form to act on that entity&#39;s behalf with respect to protected information; or
 (h) the covered entity is the registered tax agent or BAS agent of another covered entity mentioned in paragraph  (c), (d) or (e) in relation to the relevant primary entity mentioned in those paragraphs; or
 (i) the covered entity is a legal practitioner representing another covered entity mentioned in paragraph  (c), (d) or (e) in relation to the affairs of the relevant primary entity mentioned in those paragraphs relating to one or more taxation laws.
 (3) An entity (the covered entity) is covered by this subsection in relation to *protected information that relates to another entity (the primary entity) if:
 (a) all of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the primary entity is, or has been, a *Group Entity of an *Applicable MNE Group;
 (ii) the covered entity is, or has been, a Group Entity of an Applicable MNE Group;
 (iii) the protected information relates to the *Australian GloBE tax affairs of any entity that is, or has been, a Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group; or
 (b) all of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the primary entity is, or has been, a *GloBE Joint Venture of an Applicable MNE Group;
 (ii) the covered entity is, or has been, a *Globe JV Subsidiary of the GloBE Joint Venture;
 (iii) the protected information relates to the Australian GloBE tax affairs of any entity that is, or has been, a Globe JV Subsidiary of the GloBE Joint Venture; or
 (c) all of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the primary entity is, or has been, a GloBE JV Subsidiary of a GloBE Joint Venture of an Applicable MNE Group;
 (ii) the covered entity is, or has been, the GloBE Joint Venture, or another GloBE JV Subsidiary of the GloBE Joint Venture;
 (iii) the protected information relates to the Australian GloBE tax affairs of any entity that is, or has been, the GloBE Joint Venture or a GloBE JV Subsidiary of the GloBE Joint Venture; or
 (d) all of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the primary entity is, or has been, a GloBE Joint Venture of an Applicable MNE Group or a GloBE JV Subsidiary of a GloBE Joint Venture of an Applicable MNE Group;
 (ii) the covered entity is, or has been, a Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group;
 (iii) the protected information relates to the Australian GloBE tax affairs of any entity that is, or has been, the GloBE Joint Venture, a Globe JV Subsidiary of the GloBE Joint Venture or a Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group; or
 (e) the covered entity is the *registered tax agent or BAS agent of another covered entity mentioned in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) in relation to the relevant primary entity mentioned in those paragraphs; or
 (f) the covered entity is a *legal practitioner:
 (i) representing another covered entity mentioned in paragraph  (a), (b), (c) or (d) in relation to the affairs of the relevant primary entity mentioned in those paragraphs; and
 (ii) representing the other covered entity in relation to the other entity&#39;s Australian GloBE tax affairs.
Section 355-30 Meaning of protected information and taxation officer
 (1) Protected information means information that:
 (a) was disclosed or obtained under or for the purposes of a law that was a *taxation law (other than the Tax Agent Services Act 2009) when the information was disclosed or obtained; and
 (b) relates to the affairs of an entity; and
 (c) identifies, or is reasonably capable of being used to identify, the entity.
Note: Tax file numbers do not constitute protected information because they are not, by themselves, reasonably capable of being used to identify an entity. For offences relating to tax file numbers, see Subdivision BA of Division  2 of Part III.
 (2) Taxation officer means:
 (a) the Commissioner or a *Second Commissioner; or
 (b) an individual appointed or engaged under the Public Service Act 1999 and performing duties in the Australian Taxation Office.
Note: This Division applies to certain other entities as if they were taxation officers: see section  355-15.
Section 355-35 Consent is not a defence
  It is not a defence to a prosecution for an offence against section  355-25 that the entity to whom the information relates has consented to:
 (a) the making of the record; or
 (b) the disclosure of the information.
Section 355-40 Generality of Subdivision not limited
  Except as provided by section  355-60, nothing in this Subdivision limits the generality of anything else in it.
Note: This means that each provision in this Subdivision (other than section  355-60) has an independent operation and is not to be interpreted by reference to any other provision within the Subdivision.
Section 355-45 Exception--disclosure of publicly available information
  Section 355-25 does not apply if the information was already available to the public (otherwise than as a result of a contravention of section  355-25, 355-155 or 355-265).
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this section: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 355-47 Exception--disclosure of periodic aggregate tax information
 (1) Section 355-25 does not apply if the information is *periodic aggregate tax information.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (2) Periodic aggregate tax information is information that:
 (a) specifies the total amount collected or assessed by the Commissioner during a period, or predicted by the Commissioner to be collected or assessed by the Commissioner during a period, in respect of:
 (i) tax imposed under a particular Act or particular Acts; or
 (ii) if an Act imposes duties of excise--a type of duty of excise imposed under that Act; or
 (iii) if an Act imposes duties of customs--a type of duty of customs imposed under that Act; and
 (b) does not identify, nor is reasonably capable of being used to identify, an individual.
Section 355-50 Exception--disclosure in performing duties
 (1) Section 355-25 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is a *taxation officer; and
 (b) the record or disclosure is made in performing the entity&#39;s duties as a taxation officer.
Note 1: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: Examples of duties mentioned in paragraph (b) include:
        (a) the duty to make available information under sections 3C, 3E and 3H of this Act; and
        (b) the duty to establish and maintain the Excise and Excise-Equivalent Warehouse Licences Register under subsection  40(1) of the Excise Act 1901.
 (2) Without limiting subsection  (1), records or disclosures made in performing duties as a *taxation officer include those mentioned in the following table:
Records or disclosures in performing dutiesItemThe record is made for or the disclosure is to ...and the record or disclosure ...1any entity, court or tribunalis for the purpose of administering any *taxation law. 2any entity, court or tribunalis for the purpose of the making, or proposed or possible making, of an order under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 that is related to a *taxation law.3any entity, court or tribunalis for the purpose of criminal, civil or administrative proceedings (including merits review or judicial review) that are related to a *taxation law.4any entityis for the purpose of responding to a request for a statement of reasons under the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 in relation to a decision made under a *taxation law.5any entityis for the purpose of:(a) determining whether to make an ex gratia payment; or(b) administering such a payment;in connection with administering a *taxation law.6any entityis for the purpose of enabling the entity to understand or comply with its obligations under a *taxation law.7the Secretary of the Department(a) is of information that does not include the name, contact details or *ABN of any entity; and(b) is for the purpose of:(i) the design of a *taxation law; or(ii) the amendment of a taxation law. 8any board or member of a board performing a function or exercising a power under a Records or disclosures in performing dutiesItemThe record is made for or the disclosure is to ...and the record or disclosure ...1any entity, court or tribunalis for the purpose of administering any *taxation law. 2any entity, court or tribunalis for the purpose of the making, or proposed or possible making, of an order under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 that is related to a *taxation law.3any entity, court or tribunalis for the purpose of criminal, civil or administrative proceedings (including merits review or judicial review) that are related to a *taxation law.4any entityis for the purpose of responding to a request for a statement of reasons under the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 in relation to a decision made under a *taxation law.5any entityis for the purpose of:(a) determining whether to make an ex gratia payment; or(b) administering such a payment;in connection with administering a *taxation law.6any entityis for the purpose of enabling the entity to understand or comply with its obligations under a *taxation law.7the Secretary of the Department(a) is of information that does not include the name, contact details or *ABN of any entity; and(b) is for the purpose of:(i) the design of a *taxation law; or(ii) the amendment of a taxation law. 8any board or member of a board performing a function or exercising a power under a *taxation lawis for the purpose of performing that function or exercising that power.9a competent authority referred to in an international agreement (within the meaning of section 23 of the International Tax Agreements Act 1953 )is for the purpose of exchanging information under such an international agreement.10any employer (within the meaning of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992)is for the purpose of disclosing to that employer information included in a notice given to the Commissioner under subsection 32F(1) or 32H(1A) of that Act by an employee (within the meaning of that Act) of that employer.11a payer (within the meaning of Part VA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) in relation to whom an individual has made a *TFN declaration that is in effect(a) is of a matter that relates to the individual&#39;s income tax or other liability referred to in paragraph 11-1(b), (ca), (cb), (cc), (cd), (da) or (db); and(b) is for the purpose of assisting the individual to give a declaration under section 15-50 to the payer; and(c) is made as the result of a request made by the individual to the Commissioner
Section 355-55 Exception--disclosure to Ministers
 (1) Section 355-25 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is a *taxation officer; and
 (b) an item in the table in this subsection covers the making of the record or the disclosure; and
 (c) if the entity is not the Commissioner, a *Second Commissioner or an SES employee or acting SES employee of the Australian Taxation Office--one of the following has agreed that the record or disclosure is covered by the item:
 (i) the Commissioner;
 (ii) a Second Commissioner;
 (iii) an SES employee or acting SES employee of the Australian Taxation Office who is not a direct supervisor of the taxation officer.
Records or disclosures to MinistersItemThe record is made for or the disclosure is to ...and the record or disclosure ...1any Ministeris for the purpose of enabling the Minister to exercise a power or perform a function under a *taxation law.2the Minister(a) is about an entity; and(b) is for the purpose of enabling the Minister to respond directly to the entity in relation to a representation made by the entity to:(i) the Minister; or(ii) another member of a House of the Parliament.3the Ministeris for the purpose of informing decisions made under the scheme known as the Compensation for Detriment Caused by Defective Administration Scheme.4the *Finance Ministeris for the purpose of:(a) the waiver, or possible waiver, of a *tax debt under section 63 of the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 ; or(b) the making, or possible making, of a payment referred to in section 65 of that Act (about act of grace payments) in connection with administering a *taxation law.5any Ministeris for the purpose of:(a) determining whether to make an ex gratia payment; or(b) administering such a payment.6a Minister responsible for:(a) agriculture; or(aa) water; or(b) industry policy; or(c) investment promotion; or(d) taxation policy; or(e) foreign investment in Australia(a) is of information contained in the Register of Foreign Ownership of Agricultural Land or Register of Foreign Ownership of Water Entitlements; and(b) is for the purpose of enabling that Minister to discharge that responsibility.
Note 1: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: Section 19 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 provides that the expression &quot;the Minister&quot;, as used in table items 2 and 3, refers to the Minister or Ministers administering the relevant provision.
 (2) The *taxation officer is entitled to rely on the exception in subsection (1) even if the agreement referred to in paragraph (1)(c) has not been obtained in relation to the record or disclosure.
Section 355-60 Limits on disclosure to Ministers
 (1) Sections 355-45 and 355-55 are the only exceptions to the prohibition in section  355-25 on which an entity who has acquired *protected information as a *taxation officer can rely in making a record of the information for, or disclosing the information to, a Minister, whether or not provided to a Minister in the course of, or for the purposes of or incidental to, the transacting of the business of a House of the Parliament or of a committee of one or both Houses of the Parliament.
Note: Disclosures that are not prohibited by section  355-25 are not affected by this subsection. For example, a taxation officer may disclose information to a Minister if the Minister is the entity to whom the information relates, or is an entity covered by subsection  355-25(2) in relation to the information.
 (2) Subsection (1) has effect despite section  16 of the Parliamentary Privileges Act 1987, and that section does not operate to the extent that it would otherwise apply to a disclosure of *protected information by a *taxation officer to a Minister.
Note: This subsection does not limit the operation of section 16 of the Parliamentary Privileges Act 1987 in any other respect. That section continues to operate, for example, to enable taxation officers to disclose protected information to a committee of one or both Houses of the Parliament.
Section 355-65 Exception--disclosure for other government purposes
 (1) Section 355-25 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is a *taxation officer; and
 (b) an item in a table in this section covers the making of the record or the disclosure.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Table 1--Records or disclosures relating to social welfare, health or safety
 (2) Table 1 is as follows:
Table 1: Records or disclosures relating to social welfare, health or safetyItemThe record is made for or the disclosure is to ...and the record or disclosure ...1an Agency Head (within the meaning of the Public Service Act 1999) of an agency (within the meaning of that Act) dealing with matters relating to the social security law (within the meaning of subsection  23(17) of the Social Security Act 1991)is for the purpose of administering that law.2the *Health Secretaryis for the purpose of administering any law of the Australian Capital Territory or of the Northern Territory which is administered by the *Health Minister.3the Repatriation Commissionis for the purpose of administering any *Commonwealth law relating to pensions, allowances or benefits.4the *Student Assistance Secretaryis for the purpose of administering any *Commonwealth law relating to pensions, allowances or benefits.4Athe Secretary of the Department administered by the Minister administering the Fair Entitlements Guarantee Act 2012is for the purpose of administering the Fair Entitlements Guarantee Act 2012. 4Bthe *Employment Secretaryis for the purpose of administering any *Commonwealth law relating to pensions, allowances or benefits, other than the Fair Entitlements Guarantee Act 2012.5(a) the *Student Assistance Secretary; or(b) the Secretary of the Department administered by the Minister administering the Higher Education Support Act 2003; or(c) the Secretary of the Department administered by the Minister administering the VET Student Loans Act 2016is for the purpose of administering any *Commonwealth law relating to financial assistance to students.Table 1: Records or disclosures relating to social welfare, health or safetyItemThe record is made for or the disclosure is to ...and the record or disclosure ...1an Agency Head (within the meaning of the Public Service Act 1999) of an agency (within the meaning of that Act) dealing with matters relating to the social security law (within the meaning of subsection  23(17) of the Social Security Act 1991)is for the purpose of administering that law.2the *Health Secretaryis for the purpose of administering any law of the Australian Capital Territory or of the Northern Territory which is administered by the *Health Minister.3the Repatriation Commissionis for the purpose of administering any *Commonwealth law relating to pensions, allowances or benefits.4the *Student Assistance Secretaryis for the purpose of administering any *Commonwealth law relating to pensions, allowances or benefits.4Athe Secretary of the Department administered by the Minister administering the Fair Entitlements Guarantee Act 2012is for the purpose of administering the Fair Entitlements Guarantee Act 2012. 4Bthe *Employment Secretaryis for the purpose of administering any *Commonwealth law relating to pensions, allowances or benefits, other than the Fair Entitlements Guarantee Act 2012.5(a) the *Student Assistance Secretary; or(b) the Secretary of the Department administered by the Minister administering the Higher Education Support Act 2003; or(c) the Secretary of the Department administered by the Minister administering the VET Student Loans Act 2016is for the purpose of administering any *Commonwealth law relating to financial assistance to students.5AAthe Secretary of the Department administered by the Minister administering the Australian Apprenticeship Support Loans Act 2014is for the purpose of administering that Act.5Athe *Families Secretary or the Chief Executive Centrelink (within the meaning of the Human Services (Centrelink) Act 1997 )is for the purpose of administering the Paid Parental Leave Act 2010.6the *Families Secretary or the Chief Executive Centrelink (within the meaning of the Human Services (Centrelink) Act 1997 )is for the purpose of administering the A New Tax System (Family Assistance) (Administration) Act 1999.7the Child Support Registraris for the purpose of administering the Child Support (Registration and Collection) Act 1988 or the Child Support (Assessment) Act 1989 . 8the Chief Executive Medicare (within the meaning of the Human Services (Medicare) Act 1973)is for the purpose of administering Part 2-2 (about premiums reduction scheme) or 6-4 (about administration of that scheme) of the Private Health Insurance Act 2007.9an *Australian government agencyis necessary for the purpose of preventing or lessening:(a) a serious threat to an individual&#39;s life, health or safety; or(b) a serious threat to public health or public safety.10an *Australian government agencyis for the purpose of preventing, detecting, disrupting or investigating conduct that relates to a matter of security as defined by section 4 of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act 197911the Chief Executive Officer of Services Australiais for the purpose of administering the program known as the COVID-19 Disaster Payment.
Table 2--Records or disclosures relating to superannuation or finance
 (3) Table 2 is as follows:
Table 2: Records or disclosures relating to superannuation or financeItemThe record is made for or the disclosure is to ...and the record or disclosure ... 1a financial sector supervisory agency (within the meaning of section 3 of the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998)(a) is of information that was obtained under or in relation to the Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999; and(b) is for the purpose of the agency performing any of its functions or exercising any of its powers.2(a) an agency having the function, in Australia or in a foreign country, of supervising or regulating *financial institutions; or(b) any other agency (including a foreign agency) specified in the regulations(a) is of information that was obtained under or in relation to the Superannuation (Self Managed Superannuation Funds) Taxation Act 1987 or the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993; and(b) is for the purpose of performing any of its functions or exercising any of its powers; and(c) is made in accordance with the conditions (if any) imposed by the regulations in relation to the disclosure of information under this item.3the operator of the AFCA scheme (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001)(a) is of information that was obtained under or in relation to the Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999; and(b) is for the purpose of the operator performing any of its functions or exercising any of its powers.4the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA)is for the purpose of administering:(a) the Financial Institutions Supervisory Levies Collection Act 1998; or(b) the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993. 5APRA(a) is of information that was obtained under or in relation to the Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999; and(b) is for the purpose of APRA performing any of its functions or exercising any of its powers.6APRAis for the purpose of administering a reporting standard made under section 13 of the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001, to the extent that the standard relates to amounts reported to *APRA for the purposes of the Major Bank Levy Act 2017.Table 2: Records or disclosures relating to superannuation or financeItemThe record is made for or the disclosure is to ...and the record or disclosure ... 1a financial sector supervisory agency (within the meaning of section 3 of the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998)(a) is of information that was obtained under or in relation to the Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999; and(b) is for the purpose of the agency performing any of its functions or exercising any of its powers.2(a) an agency having the function, in Australia or in a foreign country, of supervising or regulating *financial institutions; or(b) any other agency (including a foreign agency) specified in the regulations(a) is of information that was obtained under or in relation to the Superannuation (Self Managed Superannuation Funds) Taxation Act 1987 or the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993; and(b) is for the purpose of performing any of its functions or exercising any of its powers; and(c) is made in accordance with the conditions (if any) imposed by the regulations in relation to the disclosure of information under this item.3the operator of the AFCA scheme (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001)(a) is of information that was obtained under or in relation to the Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999; and(b) is for the purpose of the operator performing any of its functions or exercising any of its powers.4the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA)is for the purpose of administering:(a) the Financial Institutions Supervisory Levies Collection Act 1998; or(b) the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993. 5APRA(a) is of information that was obtained under or in relation to the Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999; and(b) is for the purpose of APRA performing any of its functions or exercising any of its powers.6APRAis for the purpose of administering a reporting standard made under section 13 of the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001, to the extent that the standard relates to amounts reported to *APRA for the purposes of the Major Bank Levy Act 2017.6A*ASICis for the purpose of administering Part 16 of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993. 7an individual who is or was an employee (within the meaning of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992)(a) is of information that relates to the Commissioner&#39;s response to a complaint by the individual about a failure by the individual&#39;s employer or former employer to comply with the employer&#39;s obligations under the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992, or under a provision of this Act as it relates to that Act, in relation to the employee; and(b) does not relate to the general financial affairs of the employer.7Aan individual who is or was an employee (within the meaning of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992)(a) is of information that relates to:(i) a failure by the individual&#39;s employer or former employer to comply with the employer&#39;s obligations under the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992, or under a provision of this Act as it relates to that Act, in relation to the employee; or(ii) if the Commissioner reasonably suspects that such a failure has occurred--the suspected failure; or(iii) any actions taken by the Commissioner in relation to such a failure or suspected failure; and(b) does not relate to the general financial affairs of the employer.8any entity, court or tribunalis of information that was obtained under, or for the purposes of the Superannuation (Self Managed Superannuation Funds) Taxation Act 1987 or the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 and is for the purpose of all or any of the following:(a) identifying a particular *self managed superannuation fund;(b) enabling members of the public to contact persons who perform functions in relation to a particular self managed superannuation fund;  (c) enabling the Commissioner to provide an opinion to members of the public as to whether or not a particular self managed superannuation fund is a complying superannuation fund in relation to a particular income year for the purposes of Division  2 of Part 5 of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993;(d) describing activity engaged in, or proposed to be engaged in, by the Commissioner in relation to a breach or suspected breach by a person of a provision of the Superannuation (Self Managed Superannuation Funds) Taxation Act 1987 or the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993.8Aa Senior Registry official (within the meaning of section 90XZJ of the Family Law Act 1975) of a court in response to that official&#39;s request under that section(a) is of superannuation information (within the meaning of that section); and(b) is for the purpose of property settlement proceedings (within the meaning of that Act).8Bthe Principal Registrar of the Family Court of Western Australia in response to the Principal Registrar&#39;s request under section 90YZY of the Family Law Act 1975(a) is of superannuation information (within the meaning of that section); and(b) is for the purpose of all of the relevant proceedings (within the meaning of that section).6A*ASICis for the purpose of administering Part 16 of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993. 7an individual who is or was an employee (within the meaning of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992)(a) is of information that relates to the Commissioner&#39;s response to a complaint by the individual about a failure by the individual&#39;s employer or former employer to comply with the employer&#39;s obligations under the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992, or under a provision of this Act as it relates to that Act, in relation to the employee; and(b) does not relate to the general financial affairs of the employer.7Aan individual who is or was an employee (within the meaning of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992)(a) is of information that relates to:(i) a failure by the individual&#39;s employer or former employer to comply with the employer&#39;s obligations under the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992, or under a provision of this Act as it relates to that Act, in relation to the employee; or(ii) if the Commissioner reasonably suspects that such a failure has occurred--the suspected failure; or(iii) any actions taken by the Commissioner in relation to such a failure or suspected failure; and(b) does not relate to the general financial affairs of the employer.8any entity, court or tribunalis of information that was obtained under, or for the purposes of the Superannuation (Self Managed Superannuation Funds) Taxation Act 1987 or the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 and is for the purpose of all or any of the following:(a) identifying a particular *self managed superannuation fund;(b) enabling members of the public to contact persons who perform functions in relation to a particular self managed superannuation fund;  (c) enabling the Commissioner to provide an opinion to members of the public as to whether or not a particular self managed superannuation fund is a complying superannuation fund in relation to a particular income year for the purposes of Division  2 of Part 5 of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993;(d) describing activity engaged in, or proposed to be engaged in, by the Commissioner in relation to a breach or suspected breach by a person of a provision of the Superannuation (Self Managed Superannuation Funds) Taxation Act 1987 or the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993.8Aa Senior Registry official (within the meaning of section 90XZJ of the Family Law Act 1975) of a court in response to that official&#39;s request under that section(a) is of superannuation information (within the meaning of that section); and(b) is for the purpose of property settlement proceedings (within the meaning of that Act).8Bthe Principal Registrar of the Family Court of Western Australia in response to the Principal Registrar&#39;s request under section 90YZY of the Family Law Act 1975(a) is of superannuation information (within the meaning of that section); and(b) is for the purpose of all of the relevant proceedings (within the meaning of that section). 9an approved clearing house (within the meaning of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992)is for the purposes of that body performing its functions in relation to superannuation contributions.10(a) a *regulated superannuation fund; or(b) a public sector superannuation scheme (within the meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993); or(c) an *approved deposit fund; or(d) an *RSA provider; or(e) an entity that, as an agent of such a fund, scheme or RSA provider, provides administration services for:(i) beneficiaries (within the meaning of that Act) of the fund or scheme; or(ii) holders (within the meaning of the Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997) of *RSAs provided by the RSA provideris for the purpose of:(a) informing:(i) a beneficiary (within the meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993) of such a fund or scheme; or(ii) a holder (within the meaning of the Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997) of an *RSA provided by the *RSA provider; or(iii) an applicant to become such a beneficiary or holder; of one or more of his or her *superannuation interests (whether with that fund, scheme or RSA provider or another fund, scheme or RSA provider); or(b) assisting such a beneficiary, holder or applicant to choose whether to maintain or create such a superannuation interest; or(c) assisting such a beneficiary, holder or applicant to give effect to such a choice; or  (d) informing such a beneficiary, holder or applicant of an amount that is or may become payable, or that may be paid, credited or otherwise dealt with, in relation to the beneficiary, holder or applicant under:(i) the Small Superannuation Accounts Act 1995; or(ii) the Superannuation (Government Co-contribution for Low Income Earners) Act 2003; or(iii) the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992; or(iv) the Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999; or(e) assisting such a beneficiary, holder or applicant to give effect to a choice that he or she may make, or undertake an action that he or she may undertake, in relation to an amount mentioned in paragraph  (d).10Aa *superannuation provideris for the purpose of complying with section 131-80 in this Schedule.11a *superannuation provider or APRAis for the purpose of complying with subsection 292-102(9) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.12An employer (within the meaning of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992) of an individualis for the purpose of:(a) informing the individual of one or more of his or her *superannuation interests; or(b) assisting the individual to choose whether to maintain or create a superannuation interest; or(c) assisting the individual to give effect to such a choice 9an approved clearing house (within the meaning of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992)is for the purposes of that body performing its functions in relation to superannuation contributions.10(a) a *regulated superannuation fund; or(b) a public sector superannuation scheme (within the meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993); or(c) an *approved deposit fund; or(d) an *RSA provider; or(e) an entity that, as an agent of such a fund, scheme or RSA provider, provides administration services for:(i) beneficiaries (within the meaning of that Act) of the fund or scheme; or(ii) holders (within the meaning of the Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997) of *RSAs provided by the RSA provideris for the purpose of:(a) informing:(i) a beneficiary (within the meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993) of such a fund or scheme; or(ii) a holder (within the meaning of the Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997) of an *RSA provided by the *RSA provider; or(iii) an applicant to become such a beneficiary or holder; of one or more of his or her *superannuation interests (whether with that fund, scheme or RSA provider or another fund, scheme or RSA provider); or(b) assisting such a beneficiary, holder or applicant to choose whether to maintain or create such a superannuation interest; or(c) assisting such a beneficiary, holder or applicant to give effect to such a choice; or  (d) informing such a beneficiary, holder or applicant of an amount that is or may become payable, or that may be paid, credited or otherwise dealt with, in relation to the beneficiary, holder or applicant under:(i) the Small Superannuation Accounts Act 1995; or(ii) the Superannuation (Government Co-contribution for Low Income Earners) Act 2003; or(iii) the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992; or(iv) the Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999; or(e) assisting such a beneficiary, holder or applicant to give effect to a choice that he or she may make, or undertake an action that he or she may undertake, in relation to an amount mentioned in paragraph  (d).10Aa *superannuation provideris for the purpose of complying with section 131-80 in this Schedule.11a *superannuation provider or APRAis for the purpose of complying with subsection 292-102(9) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.12An employer (within the meaning of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992) of an individualis for the purpose of:(a) informing the individual of one or more of his or her *superannuation interests; or(b) assisting the individual to choose whether to maintain or create a superannuation interest; or(c) assisting the individual to give effect to such a choice
Table 3--Records or disclosures relating to corporate regulation, business, research or policy
 (4) Table 3 is as follows:
Table 3: Records or disclosures relating to corporate regulation, business, research or policyItemThe record is made for or the disclosure is to ...and the record or disclosure ... 1*ASICis for the purpose of performing any functions or exercising any powers under any Act or instrument, or part of any Act or instrument, of which the Commission has the general administration.6Industry Innovation and Science Australia established under section 6 of the Industry Research and Development Act 1986is for the purpose of administering any *Commonwealth law relating to venture capital.6Athe Secretary of the Department administered by the Minister administering the Shipping Reform (Tax Incentives) Act 2012is for the purpose of administering that Act.7the Secretary of the Departmentis for the purpose of administering the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975.7Aa person appointed by the Commonwealth for the purposes of the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975is for the purpose of advising the Treasurer in relation to the administration of that Act.8the Secretary of the Department(a) is of information that does not include the name, contact details or *ABN of any entity; and(b) is for the purpose of the Department estimating or analysing taxation revenue or estimating the cost of policy proposals. 9the Parliamentary Budget Officer (within the meaning of the Parliamentary Service Act 1999)(a) is of information that does not include the name, contact details or *ABN of any entity; and(b) is for the purpose of the Parliamentary Budget Officer performing any of his or her functions, or exercising any of his or her powers, under Part 7 of the Parliamentary Service Act 1999.
Table 4--Records or disclosures relating to other taxation matters
 (5) Table 4 is as follows:
Table 4: Records or disclosures relating to other taxation mattersItemThe record is made for or the disclosure is to ...and the record or disclosure ...1a State taxation officer, or a Territory taxation officer, within the meaning of subsection 13D(1) of this Actis for the purpose of administering a *State law or *Territory law relating to taxation, if a State taxation officer or a Territory taxation officer is authorised by law to communicate information obtained under the State law or Territory law to the Commissioner.2a State taxation officer, or a Territory taxation officer, within the meaning of subsection 13D(1) of this Act(a) is of rental information, residential address information or spousal information; and(b) is for the purpose of administering the First Home Owner Grant (New Homes) Act 2000 (NSW), or a similar *State law or *Territory law.4an individual who holds an office of a State or Territory, being an office prescribed for the purpose of this table item(a) is of information that relates to alcoholic beverages; and(b) is for the purpose of the individual administering an *arrangement for the rebate, refund or other payment or credit by a State or Territory in respect of alcoholic beverages.5the Inspector-General of Taxationis for the purpose of investigating or reporting under, or otherwise administering:(a) the Inspector-General of Taxation Act 2003; or(b) provisions of the Ombudsman Act 1976, to the extent that they are applied by the Inspector-General of Taxation Act 2003.6the National Anti-Corruption Commissioner (within the meaning of the National Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2022)(a) is for the purposes of the National Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2022; and(b) is in relation to a corruption issue that relates to the Australian Taxation Office or the Inspector-General of Taxation.
Table 5--Records or disclosures relating to rehabilitation or compensation
 (6) Table 5 is as follows:
Table 5: Records or disclosures relating to rehabilitation or compensationItemThe record is made for or the disclosure is to ...and the record or disclosure ...1an authority of the Commonwealth established under a *Commonwealth law relating to rehabilitation or compensationis for the purpose of performing any of its functions or exercising any of its powers under that law.2the *Defence Secretaryis for the purpose of administering any *Commonwealth law relating to payments in respect of dependants of members of the Defence Force.3an authority of a State or Territory that administers a *workers&#39; compensation law(a) is of information that relates to amounts withheld under Part 2-5 in Schedule 1 to this Act (about PAYG withholding); and(b) is for the purpose of ensuring that employers comply with their obligations relating to insurance or the imposition of a levy under that law.
Table 6--Records or disclosures relating to the environment
 (7) Table 6 is as follows:
Table 6: Records or disclosures relating to the environmentItemThe record is made for or the disclosure is to...and the record or disclosure...2the *Environment Secretaryis for the purpose of administering product stewardship (oil) benefits.
Table 7--Records or disclosures relating to miscellaneous matters
 (8) Table 7 is as follows:
Table 7: Records or disclosures relating to miscellaneous mattersItemThe record is made for or the disclosure is to ...and the record or disclosure ...1the Australian Statisticianis for the purpose of administering the Census and Statistics Act 1905.2the Comptroller-General of Customs (within the meaning of the Customs Act 1901)is for the purpose of administering any Act to the extent to which the Comptroller-General of Customs has the general administration of the Act or any instrument under such an Act. 2Athe Electoral Commissioner (within the meaning of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918)(a) is of information disclosed to, or obtained by, the Commissioner of Taxation on or after the commencement of this table item; and(b) is for the purpose of administering the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 or the Referendum (Machinery Provisions) Act 1984 .3the *Immigration Secretary or the Australian Border Force Commissioner (within the meaning of the Australian Border Force Act 2015 )is for the purpose of performing any functions or exercising any powers under any Act or instrument, or part of any Act or instrument, administered by the Minister administering the *Immigration Department.4the Regulator (within the meaning of the Payment Times Reporting Act 2020)(a) is of information relating to whether an entity is a reporting entity (within the meaning of the Payment Times Reporting Act 2020); and(b) is for the purpose of enabling the Regulator to administer that Act.5the Fair Work Ombudsman (within the meaning of the Fair Work Act 2009)(a) is of the fact of an entity&#39;s actual or reasonably suspected non-compliance with a *taxation law; and(b) is for the purpose of ensuring the entity&#39;s compliance with the Fair Work Act 2009.5AB(a) the Fair Work Commission (within the meaning of the Fair Work Act 2009); or(b) the Fair Work Ombudsman (within the meaning of that Act)(a) is of information that relates to the jobkeeper scheme (within the meaning of the Coronavirus Economic Response Package (Payments and Benefits) Rules 2020); and(b) is for the purpose of administering the Fair Work Act 2009. 5Athe Commissioner of the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commissionis for the purpose of administering the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission Act 2012.6(a) the Commissioner of the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission; or(b) the Attorney-General of a State or Territory(a) is of information that relates to non-compliance of:(i) an *ancillary or community charity trust fund; or(ii) a *community charity corporation; or(iii) a charity (other than a charity already covered by subparagraph (i) or (ii)); with an *Australian law; and(b) is for the purpose of the administration of an Australian law governing trusts and charities.6Athe Secretary of the Department administered by the Minister administering the Petroleum and Other Fuels Reporting Act 2017is for the purpose of administering the Petroleum and Other Fuels Reporting Act 2017 or the Fuel Security Act 2021 .7the Secretary of a Department administered by a Minister responsible for:(a) agriculture; or(aa) water; or(b) industry policy; or(c) investment promotion; or(d) taxation policy; or(e) foreign investment in Australia(a) is of information contained in the Register of Foreign Ownership of Agricultural Land or Register of Foreign Ownership of Water Entitlements; and(b) is for the purpose of enabling that Department to assist that Minister to discharge that responsibility. 8a *foreign government agency of a foreign country or part of a foreign country, or an entity acting on behalf of such an agency(a) is of information relating to the address, contact information or income of a person who has an obligation to repay a student loan issued by or on behalf of:(i) that agency; or(ii) another *foreign government agency of that country, or that part of that country; and(b) is for the purposes of contacting the person, and recovering from the person outstanding amounts relating to the loan.9an *Australian government agency that administers an *Australian law referred to in paragraph  980-10(1)(a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997is for the purpose of administering that *Australian law in relation to whether an entity should be, or should continue to be, covered by that Australian law in the way described in that paragraph. Coronavirus Economic Response Package (Payments and Benefits) Rules 2020); and(b) is for the purpose of administering the Fair Work Act 2009. 5Athe Commissioner of the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commissionis for the purpose of administering the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission Act 2012.6(a) the Commissioner of the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission; or(b) the Attorney-General of a State or Territory(a) is of information that relates to non-compliance of:(i) an *ancillary or community charity trust fund; or(ii) a *community charity corporation; or(iii) a charity (other than a charity already covered by subparagraph (i) or (ii)); with an *Australian law; and(b) is for the purpose of the administration of an Australian law governing trusts and charities.6Athe Secretary of the Department administered by the Minister administering the Petroleum and Other Fuels Reporting Act 2017is for the purpose of administering the Petroleum and Other Fuels Reporting Act 2017 or the Fuel Security Act 2021 .7the Secretary of a Department administered by a Minister responsible for:(a) agriculture; or(aa) water; or(b) industry policy; or(c) investment promotion; or(d) taxation policy; or(e) foreign investment in Australia(a) is of information contained in the Register of Foreign Ownership of Agricultural Land or Register of Foreign Ownership of Water Entitlements; and(b) is for the purpose of enabling that Department to assist that Minister to discharge that responsibility. 8a *foreign government agency of a foreign country or part of a foreign country, or an entity acting on behalf of such an agency(a) is of information relating to the address, contact information or income of a person who has an obligation to repay a student loan issued by or on behalf of:(i) that agency; or(ii) another *foreign government agency of that country, or that part of that country; and(b) is for the purposes of contacting the person, and recovering from the person outstanding amounts relating to the loan.9an *Australian government agency that administers an *Australian law referred to in paragraph  980-10(1)(a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997is for the purpose of administering that *Australian law in relation to whether an entity should be, or should continue to be, covered by that Australian law in the way described in that paragraph.10an *Australian government agency that registers entities as described in paragraph 980-10(1)(b) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997is for the purpose of determining whether an entity should be, or should continue to be, registered as described in that paragraph.10Aan *Australian government agency(a) is of information that relates to the jobkeeper scheme (within the meaning of the Coronavirus Economic Response Package (Payments and Benefits) Rules 2020); and(b) is for the purpose of administering an *Australian law; and(c) is for a purpose relating to the coronavirus known as COVID-19.12an *Australian government agencyis for the purpose of administering a program declared under subsection (10) to be a relevant COVID-19 business support program.13an *Australian government agencyis for the purpose of administering a program declared under section 355-66 to be a major disaster support program.14the Secretary of the Department(a) is of information that concerns:(i) a breach of an obligation of confidence by an entity (the first entity) against the Commonwealth or a Commonwealth entity (within the meaning of the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013); or(ii) if the taxation officer reasonably suspects that such a breach has occurred--the suspected breach; where the obligation arose in connection with the first entity providing advice, or otherwise providing services, to a Commonwealth entity either:(iii) as an entity engaged by the Commonwealth entity for that purpose; or(iv) as an entity representing a taxpayer; and(b) is for the purpose of enabling or assisting in the consideration, development or implementation of any measure, or the taking of any action, directed at dealing with the breach or suspected breach; and(c) does not include:(i) the *ABN; or(ii) the name; or(iii) contact details; or(iv) personal information (within the meaning of the Privacy Act 1988); of any entity other than the first entity, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that the inclusion of the information is necessary for the purpose mentioned in paragraph  (b); and(d) if the taxation officer is not the Commissioner, a *Second Commissioner or an SES employee or acting SES employee of the Australian Taxation Office--is authorised by:(i) the Commissioner; or(ii) a Second Commissioner; or(iii) an SES employee or acting SES employee of the Australian Taxation Office who is not a direct supervisor of the taxation officer.15a professional disciplinary body that is prescribed for the purposes of this table item (a prescribed disciplinary body)(a) is of information that concerns an entity (the first entity) and an act or omission (or a suspected act or omission) of the first entity that the taxation officer reasonably suspects may constitute a breach by the first entity of the prescribed disciplinary body&#39;s code of conduct or professional standards, however described; and(b) is for the purpose of enabling or assisting the prescribed disciplinary body to perform one or more of its functions in respect of the first entity; and(c) does not include:(i) the *ABN; or(ii) the name; or(iii) contact details; or(iv) personal information (within the meaning of the Privacy Act 1988); of any entity other than the first entity, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that the inclusion of the information is necessary for the purpose mentioned in paragraph  (b); and(d) if the taxation officer is not the Commissioner, a *Second Commissioner or an SES employee or acting SES employee of the Australian Taxation Office--is authorised by:(i) the Commissioner; or(ii) a Second Commissioner; or(iii) an SES employee or acting SES employee of the Australian Taxation Office who is not a direct supervisor of the taxation officer.
 (9) To avoid doubt, the exceptions in table items  7 and 7A in table 2 in subsection (3) have effect even if it is, or has been, in dispute or uncertain whether the individual is an employee or former employee of the employer.
 (10) For the purposes of item  12 of Table 7 in subsection (8), the Minister may, by legislative instrument, declare a program administered by an *Australian government agency to be a relevant COVID-19 business support program if the Minister is satisfied that the program is, in effect:
 (a) responding to economic impacts of the coronavirus known as COVID -19; and
 (b) directed at supporting *businesses the operations of which have been significantly disrupted as a result of a public health directive.
Section 355-66 Major disaster support programs
 (1) For the purposes of item  13 of Table 7 in subsection 355-65(8), the Minister may, by legislative instrument, declare a program administered by an *Australian government agency to be a major disaster support program if the Minister is satisfied that the program is, in effect:
 (a) responding to the impacts of an event to which subsection  (2) of this section applies; and
 (b) directed at supporting:
 (i) individuals whom the event has significantly impacted; or
 (ii) *businesses the operations of which the event has significantly disrupted.
 (2) This subsection applies to an event if:
 (a) the event developed rapidly and resulted in:
  (i) the death, serious injury or other physical suffering of a large number of individuals; or
 (ii) widespread damage to property or the natural environment; or
 (b) the event is an emergency to which a national emergency declaration (within the meaning of the National Emergency Declaration Act 2020) relates (including a national emergency declaration that is no longer in force).
Period of effect
 (3) A declaration made under subsection  (1) must specify the period for which the declaration is in force. The period must end no later than 2 years after the day the declaration is registered on the Federal Register of Legislation.
Section 355-67 Exception--disclosure to registrars
 (1) Section 355-25 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is a *taxation officer; and
 (b) the Commissioner is appointed as a registrar specified in subsection  (2); and
 (c) no other person or body is appointed as that registrar; and
 (d) the record or the disclosure is made for the purposes of the performance of that registrar&#39;s functions, or the exercise of that registrar&#39;s powers.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (2) The following registrars are specified:
 (a) the *Registrar;
 (b) the Registrar (within the meaning of the Business Names Registration Act 2011);
 (c) the Registrar (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001);
 (d) the Registrar (within the meaning of the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975);
 (e) the Registrar (within the meaning of the National Consumer Credit Protection Act 2009).
Section 355-70 Exception--disclosure for law enforcement and related purposes
 (1) Section 355-25 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is the Commissioner or a *taxation officer authorised by the Commissioner to make the record or disclosure; and
 (b) an item in the table in this subsection covers the making of the record or the disclosure; and
 (c) if the entity is not the Commissioner, a *Second Commissioner or an SES employee or acting SES employee of the Australian Taxation Office--one of the following has agreed that the record or disclosure is covered by the item:
 (i) the Commissioner;
 (ii) a Second Commissioner;
 (iii) an SES employee or acting SES employee of the Australian Taxation Office who is not a direct supervisor of the taxation officer.
Note 1: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: The Commissioner is required to include in an annual report information about disclosures made under this subsection: see section  3B.
Records or disclosures for law enforcement and related purposesItemThe record is made for or the disclosure is to ...and the record or disclosure ...1an *authorised law enforcement agency officer, or a court or tribunalis for the purpose of:(a) investigating a *serious offence; or(b) enforcing a law, the contravention of which is a serious offence; or(c) the making, or proposed or possible making, of a *proceeds of crime order; or(d) supporting or enforcing a proceeds of crime order.2an *authorised ASIO officeris for the purpose of performing ASIO&#39;s functions under subsection 17(1) of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act 1979 .3a *Project Wickenby officer, or a court or tribunal(a) is for or in connection with a *purpose of the Project Wickenby taskforce; and(b) is made before 1 July 2015, or a later prescribed day.4a *taskforce officer of a prescribed taskforce, or a court or tribunal(a) is for or in connection with a purpose of the prescribed taskforce; and(b) is made within the time limit, if any, prescribed by the regulations.5a Royal Commission in respect of which Letters Patent issued by the Governor-General declare that the Royal Commission is a Royal Commission to which this table item applies, or a member of such a Royal Commissionis for the purpose of the Royal Commission conducting its inquiry.6one or more of the following bodies:(a) a Royal Commission of a State or a Territory prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this table item;(b) a commission of inquiry of a State or a Territory prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this table item;(c) a board of inquiry of a State or a Territory prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this table itemis for the purpose of:(a) investigating a *serious offence; or(b) enforcing a law, the contravention of which is a serious offence; or(c) the making, or proposed or possible making, of a *proceeds of crime order; or(d) supporting or enforcing a proceeds of crime order.
 (2A) The *taxation officer is entitled to rely on the exception in subsection (1) even if the agreement referred to in paragraph (1)(c) has not been obtained in relation to the record or disclosure.
Meaning of various terms
 (2) Authorised ASIO officer means:
 (a) the Director-General of Security holding office under the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act 1979; or
 (b) an ASIO employee (within the meaning of that Act) or an ASIO affiliate (within the meaning of that Act) who has been authorised in writing by the Director -General of Security to perform the functions of an authorised ASIO officer under this Act.
 (3) Authorised law enforcement agency officer means:
 (a) the head of a *law enforcement agency; or
 (b) an officer of a law enforcement agency, or a person engaged by, or otherwise performing services for, a law enforcement agency, authorised in writing by the head of the agency to perform the functions of an authorised law enforcement agency officer under this Act.
 (4) Law enforcement agency means:
 (a) the Australian Federal Police; or
 (b) the police force of a State or Territory; or
 (c) the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions established by section  5 of the Director of Public Prosecutions Act 1983; or
 (d) the National Anti -Corruption Commission; or
 (e) the Australian Crime Commission; or
 (f) the Independent Commission Against Corruption established by the Independent Commission Against Corruption Act 1988 of New South Wales; or
 (g) the New South Wales Crime Commission; or
 (h) the Law Enforcement Conduct Commission of New South Wales; or
 (i) the Independent Broad -based Anti-corruption Commission of Victoria; or
 (j) the Crime and Corruption Commission of Queensland; or
 (k) the Corruption and Crime Commission of Western Australia; or
 (ka) the Independent Commissioner Against Corruption of South Australia; or
 (l) *ASIC.
 (5) Proceeds of crime order means:
 (a) an order, relating to an entity&#39;s commission of a *serious offence, under:
 (i) Chapter 2 (about confiscation of property in relation to certain offences) or Division  1 of Part 3-1 (about examination orders) of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 ; or
 (ii) Part II (about confiscation) or III (about control of property liable to confiscation) of the Proceeds of Crime Act 1987; or
 (iii) a *State law or *Territory law corresponding to a law referred to in subparagraph (i) or (ii); or
 (iv) Division 3 of Part  XIII (about recovery of pecuniary penalties for dealings in narcotic goods) of the Customs Act 1901; or
 (b) an unexplained wealth order (within the meaning of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002); or
 (c) a court order (including a declaration or direction):
 (i) under a State law or Territory law; and
 (ii) relating to unexplained wealth.
 (6) An entity is a Project Wickenby officer if the entity:
 (a) holds an office in, is employed in, or is performing services for:
 (i) a *Project Wickenby taskforce agency; or
 (ii) a *Project Wickenby taskforce supporting agency; and
 (b) performs duties that relate to a *purpose of the Project Wickenby taskforce.
 (7) The following agencies are Project Wickenby taskforce agencies:
 (a) the Australian Taxation Office;
 (b) the Australian Crime Commission;
 (c) the Australian Federal Police;
 (d) *ASIC;
 (e) the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions;
 (f) a prescribed agency.
 (8) The following agencies are Project Wickenby taskforce supporting agencies:
 (a) the Department administered by the Minister administering the Crimes Act 1914;
 (b) the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre;
 (c) the Australian Government Solicitor;
 (d) a prescribed agency.
 (9) The purposes of the Project Wickenby taskforce are to:
 (a) detect; and
 (b) deter; and
 (c) investigate; and
 (d) enforce the law relating to;
the promotion of or participation in *arrangements of an international character, or purported international character, that relate to one or more of the following:
 (e) tax avoidance or evasion;
 (f) breaches of laws regulating financial markets and corporations;
 (g) criminal activity in the nature of fraud or obtaining benefits by deception (including deceiving investors or creditors);
 (h) money laundering;
 (i) concealing income or assets.
 (10) Serious offence means an offence against an *Australian law that is punishable by imprisonment for a period exceeding 12 months.
 (11) An entity is a taskforce officer of a prescribed taskforce if:
 (a) the entity holds an office in, is employed in, or is performing services for, an agency in the prescribed taskforce; and
 (b) the entity&#39;s duties relate to a purpose of the prescribed taskforce.
 (12) The regulations may prescribe a taskforce for the purposes of item  4 of the table in subsection (1). A major purpose of the taskforce must be protecting the public finances of Australia.
 (13) Without limiting subsection  (12), regulations made for the purposes of item 4 of the table in subsection (1) may deal with the following matters:
 (a) the purposes of the taskforce;
 (b) the agencies in the taskforce.
Section 355-72 Exception--disclosure to credit reporting bureaus
Exception--entities in declared class of entities
 (1) Section 355-25 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is a *taxation officer; and
 (b) the record is made for, or the disclosure is to, a *credit reporting bureau; and
 (c) the record or disclosure is of information that relates to the *tax debts of an entity (the primary entity) that is included in a class of entities declared under subsection  (5) of this section; and
 (d) the record or disclosure is for the purpose of enabling the credit reporting bureau to prepare, issue, update, correct or confirm credit worthiness reports in relation to the primary entity; and
 (e) in the case of a disclosure of information other than for the purposes of updating, correcting or confirming information previously disclosed under this exception--both:
 (i) the Inspector-General of Taxation has been consulted on the disclosure; and
 (ii) 28 days have passed after a notice under subsection  (2) of this section was given to the primary entity for the disclosure.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Notice of disclosure
 (2) The Commissioner must notify a primary entity if:
 (a) information that relates to the primary entity is to be disclosed to a *credit reporting bureau under this section; and
 (b) the information is not information that updates, corrects or confirms the information previously disclosed under the exception in subsection  (1).
 (3) The notice must:
 (a) be in writing; and
 (b) explain the type of information that is to be disclosed to the *credit reporting bureau; and
 (ba) explain:
 (i) why the primary entity is included in a class of entities declared under subsection  (5); and
 (ii) the steps (if any) the primary entity may take to no longer be included in that class before the disclosure occurs; and
 (c) set out the amount of any *tax debts payable by the primary entity at the time the notice is given by the Commissioner; and
 (d) explain how the primary entity may make a complaint in relation to the proposed disclosure of the entity&#39;s information; and
 (e) be served on the primary entity.
Exception--entities no longer in declared class of entities
 (4) Section 355-25 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is a *taxation officer; and
 (b) the record is made for, or the disclosure is to, a *credit reporting bureau; and
 (c) the record or disclosure is of information that relates to the *tax debts of an entity that:
 (i) has had information previously disclosed under the exception in subsection  (1) of this section; and
 (ii) is no longer an entity that is included in a class of entities declared under subsection  (5) of this section; and
 (d) the record or disclosure is of information that relates to why the entity to which the information relates is no longer included in a class of entities declared under subsection  (5) of this section; and
 (e) the record or disclosure is for the purpose of enabling the credit reporting bureau to update or correct credit worthiness reports in relation to the entity to which the information relates.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Class of entities
 (5) The Minister may, by legislative instrument, declare one or more classes of entities for the purposes of this section.
 (5A) Before making an instrument under subsection  (5), the Minister must:
 (a) consult the Inspector -General of Taxation; and
 (b) consider any submissions made by the Inspector -General of Taxation because of that consultation.
 (6) Before making an instrument under subsection  (5), the Minister must:
 (a) consult the Information Commissioner in relation to matters that relate to the privacy functions (within the meaning of the Australian Information Commissioner Act 2010) and would be affected by the proposed instrument; and
 (b) consider any submissions made by the Information Commissioner because of that consultation.
Credit reporting bureau
 (7) An entity is a credit reporting bureau if the entity is recognised by the Commissioner as an entity that prepares and issues credit worthiness reports in relation to other entities.
 (8) The Commissioner must keep and publish a list of credit reporting bureaus on the Australian Taxation Office website.
 (9) The list of credit reporting bureaus is not a legislative instrument.
Section 355-75 Limits on disclosure to courts and tribunals
  An entity who is or was a *taxation officer is not to be required to disclose to a court or tribunal *protected information that was acquired by the entity as a taxation officer except where it is necessary to do so for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of:
 (a) a *taxation law; or
 (b) the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 , if the entity acquired the information because of a request under subsection 138(4) of that Act.
Note: See also section 8ZK of this Act (about protection of witnesses).
Subdivision 355-C--On-disclosure of protected information by other people
 Guide to Subdivision 355-C
Section 355-150 What this Subdivision is about
Someone who is not a taxation officer is prohibited from disclosing protected information, except in certain specified circumstances.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 355-155 Offence--on-disclosure of protected information by other people
Section 355-160 Consent is not a defence
Section 355-165 Generality of Subdivision not limited
Section 355-170 Exception--on-disclosure of publicly available information
Section 355-172 Exception--disclosure of periodic aggregate tax information
Section 355-175 Exception--on-disclosure for original purpose
Section 355-180 Exception--on-disclosure to Ministers in relation to statutory powers or functions
Section 355-181 Exception--on-disclosure to Ministers in relation to breach of confidence and related matters
Section 355-182 Exception--on-disclosure of certain information to Commonwealth Ombudsman
Section 355-185 Exception--on-disclosure to IGIS officials
Section 355-190 Exception--on-disclosure in relation to ASIO
Section 355-192 Exception--on-disclosure in relation to National Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2022
Section 355-195 Exception--on-disclosure by Royal Commissions
Section 355-200 Exception--records made in compliance with Australian laws
Section 355-205 Limits on on-disclosure to courts or tribunals
Section 355-210 Limits on on-disclosure to Ministers
Section 355-215 Exception--on-disclosure of information disclosed to credit reporting bureaus
 Operative provisions
Section 355-155 Offence--on-disclosure of protected information by other people
  An entity commits an offence if:
 (a) the entity:
 (i) makes a record of information; or
 (ii) discloses information to another entity (other than the entity to whom the information relates or that entity&#39;s agent in relation to the information) or to a court or tribunal; and
 (b) the information was acquired by the first -mentioned entity under an exception in this Subdivision or in Subdivision 355-B (except subsection 355-65(1) operating in relation to item  7 in the table in subsection 355-65(4)); and
 (c) the first-mentioned entity did not acquire the information as a *taxation officer.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 2 years.
Note: This section also covers information acquired by an entity (other than as a taxation officer) before the commencement of this section under certain repealed or amended provisions: see item  124 of Schedule 2 to the Tax Laws Amendment (Confidentiality of Taxpayer Information) Act 2010 .
Section 355-160 Consent is not a defence
  It is not a defence to a prosecution for an offence against section  355-155 that the entity to whom the information relates has consented to:
 (a) the making of the record; or
 (b) the disclosure of the information.
Section 355-165 Generality of Subdivision not limited
  Except as provided in section  355-210 (about limits on disclosure to Ministers), nothing in this Subdivision limits the generality of anything else in it.
Note: This means that each provision in this Subdivision (other than section  355-210) has an independent operation and is not to be interpreted by reference to any other provision within the Subdivision.
Section 355-170 Exception--on-disclosure of publicly available information
  Section 355-155 does not apply if the information was already available to the public (otherwise than as a result of a contravention of section  355-25, 355-155 or 355-265).
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this section: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 355-172 Exception--disclosure of periodic aggregate tax information
  Section 355-155 does not apply if the information is *periodic aggregate tax information.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this section: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 355-175 Exception--on-disclosure for original purpose
 (1) Section 355-155 does not apply if:
 (a) the information was originally disclosed under an exception in Subdivision  355-B for a purpose specified in that exception (the original purpose); and
 (b) the information was acquired by the entity under this section or an exception in Subdivision  355-B; and
 (c) the record or disclosure is made by the entity for the original purpose, or in connection with the original purpose.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Instances of disclosures in connection with the original purpose
 (2) Without limiting subsection  (1), a record or disclosure is made by the entity in connection with the original purpose if:
 (a) the record is made for, or the disclosure is to, any entity, court or tribunal; and
 (b) the record or disclosure is for the purpose of criminal, civil or administrative proceedings (including merits review or judicial review) that are related to the original purpose.
Multiple purposes
 (3) Subsection (1) has effect as if a record or disclosure made by the entity for a purpose specified in column 3 of the following table were made in connection with the original purpose:
Records or disclosures for purpose connected with the original purposeItemOriginal purposePurpose connected with the original purpose1a *purpose of the Project Wickenby taskforceanother purpose of that taskforce.2a purpose of a prescribed taskforceanother purpose of that taskforce.3one of the purposes specified in column 3 of item 1 of the table in subsection 355-70(1)the other of those purposes.4one of the purposes specified in column 3 of item 6 of the table in subsection 355-70(1)one of the other purposes specified in column 3 of item 6 of that table.
Section 355-180 Exception--on-disclosure to Ministers in relation to statutory powers or functions
  Section 355-155 does not apply if:
 (a) the information was originally disclosed under an exception in Subdivision 355-B for a purpose specified in that exception (the original purpose); and
 (b) the record is made for, or the disclosure is to, a Minister who has a statutory power or function in relation to the original purpose; and
 (c) the record or disclosure is for the purpose of enabling the Minister to:
 (i) decide whether to exercise the power or perform the function; or
 (ii) exercise the power or perform the function.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this section: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 355-181 Exception--on-disclosure to Ministers in relation to breach of confidence and related matters
  Section 355-155 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is the Secretary of the Department or an SES employee of the Department authorised by the Secretary for the purposes of this section (the first entity); and
 (b) the information was obtained by the first entity under the exception in subsection 355-65(1) operating in relation to item 14 in the table in subsection 355-65(8); and
 (c) the record is made for, or the disclosu re is to, the Minister or the *Finance Minister; and
 (d) the record or disclosure is for the purpose of providing advice to the Minister or the Finance Minister in relation to:
 (i) a breach, or a suspected breach, of an obligation of confidence by another entity (the second entity) against the Commonwealth or a Commonwealth entity (within the meaning of the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 ); or
 (ii) any proposed measure or action directed at dealing with such a breach or suspected breach.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this section: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 355-182 Exception--on-disclosure of certain information to Commonwealth Ombudsman
 (1) Section 355-155 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is an officer of an *Australian government agency; and
 (b) the information was acquired by the entity under the exception in subsection  355-65(1) operating in relation to item 10 in the table in subsection 355-65(2); and
 (c) the record is made for, or the disclosure is to:
 (i) the Commonwealth Ombudsman or a Deputy Commonwealth Ombudsman; or
 (ii) a member of staff referred to in subsection  31(1) of the Ombudsman Act 1976; and
 (d) the record or disclosure is for the purpose of the performance of a function or duty of the Commonwealth Ombudsman, the Deputy Commonwealth Ombudsman or the member of staff, under the Ombudsman Act 1976.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (2) Section 355-155 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is:
 (i) the Commonwealth Ombudsman or a Deputy Commonwealth Ombudsman; or
 (ii) a member of staff referred to in subsection  31(1) of the Ombudsman Act 1976; and
 (b) the information was acquired by the entity under subsection  (1) or this subsection; and
 (c) the record or disclosure is for the purpose of the performance of a function or duty of the Commonwealth Ombudsman, the Deputy Commonwealth Ombudsman or the member of staff, under the Ombudsman Act 1976.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 355-185 Exception--on-disclosure to IGIS officials
 (1) Section 355-155 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is an officer of an *Australian government agency; and
 (b) the record is made for, or the disclosure is to, an *IGIS official; and
 (c) the record or disclosure is for the purposes of the IGIS official performing functions or duties, or exercising powers, as an IGIS official.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (2) Section 355-155 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is an *IGIS official; and
 (b) the information was acquired by the entity under subsection  (1) or this subsection; and
 (c) the record or disclosure is for the purposes of the IGIS official performing functions or duties, or exercising powers, as an IGIS official.
Section 355-190 Exception--on-disclosure in relation to ASIO
 (1) Section 355-155 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is an *authorised ASIO officer; and
 (b) the record is made for, or the disclosure is to, an officer of a *law enforcement agency; and
 (c) the record or disclosure is for the purpose of, or in connection with:
 (i) investigating a *serious offence; or
 (ii) enforcing a law, the contravention of which is a serious offence; or
 (iii) the making, or proposed or possible making, of a *proceeds of crime order.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (2) Section 355-155 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is an officer of a *law enforcement agency; and
 (b) the information was acquired by the entity under subsection  (1) or this paragraph; and
 (c) the record or disclosure is for the purpose of, or in connection with:
 (i) investigating a *serious offence; or
 (ii) enforcing a law, the contravention of which is a serious offence; or
 (iii) the making, or proposed or possible making, of a *proceeds of crime order.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 355-192 Exception--on-disclosure in relation to National Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2022
 (1) Section 355-155 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is the Inspector -General of Taxation; and
 (b) the information was acquired by the Inspector -General of Taxation under the exception in subsection 355-65(1) operating in relation to item 5 in the table in subsection  355-65(5); and
 (c) the record is made for, or the disclosure is to:
 (i) the National Anti -Corruption Commissioner (within the meaning of the National Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2022 ); or
 (ii) another staff member of the NACC (within the meaning of that Act); and
 (d) the record or disclosure is:
 (i) for the purposes of the National Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2022; and
 (ii) in relation to a corruption issue (within the meaning of that Act) that relates to the Australian Taxation Office or the Inspector -General of Taxation.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (2) Section 355-155 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is:
 (i) the National Anti -Corruption Commissioner (within the meaning of the National Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2022 ); or
 (ii) another staff member of the NACC (within the meaning of that Act); and
 (b) the information was acquired by the entity under subsection  (1) or this subsection; and
 (c) the record or disclosure is for the purpose of performing a function or duty of the National Anti -Corruption Commissioner or another staff member of the NACC under the National Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2022.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 355-195 Exception--on-disclosure by Royal Commissions
 (1) Section 355-155 does not apply if:
 (a) the entity is a member of a Royal Commission to which column 2 of item  5 of the table in subsection 355-70(1) relates; and
 (b) the information was acquired by the entity under item  5 of the table in subsection 355-70(1); and
 (c) the record or disclosure is in accordance with section  6P of the Royal Commissions Act 1902.
Note 1: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: Section 6P of the Royal Commissions Act 1902 sets out the circumstances in which a Royal Commission covered by that Act may disclose information it acquires in the course of its inquiry.
 (2) Section 355-155 does not apply to particular information if the information was disclosed under subsection  (1).
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this subsection: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 355-200 Exception--records made in compliance with Australian laws
  Section 355-155 does not apply if the record is made in compliance with a requirement of an *Australian law.
Example: The Australian Taxation Office obtains information about an entity from a credit reporting body by giving a notice under paragraph  353-10(1)(c). The body is not committing an offence under section 355-155 by making a written note of the disclosure as required by subsection  20E(5) of the Privacy Act 1988.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this section: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 355-205 Limits on on-disclosure to courts or tribunals
  An entity is not to be required to disclose to a court or tribunal *protected information that was acquired by the entity under Subdivision 355-B or this Subdivision, except where it is necessary to do so for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of:
 (a) a *taxation law; or
 (b) if the entity has or had duties, functions or powers under the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975--that Act.
Note: See also section 8ZK of this Act (about protection of witnesses).
Section 355-210 Limits on on-disclosure to Ministers
 (1) Sections 355-170, 355-180, 355-181 and 355-195 are the only exceptions to the prohibition in section  355-155 on which an entity who has acquired *protected information (otherwise than as a *taxation officer) can rely in making a record of the information for, or disclosing the information to, a Minister, whether or not provided to a Minister in the course of, or for the purposes of or incidental to, the transacting of the business of a House of the Parliament or of a committee of one or both Houses of the Parliament.
Note: Disclosures that are not prohibited by section 355-155 are not affected by this subsection. For example, an entity may disclose information to a Minister if the Minister is the entity to whom the information relates, or is another entity&#39;s agent in relation to the information.
 (2) Subsection (1) has effect despite section  16 of the Parliamentary Privileges Act 1987, and that section does not operate to the extent that it would otherwise apply to a disclosure of *protected information by the entity to a Minister.
Note: This subsection does not limit the operation of section 16 of the Parliamentary Privileges Act 1987 in any other respect. That section continues to operate, for example, to enable an entity to disclose protected information to a committee of one or both Houses of the Parliament.
Section 355-215 Exception--on-disclosure of information disclosed to credit reporting bureaus
  Section 355-155 does not apply if:
 (a) the information was originally disclosed under the exception in subsection  355-72(1) or (4); and
 (b) the information was acquired by the entity under that exception or the exception in section  355-175; and
 (c) when making the record, or disclosing the information, the entity is not:
 (i) a *credit reporting bureau; or
 (ii) an entity appointed or employed by, or otherwise performing services for, a credit reporting bureau.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this section: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Subdivision 355-D--Disclosure of protected information that has been unlawfully acquired
 Guide to Subdivision 355-D
Section 355-260 What this Subdivision is about
The disclosure of protected tax information that has been unlawfully acquired is prohibited.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 355-265 Offence--disclosure of protected information acquired in breach of a taxation law
Section 355-270 Exception--disclosure of publicly available information
Section 355-275 Exception--disclosure in relation to a taxation law
Section 355-280 Limits on disclosure to courts and tribunals
 Operative provisions
Section 355-265 Offence--disclosure of protected information acquired in breach of a taxation law
  An entity commits an offence if:
 (a) the entity:
 (i) makes a record of information; or
 (ii) discloses information to another entity (other than the entity to whom the information relates or that entity&#39;s agent in relation to the information) or to a court or tribunal; and
 (b) the information is *protected information; and
 (c) the information was acquired by the entity in breach of a provision of a *taxation law (including this provision); and
 (d) the information was not acquired by the entity as a *taxation officer.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 2 years.
Section 355-270 Exception--disclosure of publicly available information
  Section 355-265 does not apply if the information was already available to the public (otherwise than as a result of a contravention of that section, or section  355-25 or 355-155).
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this section: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 355-275 Exception--disclosure in relation to a taxation law
  Section 355-265 does not apply:
 (a) to the extent that the entity&#39;s actions are required or permitted by a *taxation law or reasonably necessary in order to comply with an obligation imposed by a taxation law; or
 (b) if the record was made for or the information was disclosed:
 (i) to a *taxation officer; and
 (ii) for a purpose connected with administering a *taxation law.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in this section: see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
Section 355-280 Limits on disclosure to courts and tribunals
  An entity is not to be required to disclose to a court or tribunal *protected information that was acquired by the entity under this Subdivision, except where it is necessary to do so for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of a *taxation law.
Note: See also section 8ZK of this Act (about protection of witnesses).
Subdivision 355-E--Other matters
 Guide to Subdivision 355-E
Section 355-320 What this Subdivision is about
The Commissioner may require a taxation officer to make an oath of affirmation to protect information.The Federal Court has power to grant an injunction restraining an entity from engaging in conduct that would constitute an offence against this Division.The Commissioner must issue instructions relating to the disclosure of protected tax information.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 355-325 Oath or affirmation to protect information
Section 355-330 Injunctions to prevent contravention of non-disclosure provisions
Section 355-335 Procedures for disclosing protected information
 Operative provisions
Section 355-325 Oath or affirmation to protect information
 (1) A *taxation officer must, if and when required by the Commissioner to do so, make an oath or affirmation to protect information in accordance with this Division.
 (2) The Commissioner may determine, in writing:
 (a) the form of the oath or affirmation; and
 (b) the manner in which the oath or affirmation must be made.
Section 355-330 Injunctions to prevent contravention of non -disclosure provisions
Injunctions
 (1) If an entity has engaged, is engaging or is proposing to engage in any conduct that constituted, constitutes or would constitute an offence against this Division, the Federal Court of Australia may, on the application of the Commissioner, grant an injunction:
 (a) restraining the entity from engaging in the conduct; and
 (b) if in the court&#39;s opinion it is desirable to do so--requiring the entity to do any act or thing.
Interim injunctions
 (2) If an application is made to the court for an injunction under subsection  (1), the court may, before considering the application, grant an interim injunction restraining an entity from engaging in conduct of the kind referred to in that subsection pending the determination of the application.
Discharge or variation of injunctions
 (3) The court may discharge or vary an injunction granted under this section.
Exercise of power to grant injunctions
 (4) If an application is made to the court for the grant of an injunction restraining an entity from engaging in conduct of a particular kind, the power of the court to grant the injunction may be exercised:
 (a) if the court is satisfied that the entity has engaged in conduct of that kind--whether or not it appears to the court that the entity intends to engage again, or to continue to engage, in conduct of that kind; or
 (b) if it appears to the court that, in the event that an injunction is not granted, it is likely that the entity will engage in conduct of that kind--whether or not the entity has previously engaged in conduct of that kind and whether or not there is an imminent danger of substantial damage to any other entity if the entity engages in conduct of that kind.
 (5) The power of the court to grant an injunction requiring an entity to do a particular act or thing may be exercised:
 (a) if the court is satisfied that the entity has refused or failed to do that act or thing--whether or not it appears to the court that the entity intends to refuse or fail again, or to continue to refuse or fail, to do that act or thing; or
 (b) if it appears to the court that, in the event that an injunction is not granted, it is likely that the entity will refuse or fail to do that act or thing--whether or not the entity has previously refused or failed to do that act or thing and whether or not there is an imminent danger of substantial damage to any other entity if the entity refuses or fails to do that act or thing.
No undertakings as to damages
 (6) If the Commissioner makes an application to the court for the grant of an injunction under this section, the court must not require the Commissioner or any other entity, as a condition of the granting of an interim injunction, to give any undertakings as to damages.
Other powers of the court unaffected
 (7) The powers conferred on the court under this section are in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other powers of the court, whether conferred by this Act or otherwise.
Section 355-335 Procedures for disclosing protected information
 (1) The Commissioner must issue instructions in relation to the procedures to be followed by *taxation officers in disclosing *protected information under the exceptions in sections  355-55 (about disclosures to Ministers), 355-65 (about disclosures for other government purposes) and 355-70 (about disclosures for law enforcement and related purposes).
 (2) The instructions must:
 (a) be issued within 6 months after the commencement of this section; and
 (b) be in writing; and
 (c) provide for the matters mentioned in subsection  (3); and
 (d) be published on the Australian Taxation Office website.
 (3) The matters are:
 (a) the processes to be followed before *protected information can be disclosed by a *taxation officer under the exceptions in sections  355-55, 355-65 and 355-70; and
 (b) the processes involved in obtaining and giving the agreement mentioned in paragraphs 355 -55(1)(c) and 355-70(1)(c); and
 (c) other matters the Commissioner considers appropriate.
 (4) Without limiting subsection  33(3) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901, the Commissioner may vary or revoke the instructions.
 (5) A failure to comply with the time limit in paragraph  (2)(a) does not:
 (a) prevent the Commissioner from issuing the instructions after this time; or
 (b) affect the validity of the instructions when issued.
 (6) A failure to comply with the instructions does not, of itself, mean that a *taxation officer is not entitled to rely on the exceptions in sections 355-55, 355 -65 and 355-70.
 (7) The instructions are not a legislative instrument.
Division 356--General administration of tax laws
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 356
Section 356-A Indirect tax laws
Section 356-B Major bank levy
Section 356-C Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy
Section 356-D Australian IIR/UTPR tax and Australian DMT tax
 Guide to Division 356
Section 356-1 What this Division is about
This Division gives the Commissioner the general administration of the indirect tax laws and the Major Bank Levy Act 2017 .
Subdivision 356-A--Indirect tax laws
Table of sections
Section 356-5 Commissioner has general administration of indirect tax laws
  The Commissioner has the general administration of each *indirect tax law.
Subdivision 356-B--Major bank levy
Table of sections
Section 356-10 Commissioner has general administration of major bank levy
  The Commissioner has the general administration of the Major Bank Levy Act 2017.
Subdivision 356-C--Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy
Table of sections
Section 356-15 Commissioner has general administration of Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy
  The Commissioner has the general administration of the Offshore Petroleum (Laminaria and Corallina Decommissioning Cost Recovery Levy) Act 2022.
Subdivision 356-D--Australian IIR/UTPR tax and Australian DMT tax
Table of sections
 356-20 Commissioner has general administration of Minimum Tax Act
Section 356-20 Commissioner has general administration of Minimum Tax Act
  The Commissioner has the general administration of the *Minimum Tax Act.
Part 5-5--Rulings
Division 357--Object and common rules
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 357
Section 357-A Object of this Part
Section 357-B Common rules for rulings
 Guide to Division 357
Section 357-1 What this Division is about
This Division sets out the object of this Part, and common rules that apply to public, private and oral rulings. (For the rules specific to each of those kinds of ruling, see Divisions  358, 359, 360 and 362.)A ruling is an expression of the Commissioner&#39;s opinion of the way in which a relevant provision applies, or would apply, to you.A ruling binds the Commissioner if it applies to you and you act in accordance with it. If you do act in accordance with it and the law turns out to be less favourable to you than the ruling provides, you are protected by the ruling from any adverse consequences.The Division also sets out some other general rules for rulings.Note: In limited circumstances, Industry Innovation and Science Australia can make rulings.
Subdivision 357-A--Object of this Part
Table of sections
Section 357-5 Object of this Part
 (1) The object of this Part  is to provide a way for you to find out the Commissioner&#39;s view about how certain laws administered by the Commissioner apply to you so that the risks to you of uncertainty when you are self assessing or working out your tax obligations or entitlements are reduced.
 (2) This object is achieved by:
 (a) making advice in the form of rulings by the Commissioner available on a wide range of matters and to many taxpayers; and
 (b) ensuring that the Commissioner provides rulings in a timely manner; and
 (c) enabling the Commissioner to obtain, and make rulings based on, relevant information; and
 (d) protecting you from increases in tax and from penalties and interest where you rely on rulings; and
 (e) protecting you from decreases in entitlements where you rely on rulings; and
 (f) limiting the ways the Commissioner can alter rulings to your detriment; and
 (g) giving you protection from interest charges where you rely on other advice from the Commissioner, or on the Commissioner&#39;s general administrative practice.
 (3) A further object of this Part  is to provide a way for you to find out *Industry Innovation and Science Australia&#39;s view about whether activities are not ineligible activities for the purposes of applying capital gains tax provisions to venture capital investments.
Note: For rulings by Industry Innovation and Science Australia: see Division 362.
Subdivision 357-B--Common rules for rulings
Table of sections
Rules for all rulings
Section 357-50 Scope of Division
Section 357-55 The provisions that are relevant for rulings
Section 357-60 When rulings are binding on the Commissioner
Section 357-65 Stopping relying on a ruling
Section 357-70 Commissioner may apply the law if more favourable than the ruling
Section 357-75 Inconsistent rulings
Section 357-80 Contracts for schemes
Section 357-85 Effect on ruling if relevant provision re-enacted
Section 357-90 Validity of ruling not affected by formal defect
Common rules for public and private rulings
Section 357-95 Electronic communications
Common rules for private and oral rulings
Section 357-105 Further information must be sought
Section 357-110 Assumptions in making private or oral ruling
Section 357-115 Additional information provided by applicant
Section 357-120 Commissioner may take into account information from third parties
Section 357-125 Applications and objections not to affect obligations and powers
 Rules for all rulings
Section 357-50 Scope of Division
  This Division applies to *public rulings, *private rulings and *oral rulings.
Note: Section 362-70 modifies how this Subdivision applies to rulings by Industry Innovation and Science Australia.
Section 357-55 The provisions that are relevant for rulings
  Provisions of Acts and regulations of which the Commissioner has the general administration are relevant for rulings if the provisions are about any of the following:
 (a) *tax;
 (b) *Medicare levy;
 (c) fringe benefits tax;
 (d) *franking tax;
 (e) *withholding tax;
 (f) *mining withholding tax;
 (fa) *petroleum resource rent tax;
 (fb) *indirect tax;
 (fc) *excise duty;
 (fd) levy under the Major Bank Levy Act 2017;
 (fe) *Laminaria and Corallina decommissioning levy;
 (ff) *build to rent development misuse tax;
 (fg) *Australian IIR/UTPR tax;
 (fh) *Australian DMT tax;
 (g) the administration or collection of those taxes, levies and duties;
 (h) a grant or benefit mentioned in section  8 of the Product Grants and Benefits Administration Act 2000, or the administration or payment of such a grant or benefit;
 (i) a *net fuel amount, or the administration of a net fuel amount;
 (ia) an *assessed net fuel amount, or the collection or payment of an assessed net fuel amount;
 (j) a *net amount, or the administration of a net amount;
 (ja) an *assessed net amount, or the collection or payment of an assessed net amount;
 (k) a *wine tax credit, or the administration or payment of a wine tax credit.
Section 357-60 When rulings are binding on the Commissioner
 (1) Subject to subsection  (5), a ruling binds the Commissioner in relation to you (whether or not you are aware of the ruling) if:
 (a) the ruling applies to you; and
 (b) you rely on the ruling by acting (or omitting to act) in accordance with the ruling.
Example 1: A public ruling is expressed to apply to a class of entities in relation to a particular scheme. Tim is a member of that class of entities and he is one of a number of taxpayers who enter into that scheme. The ruling applies to Tim.
 Tim relies on the ruling by lodging an income tax return that is in accordance with the ruling.
 Under the ruling, Tim&#39;s deductions in relation to the scheme are worked out to be a particular amount. Because Tim has relied on the ruling, the Commissioner must use that amount in making Tim&#39;s assessment (unless Tim stops relying on the ruling or the law is more favourable to him: see sections  357-65 and 357 -70).
Example 2: Cecelia applies for, and obtains, a private ruling that, when she makes a payment in specified circumstances, she would not have to withhold an amount under a relevant provision. Cecelia makes the payment in the circumstances specified in the ruling, so the ruling applies to her.
 Cecelia relies on the ruling by not withholding an amount from the payment. The Commissioner must not apply the provision in relation to Cecelia in a way that is inconsistent with the ruling (unless Cecelia stops relying on the ruling or the law is more favourable to her: see sections  357-65 and 357-70).
Example 3: Cathie obtains a private ruling that a type of supply she makes is GST-free. She relies on the ruling by:
        (a) giving her customers invoices that show no GST payable on the supplies; and
        (b) lodging her GST return on the basis that the supplies are GST -free.
 The Commissioner must administer the GST law in relation to Cathie on the basis that the supplies to which the ruling relates are GST -free. This does not apply if Cathie stops relying on the ruling, such as by issuing tax invoices that show GST payable on the supplies: see paragraph (1)(b).
Note 1: A ruling about the amount of tax payable that binds the Commissioner provides protection in relation to that amount. There is no shortfall interest charge or tax shortfall penalty payable in respect of that amount as there can be no shortfall in tax payable.
Note 2: A ruling about the operation of a provision would stop applying to you if the provision is repealed, or is amended to have a different effect. However, if the provision is re -enacted and expresses the same ideas as the old provision, the ruling would still apply: see section 357-85.
 (2) You may rely on the ruling at any time unless prevented from doing so by a time limit imposed by a *taxation law. It is not necessary to do so at the first opportunity.
GST rulings
 (3) The *GST payable on a *supply or importation is the amount worked out in accordance with a ruling (if any) that:
 (a) relates to the GST payable on the supply or importation; and
 (b) binds the Commissioner in relation to the supplier or importer.
Note: The ruling will stop affecting the GST payable if the supplier or importer stops relying on the ruling: see paragraph  (1)(b).
 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply for the purposes of an objection to the ruling under section  359-60.
Indirect tax rulings
 (5) An *indirect tax or excise ruling (except to the extent that the ruling relates to an *excise law) binds the Commissioner in relation to:
 (a) an entity (the representative entity) that is:
 (i) the *representative member of a *GST group; or
 (ii) the *joint venture operator of a *GST joint venture; or
 (iii) the *representative of an *incapacitated entity; and
 (b) an entity (the member entity) that is:
 (i) a *member of the GST group; or
 (ii) a *participant in the GST joint venture; or
 (iii) the incapacitated entity;
if, and only if, both the representative entity and the member entity rely on the ruling by acting (or omitting to act) in accordance with the ruling.
 (6) Subsection (5) applies if:
 (a) the ruling applies to the member entity; and
 (b) the ruling relates to what would be:
 (i) a liability of the member entity to *indirect tax; or
 (ii) an entitlement of the member entity to a credit (other than a *fuel tax credit) under an *indirect tax law; or
 (iii) an *increasing adjustment, a *decreasing adjustment, or a luxury car tax adjustment (within the meaning of the *Luxury Car Tax Act), that the member entity has;
  if the rules in the indirect tax law relating to *GST groups, *GST joint ventures or *incapacitated entities did not apply; and
 (c) because of those rules:
 (i) if that indirect tax were payable, it would be payable by the representative entity; or
 (ii) if there was an entitlement to that credit, it would be an entitlement of the representative entity; or
 (iii) if any entity had that adjustment, it would be an adjustment that the representative entity had.
Section 357-65 Stopping relying on a ruling
 (1) You can stop relying on a ruling. You do this by acting (or omitting to act) in a way that is not in accordance with the ruling.
Note: There is no penalty for a shortfall resulting from failing to follow a ruling. However, there are penalties for shortfalls resulting from failing to take reasonable care, and from taking a position about a large income tax item that is not reasonably arguable: see Division  284.
 (2) You may stop relying on a ruling at any time unless prevented from doing so by a time limit imposed by a *taxation law.
 (3) Having stopped relying on a ruling, you may rely on the ruling again unless prevented from doing so by a time limit imposed by a *taxation law.
Section 357-70 Commissioner may apply the law if more favourable than the ruling
 (1) The Commissioner may apply a relevant provision to you in the way it would apply if you had not relied on a ruling if:
 (a) doing so would produce a more favourable result for you; and
 (b) the Commissioner is not prevented from doing so by a time limit imposed by a *taxation law.
 (2) The Commissioner does not have a duty to consider whether to apply subsection  (1) to you, whether he or she is requested to do so by you or by any other entity.
Section 357-75 Inconsistent rulings
 (1) The rules in this table have effect if:
 (a) a ruling and a later ruling both apply to you; and
 (b) the 2 rulings are inconsistent.
However, the rules in the table only apply to the extent of the inconsistency, and do not apply to *indirect tax or excise rulings.
Inconsistent rulings (other than indirect tax or excise rulings)ItemIf the earlier ruling is:And the later inconsistent ruling is:The result is:1A *public rulingAny rulingYou may rely on either ruling.2A *private ruling or an *oral rulingA private ruling or an oral rulingIf you informed the Commissioner about the existence of the earlier ruling when you applied for the later ruling, the earlier ruling is taken not to have been made.Otherwise, the later ruling is taken not to have been made.3A *private ruling or an *oral rulingA *public rulingThe earlier ruling is taken not to have been made if, when the later ruling is made:(a) the income year or other period to which the rulings relate has not begun; and(b) the *scheme to which the rulings relate has not begun to be carried out.Otherwise, you may rely on either ruling.
 (1A) If:
 (a) 2 inconsistent *indirect tax or excise rulings apply to you; and
 (b) the rulings are both *public rulings;
then, to the extent of the inconsistency, you may rely on either of the rulings.
 (1B) If:
 (a) 2 inconsistent *indirect tax or excise rulings apply to you; and
 (b) at least one of the rulings is not a *public ruling;
then, to the extent of the inconsistency:
 (c) the later ruling is taken to apply from the later of:
 (i) the time it is made; and
 (ii) the time (if any) specified in the ruling as being the time from which it begins to apply; and
 (d) the earlier ruling is taken to cease to apply at that later time.
 (2) If 3 or more rulings apply to you and the rulings are inconsistent, apply the rules in this section to each combination of 2 rulings in the order in which they were made.
Section 357-80 Contracts for schemes
  For the purposes of this Part, if a contract requiring a *scheme has been entered into, the scheme is taken to have begun to be carried out.
Section 357-85 Effect on ruling if relevant provision re -enacted
  If:
 (a) the Commissioner makes a ruling about a relevant provision (the old provision); and
 (b) that provision is re -enacted or remade (with or without modifications, and whether or not the old provision is repealed);
the ruling is taken also to be a ruling about that provision as re-enacted or remade (the new provision), but only so far as the new provision expresses the same ideas as the old provision.
Note 1: Section 357-55 specifies the relevant provisions.
Note 2: Ideas in taxation provisions are not necessarily different just because different forms of words are used: see section  15AC of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 and section 1-3 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Section 357-90 Validity of ruling not affected by formal defect
  The validity of a ruling is not affected merely because a provision of this Part relating to the form of the ruling or the procedure for making it has not been complied with.
 Common rules for public and private rulings
Section 357-95 Electronic communications
  A communication between the Commissioner and another entity made for the purposes of a *public ruling or *private ruling may be made electronically.
 Common rules for private and oral rulings
Section 357-105 Further information must be sought
 (1) If the Commissioner considers that further information is required to make a *private ruling or an *oral ruling, the Commissioner must request the applicant to give that information to him or her.
Note: The Commissioner should make a private ruling within 60 days. However, if the Commissioner requests further information under this section, that period is extended: see subsection  359-50(2).
 (2) The Commissioner may decline to make the ruling if the applicant does not give the information to the Commissioner within a reasonable time.
Note: The Commissioner must give the applicant written reasons for declining to make a private ruling: see section  359-35.
Section 357-110 Assumptions in making private or oral ruling
 (1) If the Commissioner considers that the correctness of a *private ruling or an *oral ruling would depend on which assumptions were made about a future event or other matter, the Commissioner may:
 (a) decline to make the ruling; or
 (b) make such of the assumptions as the Commissioner considers to be most appropriate.
 (2) Before making the ruling, the Commissioner must:
 (a) tell the applicant which assumptions (if any) the Commissioner proposes to make; and
 (b) give the applicant a reasonable opportunity to respond.
Note: The Commissioner should make a private ruling within 60 days. However, if the Commissioner tells the applicant about assumptions the Commissioner proposes to make under this section, that period is extended: see subsection  359-50(2).
Section 357-115 Additional information provided by applicant
  In considering an application for a *private ruling or an *oral ruling, the Commissioner may take into account additional information provided by the applicant after the application was made (whether in response to a request under section  357-105 or otherwise).
Section 357-120 Commissioner may take into account information from third parties
  In making a *private ruling or an *oral ruling, the Commissioner may take into account any relevant information provided by an entity other than the applicant (whenever it was provided) if the Commissioner:
 (a) tells the applicant what that information is and that the Commissioner intends to take the information into account; and
 (b) gives the applicant a reasonable opportunity to respond before making the ruling.
Note: The Commissioner should make a private ruling within 60 days. However, if the Commissioner tells the applicant about third party information under this section, that period is extended: see subsection  359-50(2).
Section 357-125 Applications and objections not to affect obligations and powers
  The fact that you have applied for a *private ruling or an *oral ruling, or have made an objection against a private ruling, does not affect:
 (a) your obligation to lodge a return or do anything else; or
 (b) the Commissioner&#39;s power to make or amend an assessment or do anything else.
Division 358--Public rulings
 Guide to Division 358
Section 358-1 What this Division is about
A public ruling is an expression of the Commissioner&#39;s opinion of the way in which a relevant provision applies, or would apply, to entities generally or a class of entities.The Commissioner must publish the ruling.A public ruling may be withdrawn.
Note: Division 357 has some rules that relate to rulings generally.
Table of sections
Making public rulings
Section 358-5 What is a public ruling?
Section 358-10 Application of public rulings
Section 358-15 When a public ruling ceases to apply
Withdrawing public rulings
Section 358-20 Withdrawing public rulings
 Making public rulings
Section 358-5 What is a public ruling?
 (1) The Commissioner may make a written ruling on the way in which the Commissioner considers a relevant provision applies or would apply to:
 (a) entities generally or a class of entities; or
 (b) entities generally, or a class of entities, in relation to a class of *schemes; or
 (c) entities generally, or a class of entities, in relation to a particular scheme.
Note: Section 357-55 specifies the relevant provisions.
 (2) Such a ruling may cover any matter involved in the application of the provision.
 (3) Such a ruling is a public ruling if it:
 (a) is published; and
 (b) states that it is a public ruling.
 (4) The Commissioner must, by notifiable instrument, publish notice of the making of a *public ruling.
Note: The validity of a ruling is not affected merely because a provision of this Part relating to the form of the ruling or the procedure for making it has not been complied with: see section  357-90.
Section 358-10 Application of public rulings
 (1) A *public ruling applies from the time it is published or from such earlier or later time as is specified in the ruling.
 (2) A *public ruling, other than an *indirect tax or excise ruling, that relates to a *scheme does not apply to you if the scheme has begun to be carried out when the ruling is published and:
 (a) the ruling changes the Commissioner&#39;s general administrative practice; and
 (b) the ruling is less favourable to you than the practice.
Section 358-15 When a public ruling ceases to apply
 (1) A *public ruling may specify the time at which it ceases to apply.
 (2) If a *public ruling does not do this, it applies until it is withdrawn.
 Withdrawing public rulings
Section 358-20 Withdrawing public rulings
 (1) The Commissioner may, by notifiable instrument, withdraw a *public ruling, either wholly or to an extent.
 (2) The withdrawal takes effect from the time specified in the instrument. That time must not be before the day after the instrument is registered on the Federal Register of Legislation under the Legislation Act 2003.
 (3) To the extent that a *public ruling, other than an *indirect tax or excise ruling, is withdrawn, it continues to apply to *schemes to which it applied that had begun to be carried out before the withdrawal but does not apply to schemes that begin to be carried out after the withdrawal.
Note: A scheme is taken to have begun to be carried out if a contract requiring the scheme has been entered into: see section  357-80.
Division 359--Private rulings
 Guide to Division 359
Section 359-1 What this Division is about
A private ruling is an expression of the Commissioner&#39;s opinion of the way in which a relevant provision applies, or would apply, to you in relation to a specified scheme. Private rulings are usually made on application by you, your agent or your legal personal representative.The Commissioner must make the ruling applied for, except in certain cases. If you are entitled to receive a ruling, you can object if the Commissioner takes too long to make it.The Commissioner must record the ruling in writing and give a copy of it to you. The ruling must include certain details.If you are dissatisfied with the ruling, you may object to it.
Note: Division 357 has some common rules that affect private rulings.
Table of sections
Private rulings
Section 359-5 Private rulings
Section 359-10 Applying for a private ruling
Section 359-15 Private rulings to be given to applicants
Section 359-20 Private rulings must contain certain details
Section 359-25 Time of application of private rulings
Section 359-30 Ruling for trustee of a trust
Section 359-35 Dealing with applications
Section 359-40 Valuations
Section 359-45 Related rulings
Section 359-50 Delays in making private rulings
Section 359-55 Revised private rulings
Section 359-60 Objections, reviews and appeals relating to private rulings
Section 359-65 Commissioner may consider new information on objection
Section 359-70 Successful objection decision alters ruling
 Private rulings
Section 359-5 Private rulings
 (1) The Commissioner may, on application, make a written ruling on the way in which the Commissioner considers a relevant provision applies or would apply to you in relation to a specified *scheme. Such a ruling is called a private ruling.
Note: Section 357-55 specifies the relevant provisions.
 (2) A *private ruling may cover any matter involved in the application of the provision.
Section 359-10 Applying for a private ruling
 (1) You, your *agent or your *legal personal representative may apply to the Commissioner for a *private ruling.
 (2) An application for a *private ruling must be made in the *approved form.
 (3) You, your *agent or your *legal personal representative may withdraw the application at any time before the ruling is made. The Commissioner must confirm the withdrawal in writing.
Section 359-15 Private rulings to be given to applicants
  The Commissioner makes a *private ruling by recording the ruling in writing and giving a copy of it to the applicant. The copy may be given electronically.
Section 359-20 Private rulings must contain certain details
 (1) A *private ruling must state that it is a private ruling.
 (2) A *private ruling must identify the entity to whom it applies and specify the relevant *scheme and the relevant provision to which it relates.
Note 1: The Commissioner must tell the applicant which assumptions the Commissioner made in making the ruling: see section  357-110.
Note 2: Section 357-55 specifies the relevant provisions.
Section 359-25 Time of application of private rulings
 (1) A *private ruling may specify the time from which it begins to apply and the time at which it ceases to apply.
 (2) The specified start time, or end time, may be before, when, or after the *private ruling is made and may be determined by reference to a specified event.
 (3) A *private ruling that does not specify a start time applies from the time when it is made.
 (4) A *private ruling, other than an *indirect tax or excise ruling, that does not specify an end time ceases to apply at the end of the income year or other accounting period in which it started to apply.
Note: A private ruling that:
        (a) is an indirect tax or excise ruling; and
        (b) does not specify an end time;
 continues to apply until it is overridden by a later indirect tax or excise ruling: see subsection  357-75(1B).
Section 359-30 Ruling for trustee of a trust
  A *private ruling given to or for the trustee of a trust and relating to the affairs of the trust also applies to:
 (a) if the ruling is not an *indirect tax or excise ruling--the beneficiaries of the trust; and
 (b) in any case--another trustee who is appointed to replace a trustee.
Section 359-35 Dealing with applications
 (1) The Commissioner must comply with an application for a *private ruling and make the ruling. However, this obligation is subject to subsections (2) and (3).
 (2) The Commissioner may decline to make a *private ruling if:
 (a) the Commissioner considers that making the ruling would prejudice or unduly restrict the administration of a *taxation law; or
 (b) the matter sought to be ruled on is already being, or has been, considered by the Commissioner for you; or
 (c) both:
 (i) the relevant provision to which the ruling would relate is about *Australian IIR/UTPR tax or *Australian DMT tax; and
 (ii) the Commissioner considers that it would not be reasonable to comply with the application.
 (3) The Commissioner may also decline to make a *private ruling if the matter sought to be ruled on is how the Commissioner would exercise a power under a relevant provision and the Commissioner has decided or decides whether or not to exercise the power.
Example: Michael applies for a private ruling on the way in which the Commissioner might exercise the Commissioner&#39;s discretion under section  255-10 (deferring the payment time). Rather than make the ruling, the Commissioner decides to defer the time at which an amount would otherwise be payable by Michael.
Note: The Commissioner may also decline to make a private ruling if:
        (a) the Commissioner has requested the applicant to give further information under section  357-105 and the applicant has not given it to the Commissioner within a reasonable time; or
        (b) the Commissioner considers that the correctness of a private ruling would depend on which assumptions were made about a future event or other matter (see section  357-110).
 (4) The Commissioner must give the applicant written reasons for declining to make a *private ruling.
Section 359-40 Valuations
 (1) If making a *private ruling would require determining the value of any thing, the Commissioner may:
 (a) refer the valuation to a valuer; or
 (b) refer a valuation provided by the applicant to a valuer for review.
Note: The Commissioner may request further information: see section  357-105.
 (2) If the Commissioner refers the valuation to a valuer, the Commissioner must tell the applicant that he or she has done so.
 (3) When the valuer has completed its work in relation to the valuation, the Commissioner must tell the applicant that it has done so.
Note: The Commissioner should make a private ruling within 60 days. However, if the Commissioner refers a valuation to a valuer under this section, that period is extended: see subsection  359-50(2).
 (4) The Commissioner may charge the applicant an amount in accordance with the regulations for the valuer making or reviewing the valuation.
 (5) This section does not apply to a valuation of a gift or contribution for the purposes of Division  30 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Section 359-45 Related rulings
  If the Commissioner is making a *private ruling (the first ruling) you sought on the way in which, in the Commissioner&#39;s opinion, a relevant provision applies or would apply to you, the Commissioner may:
 (a) make the first ruling a ruling on the way in which another relevant provision applies or would apply to you; or
 (b) make an additional private ruling on the way in which:
 (i) another relevant provision applies or would apply; or
 (ii) a relevant provision applies or would apply to you in relation to a *scheme related to the scheme to which the first ruling applies.
Note: Section 357-55 specifies the relevant provisions.
Section 359-50 Delays in making private rulings
 (1) The applicant for a *private ruling may give the Commissioner a written notice requiring him or her to make the ruling if, at the end of 60 days after the application was made, the Commissioner has neither:
 (a) made the ruling; nor
 (b) told the applicant that the Commissioner has declined to make the ruling.
 (2) The 60 day period mentioned in subsection  (1) is extended in a circumstance applicable under the table by the extension period applicable to that circumstance. If 2 or more circumstances are applicable, ignore any overlap between the periods of extension.
Extending the 60 day periodItemIf the Commissioner, during the 60 day period:The 60 day period is extended by the number of days in this period:1requests further information under section 357-105the period starting on the day the information was requested and ending on the day it is received by the Commissioner2tells the applicant about assumptions the Commissioner proposes to make under section 357-110the period starting on the day the Commissioner tells the applicant and ending on the day on which the Commissioner receives the applicant&#39;s response about the assumptions3tells the applicant about information provided by a third party that the Commissioner proposes to take into account under section 357-120the period starting on the day the Commissioner tells the applicant and ending on the day on which the Commissioner receives the applicant&#39;s response about the information4refers a valuation to a valuer under section 359-40the period starting on the day the Commissioner tells the applicant about the referral and ending on the day on which the Commissioner tells the applicant that the valuer has completed its work in relation to the valuation
 (3) The applicant may object, in the manner set out in Part  IVC, against the Commissioner&#39;s failure to make the ruling if the Commissioner:
 (a) does not make the ruling within 30 days of the notice under subsection  (1) being given; and
 (b) has not otherwise declined to make the ruling by the end of that period.
 (4) The applicant must lodge with the objection a draft *private ruling.
Section 359-55 Revised private rulings
 (1) The Commissioner may make a revised *private ruling that applies to you if:
 (a) the Commissioner had previously made a private ruling that applies to you; and
 (b) if the ruling is not an *indirect tax or excise ruling--when the Commissioner makes the revised private ruling:
 (i) the *scheme to which the earlier ruling relates has not begun to be carried out; and
 (ii) if the earlier ruling relates to an income year or other accounting period--that year or period has not begun.
Note: Your private ruling may be affected by a later inconsistent ruling: see section  357-75.
 (2) The Commissioner must give you a copy of the revised *private ruling. The copy may be given electronically.
 (3) The Commissioner may make the revised *private ruling whether or not there is an application for the revised ruling.
 (4) When the revised *private ruling is made, the ruling in its initial form stops applying to you.
 (5) However, if:
 (a) the *private ruling is an *indirect tax or excise ruling; and
 (b) the revised private ruling specifies the time from which the revision begins to apply (being a time after the time the revision is made);
the ruling in its initial form stops applying to you at the time so specified.
Section 359-60 Objections, reviews and appeals relating to private rulings
 (1) You may object against a *private ruling that applies to you in the manner set out in Part IVC if you are dissatisfied with it.
 (2) The ruling is taken to be a taxation decision (within the meaning of that Part).
 (3) However, you cannot object against a *private ruling if:
 (a) there is an assessment for you for the income year or other accounting period to which the ruling relates; or
 (b) the ruling relates to *withholding tax or *mining withholding tax that has become due and payable; or
 (c) all of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the ruling relates to *excise duty, or another amount, payable in relation to the goods under an *excise law;
 (ii) the Commissioner has made a decision about the excise duty, or other amount, payable in relation to those goods;
 (iii) the decision is reviewable under an excise law.
Section 359-65 Commissioner may consider new information on objection
 (1) In deciding whether to allow (wholly or in part), or to disallow, an objection under Part  IVC against a *private ruling, the Commissioner may consider any additional information that the Commissioner did not consider when making the ruling.
 (2) For information you do not have, the Commissioner must tell you what the information is and give you a reasonable opportunity to respond before allowing or disallowing the objection.
 (3) However, if the Commissioner considers that the additional information is such that the *scheme to which the application related is materially different from the scheme to which the ruling relates:
 (a) the Commissioner must request the applicant to make an application for another *private ruling; and
 (b) the objection is taken not to have been made.
Section 359-70 Successful objection decision alters ruling
  A *private ruling has effect as altered by an objection decision (within the meaning of Part IVC) made by the Commissioner if:
 (a) the Commissioner made the decision allowing, wholly or in part, a taxation objection (within the meaning of that Part) against the ruling; and
 (b) the period in which an appeal against, or an application for the review of, the decision may be made has ended without such an appeal or application being made.
Note: See sections 14ZZC and 14ZZN for the time limits.
Division 360--Oral rulings
 Guide to Division 360
Section 360-1 What this Division is about
An oral ruling is an expression of the Commissioner&#39;s opinion of the way in which a relevant provision applies, or would apply, to you. Oral rulings are given on oral application by you or your legal personal representative.Oral rulings can only be given for individuals.The Commissioner must give the ruling unless he or she considers that the advice you are seeking relates to a business matter or a complex matter.The Commissioner must give the ruling orally and must give you a registration identifier for the ruling.
Note: Division 357 has some common rules that affect oral rulings.
Table of sections
Oral rulings
Section 360-5 Applying for and making of oral rulings
Section 360-10 Withdrawing an application for an oral ruling
Section 360-15 Commissioner determinations
 Oral rulings
Section 360-5 Applying for and making of oral rulings
Applying for oral rulings
 (1) If you are an individual, you or your *legal personal representative may apply to the Commissioner for advice on the way in which the Commissioner considers a relevant provision applies or would apply to you in relation to a specified *scheme.
Note: Section 357-55 specifies the relevant provisions.
 (2) An application under this section must be made orally and in the manner determined under section  360-15.
 (2A) You or your *legal personal representative must not apply for advice under this section in relation to:
 (a) an *indirect tax law (other than the *fuel tax law); or
 (b) an *excise law.
Making of oral rulings
 (3) The Commissioner must give you or your *legal personal representative that advice unless:
 (a) the Commissioner considers that the advice sought relates to a *business matter or a complex matter; or
 (b) the matter sought to be ruled on is already being, or has been, considered by the Commissioner for you.
That advice is an oral ruling.
Note: The Commissioner may also decline to make an oral ruling if:
        (a) the Commissioner has requested you to give further information under section  357-105 and you have not given it to the Commissioner; or
        (b) the Commissioner considers that the correctness of an oral ruling would depend on which assumptions were made about a future event or other matter (see section  357-110).
 (4) The Commissioner must give that advice orally and in the manner determined under section  360-15. That advice must include a registration identifier for the ruling.
Note: The Commissioner must tell you which assumptions the Commissioner made in making the ruling: see section  357-110.
 (5) You are not entitled to receive a written record of that advice.
Note: However, you may be able to apply for a private ruling on the matter under Division 359.
Section 360-10 Withdrawing an application for an oral ruling
 (1) You or your *legal personal representative may withdraw an application under section  360-5 before the Commissioner makes the *oral ruling.
 (2) The withdrawal must be done orally and in the manner determined under section  360-15.
Section 360-15 Commissioner determinations
  The Commissioner must, by writing, determine:
 (a) the manner in which oral applications are to be made under section  360-5 or are to be withdrawn; and
 (b) the manner in which the Commissioner is to give oral advice under that section.
Division 361--Non-ruling advice and general administrative practice
Table of sections
Section 361-5 Non-ruling advice and general administrative practice
 (1) You are not liable to pay the *general interest charge or the *shortfall interest charge under a relevant provision to the extent that the charge would relate to a *shortfall amount or a *scheme shortfall amount that was caused by:
 (a) you reasonably relying in good faith on:
 (i) advice (other than a ruling) given to you or your *agent by the Commissioner; or
 (ii) a statement in a publication approved in writing by the Commissioner;
  unless the advice, or the statement or publication, is labelled as non -binding; or
 (b) you reasonably relying in good faith on the Commissioner&#39;s general administrative practice.
Note: Section 357-55 specifies the relevant provisions.
 (2) However, subsection  (1) does not apply to any *general interest charge accruing more than 21 days after the Commissioner notifies you of the correct position.
Division 362--Rulings by Industry Innovation and Science Australia that activities are not ineligible activities
 Guide to Division 362
Section 362-1 What this Division is about
Industry Innovation and Science Australia may make public rulings and private rulings expressing its view on whether activities are not ineligible activities for the purposes of applying capital gains tax provisions to venture capital investments.
Note: An entity&#39;s involvement in ineligible activities can affect whether an investment is an eligible venture capital investment for the purpose of accessing a capital gains tax exemption under Subdivision  118-F of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Table of sections
Public rulings by Industry Innovation and Science Australia
Section 362-5 Industry Innovation and Science Australia may make public rulings on a specified class of activities
Section 362-10 Application of public rulings
Section 362-15 When a public ruling ceases to apply
Section 362-20 Withdrawing public rulings
Private rulings by Industry Innovation and Science Australia
Section 362-25 Industry Innovation and Science Australia may make private rulings on a specified activity
Section 362-30 Applying for a private ruling
Section 362-35 Industry Innovation and Science Australia must give notice of its decision
Section 362-40 Private rulings must contain certain details
Section 362-45 Application of private rulings
Section 362-50 Delays in making private rulings
Section 362-55 When a private ruling ceases to apply
Section 362-60 Withdrawing private rulings
General provisions
Section 362-65 When rulings are binding on the Commissioner and Industry Innovation and Science Australia
Section 362-70 Application of common rules under Subdivision  357-B
Section 362-75 Application of Divisions 358 and 359
 Public rulings by Industry Innovation and Science Australia
Section 362-5 Industry Innovation and Science Australia may make public rulings on a specified class of activities
 (1) *Industry Innovation and Science Australia may make a ruling that Industry Innovation and Science Australia considers that activities included in a specified class of activities:
 (a) are not ineligible activities for the purposes of subsections  118-425(13) and 118-427(14) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or
 (b) in specified circumstances, are not such ineligible activities;
if Industry Innovation and Science Australia is satisfied that the activities included in that class are not such ineligible activities, or are not in those circumstances such ineligible activities, as the case requires.
Note: An activity will not be an ineligible activity for the purposes of subsections  118-425(13) and 118-427(14) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 if, for example, it is covered by subsections  118-425(13A) and 118-427(14A) of that Act.
 (2) Such a ruling is a public ruling if it:
 (a) is published; and
 (b) states that it is a public ruling.
 (3) *Industry Innovation and Science Australia must, by notifiable instrument, publish notice of the making of a *public ruling.
Note: The validity of a ruling is not affected merely because a provision of this Part relating to the form of the ruling or the procedure for making it has not been complied with: see section  357-90.
Section 362-10 Application of public rulings
  A *public ruling under this Division applies from the time it is published or from such earlier or later time as is specified in the ruling.
Section 362-15 When a public ruling ceases to apply
 (1) A *public ruling under this Division may specify the time at which it ceases to apply.
 (2) If a *public ruling under this Division does not do this, it applies until it is withdrawn.
Section 362-20 Withdrawing public rulings
 (1) *Industry Innovation and Science Australia must, by notifiable instrument, withdraw a *public ruling made under this Division if:
 (a) it is no longer satisfied of the matter about which it was required to be satisfied under subsection  362-5(1); or
 (b) the ruling is inconsistent with a decision of a court.
 (2) The withdrawal takes effect from the time specified in the instrument. That time must not be before the day after the instrument is registered on the Federal Register of Legislation under the Legislation Act 2003.
 Private rulings by Industry Innovation and Science Australia
Section 362-25 Industry Innovation and Science Australia may make private rulings on a specified activity
 (1) *Industry Innovation and Science Australia may, on application, make a ruling that Industry Innovation and Science Australia considers that a specified activity:
 (a) is not an ineligible activity for the purposes of subsections  118-425(13) and 118-427(14) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; or
 (b) in specified circumstances, is not such an ineligible activity;
if Industry Innovation and Science Australia is satisfied that the activity is not such an ineligible activity, or is not in those circumstances such an ineligible activity, as the case requires.
Note: An activity will not be an ineligible activity for the purposes of subsections  118-425(13) and 118-427(14) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 if, for example, it is covered by subsections  118-425(13A) and 118-427(14A) of that Act.
 (2) Such a ruling is a private ruling.
Note: Decisions making such a ruling, and decisions refusing to make such a ruling, are reviewable under Part  5 of the Venture Capital Act 2002.
 (3) In considering whether to make a *private ruling under this Division, *Industry Innovation and Science Australia must apply any principles made under subsection  (4).
 (4) *Industry Innovation and Science Australia may, by legislative instrument, make principles about making *private rulings under this Division.
 (5) A failure to comply with subsection  (3) does not affect the validity of the ruling.
Section 362-30 Applying for a private ruling
  A *general partner of a *limited partnership registered as a *VCLP, an *ESVCLP or an *AFOF may, in the *form approved by *Industry Innovation and Science Australia, apply to Industry Innovation and Science Australia for a *private ruling under this Division.
Section 362-35 Industry Innovation and Science Australia must give notice of its decision
 (1) If *Industry Innovation and Science Australia makes a *private ruling under this Division, Industry Innovation and Science Australia must notify the *general partner, and the Commissioner, as soon as practicable after the ruling is made.
 (2) If *Industry Innovation and Science Australia refuses to make a *private ruling under this Division, Industry Innovation and Science Australia must:
 (a) notify the *general partner as soon as practicable after the refusal; and
 (b) provide reasons for the refusal.
Section 362-40 Private rulings must contain certain details
 (1) A *private ruling under this Division must state that it is a private ruling.
 (2) A *private ruling under this Division must identify the entity to whom it applies and specify the activity to which it relates.
Note: Industry Innovation and Science Australia must tell the applicant which assumptions Industry Innovation and Science Australia made in making the ruling: see section  357-110.
Section 362-45 Application of private rulings
  A *private ruling under this Division applies from the time it is published or from such earlier or later time as is specified in the ruling.
Section 362-50 Delays in making private rulings
 (1) The applicant for a *private ruling under this Division may give *Industry Innovation and Science Australia a written notice requiring Industry Innovation and Science Australia to make the ruling if, at the end of 60 days after the application was made, Industry Innovation and Science Australia has neither:
 (a) made the ruling; nor
 (b) told the applicant that Industry Innovation and Science Australia has refused to make the ruling.
 (2) The 60 day period mentioned in subsection  (1) is extended in a circumstance applicable under the table by the extension period applicable to that circumstance. If 2 or more circumstances are applicable, ignore any overlap between the periods of extension.
Extending the 60 day periodItemIf *Industry Innovation and Science Australia, during the 60 day period:The 60 day period is extended by the number of days in this period:1requests further information under section 357-105 (as that section applies because of section 362-70)the period starting on the day the information was requested and ending on the day it is received by *Industry Innovation and Science Australia2tells the applicant about assumptions *Industry Innovation and Science Australia proposes to make under section  357-110 (as that section applies because of section 362-70)the period starting on the day *Industry Innovation and Science Australia tells the applicant and ending on the day on which Industry Innovation and Science Australia receives the applicant&#39;s response about the assumptions3tells the applicant about information provided by a third party that *Industry Innovation and Science Australia proposes to take into account under section  357-120 (as that section applies because of section 362-70)the period starting on the day *Industry Innovation and Science Australia tells the applicant and ending on the day on which Industry Innovation and Science Australia receives the applicant&#39;s response about the information
 (3) If *Industry Innovation and Science Australia:
 (a) does not make the ruling within 30 days of the notice under subsection  (1) being given; and
 (b) has not otherwise declined to make the ruling by the end of that period;
Industry Innovation and Science Australia is taken to have refused to make the ruling at the end of that period.
Note: Decisions refusing to make such a ruling are reviewable under Part 5 of the Venture Capital Act 2002.
Section 362-55 When a private ruling ceases to apply
 (1) A *private ruling under this Division may specify the time at which it ceases to apply.
 (2) If a *private ruling under this Division does not do this, it applies until it is withdrawn.
Section 362-60 Withdrawing private rulings
 (1) *Industry Innovation and Science Australia must withdraw a *private ruling made under this Division if:
 (a) it is no longer satisfied of the matter about which it was required to be satisfied under subsection  362-25(1); or
 (b) the ruling is inconsistent with a decision of a court.
 (2) *Industry Innovation and Science Australia must give notice of the withdrawal to a *general partner of the *limited partnership to which the ruling related.
 General provisions
Section 362-65 When rulings are binding on the Commissioner and Industry Innovation and Science Australia
 (1) A ruling under this Division binds the Commissioner and *Industry Innovation and Science Australia in relation to an entity (whether or not the entity is aware of the ruling) if:
 (a) the ruling applies to the entity; and
 (b) the entity relies on the ruling by acting (or omitting to act) in accordance with the ruling.
 (2) If the ruling is withdrawn under this Division, it continues to bind the Commissioner and *Industry Innovation and Science Australia in relation to the entity until the end of the income year following the income year in which it is withdrawn, but only to the extent that the ruling affected investments made before the withdrawal took effect.
Section 362-70 Application of common rules under Subdivision  357-B
  Despite section  357-50:
 (a) section 357-60 does not apply in relation to a ruling under this Division; and
 (b) sections 357-70, 357-85 and 357-95 apply, in relation to a ruling under this Division, to *Industry Innovation and Science Australia in the same way they apply to the Commissioner; and
 (c) section 357-100 applies:
 (i) in relation to a ruling under this Division as if a document referred to in paragraph  357-100(b) were required to be signed by a member of Industry Innovation and Science Australia, and not by a person referred to in that paragraph; and
 (ii) in relation to a *private ruling under this Division in the same way it applies to a *public ruling; and
 (d) sections 357-105 to 357-125 apply in relation to a ruling under this Division as if references in those sections to the Commissioner were references to Industry Innovation and Science Australia.
Section 362-75 Application of Divisions 358 and 359
 (1) Division 358 does not apply in relation to a *public ruling under this Division, or in relation to the making of such a ruling.
 (2) Division 359 does not apply in relation to a *private ruling under this Division, or in relation to the making of such a ruling.
Part 5-10--Commissioner&#39;s remedial power
Division 370--Commissioner&#39;s remedial power
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 370
Section 370-A Commissioner&#39;s remedial power
 Guide to Division 370
Section 370-1 What this Division is about
The Commissioner may determine a modification of the operation of a provision of a taxation law. The modification must not be inconsistent with the intended purpose or object of the provision. Furthermore: (a) the Commissioner must consider the modification to be reasonable; and (b) the Department, or the Finance Department, must advise that any impact of the modification on the Commonwealth budget would be negligible.Example: After a provision of a taxation law is enacted, it is found that, because of developments in the practices of businesses or the Commissioner, the provision imposes disproportionate compliance costs on taxpayers. The Commissioner might, under this Division, be able to modify the operation of the provision to give timely relief.An entity must not apply a modification if it would produce a less favourable result for the entity.Note: The Commissioner must include in the Commissioner&#39;s annual report under section  3B of this Act information about the exercise of his or her powers under this Division.
Subdivision 370-A--Commissioner&#39;s remedial power
Table of sections
Section 370-5 Commissioner&#39;s remedial power
Section 370-10 Intended purpose or object
Section 370-15 Repeal of determinations
Section 370-20 Commencement of determinations
Section 370-5 Commissioner&#39;s remedial power
 (1) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, determine a modification of the operation of a provision of a *taxation law if:
 (a) the modification is not inconsistent with the intended purpose or object of the provision; and
 (b) the Commissioner considers the modification to be reasonable, having regard to:
 (i) the intended purpose or object of the provision; and
 (ii) whether the cost of complying with the provision is disproportionate to that intended purpose or object; and
 (c) any of the following persons advises the Commissioner that any impact of the modification on the Commonwealth budget would be negligible:
 (i) the Secretary of the Department, or an APS employee in the Department who is authorised by the Secretary for the purposes of this paragraph;
 (ii) the *Finance Secretary, or an APS employee in the *Finance Department who is authorised by the Finance Secretary for the purposes of this paragraph.
 (2) If the Commissioner determines a modification of the operation of a provision of a *taxation law under subsection (1), the provision operates with the modification.
Scope of determination
 (3) A modification applies generally, unless the determination states that the modification only applies:
 (a) to a specified class of entities; or
 (b) in specified circumstances.
 (4) An entity (the first entity) must treat a modification as:
 (a) not applying to the first entity; and
 (b) not applying to any other entity;
if the modification would produce a less favourable result for the first entity.
 (5) If the Commissioner determines a modification of the operation of a provision of a *taxation law, the modification (as applied by subsection (2)) does not affect a right or liability under an order (including any judgment, conviction or sentence) made by a court before the commencement of the determination.
Section 370-10 Intended purpose or object
  In ascertaining the intended purpose or object of a provision of a *taxation law for the purposes of paragraph 370-5(1)(a) or subparagraph  370-5(1)(b)(i):
 (a) consideration must be given to any documents that may be considered under subsection  15AB(2) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 (or that subsection as applied by section 13 of the Legislation Act 2003) in relation to the provision; and
Example: An explanatory memorandum, second reading speech or report of a parliamentary committee.
 (b) consideration may be given to any other material (including material not forming part of the provision) that would assist in ascertaining the intended purpose or object of the provision; and
 (c) primacy is not required to be given to the text of the provision.
Note: Ascertaining an intended purpose or object for the purposes of paragraph  370-5(1)(a) or subparagraph 370-5(1)(b)(i) is not necessarily the same as ascertaining a purpose or object for the purposes of interpreting a provision of an Act.
Section 370-15 Repeal of determinations
 (1) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, repeal a determination made under section  370-5.
 (2) A legislative instrument made under subsection  (1) of this section may make an application, saving or transitional provision relating to the repeal.
 (3) Subsection 33(3) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 does not apply in relation to the repeal, rescission or revocation of a determination made under section 370-5 in this Schedule (but does apply in relation to the amendment or variation of such a determination).
Section 370-20 Commencement of determinations
  A determination made under section  370-5, or a repeal made under section 370-15, must not commence before the first day it is no longer liable to be disallowed, or to be taken to have been disallowed, under section  42 of the Legislation Act 2003.
Part 5-25--Record-keeping and other obligations relating to taxpayers
Division 382--Record-keeping
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 382
Section 382-A Keeping records of indirect tax transactions
Section 382-B Record keeping obligations of deductible gift recipients
Section 382-C Keeping records in respect of Minimum Tax law
 Guide to Division 382
Section 382-1 What this Division is about
You are required to keep records of indirect tax transactions in accordance with this Division.Deductible gift recipients are required to keep records in accordance with this Division.
Subdivision 382-A--Keeping records of indirect tax transactions
Table of sections
Section 382-5 Keeping records of indirect tax transactions
Records of transactions
 (1) You must:
 (a) keep records that record and explain all transactions and other acts you engage in that are relevant to a *supply, importation, acquisition, dealing, manufacture or entitlement to which this subsection applies; and
 (b) retain those records for the longest of:
 (i) 5 years after the completion of the transactions or acts to which they relate; and
 (ii) the *period of review for any assessment of an *assessable amount to which those records, transactions or acts relate; and
 (iii) if such an assessment has been amended under Subdivision  155-B--the period of 4 years mentioned in paragraph 155-70(2)(a) (which provides for a refreshed period of review) that applies to the latest such amendment.
 (2) Subsection (1) applies to:
 (a) a *taxable supply, *taxable importation, *creditable acquisition or *creditable importation made by you; or
 (b) a *supply made by you that is *GST-free or *input taxed; or
 (c) a *taxable dealing, in relation to *wine, on which you are liable for *wine tax; or
 (d) any other assessable dealing within the meaning of the *Wine Tax Act made by you; or
 (e) your entitlement to a *wine tax credit; or
 (f) a *taxable supply of a luxury car, or a *taxable importation of a luxury car, made by you; or
 (g) your entitlement to a special credit under the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax Transition) Act 1999 or the A New Tax System (Wine Equalisation Tax and Luxury Car Tax Transition) Act 1999 ; or
 (h) if you are entitled to a *fuel tax credit for fuel that you acquire, manufacture or import--the acquisition, manufacture or importation; or
 (i) if you are liable, as a recipient of a taxable supply, to pay the *GST on a taxable supply because of section 15C of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax Transition) Act 1999 --the taxable supply.
 (3) If you give the Commissioner a return that takes into account:
 (a) an *input tax credit that is attributable to a *tax period under subsection  29-10(4) of the *GST Act; or
 (b) a *fuel tax credit that is attributable to a tax period or *fuel tax return period under subsection  65-5(4) of the Fuel Tax Act 2006;
you must:
 (c) keep records that record and explain all transactions and other acts you engage in that are relevant to the acquisition or importation in question; and
 (d) retain those records for at least 5 years after the return was given to the Commissioner.
Records of elections, choices, estimates, determinations and calculations
 (4) If you make any election, choice, estimate, determination or calculation under an *indirect tax law, you must:
 (a) keep records containing particulars of:
 (i) the election, choice, estimate, determination or calculation; and
 (ii) in the case of an estimate, determination or calculation--the basis on which, and the method by which, the estimate, determination or calculation was made; and
 (b) retain those records:
 (i) if the indirect tax law specifies circumstances in which the election, choice, estimate, determination or calculation ceases to have effect--for at least 5 years after the election, choice, estimate, determination or calculation ceased to have effect; or
 (ii) in any other case--for at least 5 years after the election, choice, estimate, determination or calculation was made.
 (5) This section requires a record of an *arrangement entered into under section 153-50 of the *GST Act to be kept and retained by the party entering into the arrangement as principal. It does not require such a record to be kept or retained by the party entering into the arrangement as intermediary (within the meaning of that section).
 (6) This section requires records of a notice given under subsection  153-65(2) of the *GST Act to be kept and retained by both the entity giving the notice and the entity receiving it.
 (7) Without limiting subsection  (4), if you choose to apply Division 63 (non-profit sub-entities) of the *GST Act, you must:
 (a) keep records that record:
 (i) your choice to apply that Division; and
 (ii) each branch that is treated as a separate entity for the purposes of the *GST law; and
 (iii) each branch that has ceased to be treated as a separate entity for the purposes of the GST law; and
 (b) retain those records for at least 5 years after you revoke the choice.
Requirements of records
 (8) The records must be:
 (a) in English, or readily accessible and easily convertible into English; and
 (b) such as to enable your liabilities and entitlements under an *indirect tax law to be readily ascertained.
Offence
 (9) An entity commits an offence if:
 (a) the entity is required to keep or retain a record under this section; and
 (b) the entity does not keep or retain the record in accordance with this section.
Penalty: 30 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of criminal responsibility.
Note 2: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Note 3: Section 288-25 imposes an administrative penalty if an entity does not keep or retain records as required by this section.
 (10) Subsection (9) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code .
Defence
 (11) Subsection (9) does not apply if:
 (a) the Commissioner notifies the entity that the entity does not need to retain the record; or
 (b) the entity is a company that has been finally dissolved.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (10): see subsection  13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
 (12) For the purposes of section  288-25, this section does not require an entity to retain a record if:
 (a) the Commissioner notifies the entity that the entity does not need to retain the record; or
 (b) the entity is a company that has been finally dissolved.
Note: Section 288-25 imposes an administrative penalty if an entity does not keep or retain records as required by this section.
Subdivision 382-B--Record keeping obligations of deductible gift recipients
Table of sections
Section 382-15 Deductible gift recipients to keep records
 (1) A *deductible gift recipient must:
 (a) keep records that record and explain all transactions and other acts the deductible gift recipient engages in that are relevant to the deductible gift recipient&#39;s status as a deductible gift recipient; and
 (b) retain those records for at least 5 years after the completion of the transactions or acts to which they relate.
Note 1: Section 288-25 imposes an administrative penalty if an entity does not keep or retain records as required by this section.
Note 2: The Commissioner may request information from certain deductible gift recipients: see sections  353-20 and 426-40.
Requirements of records
 (2) The records must be:
 (a) in English, or readily accessible and easily convertible into English; and
 (b) such as to show that the *deductible gift recipient uses each of the following only for the principal purpose of the fund, authority or institution:
 (i) gifts of money or property for that purpose;
 (ii) contributions described in item  7 or 8 of the table in section 30-15 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 in relation to a *fund-raising event held for that purpose;
 (iii) money received by the deductible gift recipient because of such gifts or contributions.
Exception
 (3) For the purposes of section  288-25, this section does not require a *deductible gift recipient to retain a record if:
 (a) the Commissioner notifies the deductible gift recipient that the deductible gift recipient does not need to retain the record; or
 (b) the deductible gift recipient is a company that has been finally dissolved.
Subdivision 382-C--Keeping records in respect of Minimum Tax law
Table of sections
 Operative provisions
Section 382-20 Keeping of records in respect of Minimum Tax law
 Operative provisions
Section 382-20 Keeping of records in respect of Minimum Tax law
 (1) A *Group Entity of an *Applicable MNE Group that is *GloBE located in Australia must:
 (a) keep records that record and explain whether the Group Entity has complied with the *Minimum Tax law; and
 (b) retain those records until the latest of the following:
 (i) the end of 8 years after the records were prepared or obtained;
 (ii) the end of 8 years after the completion of the transactions or acts to which those records relate;
 (iii) if there is an assessment of the Group Entity, or another Group Entity of the Applicable MNE Group, of an amount payable under the Minimum Tax law to which those records relate and the period of review for the assessment is extended under subsection  155-35(3) or (4)--the end of the period of review as so extended.
 (2) The records must be:
 (a) in English, or readily accessible and easily convertible into English; and
 (b) such as to enable the *Group Entity&#39;s liabilities under the *Minimum Tax law to be readily ascertained.
 (3) A *Group Entity commits an offence if:
 (a) the Group Entity is required to keep or retain a record under this section; and
 (b) the Group Entity does not keep or retain the record in accordance with this section.
Penalty: 30 penalty units.
Note: Section 288-25 imposes an administrative penalty if the Group Entity does not keep or retain records as required by this section.
 (4) Subsection (3) is an offence of strict liability.
 (5) This section applies in relation to:
 (a) a *GloBE Joint Venture of an *Applicable MNE Group; and
 (b) a *GloBE JV Subsidiary of a GloBE Joint Venture of an Applicable MNE Group;
in the same way that it applies in relation to a *Group Entity of an Applicable MNE Group.
 (6) If:
 (a) a *Group Entity of an *Applicable MNE Group is a *GloBE Main Entity in respect of a *GloBE Permanent Establishment; and
 (b) the Group Entity is not *GloBE located in Australia; and
 (c) the GloBE Permanent Establishment is:
 (i) GloBE located in Australia; or
 (ii) a Stateless Constituent Entity (within the meaning of the *Minimum Tax Act);
this section applies in relation to the Group Entity in the same way that it applies in relation to a Group Entity that is GloBE located in Australia.
Division 384--Education directions
 Guide to Division 384
Section 384-5 What this Division is about
If the Commissioner reasonably believes that you have failed to comply with certain obligations arising under taxation laws, the Commissioner may give you a direction requiring a specified course of education to be undertaken.
Table of sections
Section 384-10 When a superannuation guarantee education direction may be given
Section 384-12 When a tax-records education direction may be given
Section 384-15 Content of, and matters relating to compliance with, education directions
Section 384-17 Compliance with superannuation guarantee education directions
Section 384-20 Approval of courses of education
Section 384-25 Costs of course of education
Section 384-30 Variation or revocation on Commissioner&#39;s own initiative
Section 384-35 Variation on request
Section 384-40 Taxation objection
Section 384-10 When a superannuation guarantee education direction may be given
 (1) The Commissioner may give you a written direction (a superannuation guarantee education direction) if the Commissioner reasonably believes that an item of the following table applies to you.
Education directionsItemThe item applies to you if ... 1You fail to pay an amount of a tax-related liability set out in subsection (2).2You fail to comply with an obligation to give a statement or information to the Commissioner under the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992.3You fail to comply with an obligation to keep records under the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992.4You fail to comply with an obligation under this Act that relates to the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992.
Note: For the requirements in the direction, see subsection  384-15(1).
 (2) The following table sets out tax -related liabilities for the purposes of subsection (1).
ItemTax-related liability1Superannuation guarantee charge payable by you under the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 19922An amount that is due and payable by you of an estimate under Division 268 of an amount of a liability referred to in paragraph  268-10(1)(b) (superannuation guarantee charge)
Section 384-12 When a tax-records education direction may be given
 (1) The Commissioner may give you a written direction (a tax-records education direction) if the Commissioner reasonably believes you have failed, at a specified time or for a specified period, to comply with one or more specified record -keeping obligations under a taxation law that:
 (a) is not set out in paragraph  288-25(2)(a) or (b); and
 (b) is not the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992.
Note: For the requirements in the direction, see subsection  384-15(2).
 (2) However, the Commissioner must not give you a *tax-records education direction if the Commissioner reasonably believes:
 (a) you are disengaged from the tax system; or
 (b) you are deliberately avoiding any of those obligations to keep records.
Section 384-15 Content of, and matters relating to compliance with, education directions
 (1) A *superannuation guarantee education direction, or a *tax-records education direction, given to you requires you to:
 (a) ensure that any of the following individuals undertakes a specified approved course of education (see section  384-20):
 (i) if you are an individual--you;
 (ii) an individual who makes, or participates in making, decisions that affect the whole, or a substantial part, of your business; and
 (b) provide the Commissioner with evidence that the individual has completed the course.
 (2) The direction must specify the period within which you must comply with the direction (which must be a period that is reasonable in the circumstances).
Note: The period may be affected by the operation of subsection  384-35(7).
 (3) You are taken to comply with the direction if, and only if:
 (a) an individual referred to in paragraph  (1)(a) undertakes the specified approved course of education during the specified period; and
 (b) before the end of the specified period, you provide the Commissioner with evidence that the individual has completed the course.
Note 1: For a failure to comply with a superannuation guarantee education direction, see section  384-17.
Note 2: A failure to comply with a tax-records education direction will give rise to the administrative penalty set out in subsection  288-25(1).
Section 384-17 Compliance with superannuation guarantee education directions
 (1) If you are given a *superannuation guarantee education direction, you must comply with it within the period specified in the direction.
Note: Failure to comply with this subsection is an offence against section 8C.
 (2) You are liable to an administrative penalty of 5 penalty units if you contravene subsection  (1).
Note: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
Section 384-20 Approval of courses of education
 (1) The Commissioner may, in writing, approve one or more courses of education for the purposes of giving *education directions.
 (2) A course approved under subsection  (1) may be provided by the Commissioner or by another entity.
 (3) An approval under subsection  (1) is not a legislative instrument.
Section 384-25 Costs of course of education
 (1) The Commissioner or other entity providing an approved course of education may charge fees for the course.
 (2) Any fees charged must not be such as to amount to taxation.
Section 384-30 Variation or revocation on Commissioner&#39;s own initiative
  If the Commissioner has given you an *education direction, the Commissioner may, at any time, vary or revoke the education direction by written notice given to you.
Section 384-35 Variation on request
 (1) If the Commissioner has given you an *education direction, you may ask the Commissioner to vary the direction.
 (2) The request must be made by written notice given to the Commissioner before the end of the period specified in the direction for the purposes of subsection  384-15(2).
 (3) The request must set out the reasons for making the request.
 (4) The Commissioner must decide:
 (a) to vary the direction in accordance with the request; or
 (b) to vary the direction otherwise than in accordance with the request; or
 (c) to refuse to vary the direction.
 (5) If the Commissioner does not make a decision on the request before the end of 28 days after the day the Commissioner received the request, the Commissioner is taken, at the end of that period, to have decided to refuse the request.
 (6) If the Commissioner makes a decision on the request before the end of the period referred to in subsection  (5), the Commissioner must:
 (a) notify you of the Commissioner&#39;s decision; and
 (b) if the decision is to vary the direction (whether or not in accordance with the request)--give you a copy of the varied direction; and
 (c) if the decision is to refuse to vary the direction, or to vary the direction otherwise than in accordance with the request--give you written reasons for the decision.
 (7) If you make a request under this section, then, for the purposes of when you must comply with the direction, the period specified in the direction for the purposes of subsection  384-15(2) is taken to be extended by 1 day for each day in the period:
 (a) beginning at the start of the day the Commissioner receives the request; and
 (b) ending at the end of the day that the Commissioner notifies you that a decision has been made on the request.
Section 384-40 Taxation objection
  If you are dissatisfied with:
 (a) a decision of the Commissioner to give an *education direction, or to vary one otherwise than in accordance with a request under section 384-35; or
 (b) a decision of the Commissioner under section  384-35 to refuse to vary an education direction;
you may object against the decision in the manner set out in Part IVC.
Division 388--Requirements about giving material to the Commissioner
Table of Subdivisions
Section 388-A Object of Division
Section 388-B General provisions
Subdivision 388-A--Object of Division
Section 388-5 Object of Division
  The object of this Division is to set out requirements to ensure the integrity and efficiency of giving material to the Commissioner.
Subdivision 388-B--General provisions
Table of sections
Section 388-50 Approved forms
Section 388-52 Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays
Section 388-55 Commissioner may defer time for lodgment
Section 388-60 Declaration by entity
Section 388-65 Declaration by entity where agent gives document
Section 388-70 Declaration by agent
Section 388-75 Signing declarations
Section 388-80 Electronic notification of BAS amounts
Section 388-85 Truncating amounts
Section 388-50 Approved forms
 (1) A return, notice, statement, application or other document under a *taxation law is in the approved form if, and only if:
 (a) it is in the form approved in writing by the Commissioner for that kind of return, notice, statement, application or other document; and
 (b) it contains a declaration signed by a person or persons as the form requires (see section  388-75); and
 (c) it contains the information that the form requires, and any further information, statement or document as the Commissioner requires, whether in the form or otherwise; and
 (d) for a return, notice, statement, application or document that is required to be given to the Commissioner--it is given in the manner that the Commissioner requires (which may include electronically).
 (1A) Despite subsection  (1), a document that satisfies paragraphs (1)(a), (b) and (d) but not paragraph (1)(c) is also in the approved form if it contains the information required by the Commissioner. The Commissioner must specify the requirement in writing.
 (2) The Commissioner may combine in the same *approved form more than one return, notice, statement, application or other document.
 (3) The Commissioner may approve a different *approved form for different entities.
Example: The Commissioner may require high wealth individuals to lodge a different income tax return to that required to be lodged by an individual whose only income is a salary.
Section 388-52 Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays
  Where an *approved form is required to be given to the Commissioner or to another entity by, or on, a day (the lodgment day) that is not a *business day, the approved form may be given on the first business day after the lodgment day.
Section 388-55 Commissioner may defer time for lodgment
 (1) The Commissioner may defer the time within which an *approved form is required to be given to the Commissioner or to another entity.
 (2) A deferral under subsection  (1) does not defer the time for payment of any amount to the Commissioner.
Note: Section 255-10 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for payment of an amount of a tax -related liability.
Section 388-60 Declaration by entity
  If you give a return, notice, statement, application or other document to the Commissioner in the *approved form, you must make a declaration in the approved form that any information in the document is true and correct.
Section 388-65 Declaration by entity where agent gives document
 (1) If a return, notice, statement, application or other document of yours is to be given to the Commissioner in the *approved form by an agent on your behalf, you must make a declaration in writing:
 (a) stating that you have authorised the agent to give the document to the Commissioner; and
 (b) declaring that any information you provided to the agent for the preparation of the document is true and correct.
Note: This subsection does not apply if a declaration is made in accordance with subsection  389-35(2) in relation to a notification of an amount under Division 389 (see paragraph  389-35(3)(a)).
 (2) You must give the declaration to the agent.
 (3) You must retain the declaration or a copy of it for:
 (a) 5 years after it is made; or
 (b) a shorter period determined by the Commissioner in writing for you; or
 (c) a shorter period determined by the Commissioner by legislative instrument for a class of entities that includes you.
 (3A) A determination under paragraph  (3)(c) may specify different periods for different classes of entities.
 (4) You must produce the declaration or copy if requested to do so within that period by the Commissioner.
 (5) The agent must not give the document to the Commissioner before you make the declaration.
 (6) You must sign the declaration.
Section 388-70 Declaration by agent
  If an agent gives a return, notice, statement, application or other document to the Commissioner in the *approved form on behalf of another entity, the agent must, if the document so requires, make a declaration in the approved form stating that:
 (a) the document has been prepared in accordance with the information supplied by the other entity; and
 (b) the agent has received a declaration from the other entity stating that the information provided to the agent is true and correct; and
 (c) the agent is authorised by the other entity to give the document to the Commissioner.
Note: For a notification of an amount under Division 389, a reference to a declaration in paragraph  388-70(b) may also be a reference to a declaration made in accordance with subsection 389-35(2) (see paragraph  389-35(3)(c)).
Section 388-75 Signing declarations
 (1) You must sign a declaration in a return, notice, statement, application or other document you give to the Commissioner in paper form.
 (2) If your agent gives a return, notice, statement, application or other document to the Commissioner on your behalf in paper form, the document must contain:
 (a) if the document so requires--a declaration made by you with your signature; and
 (b) if the document so requires--a declaration made by your agent with the agent&#39;s signature.
 (3) Any return, notice, statement, application or other document of yours that is *lodged electronically:
 (a) if you give it to the Commissioner--must contain your declaration (see section  388-60) with your *electronic signature; or
 (b) if your agent gives it to the Commissioner--must contain the agent&#39;s declaration (see section  388-70) with the agent&#39;s electronic signature.
 (4) Any return, notice, statement, application or other document of yours that is given by telephone:
 (a) if you give it--must contain your *telephone signature; or
 (b) if your agent gives it--must contain your agent&#39;s telephone signature.
Section 388-80 Electronic notification of BAS amounts
  An entity that, under section  31-25 of the *GST Act, chooses or is required to *lodge a *GST return electronically must also electronically notify the Commissioner of all other *BAS amounts whose notification is required on the same day as the GST return (ignoring any extension allowed by the Commissioner under section  31-10 of that Act or a deferral under section 388-55).
Section 388-85 Truncating amounts
  If an *approved form that you are required to give the Commissioner specifies that amounts set out in the form are to be expressed in whole dollars, you truncate the amounts to the nearest whole dollar.
Example: Stefan Pty Ltd calculates that its PAYG instalment for a quarter is $8,496.73. Because the approved form requires amounts to be truncated, the amount would be reported in its BAS as $8,496.
Division 389--Reporting by employers
 Guide to Division 389
Section 389-1 What this Division is about
This Division establishes the &quot;Single Touch Payroll&quot; reporting framework.Employers must (unless they are exempt) notify the Commissioner of certain amounts that relate to payments in respect of their employees.Employers may notify the Commissioner of certain other amounts on a voluntary basis.In many cases, this Division has the effect of bringing forward the due date for notification or reporting under other provisions. Notifying under this Division may satisfy an employer&#39;s obligations to notify or report under the other provisions.Employers may make a declaration that authorises an agent to give the Commissioner one or more notifications of an amount under this Division for a period of up to 12 months.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 389-5 Required reporting by employers
Section 389-10 Exemptions
Section 389-15 Voluntary reporting by employers in relation to taxation laws
Section 389-20 Effect on reporting requirements under Subdivision  16-C
Section 389-25 Grace periods for correcting false or misleading notifications
Section 389-30 Voluntary reporting by employers in relation to child support laws
Section 389-35 Declaration where agent gives notification under this Division
 Operative provisions
Section 389-5 Required reporting by employers
 (1) An entity must notify the Commissioner of an amount of a kind referred to in column 1 of an item in the following table on or before the day referred to in column 2 of that item, if the amount arises as a result of conduct of the entity (such as payment of an amount or provision of a benefit).
Amounts to be notified to the CommissionerItemColumn 1The following must be notified ... Column 2 ... on or before this day1The following amounts:(a) an amount the entity must withhold under Subdivision 12-B (other than section 12-55 or 12 -60), paragraph 12-85(b), section 12-90, paragraph  12-110(1)(ca) or section 12-319A;(b) the *withholding payment from which the amount referred to in paragraph (a) is required to be withheldthe day by which the amount is required to be withheld (regardless of whether it is withheld) (see section 16-5).2An amount that consists of either or both of the following:(a) an amount (other than an amount covered by item 1) paid, on a particular day, by the entity that constitutes the ordinary time earnings (within the meaning of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992) of an individual who is the entity&#39;s employee (within the meaning of that Act but disregarding subsection 12(3) of that Act);(b) a sacrificed ordinary time earnings amount (within the meaning of that Act) of such an employee of the entity, in respect of the entity, that would be paid as ordinary time earnings on a particular day if it was not sacrificedthe day on which the amount is paid, or would be paid, as mentioned in column 1.2AAn amount that consists of either or both of the following:(a) an amount (other than an amount covered by item 1) paid, on a particular day, by the entity that constitutes the salary or wages (within the meaning of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992) of an individual who is the entity&#39;s employee (within the meaning of that Act but disregarding subsection 12(3) of that Act);(b) a sacrificed salary or wages amount (within the meaning of that Act) of such an employee of the entity, in respect of the entity, that would be paid as salary or wages on a particular day if it was not sacrificedthe day on which the amount is paid, or would be paid, as mentioned in column 1.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this section.
 (2) The notification must be in the *approved form. However, the approved form must not require information about an amount unless it is:
 (a) the amount to be notified under subsection  (1); or
 (b) an amount of a kind determined by the Commissioner under subsection  (3).
 (3) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, determine kinds of amounts for the purposes of paragraph  (2)(b).
 (4) In applying item 1 of the table in subsection  (1), a requirement to withhold a nil amount is to be treated as a requirement to withhold an amount.
 (5) This section does not apply to an entity to the extent (if any) that the entity is covered by an exemption under section  389-10 for the income year in which the entity&#39;s conduct occurs.
Section 389-10 Exemptions
Exempting classes of entities
 (1) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, exempt a class of entities from section 389-5 for one or more income years.
 (2) The exemption may be limited to the extent specified in the instrument.
Exempting particular entities
 (3) The Commissioner may, on application by an entity (an exemption application) or on the Commissioner&#39;s own initiative, exempt the entity from section 389-5 for one or more income years.
 (4) The exemption may be limited to the extent specified in the notice under paragraph  (5)(a).
 (5) The Commissioner must notify the entity in writing if:
 (a) the Commissioner exempts the entity under subsection  (3); or
 (b) refuses an exemption application by the entity.
 (6) The Commissioner is taken to have refused an exemption application if the Commissioner fails to notify the entity in writing of the Commissioner&#39;s decision on the application within 60 days after the application is made.
 (7) The entity may object, in the manner set out in Part  IVC, against:
 (a) a decision of the Commissioner to refuse an exemption application; or
 (b) a decision of the Commissioner to limit the extent of an exemption under subsection  (4).
Section 389-15 Voluntary reporting by employers in relation to taxation laws
 (3) If:
 (a) an amount arises as a result of conduct of an entity (such as payment of an amount or provision of a benefit); and
 (b) the amount is an amount of a kind referred to in column 1 of an item in the following table;
the entity may notify the Commissioner of the amount on or before the day referred to in column 2 of that item.
Amounts to be notified to the CommissionerItemColumn 1This amount may be notified ... Column 2 ... on or before this day1A *reportable employer superannuation contribution made by the entity in respect of a *financial year for the benefit of an employee of the entity14 July in the next *financial year.2A *reportable fringe benefits amount that an employee of the entity has for an income year in respect of the employee&#39;s employment with the entity14 July in the *financial year most closely corresponding to the next income year.
 (4) The notification must be in the *approved form.
Note: The approved form may require information about other amounts, in addition to the amount to be notified: see paragraph  388-50(1)(c).
Section 389-20 Effect on reporting requirements under Subdivision  16-C
 (1) An entity is not required to comply with a requirement of:
 (a) subsection 16-150(1) (Commissioner must be notified of amounts); or
 (b) section 16-153 (annual reports--other payments); or
 (c) section 16-155 (annual payment summary); or
 (d) section 16-160 (part-year payment summary); or
 (e) section 16-165 (payment summaries for superannuation lump sums and payments for termination of employment); or
 (f) section 16-175 in relation to compliance with any requirements under section  16-155, 16-160 or 16-165;
to give a notice, report or statement to the extent that it would relate to an amount that the entity has notified under section 389-5 or 389 -15.
 (2) However, paragraphs  (1)(b), (c) and (e) do not apply, in relation to requirement to give a notice, report or statement relating to payments made in a *financial year, unless, within 14 days after the end of the financial year, the entity makes a declaration to the Commissioner that:
 (a) states that the entity has notified under section  389-5 or 389-15 all the information that the entity would otherwise be required to give under sections  16-153, 16-155 and 16-165 relating to payments made in the financial year; and
 (b) is in the *approved form.
Section 389-25 Grace periods for correcting false or misleading notifications
When notifications can be corrected
 (1) An entity that has made a statement (a withholding statement) under section 389-5 notifying an amount under item 1, 2 or 2A of the table in subsection  389-5(1) (and no other item in that table) may correct the statement:
 (a) within the period determined by the Commissioner under subsection  (2); or
 (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply but the entity is covered by a determination under subsection  (5)--within the period specified in that determination.
Note: Correcting the statement can protect the person from liability for a false or misleading withholding statement: see subsections  8K(2A), 8N(2) and 284-75(8).
Determinations for particular entities
 (2) The Commissioner may determine the period within which the entity may correct a withholding statement.
 (3) The Commissioner must give the entity written notice of the determination.
 (4) The entity may object, in the manner set out in Part  IVC, against a decision of the Commissioner determining a period under subsection (2) relating to the entity.
Determinations for classes of entities
 (5) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, determine the period within which entities included in a class of entities specified in the determination may correct a withholding statement.
Section 389-30 Voluntary reporting by employers in relation to child support laws
 (1) If there is an amount of a kind referred to in column 1 of an item of the following table, the entity referred to in that item may notify the Commissioner of the amount on or before the day referred to in column 2 of that item.
Amounts that may be notified to the CommissionerItemColumn 1This amount may be notified ... Column 2 ... on or before this day1An amount the entity deducted under Part IV of the Child Support (Registration and Collection) Act 1988 from salary or wages paid to an employee of the entitythe day on which the deduction is made.2A nil amount, if:(a) a notice given to the entity under subsection 45(1) of the Child Support (Registration and Collection) Act 1988 is in force on a day (the reporting day) in relation to a payer who is an employee of the entity; and(b) either:(i) the entity pays salary or wages to the employee on the reporting day but does not make a deduction under Part IV of that Act in relation to the employee and the payment; or(ii) the reporting day is a day on which the entity would ordinarily pay salary or wages to the employee, but the entity does not do so because no salary or wages are payablethe reporting day.3An amount the entity paid to the Child Support Registrar if:(a) the entity paid the amount in accordance with a notice given to the entity under section 72A of the Child Support (Registration and Collection) Act 1988 ; and(b) the entity is the employer of the relevant debtor referred to in that sectionthe day on which the amount is paid.
Note: Voluntary reporting of an amount referred to in item 1 or 2 of the table may affect the entity&#39;s reporting requirements under the Child Support (Registration and Collection) Act 1988: see subsection 47(1B) of that Act.
 (2) The notification must be in the *approved form.
Note: The approved form may require information about other amounts, in addition to the amount to be notified: see paragraph  388-50(1)(c).
 (3) A disclosure of personal information (within the meaning of the Privacy Act 1988) under subsection (1) is taken for the purposes of that Act to be authorised by this section.
 (4) The following terms used in the table in subsection  (1) have the same meaning as in the Child Support (Registration and Collection) Act 1988:
 (a) employee (for this purpose, the term has the same meaning as it has when used in Part IV of that Act);
 (b) employer;
 (c) payer;
 (d) salary or wages.
Section 389-35 Declaration where agent gives notification under this Division
 (1) This section applies if a notification of an amount that is required or permitted to be given under this Division is to be given to the Commissioner in the *approved form by an agent on behalf of an entity.
 (2) The entity may make a declaration in writing:
 (a) stating that the entity has authorised the agent to give one or more notifications under this Division to the Commissioner; and
 (b) declaring that any information the entity has provided, or will provide, to the agent for the preparation of any such notifications is, or will be, true and correct; and
 (c) specifying the day the declaration is made and the maximum period for the declaration (which must not exceed 12 months starting on the day the declaration is made).
 (3) If the entity makes a declaration under subsection  (2), then for the period in subsection (4):
 (a) subsection 388-65(1) does not apply in relation to any notifications to be given by the agent on behalf of the entity under this Division; and
 (b) subsections 388-65(2) to (6) apply to the declaration in the same way those subsections apply to a declaration made under subsection  388-65(1); and
 (c) for the purposes of section  388-70, the declaration is taken to be a declaration of the kind mentioned in paragraph 388-70(b).
 (4) The period for a declaration made under subsection  (2):
 (a) begins on the day the declaration is made; and
 (b) ends on the earliest of:
 (i) the last day of the period specified in the declaration; or
 (ii) if the entity withdraws the declaration--the day the agent is notified of the withdrawal; or
 (iii) if there is a material change in the relationship between the entity and the agent, or in the affairs of the entity since the declaration was made--the day the agent becomes aware of the change or is notified of the change by the entity.
Division 390--Superannuation reporting
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 390
Section 390-A Member information statements and roll-over superannuation benefit statements
Section 390-B Statements relating to release authorities
Section 390-C Other statements
 Guide to Division 390
Section 390-1 What this Division is about
Superannuation providers must give the Commissioner information about superannuation plans (such as contributions to superannuation plans) periodically.Superannuation providers are also required to give information about roll-over superannuation benefits paid from superannuation plans.Life insurance companies must give the Commissioner information about holders of certain life insurance policies.
Note: For requirements for payment summaries in relation to superannuation lump sums, see section  16-165.
Subdivision 390-A--Member information statements and roll-over superannuation benefit statements
Section 390-5 Member information statements
 (1) A *superannuation provider in relation to a *superannuation plan must give the Commissioner a statement in relation to an individual if the individual held a *superannuation interest in the plan at any time during the period specified in a determination under subsection (6).
Note 1: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
Note 2: If a person is dissatisfied with a statement given to the Commissioner by a superannuation provider under this section, the person may make a complaint under the AFCA scheme (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001).
 (4) A statement under subsection  (1) must be in the *approved form.
 (5) The statement must be given to the Commissioner on a day specified in the determination under subsection  (6).
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
 (6) The Commissioner may determine, by legislative instrument:
 (a) the period mentioned in subsection  (1); and
 (b) the day on which a statement must be given to the Commissioner.
 (7) The period specified in the determination:
 (a) may be:
 (i) all or part of an income year; or
 (ii) all or part of a financial year; or
 (iii) any other period; and
 (b) may be different:
 (i) for different kinds of *superannuation provider; and
 (ii) in relation to any other matter.
 (8) Subsection (7) does not limit the way in which the determination may specify the period.
 (9) The *approved form may require the statement to contain the following information:
 (a) information relating to the contributions made to the *superannuation plan, including the amount and type of the contributions;
 (b) the *value of any *superannuation interest, or superannuation account, the individual held in the superannuation plan at a particular time;
 (c) if no contributions were made to the superannuation plan in respect of the individual during the period--a statement to that effect;
 (d) information relating to the Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999;
 (e) if the superannuation plan is a *regulated superannuation fund in relation to which the individual has an LRBA amount under section 307-231 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about limited recourse borrowing arrangements)--the amount of the LRBA amount.
 (9A) Treat the following as contributions for the purposes of this section:
 (a) *notional taxed contributions in relation to a *defined benefit interest in the *superannuation plan;
 (b) amounts, mentioned in subsection  291-25(3) or paragraph 292-90(4)(a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, allocated by the *superannuation provider in relation to the superannuation plan;
 (c) amounts mentioned in paragraph  292-90(4)(c) of that Act;
 (d) *defined benefit contributions in relation to a *defined benefit interest in the superannuation plan.
 (10) Subsection (9) does not limit the information that the *approved form may require the statement to contain.
 (11) The *approved form may require the statement to contain the *tax file number of:
 (a) the *superannuation provider; and
 (b) the *superannuation plan; and
 (c) the individual who holds the *superannuation interest in the plan if:
 (i) the individual has quoted the individual&#39;s tax file number to the superannuation provider; or
 (ii) a person has quoted the individual&#39;s tax file number to the superannuation provider (and had authority to do so).
Section 390-7 Grace periods for correcting false or misleading member information statements
When statements can be corrected
 (1) A *superannuation provider in relation to a *superannuation plan that has given a statement to the Commissioner under section  390-5 may correct the statement:
 (a) within the period determined by the Commissioner under subsection  (2) of this section; or
 (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply but the superannuation provider is covered by a determination under subsection  (5)--within the period specified in that determination.
Note 1: Correcting the statement can protect the superannuation provider from liability for a false or misleading statement: see subsections  8K(2B), 8N(3) and 284-75(9).
Note 2: If no period has been determined under subsection (2) or (5) in relation to a superannuation provider, the superannuation provider will not be able to take advantage of the grace period provided for by this section.
Determinations for particular superannuation providers
 (2) The Commissioner may determine the period within which the *superannuation provider may correct a statement.
 (3) The Commissioner must give the *superannuation provider written notice of the determination.
 (4) The *superannuation provider may object, in the manner set out in Part IVC, against a decision of the Commissioner determining a period under subsection  (2) relating to the superannuation provider.
Determinations for classes of superannuation providers
 (5) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, determine the period within which *superannuation providers included in a class of superannuation providers specified in the determination may correct a statement.
Section 390-10 Statements about roll-over superannuation benefits etc.
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) a *superannuation provider (the first provider ) in relation to a *superannuation plan (the first plan) pays a *roll-over superannuation benefit to another superannuation provider in relation to another superannuation plan; or
 (b) a superannuation provider (also the first provider) in relation to a superannuation plan (also the first plan) pays to another superannuation provider in relation to another superannuation plan a *superannuation benefit (other than a roll-over superannuation benefit) in these circumstances:
 (i) the first plan or the other superannuation plan is, or both are, a *non-complying superannuation plan for the income year in which the benefit is paid; or
 (ii) the first plan or the other superannuation plan was, or both were, a non -complying superannuation plan for the previous income year.
 (2) The first provider in relation to the first plan must:
 (a) give the other superannuation provider a statement in relation to the benefit within 7 days after the day on which the benefit is paid; and
 (b) unless the benefit is an *involuntary roll-over superannuation benefit, give the individual in respect of whom the benefit is paid a statement in relation to the benefit within 30 days after the day on which the benefit is paid.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
 (3) A statement under subsection  (2) must be in the *approved form.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
 (4) The *approved form may require the statement to contain the following information:
 (a) information relating to contributions made to the first plan in respect of the individual during the period specified in a determination under subsection  (5) in which the benefit is paid, to the extent those contributions are reflected in that benefit;
 (b) other information relating to the benefit, including the *tax free component, *taxable component, *element taxed in the fund and *element untaxed in the fund (as applicable) of the benefit.
 (5) The Commissioner may determine, by legislative instrument, the period mentioned in paragraph (4)(a).
 (6) The period specified in the determination:
 (a) may be:
 (i) all or part of an income year; or
 (ii) all or part of a financial year; or
 (iii) any other period; and
 (b) may be different:
 (i) for different kinds of *superannuation provider; and
 (ii) in relation to any other matter.
 (7) Subsection (6) does not limit the way in which the determination may specify the period.
 (8) The *approved form may require the statement to contain different information depending on whether paragraph (1)(a) or (b) applies.
 (9) Subsections (4) and (8) do not limit the information that the *approved form may require the statement to contain.
 (10) The *approved form may require the statement to contain the *tax file number of:
 (a) the first provider; and
 (b) the first plan; and
 (c) the individual in respect of whom the benefit is paid if:
 (i) the individual has quoted the individual&#39;s tax file number to the first provider; or
 (ii) a person who made at least some of the contributions mentioned in paragraph  (4)(a) has quoted the individual&#39;s tax file number to the first provider (and had authority to do so).
Section 390-12 Statements about benefits paid to KiwiSaver schemes
 (1) This section applies if the trustee of a *complying superannuation fund pays a *superannuation benefit to a *KiwiSaver scheme provider.
 (2) The trustee must:
 (a) give to the *KiwiSaver scheme provider a statement under this section within 7 days after the day on which the benefit is paid; and
 (b) give to the individual in respect of whom the benefit is paid a statement in relation to the benefit within 30 days after the day on which the benefit is paid.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
 (3) A statement under subsection  (2) must be in the *approved form.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
 (4) The *approved form may require the statement to contain the following information:
 (a) information relating to contributions made to the *complying superannuation fund in respect of the individual during the period specified in a determination under subsection (5) in which the benefit is paid, to the extent those contributions are reflected in that benefit;
 (b) other information relating to the benefit, including the *tax free component and *taxable component (as applicable) of the benefit.
 (5) The Commissioner may determine, by legislative instrument, the period mentioned in paragraph  (4)(a).
 (6) The period specified in the determination:
 (a) may be:
 (i) all or part of an income year; or
 (ii) all or part of a *financial year; or
 (iii) any other period; and
 (b) may be different:
 (i) for different kinds of trustee; and
 (ii) in relation to any other matter.
 (7) Subsection (6) does not limit the way in which the determination may specify the period.
 (8) Subsection (4) does not limit the information that the *approved form may require the statement to contain.
Section 390-15 Superannuation statements to members
 (1) An individual, or the trustee of an individual&#39;s estate:
 (a) may ask a *superannuation provider who has given information in a statement under section 390-5, 390-10 or 390 -12 in relation to the individual to give the individual or the trustee the same information; and
 (b) may ask a *life insurance company that has given information in a statement under section 390-20 in relation to the individual to give the individual or the trustee the same information; and
 (c) may ask the superannuation provider or life insurance company to give the information in writing.
 (2) The *superannuation provider or *life insurance company must:
 (a) comply with the request within 30 days after receiving the request; and
 (b) if the individual or the trustee asked for the information to be given in writing--give the information in the *approved form.
Note 1: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
Note 2: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the *superannuation provider or *life insurance company has given the same information to the individual or the trustee previously (whether or not on request by the individual or trustee).
 (4) If the individual or the trustee does not ask for the information to be given in writing, the *superannuation provider or *life insurance company may give the information to the individual or trustee in a way that the provider or company considers appropriate.
Section 390-20 Statements relating to holders of certain life insurance policies
 (1) A *life insurance company must give the Commissioner a statement in relation to an individual if:
 (a) the individual held:
 (i) an *exempt life insurance policy that provides for an *annuity that is a *superannuation income stream that is in the *retirement phase; or
 (ii) a *life insurance policy covered by paragraph (b) of the definition of complying superannuation life insurance policy ; and
 (b) the individual held the policy at any time during the period specified in the determination under subsection  (3).
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
 (2) The statement must:
 (a) be in the *approved form; and
 (b) be given to the Commissioner on a day specified in the determination under subsection  (3).
 (3) The Commissioner may determine, by legislative instrument:
 (a) the period mentioned in subsection  (1); and
 (b) the day on which a statement must be given to the Commissioner.
 (4) The determination may specify a period beginning before, or a day before, the commencement of either or both of the following:
 (a) this section;
 (b) the determination.
 (5) The *approved form may require the statement to contain information about the policy held by the individual.
 (6) The *approved form may require the statement to contain the *tax file number of:
 (a) the *life insurance company; and
 (b) the individual who holds the policy if:
 (i) the individual has quoted the individual&#39;s tax file number to the life insurance company; or
 (ii) a person has quoted the individual&#39;s tax file number to the life insurance company (and had authority to do so).
Subdivision 390-B--Statements relating to release authorities
Section 390-65 Statements relating to release authorities
 (1) A *superannuation provider in relation to a *superannuation plan must give the Commissioner a statement under this section if the superannuation provider has:
 (a) been given a release authority in accordance with:
 (ii) section 292-80B of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997; or
 (iii) Subdivision 135-B in this Schedule; and
 (b) paid an amount out of the plan in accordance with the release authority.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
 (2) The statement must be given within 30 days after the amount is paid out of the plan.
 (3) A statement under subsection  (1) must be in the *approved form.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
 (4) The *approved form must require the statement to contain information relating to the release authority.
 (5) The *approved form may require the statement to contain the following information:
 (a) the amount paid;
 (b) details relating to the *superannuation provider in relation to the *superannuation plan;
 (c) the individual in respect of whom the release authority was given to the superannuation provider.
 (6) Subsection (5) does not limit the information that the *approved form may require the statement to contain.
 (7) The *superannuation provider must also give the individual to whom the release authority relates a copy of the statement within 30 days after the amount is paid out of the plan.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
Subdivision 390-C--Other statements
Section 390-115 Change or omission in information given to the Commissioner
 (1) If a *superannuation provider in relation to a *superannuation plan becomes aware of a material change or material omission in any information given to the Commissioner in relation to the plan under this Division, the provider must:
 (a) tell the Commissioner of the change in the *approved form; or
 (b) give the omitted information to the Commissioner in the approved form.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
 (2) Information required by subsection  (1) must be given no later than 30 days after the *superannuation provider becomes aware of the change or omission.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
Division 392--Employee share scheme reporting
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 392
Section 392-A Statements
Section 392-B Miscellaneous
 Guide to Division 392
Section 392-1 What this Division is about
A company that provides ESS interests to an individual under an employee share scheme during a year must, at the end of the year (and, in certain cases, at the end of a later year), give certain information to the Commissioner and to the individual.Note: For the tax treatment of employee share schemes, see Division  83A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Subdivision 392-A--Statements
Table of sections
Section 392-5 Statements by providers
Section 392-10 Change or omission in information given to the Commissioner
Section 392-5 Statements by providers
Statements
 (1) An entity (the provider) must give a statement to the Commissioner and to an individual for a *financial year if:
 (a) both of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the provider provides *ESS interests to the individual during the year;
 (ii) Subdivision 83A-B or 83A-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about employee share schemes) applies to the interests; or
 (b) all of the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the provider has provided ESS interests to the individual (whether during the year or during an earlier year);
 (ii) Subdivision 83A-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about employee share schemes) applies to the interests;
 (iii) the *ESS deferred taxing point for the interests occurs during the year.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
Form of statements
 (2) The statement must be in the *approved form.
 (3) The *approved form may require the statement to contain the following information:
 (a) the provider&#39;s *ABN;
 (b) the following information about the individual:
 (i) the individual&#39;s name and address;
 (ii) if the individual has quoted his or her *tax file number to the provider--that tax file number;
 (iii) if the individual acquired the interests in relation to any services provided to the provider, or to a *subsidiary of the provider, in the course or furtherance of an *enterprise *carried on by the individual, and the individual has *quoted his or her ABN to the provider--that ABN;
 (c) the following information about any interests to which both paragraph  (1)(a) of this section and Subdivision 83A-B of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 apply:
 (i) the number of the interests;
 (ii) the amount paid, at or before the time of acquisition, towards acquiring the interests;
 (iii) the provider&#39;s estimate of the *market value of the interests at the time of acquisition;
 (iv) the amount of *TFN withholding tax (ESS) paid or payable by the provider in respect of the interests during the year;
 (d) the following information about any interests to which both paragraph  (1)(a) of this section and Subdivision 83A-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 apply:
 (i) the number of the interests;
 (ii) the amount paid, at or before the time of acquisition, towards acquiring the interests;
 (e) the following information about any interests to which paragraph  (1)(b) applies:
 (i) the number of the interests;
 (ii) the amount paid, after the time of acquisition but not after the *ESS deferred taxing point, towards acquiring the interests;
 (iii) the provider&#39;s estimate of the market value of the interests at the ESS deferred taxing point;
 (iv) the amount of TFN withholding tax (ESS) paid or payable by the provider in respect of the interests during the year.
Note: Regulations made for the purposes of section 83A-315 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 may substitute different amounts for the market values of the ESS interests: see section 392-15 in this Schedule.
 (4) Subsection (3) does not limit the information that the *approved form may require the statement to contain.
When statements must be given
 (5) The statement must be given:
 (a) to the individual no later than 14  July after the end of the year; and
 (b) to the Commissioner no later than 14  August after the end of the year.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
Disregard 30 day rule for ESS deferred taxing point if provider does not know when shares are disposed of etc.
 (6) For the purposes of Subdivision  14-C (about TFN withholding tax (ESS)) and this Division, in working out the *ESS deferred taxing point for an *ESS interest, disregard subsection 83A-115(3) or 83A-120(3) (whichever is applicable) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about the 30 day rule) if the provider does not know the time worked out under that subsection at the earlier of:
 (a) the time (if any) the provider gives a statement to the relevant individual under this section for the *financial year mentioned in subsection (7); and
 (b) the later of:
 (i) 14 July after the end of the financial year mentioned in subsection  (7); and
 (ii) if, under section  388-55, the Commissioner defers to a later time the time within which the statement under this section for that financial year is required to be given to the individual--that later time.
 (7) The *financial year is the financial year in which the *ESS deferred taxing point for the *ESS interest occurs, disregarding subsection 83A-115(3) or 83A-120(3) (whichever is applicable) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about the 30 day rule).
Section 392-10 Change or omission in information given to the Commissioner
 (1) If the provider becomes aware of a material change or material omission in any information given to the individual or the Commissioner under this Division, the provider must:
 (a) tell the individual or the Commissioner, as applicable, of the change in the *approved form; or
 (b) give the omitted information to the individual or the Commissioner, as applicable, in the approved form.
 (2) Information required by subsection  (1) must be given no later than 30 days after the provider becomes aware of the change or omission.
Note 1: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
Note 2: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this section.
Subdivision 392-B--Miscellaneous
Table of sections
Section 392-15 Application of certain provisions of Division 83A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997
  The following provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 have effect for the purposes of this Division in the same way as they have for the purposes of Division 83A of that Act:
 (a) section 83A-130 (about takeovers and restructures);
 (b) section 83A-305 (about associates);
 (c) section 83A-315 (about market values and discounts);
 (d) section 83A-320 (about trusts);
 (e) section 83A-325 (about relationships similar to employment);
 (f) section 83A-335 (about stapled securities);
 (g) section 83A-340 (about indeterminate rights).
Division 393--Reports by investment bodies
 Guide to Division 393
Section 393-1 What this Division is about
An investment body must give to the Commissioner quarterly reports about the quoting of investors&#39; tax file numbers and ABNs, and annual reports on Part  VA investments.
Table of sections
Section 393-5 Reports about quoting tax file numbers and ABNs
Section 393-10 Annual investment income reports
Section 393-15 Errors in reports
Section 393-5 Reports about quoting tax file numbers and ABNs
 (1) If an entity is an *investment body in relation to a *Part VA investment for which either of the following occurs during a *quarter:
 (a) an *investor&#39;s *tax file number is *quoted in connection with the investment;
 (b) an investor&#39;s *ABN is quoted in connection with the investment;
the entity must give to the Commissioner a report on all Part VA investments, in relation to which the entity is an investment body, for which either of those events occurs during the quarter.
 (2) The report must be in the *approved form.
 (3) The report must be given to the Commissioner no later than 28 days after the end of the *quarter.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
 (4) Subsection (1) does not apply to an *investment body in relation to a *quarter for which the investment body has complied with an *arrangement in force between the investment body and the Commissioner relating to the reporting of *tax file numbers and *ABNs.
Section 393-10 Annual investment income reports
 (1) An entity must give to the Commissioner a report, for a *financial year, on all *Part VA investments in relation to which it was an *investment body at any time during the year.
 (2) The report must be in the *approved form.
 (3) The report must be given to the Commissioner within the following period after the end of the *financial year:
 (a) the period the Commissioner specifies by legislative instrument; or
 (b) otherwise--4 months.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
 (4) The report need not include particulars of an investment for which the return during the *financial year was less than $1.
 (5) Despite subsection  (1), the entity need not give to the Commissioner a report, for a *financial year during which the total number of *Part VA investments in relation to which it was an *investment body is less than:
 (a) the number the Commissioner specifies by legislative instrument; or
 (b) otherwise--10.
 (5A) Paragraph (5)(b) does not apply to an *investment body that is a *managed investment trust.
 (6) Subsection (1) does not apply to an *investment body in relation to a *financial year for which the investment body has complied with an *arrangement in force between the investment body and the Commissioner relating to the reporting on *Part VA investments.
Section 393-15 Errors in reports
 (1) An entity must give to the Commissioner a corrected report if:
 (a) the entity has given a report to the Commissioner under this Division; and
 (b) after giving the report, the entity becomes aware of a material error in it.
 (2) The report must be in the *approved form.
 (3) The report must be given to the Commissioner no later than 28 days after the entity becomes aware of the error.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
Division 394--Reporting about forestry managed investment schemes
 Guide to Division 394
Section 394-1 What this Division is about
A forestry manager of a forestry managed investment scheme must give the Commissioner information about initial contributions by participants in the scheme. The forestry manager must also inform the Commissioner if the trees are not established under the scheme within 18 months of the first investment in the scheme.
Table of sections
Section 394-5 Statements about initial contributions to scheme
Section 394-10 Statements about failure to establish trees within 18 months
Section 394-5 Statements about initial contributions to scheme
 (1) The *forestry manager of a *forestry managed investment scheme must give the Commissioner a statement in relation to the scheme if:
 (a) the scheme satisfies the requirement in paragraph  394-10(1)(c) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the *70% DFE rule); and
 (b) the forestry manager (or an *associate of the forestry manager) receives an amount under the scheme that is included in the forestry manager&#39;s (or the associate&#39;s) assessable income under section  15-46 of that Act; and
 (c) that amount is the amount that is first paid under the scheme by a *participant in the scheme.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
 (2) A statement under subsection (1) must be in the *approved form.
 (3) The statement must be given to the Commissioner within 3 months after the end of the income year in which the *forestry manager (or the *associate) receives the amount.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
 (4) The *approved form may require the statement to contain the following information:
 (a) the name of the scheme;
 (b) information relating to the identity of the *forestry manager (or the *associate);
 (c) information relating to the amounts paid or payable under the scheme by *participants in the scheme.
 (5) Subsection (4) does not limit the information that the *approved form may require the statement to contain.
Section 394-10 Statements about failure to establish trees within 18 months
 (1) If:
 (a) a *forestry managed investment scheme satisfies the requirement in paragraph 394-10(1)(c) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (the *70% DFE rule); and
 (b) the condition in subsection  394-10(4) of that Act is not satisfied in relation to the scheme;
the *forestry manager of the scheme must give the Commissioner a statement in relation to the reasons why that condition was not satisfied.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
 (2) A statement under subsection  (1) must be in the *approved form.
 (3) The statement must be given to the Commissioner within 3 months after the end of the 18 months mentioned in subsection  394-10(4) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
 (4) The *approved form may require the statement to contain the following information:
 (a) the name of the scheme;
 (b) information relating to the identity of the *forestry manager;
 (c) information relating to the circumstances that gave rise to the condition not being satisfied.
 (5) Subsection (4) does not limit the information that the *approved form may require the statement to contain.
Division 396--Third party reporting
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 396
Section 396-A FATCA
Section 396-B Information about transactions that could have tax consequences for taxpayers
Section 396-C Common Reporting Standard
 Guide to Division 396
Section 396-1A What this Division is about
This Division requires: (a) financial institutions to give to the Commissioner information for the purposes of the FATCA Agreement and the Common Reporting Standard; and (b) certain entities to give to the Commissioner information about transactions that could have tax consequences for other entities.
Subdivision 396-A--FATCA
 Guide to Subdivision 396-A
Section 396-1 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision gives effect to the FATCA Agreement between the Government of Australia and the Government of the United States of America.Reporting Australian Financial Institutions must give the Commissioner certain information about U.S. Reportable Accounts. For the 2015 and 2016 calendar years, they must also give the Commissioner information about payments made to Nonparticipating Financial Institutions.This Subdivision also creates record-keeping obligations in relation to the requirements to give the Commissioner information.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 396-5 Statements about U.S. Reportable Accounts
Section 396-10 Statements about payments to Nonparticipating Financial Institutions
Section 396-15 Meaning of the FATCA Agreement
Section 396-20 Permissions and elections
Section 396-25 Record keeping
 Operative provisions
Section 396-5 Statements about U.S. Reportable Accounts
 (1) Subsection (2) applies if:
 (a) an entity is a Reporting Australian Financial Institution (within the meaning of the *FATCA Agreement) at any time in a calendar year; and
 (b) the entity maintains a U.S. Reportable Account (within the meaning of the FATCA Agreement) at any time in the year.
 (2) The entity must give the Commissioner a statement that contains the information in respect of that U.S. Reportable Account that the Australian Government is required to obtain in order for it to fulfil its obligations under the *FATCA Agreement in respect of that U.S. Reportable Account.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
 (3) The information contained in the statement must be determined by the entity by applying the due diligence procedures required under the *FATCA Agreement.
Note: Those due diligence procedures are specified in Annex I to the FATCA Agreement, subject to the application of Article 7 of that Agreement (consistency in the application of FATCA to partner jurisdictions).
 (4) A statement under subsection  (2) must be in the *approved form.
 (5) More than one statement under subsection  (2) may be included in the same document.
 (6) The statement must be given to the Commissioner no later than the first 31  July after the end of the calendar year.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
Section 396-10 Statements about payments to Nonparticipating Financial Institutions
 (1) Subsection (2) applies if:
 (a) an entity is a Reporting Australian Financial Institution (within the meaning of the *FATCA Agreement) at any time in a calendar year; and
 (b) the calendar year is the 2015 or 2016 year; and
 (c) the entity makes a payment to a Nonparticipating Financial Institution (within the meaning of the FATCA Agreement) at any time in the year.
 (2) The entity must give the Commissioner a statement that contains the information in respect of that payment that the Australian Government is required to obtain in order for it to fulfil its obligations under the *FATCA Agreement in respect of that payment.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
 (3) The information contained in the statement must be determined by the entity by applying the due diligence procedures required under the *FATCA Agreement.
Note: Those due diligence procedures are specified in Annex I to the FATCA Agreement, subject to the application of Article 7 of that Agreement (consistency in the application of FATCA to partner jurisdictions).
 (4) A statement under subsection  (2) must be in the *approved form.
 (5) More than one statement under subsection  (2) may be included in the same document.
 (6) The statement must be given to the Commissioner no later than the first 31  July after the end of the calendar year.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
Section 396-15 Meaning of the FATCA Agreement
  The FATCA Agreement is the Agreement between the Government of Australia and the Government of the United States of America to Improve International Tax Compliance and to Implement FATCA, done at Canberra on 28 April 2014.
Note: The text of the Agreement is set out in Australian Treaty Series [2014] ATNIF 5. In 2014, the text of the Agreement in the Australian Treaty Series was accessible through the Australian Treaties Library on the AustLII website (www.austlii.edu.au).
Section 396-20 Permissions and elections
 (1) This section applies, for the purposes of this Subdivision:
 (a) in determining whether the conditions in subsections  396-5(1) and 396-10(1) are satisfied; and
 (b) in determining which information the Australian Government is required to obtain in order for it to fulfil its obligations under the *FATCA Agreement.
 (2) To the extent that the *FATCA Agreement gives Australia the ability to permit an entity to use or rely on matters provided for in U.S. Treasury Regulations in determining obligations under the FATCA Agreement, assume that the permission has been given.
 (3) To the extent that the *FATCA Agreement gives Australia the ability to provide for an entity to make an election in determining obligations under the FATCA Agreement, assume that the entity may make the election.
Section 396-25 Record keeping
 (1) If an entity is obliged to give the Commissioner a statement under subsection  396-5(2) or 396-10(2), the entity must keep written records that:
 (a) correctly record the procedures by which the entity determines the information that is required to be contained in the statement; and
 (b) are in English, or readily accessible and easily convertible into English.
 (2) The entity must retain the records until the expiration of 5 years after the entity gives the Commissioner the statement under subsection  396-5(2) or 396-10(2).
Note: Section 288-25 imposes an administrative penalty if an entity does not keep and retain records as required by this section.
Subdivision 396-B--Information about transactions that could have tax consequences for taxpayers
 Guide to Subdivision 396-B
Section 396-50 What this Subdivision is about
The Commissioner can require certain entities to give information about transactions that could reasonably be expected to have tax consequences for other entities.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 396-55 Reporting tax-related information about transactions to the Commissioner
Section 396-60 Information required
Section 396-65 Exemptions--wholesale clients
Section 396-70 Exemptions--other cases
Section 396-75 Errors in reports
 Operative provisions
Section 396-55 Reporting tax-related information about transactions to the Commissioner
  An entity mentioned in column 1 of an item of this table must:
 (a) prepare a report in the *approved form setting out information about any transactions described in that item that happened during this period:
 (i) a *financial year; or
 (ii) such other period as the Commissioner specifies by legislative instrument for that item; and
 (b) give the report to the Commissioner on or before:
 (i) the 31st day after the end of that period; or
 (ii) such other time after the end of that period as the Commissioner specifies by legislative instrument for that item;
unless section 396-65, or a notice or determination under section 396-70, provides that the entity is not required to do so.
Information to be reported by third parties about transactions Column 1Column 2ItemThis entity:must report information about this transaction:1a government related entity (within the meaning of the *GST Act), other than a *local governing bodythe provision of a grant by the entity to an entity that has an *ABN2a government related entity (within the meaning of the *GST Act)the provision of consideration (within the meaning of the *GST Act):(a) by the entity to an entity; and(b) wholly or partly for a *supply of services;unless the supply of services is merely incidental to a supply of goods (within the meaning of the GST Act)3a State or Territorythe transfer of a freehold or leasehold interest in real property situated in the State or Territory4*ASICa transaction about which data has been delivered to *ASIC under the *market integrity rules 5a participant (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) in an *Australian financial marketa transaction, involving the participant, that:(a) results in a change to the type, name or number of *shares in a company, or units in a unit trust, that are held by another entity; and(b) is a transaction about which data is required to be delivered to *ASIC under the *market integrity rules6a company whose *shares are listed for quotation in the official list of an *Australian financial marketa transaction that:(a) results in a change to the type, name or number of *shares in the company that are held by an entity; and(b) is not a transaction about which data is required to be delivered to *ASIC under the *market integrity rulesInformation to be reported by third parties about transactions Column 1Column 2ItemThis entity:must report information about this transaction:1a government related entity (within the meaning of the *GST Act), other than a *local governing bodythe provision of a grant by the entity to an entity that has an *ABN2a government related entity (within the meaning of the *GST Act)the provision of consideration (within the meaning of the *GST Act):(a) by the entity to an entity; and(b) wholly or partly for a *supply of services;unless the supply of services is merely incidental to a supply of goods (within the meaning of the GST Act)3a State or Territorythe transfer of a freehold or leasehold interest in real property situated in the State or Territory4*ASICa transaction about which data has been delivered to *ASIC under the *market integrity rules 5a participant (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) in an *Australian financial marketa transaction, involving the participant, that:(a) results in a change to the type, name or number of *shares in a company, or units in a unit trust, that are held by another entity; and(b) is a transaction about which data is required to be delivered to *ASIC under the *market integrity rules6a company whose *shares are listed for quotation in the official list of an *Australian financial marketa transaction that:(a) results in a change to the type, name or number of *shares in the company that are held by an entity; and(b) is not a transaction about which data is required to be delivered to *ASIC under the *market integrity rules7the trustee of a unit trusta transaction that:(a) results in a change to the type, name or number of units in the unit trust that are held by an entity; and(b) is not a transaction about which data is required to be delivered to *ASIC under the *market integrity rules8the trustee of a trust (other than a unit trust)a transaction that results in a change to the type, name or number of any *shares in a company, or units in a unit trust:(a) that are held as assets of the trust; and(b) to which one or more entities are absolutely entitled as beneficiaries of the trust;unless the trustee gives the Commissioner an *income tax return for the income year in which the transaction was entered into 9an administrator of a payment system (within the meaning of the Payment Systems (Regulation) Act 1998)a transaction involving an electronic payment if:(a) the transaction is facilitated by the payment system on behalf of an entity; and(b) the administrator reasonably believes that the transaction:(i) provides a payment to the entity, or provides a refund or cash to a customer of the entity; and(ii) is for the purposes of a *business carried on by the entity9Aan *eligible community housing providerthe issuing by the provider of a certificate under section 980-15 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 199710a companythe issuing by the company of a *share that could give rise to an entitlement to a *tax offset (or a modified CGT treatment) under Subdivision  360-A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 199711an entity that makes a *supply of a cleaning service and has an *ABNthe provision of consideration (within the meaning of the *GST Act) by the entity to another entity wholly or partly for the *supply by the other entity of a cleaning service, unless:(a) the entities are *members of the same *consolidated group or *MEC group; or(b) Division 12 requires that an amount be withheld from the payment of the consideration12an entity that makes a *supply of a courier service or a road freight service and has an *ABNthe provision of consideration (within the meaning of the *GST Act) by the entity to another entity wholly or partly for the *supply by the other entity of a courier service or a road freight service, unless:(a) the entities are *members of the same *consolidated group or *MEC group; or(b) Division 12 requires that an amount be withheld from the payment of the consideration 13an entity that makes a *supply of a security, investigation or surveillance service and has an *ABNthe provision of consideration (within the meaning of the *GST Act) by the entity to another entity wholly or partly for the *supply by the other entity of a security, investigation or surveillance service, unless:(a) the entities are *members of the same *consolidated group or *MEC group; or(b) Division 12 requires that an amount be withheld from the payment of the consideration14an entity that makes a *supply of an information technology service and has an *ABNthe provision of consideration (within the meaning of the *GST Act) by the entity to another entity wholly or partly for the *supply by the other entity of an information technology service, unless:(a) the entities are *members of the same *consolidated group or *MEC group; or(b) Division 12 requires that an amount be withheld from the payment of the consideration 15an operator of an electronic distribution platform (within the meaning of the *GST Act, but disregarding paragraph 84-70(1)(c) of that Act)the provision of consideration (within the meaning of the GST Act) by an entity to another entity (the supplier) wholly or partly for a *supply made by the supplier through the electronic distribution platform, if:(a) the supply is connected with the indirect tax zone (within the meaning of the GST Act), or would be connected with the indirect tax zone (within the meaning of the GST Act) if the definition of indirect tax zone in the GST Act included the external Territories; and(b) no amount is required by Division 12 to be withheld from the payment of the consideration; and(c) the operator and the supplier are not *members of the same *consolidated group or *MEC group; and(d) the supply is not any of the following:(i) a supply by way of transfer of ownership of goods (within the meaning of the GST Act);(ii) a supply by way of transfer of ownership of real property (within the meaning of the GST Act);(iii) a financial supply (within the meaning of the GST Act)
Note: An administrative penalty applies to a failure to give the report by that time (see subsection  286-75(1)). An administrative penalty applies for any false statements in the report (see section 284-75).
Section 396-60 Information required
Transactions not involving market participants
 (1) For the purposes of section  396-55, the information required by the *approved form about a transaction (other than a transaction described in table item  5 in that section):
 (a) must relate to:
 (i) the identification, collection or recovery of a possible *tax-related liability; or
 (ii) the identification of a possible reduction of a possible tax -related liability;
  of a party to the transaction (disregarding any exemption under a *taxation law that may apply to those parties); and
 (b) may relate to identifying the parties to the transaction; and
 (c) for a transaction described in table item  3 in that section--may include the *tax file numbers of those parties to the transaction who have quoted their tax file numbers to the State or Territory concerned.
Transactions involving market participants
 (2) For the purposes of section  396-55, the information required by the *approved form about a transaction described in table item  5 in that section must relate to identifying the parties to the transaction.
Some reporting entities may request tax file numbers
 (3) A State or Territory may request an entity to quote the entity&#39;s *tax file number to the State or Territory if:
 (a) the tax file number is for a report by the State or Territory under section  396-55 about a transaction described in table item 3 in that section; and
 (b) the entity is a party to the transaction.
Section 396-65 Exemptions--wholesale clients
 (1) An entity is not required to include, in a report under section  396-55, information about a transaction described in table item 5, 6 or 7 in that section to the extent that the information relates to a party to the transaction:
 (a) who is not an individual; and
 (b) who, under the transaction, is being provided with:
 (i) a financial product (within the meaning of Division  3 of Part 7.1 of the Corporations Act 2001); or
 (ii) a financial service (within the meaning of that Act);
  as a wholesale client (within the meaning of that Act).
Note: This exemption does not apply to information relating to any other party to the transaction, such as the party providing the product or service.
 (2) An entity is not required to include, in a report under section  396-55, information about a transaction described in table item 8 in that section to the extent that the information relates to a beneficiary mentioned in that item:
 (a) who is not an individual; and
 (b) who, under the transaction, is being provided with:
 (i) a financial product (within the meaning of Division  3 of Part 7.1 of the Corporations Act 2001); or
 (ii) a financial service (within the meaning of that Act);
  as a wholesale client (within the meaning of that Act).
Note: This exemption does not apply to information relating to any other party to the transaction, such as the party providing the product or service.
Section 396-70 Exemptions--other cases
Exemptions for particular entities
 (1) The Commissioner may, in writing, notify an entity that it:
 (a) is not required to prepare and give reports under section  396-55; or
 (b) is not required to do so for specified classes of transactions.
 (2) An entity dissatisfied with a decision to:
 (a) give it a notice under subsection  (1); or
 (b) not give it a notice under subsection  (1);
may object against the decision in the manner set out in Part IVC.
 (3) A notice under subsection  (1) is not a legislative instrument.
General exemptions
 (4) The Commissioner may, by legislative instrument, determine that specified classes of entities:
 (a) are not required to prepare and give reports under section  396-55; or
 (b) are not required to do so for specified classes of transactions.
Section 396-75 Errors in reports
 (1) An entity must give to the Commissioner a corrected report if:
 (a) the entity has given a report to the Commissioner under this Subdivision; and
 (b) after giving the report, the entity becomes aware of a material error in it.
 (2) The report must be in the *approved form.
 (3) The report must be given to the Commissioner no later than 28 days after the entity becomes aware of the error.
Note 1: An administrative penalty applies to a failure to give the report by that time (see subsection  286-75(1)). An administrative penalty applies for any false statements in the report (see section 284-75).
Note 2: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
Subdivision 396-C--Common Reporting Standard
 Guide to Subdivision 396-C
Section 396-100 What this Subdivision is about
Australian Financial Institutions must give the Commissioner certain information about accounts of foreign residents. This obligation is based on the Common Reporting Standard.Note 1: This obligation will assist the Australian Government to exchange information with other jurisdictions in accordance with international agreements, such as the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, done at Strasbourg on 25  January 1988. In 2015, the text of the Convention was available on the OECD&#39;s website (http://www.oecd.org).Note 2: The purpose of the Common Reporting Standard is to reduce international tax evasion. It sets out due diligence procedures for financial institutions to apply to identify account holders that are foreign tax residents, and provides for financial institutions to report information with respect to such account holders.This Subdivision also creates record-keeping obligations in relation to the requirement to give the Commissioner information.This Subdivision also requires the Commissioner to report on certain Reportable Accounts that are maintained by Australian Reporting Financial Institutions.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 396-105 Statements about Reportable Accounts
Section 396-110 Meaning of CRS
Section 396-115 Matters Common Reporting Standard leaves to domestic law
Section 396-120 Application of Common Reporting Standard
Section 396-125 Record keeping
Section 396-130 Anti-avoidance provisions
Section 396-135 Application of penalty to false or misleading self -certification
Section 396-136 Report on Reportable Accounts maintained by Australian Reporting Financial Institutions
 Operative provisions
Section 396-105 Statements about Reportable Accounts
 (1) Subsection (2) applies if:
 (a) at any time in a calendar year, an entity:
 (i) is a Reporting Financial Institution (within the meaning of the *CRS); or
 (ii) is an institution that a notice under subsection  396-130(5) requires to act as a Reporting Financial Institution; and
 (b) at that time in the year, the entity:
 (i) is resident in Australia (within the meaning of the CRS); or
 (ii) is a branch located in Australia (within the meaning of the CRS); and
 (c) at any time in the year, the entity maintains:
 (i) a Reportable Account (within the meaning of the CRS); or
 (ii) an account that a notice under subsection  396-130(2) requires the entity to treat as a Reportable Account.
Note: Subsection 396-120(3) applies the CRS to all jurisdictions.
 (2) The entity must give the Commissioner a statement that contains in respect of the account the information that the *CRS states the entity must report.
Note: Section 286-75 provides an administrative penalty for breach of this subsection.
 (3) Whether an entity maintains a Reportable Account (within the meaning of the *CRS) must be determined by the entity by applying the due diligence procedures described in the CRS.
Note: Section 288-85 provides an administrative penalty for failing to obtain a self -certification in relation to the account when applying the due diligence procedures.
 (4) A statement under subsection  (2) must be in the *approved form.
 (5) More than one statement under subsection  (2) may be included in the same document.
 (6) The statement must be given to the Commissioner no later than the first 31  July after the end of the calendar year.
Note: Section 388-55 allows the Commissioner to defer the time for giving an approved form.
Section 396-110 Meaning of CRS
 (1) The CRS is the Common Reporting Standard set out in Part II.B of the Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information in Tax Matters approved by the Council of the Organisation for Economic Co -Operation and Development on 15 July 2014.
Note: In 2015, the text of the Standard was available on the OECD&#39;s website (http://www.oecd.org).
 (2) Subject to section  396-120, for the purposes of this Subdivision, the *CRS must be applied consistently with Part  III.B (the CRS Commentary) of the Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information in Tax Matters.
Section 396-115 Matters Common Reporting Standard leaves to domestic law
Defined terms
 (1) For the purposes of subparagraph B(1)(c) of Section VIII of the *CRS, the following Entities (within the meaning of the CRS) are defined as Non-Reporting Financial Institutions:
 (a) an Entity (other than a *self managed superannuation fund or a *small superannuation fund) to which any of the following paragraphs of Annex II of the *FATCA Agreement applies:
 (i) paragraph A (government entity), B (international organisation) or C (central bank) of section I;
 (ii) paragraph A (retirement fund) of section II;
 (b) an Entity the Minister prescribes by legislative instrument.
 (2) Subparagraph (1)(a)(i) does not apply with respect to a payment that is derived from an obligation held in connection with a commercial financial activity of a type engaged in by a Specified Insurance Company, Custodial Institution, or Depository Institution (within the meaning of the *CRS).
 (3) For the purposes of subparagraph C(17)(g) of Section VIII of the *CRS, the following accounts are defined as Excluded Accounts:
 (a) an account to which any of the following subparagraphs of paragraph A of section V of Annex II of the *FATCA Agreement applies:
 (i) subparagraph (1) (retirement and pension accounts);
 (ii) subparagraph (3) (certain other tax -favoured accounts);
 (aa) a *self managed superannuation fund account;
 (ab) a *small superannuation fund account;
 (b) an account the Minister prescribes by legislative instrument.
Elections by entities
 (4) To the extent that the *CRS gives Australia the ability to provide for an entity to make an election in determining obligations under the CRS, assume that the entity may make the election.
Modifications mentioned in CRS Commentary
 (5) The *CRS has effect with the following modifications mentioned in the *CRS Commentary:
 (a) the inclusion mentioned in paragraph  13 of the Commentary on Section VII concerning Special Due Diligence Requirements;
 (b) the 2 replacements mentioned in paragraph  82 of the Commentary on Section VIII concerning Defined Terms.
Section 396-120 Application of Common Reporting Standard
Scope of this section
 (1) This section applies:
 (a) for the purposes of section 288-85 (Failure by Reporting Financial Institution to obtain self -certification); and
 (b) for the purposes of this Subdivision:
 (i) in determining whether the conditions in subsection  396-105(1) are satisfied; and
 (ii) in determining which information the *CRS states a Reporting Financial Institution must report.
General reporting requirements
 (2) Paragraph F of Section I of the *CRS is to be disregarded.
Reportable and Participating Jurisdictions
 (3) All jurisdictions (other than Australia) are to be treated as Reportable Jurisdictions.
 (4) Without limiting subparagraph D(5) of Section VIII of the *CRS, Australia is to be treated as a Participating Jurisdiction.
Accounts
 (5) Without limiting subparagraph D(1) of Section VIII of the *CRS, an account maintained by a Reporting Financial Institution for an entity is treated as being a Reportable Account (within the meaning of the CRS) if:
 (a) the Reporting Financial Institution does not apply the due diligence procedures described in the CRS in relation to the account; and
 (b) the CRS does not state that the account is not required to be identified; and
 (c) the account would be such a Reportable Account if the Reporting Financial Institution applied those procedures.
 (6) The date provided for in subparagraph C(9) of Section VIII of the *CRS (about Preexisting Accounts) (as affected by paragraph 396-115(5)(b) in this Schedule) is taken to be 30  June 2017.
 (7) A reference in the *CRS to a New Account is treated as being a reference to a Financial Account maintained by a Reporting Financial Institution that is not a Preexisting Account.
Dollar amounts
 (8) An entity may choose to treat all dollar amounts in the *CRS as being in Australian dollars.
Note: Otherwise, all dollar amounts are in United States dollars: see subparagraph C(4) of Section VII of the CRS.
Section 396-125 Record keeping
 (1) If paragraph  396-105(1)(a) applies to an entity for a calendar year, the entity must keep written records that:
 (a) correctly record the procedures by which the entity determines:
 (i) whether, at any time during the year, the entity maintains an account to which paragraph  396-105(1)(c) applies; and
 (ii) the information that is required to be contained in the statement (if any) the entity is obliged to give the Commissioner under subsection  396-105(2); and
 (b) are in English, or readily accessible and easily convertible into English.
 (2) The entity must retain the records, to the extent that they relate to a particular account, until:
 (a) the expiration of 5 years after the entity gives the Commissioner the statement in respect of the account under subsection  396-105(2); or
 (b) if the entity is not required to give the Commissioner a statement in respect of the account for the year--31  July in the sixth year after the end of the year.
Note: Section 288-25 imposes an administrative penalty if an entity does not keep and retain records as required by this section.
Section 396-130 Anti-avoidance provisions
Commissioner may require an account to be treated as a Reportable Account
 (1) The Commissioner may require an entity that:
 (a) is a Reporting Financial Institution (within the meaning of the *CRS); or
 (b) is a Financial Institution that a notice under subsection  (5) requires to act as a Reporting Financial Institution;
to treat an account the institution maintains or has maintained as if it is a Reportable Account (within the meaning of the CRS), if the Commissioner reasonably believes that:
 (c) the account would not be, or would not have been, such a Reportable Account if the Commissioner had not made such a requirement; and
 (d) one or more of the following:
 (ia) the Reporting Financial Institution;
 (ib) the Account Holder (within the meaning of the CRS);
 (ic) an intermediary of the Reporting Financial Institution or the Account Holder;
 (id) any other entity;
  undertook a transaction, or entered into an *arrangement:
 (i) for the purpose of causing the account not to be such a Reportable Account; or
 (ii) for 2 or more purposes of which that purpose is the dominant purpose.
 (2) The Commissioner must give written notice of the requirement to the Reporting Financial Institution.
 (3) The Reporting Financial Institution may object, in the manner set out in Part  IVC, against the Commissioner&#39;s decision to give the notice.
Commissioner may require a Financial Institution to act as a Reporting Financial Institution
 (4) The Commissioner may require an entity that is a Financial Institution (within the meaning of the *CRS) to act as if it is a Reporting Financial Institution (within the meaning of the CRS), if the Commissioner reasonably believes that:
 (a) the institution would not be, or would not have been, such a Reporting Financial Institution if the Commissioner had not made such a requirement; and
 (b) the Financial Institution undertook a transaction, or entered into an *arrangement:
 (i) for the purpose of causing the institution not to be such a Reporting Financial Institution; or
 (ii) for 2 or more purposes of which that purpose is the dominant purpose.
 (5) The Commissioner must give written notice of the requirement to the institution.
 (6) The institution may object, in the manner set out in Part  IVC, against the Commissioner&#39;s decision to give the notice.
Section 396-135 Application of penalty to false or misleading self -certification
  For the purposes of applying Part  4-25 (Charge and penalties) in relation to a statement that is, or that relates to, a self-certification (within the meaning of the *CRS) that a Reporting Financial Institution is required to obtain when applying, under subsection 396-105(3), the due diligence procedures described in the CRS:
 (a) the CRS is treated as permitting the self -certification; and
 (b) the CRS is treated as being a *taxation law (but not an *Excise Act).
Note: You are liable to an administrative penalty under subsection 284-75(4) if you give a self -certification that is false or misleading in a material particular.
Section 396-136 Report on Reportable Accounts maintained by Australian Reporting Financial Institutions
 (1) This section applies if:
 (a) the Commissioner receives one or more statements under subsection  396-105(2) in relation to:
 (i) the 2018 calendar year; or
 (ii) a calendar year commencing after 2018; and
 (b) the statement contains information about a Reportable Account (within the meaning of the CRS); and
 (c) the total number of accounts of the kind mentioned in paragraph  (b) for a jurisdiction (other than Australia) that is a Reportable Jurisdiction (within the meaning of the CRS) (the relevant jurisdiction) for the calendar year is 6 or more.
 (2) The Commissioner must, no later than 31  December of the year following the calendar year, prepare and give to the Minister a report that sets out for each relevant jurisdiction in relation to the calendar year the following information:
 (a) the total number of accounts of the kind mentioned in paragraph  (1)(b);
 (b) the sum of the amounts in those accounts.
 (3) The Minister must cause a copy of the report given under subsection  (2) to be tabled in each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after the day on which the Minister receives the report.
 (4) The report given under subsection  (2) is not a legislative instrument.
Division 398--Miscellaneous reporting obligations
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 398
Section 398-A Farm Management Deposit reporting
 Guide to Division 398
Section 398-1 What this Division is about
This Division contains reporting obligations not covered by other Divisions of this Part.
Subdivision 398-A--Farm Management Deposit reporting
Table of sections
Section 398-5 Reporting to Agriculture Department
FMD provider must provide monthly information
 (1) An *FMD provider must, before the 11th day after the end of a calendar month, give in writing to the *Agriculture Secretary the information specified in subsection  (3) if the provider holds a *farm management deposit at the end of that month.
Penalty: 10 penalty units.
 (2) An offence under subsection  (1) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code .
Information required
 (3) The information is:
 (a) the number of *farm management deposits held at the end of that month; and
 (b) the number of depositors in respect of such deposits at the end of that month; and
 (c) the sum of the balances of such deposits at the end of that month; and
 (d) any other information, in relation to farm management deposits held by the *FMD provider at any time in that month, that is required by the regulations for the purposes of this section.
Regulations not to require identity of depositor
 (4) Regulations made for the purposes of paragraph  (3)(d) must not require information:
 (a) that discloses the identity of a depositor; or
 (b) from which the identity of a depositor could reasonably be inferred.
Part 5-30--Payment, ABN and identification verification system
Division 400--Guide to Part 5-30
Section 400-1 What Part  5-30 is about
To improve compliance with the tax laws that relate to payments for certain supplies, this Part  imposes additional requirements on purchasers and suppliers.The additional requirements relate to verification of ABNs and to reporting information about payments.Regulations will specify the supplies that are covered and the additional requirements that apply to payments for those supplies.
Section 400-5 The payment, ABN and identification verification system
 (1) There are 4 components in the payment, ABN and identification verification system:
 (a) transaction reporting by purchasers (Division  405);
 (b) transaction reporting by suppliers (Division  410);
 (c) verification of suppliers&#39; *ABNs by purchasers (Division 415);
 (d) verification of suppliers&#39; identities by purchasers (Division  417);
One or more of the components may apply to a particular payment. The regulations will specify which components apply.
 (2) Where a component of the system applies to a payment, the requirements of that component must be complied with.
Division 405--Transaction reporting by purchasers
Table of sections
Section 405-5 Payments to which this Division applies
Section 405-10 Reporting requirements
Section 405-15 Invoices produced by purchasers
Section 405-5 Payments to which this Division applies
 (1) This Division applies to any payments made, or liable to be made, for a *supply where the supply is specified in regulations made for the purpose of this section.
 (2) A payment is liable to be made if the obligation to make the payment is notified in an *invoice.
 (3) Payments to which this Division applies are called Division 405 payments.
 (4) Without limiting the ways in which the regulations may specify a *supply, the regulations may specify a supply by reference to:
 (a) the goods or services supplied; or
 (b) the supplier; or
 (c) the purchaser.
Section 405-10 Reporting requirements
 (1) Any entity (the purchaser) that makes, or is liable to make, a *Division 405 payment during a *quarter must give a *Division 405 report to the Commissioner within 21 days after the end of the quarter.
 (2) A Division 405 report is a written statement in the *approved form that names the purchaser and, for each supplier in relation to whom the purchaser made, or was liable to make, a *Division 405 payment during the *quarter:
 (a) names the supplier; and
 (b) specifies the supplier&#39;s *ABN (if known by the purchaser); and
 (c) specifies the total of the Division  405 payments that the purchaser made, or was liable to make, to the supplier during the quarter that:
 (i) were notified in an invoice during the quarter (unless the payment was reported in an earlier Division  405 report); or
 (ii) were made during the quarter but for which no invoice had been received before the end of the quarter.
The report must also include any other information that the Commissioner requires.
 (3) The Commissioner may, in writing, require particular information to be included in a *Division 405 report or a class of Division 405 reports.
 (4) The Commissioner may, by written notice, vary any requirements under subsection  (1), (2) or (3) in relation to a purchaser or class of purchaser. The Commissioner may do so in such instances and to such extent as the Commissioner thinks fit.
Section 405-15 Invoices produced by purchasers
  If a purchaser produces an *invoice that notifies the purchaser&#39;s obligation to make a payment, the purchaser is taken to have been notified of the payment at the time that the invoice is produced.
Division 410--Transaction reporting by suppliers
Table of sections
Section 410-5 Payments to which this Division applies
Section 410-10 Reporting requirements
Section 410-15 Invoices produced by purchasers
Section 410-5 Payments to which this Division applies
 (1) This Division applies to any payments received, or entitled to be received, for a *supply where the supply is specified in regulations made for the purpose of this section.
 (2) A payment is entitled to be received if the obligation to make the payment is notified in an *invoice.
 (3) Payments to which this Division applies are called Division 410 payments.
 (4) Without limiting the ways in which the regulations may specify a *supply, the regulations may specify a supply by reference to:
 (a) the goods or services supplied; or
 (b) the supplier; or
 (c) the purchaser.
Section 410-10 Reporting requirements
 (1) Any entity (the supplier) that receives, or is entitled to receive, a *Division 410 payment during a *quarter must give a *Division 410 report to the Commissioner within 21 days after the end of the quarter.
 (2) A Division 410 report is a written statement in the *approved form that names the supplier and, for each purchaser in relation to whom the supplier received, or was entitled to receive, a *Division 410 payment during the *quarter:
 (a) names the purchaser; and
 (b) specifies the purchaser&#39;s *ABN (if known by the supplier); and
 (c) specifies the total of the Division  410 payments that the supplier received, or was entitled to receive, from the purchaser during the quarter that:
 (i) were notified in an invoice during the quarter (unless the payment was reported in an earlier Division  410 report); or
 (ii) were received during the quarter but for which no invoice had been provided before the end of the quarter.
The report must also include any other information that the Commissioner requires.
 (3) The Commissioner may, in writing, require particular information to be included in a *Division 410 report or a class of Division 410 reports.
 (4) The Commissioner may, by written notice, vary any requirements under subsection  (1), (2) or (3) in relation to a supplier or class of supplier. The Commissioner may do so in such instances and to such extent as the Commissioner thinks fit.
Section 410-15 Invoices produced by purchasers
  If a purchaser produces an *invoice that notifies the purchaser&#39;s obligation to make a payment, the supplier is taken to have notified the purchaser of the payment at the time that the invoice is produced.
Division 415--Verification of suppliers&#39; ABNs by purchasers
Table of sections
Section 415-5 Payments to which this Division applies
Section 415-10 ABN verification requirements
Section 415-15 Method of obtaining ABN verification
Section 415-20 Verification applies to later payments
Section 415-5 Payments to which this Division applies
 (1) This Division applies if:
 (a) a payment is made, or is liable to be made, by an entity (the purchaser) to another entity (the supplier) for a *supply; and
 (b) the supply is specified in regulations made for the purpose of this section; and
 (c) the supplier has purported to *quote his or her *ABN to the purchaser.
 (2) Payments to which this Division applies are called Division 415 payments.
 (3) Without limiting the ways in which the regulations may specify a *supply, the regulations may specify a supply by reference to:
 (a) the goods or services supplied; or
 (b) the supplier; or
 (c) the purchaser.
Section 415-10 ABN verification requirements
  Before the purchaser makes a *Division 415 payment to the supplier, the purchaser must obtain verification that the *ABN *quoted by the supplier is the ABN entered in the *Australian Business Register with the name given by the supplier.
Note: If the purchaser has reasonable grounds to believe that the supplier has not correctly quoted his or her ABN, the purchaser is required to withhold an amount under section  12-190.
Section 415-15 Method of obtaining ABN verification
 (1) To obtain verification of a supplier&#39;s *ABN, a purchaser must seek the verification in a manner approved in writing by the Commissioner.
 (2) Without limiting the Commissioner&#39;s power under subsection  (1), the Commissioner may approve verifications being sought orally or by way of electronic transmission.
 (3) Verification of an *ABN may be obtained in such form, including orally or by way of electronic transmission, as the Commissioner approves in writing.
 (4) The Commissioner may, by written notice, vary any requirements under subsection  (1) in relation to:
 (a) a purchaser or class of purchaser; or
 (b) a supplier or class of supplier.
The Commissioner may do so in such instances and to such extent as the Commissioner thinks fit.
Section 415-20 Verification applies to later payments
 (1) Verification of a supplier&#39;s ABN applies to all later *Division 415 payments by the purchaser to the supplier unless there is a period of 2 years during which no *Division 415 payment is made by the purchaser to the supplier. If this occurs, the verification continues to apply to any purchases before 1  July first occurring after the end of the 2 year period.
 (2) However, verification of a supplier&#39;s *ABN does not apply to a *Division 415 payment if the purchaser has reasonable grounds to believe that the *ABN *quoted by the supplier is no longer the ABN entered in the *Australian Business Register with the name given by the supplier.
Division 417--Verification of suppliers&#39; identities by purchasers
Table of sections
Section 417-5 Payments to which this Division applies
Section 417-10 Identity verification requirements
Section 417-15 Method of obtaining identity verification
Section 417-20 Verification applies to later payments
Section 417-5 Payments to which this Division applies
 (1) This Division applies if:
 (a) a payment is made, or liable to be made, by an entity (the purchaser) to another entity (the supplier) for a *supply; and
 (b) the supply is specified in regulations made for the purpose of this section.
 (2) Payments to which this Division applies are called Division 417 payments.
 (3) Without limiting the ways in which the regulations may specify a *supply, the regulations may specify a supply by reference to:
 (a) the goods or services supplied; or
 (b) the supplier; or
 (c) the purchaser.
Section 417-10 Identity verification requirements
  Before the purchaser makes a *Division 417 payment, the purchaser must obtain verification of the supplier&#39;s identity.
Note: If the purchaser has reasonable grounds to believe that the supplier has not correctly quoted his or her ABN, the purchaser is required to withhold an amount under section  12-190.
Section 417-15 Method of obtaining identity verification
 (1) To obtain verification of a supplier&#39;s identity, a purchaser must carry out the identity verification procedure that is determined, in writing, by the Commissioner.
 (2) The Commissioner may determine different identity verification procedures for:
 (a) different purchasers or classes of purchasers; or
 (b) different suppliers or classes of suppliers.
Section 417-20 Verification applies to later payments
 (1) Verification of a supplier&#39;s identity applies to all later *Division 417 payments by the purchaser to the supplier unless there is a period of 2 years during which no *Division 417 payment is made by the purchaser to the supplier. If this occurs, the verification continues to apply to any purchases before 1  July first occurring after the end of the 2 year period.
 (2) However, verification of a supplier&#39;s identity does not apply to a later *Division 417 payment if the purchaser has reasonable grounds to believe that the verified identity is not the supplier&#39;s true identity.
Division 420--Penalties for not reporting or verifying
Table of sections
Section 420-5 Failing to report or verify: administrative penalty
  An entity that fails to:
 (a) give a *Division 405 report to the Commissioner as required by section 405-10; or
 (b) give a *Division 410 report to the Commissioner as required by section 410-10; or
 (c) verify a supplier&#39;s *ABN as required by section 415-10; or
 (d) verify a supplier&#39;s identity as required by section  417-10;
is liable to pay to the Commissioner a penalty of 20 penalty units.
Note 1: See section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 for the current value of a penalty unit.
Note 2: Division 298 contains machinery provisions for administrative and civil penalties.
Division 425--Other matters
Table of sections
Section 425-20 Constructive payment
Section 425-25 Non-cash benefits
Section 425-20 Constructive payment
 (1) In working out whether an entity has paid an amount to another entity, and when the payment is made, the amount is taken to have been paid to the other entity when the first entity applies or deals with the amount in any way on the other&#39;s behalf or as the other directs.
 (2) An amount is taken to be payable by an entity to another entity if the first entity is required to apply or deal with it in any way on the other&#39;s behalf or as the other directs.
Section 425-25 Non-cash benefits
  For the purposes of this Part, if an entity (the payer) provides a *non-cash benefit to another entity (the recipient), the payer is taken to have made a payment of an amount equal to the *market value of the benefit provided.
Part 5-35--Registration and similar processes for various taxes
Division 426--Process of endorsing charities and other entities
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 426
Section 426-A Application of Subdivision  426-B to various kinds of endorsement
Section 426-B Process of endorsement etc.
Section 426-C Entries on Australian Business Register
Section 426-D Public and private ancillary funds
 Guide to Division 426
Section 426-1 What this Division is about
This Division sets out procedural rules relating to endorsement of charities and other entities (the conditions for entitlement to endorsement are set out in the GST Act, the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986, and the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997). These rules cover matters such as application for and revocation of endorsement, and entry of the details of endorsement on the Australian Business Register.Subdivision 426-D deals with types of philanthropic trust funds known as public ancillary funds, private ancillary funds and community charity trusts.Subdivision 426-E deals with certain philanthropic companies known as community charity corporations.
Subdivision 426-A--Application of Subdivision 426-B to various kinds of endorsement
Table of sections
Section 426-5 Application of Subdivision  426-B to various kinds of endorsement
Section 426-10 How Subdivision 426-B applies to government entities in relation to endorsement under section 30-120 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997
Section 426-5 Application of Subdivision  426-B to various kinds of endorsement
  Subdivision 426-B applies separately in relation to each of these kinds of endorsement:
 (a) endorsement of an entity as a charity under subsection  176-1(1) of the *GST Act;
 (ba) endorsement of:
 (i) a fund as an approved worker entitlement fund under subsection  58PB(3) of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986; or
 (ii) an entity for the operation of a fund as an approved worker entitlement fund under subsection  58PB(3A) of that Act;
 (c) endorsement of an entity as a public benevolent institution under subsection  123C(1) of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986;
 (e) endorsement of an entity as a health promotion charity under subsection  123D(1) of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986;
 (f) endorsement of an entity under subsection  123E(1) of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986 as a registered charity covered by table item 1 in subsection  65J(1) of that Act;
 (g) endorsement of an entity as a *deductible gift recipient, or as a deductible gift recipient for the operation of a fund, authority or institution, under section 30-120 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997;
 (h) endorsement of an entity as exempt from income tax under section 50-105 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Section 426-10 How Subdivision  426-B applies to government entities in relation to endorsement under section 30-120 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997
 (1) This section applies in relation to endorsement under section  30-120 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (2) Subdivision 426-B applies in relation to a *government entity in the same way as it applies in relation to an entity.
 (3) If, apart from this subsection, section  426-40 or 426-45 (as applied by this section) would impose an obligation on a *government entity:
 (a) that is an unincorporated association or body; and
 (b) for whose management a single person is responsible to persons or bodies outside the government entity;
the obligation is imposed on that person.
 (4) Subsection (3) has effect despite:
 (a) subsection (2); and
 (b) subsection 426-50(2) as it applies because of this section.
Subdivision 426-B--Process of endorsement etc.
Table of sections
Section 426-15 Applying for endorsement
Section 426-20 Dealing with an application for endorsement
Section 426-25 Notifying outcome of application for endorsement
Section 426-30 Date of effect of endorsement
Section 426-35 Review of refusal of endorsement
Section 426-40 Checking entitlement to endorsement
Section 426-45 Telling Commissioner of loss of entitlement to endorsement
Section 426-50 Partnerships and unincorporated bodies
Section 426-55 Revoking endorsement
Section 426-60 Review of revocation of endorsement
Section 426-15 Applying for endorsement
 (1) An entity may apply to the Commissioner for endorsement.
 (2) The application:
 (a) must be in a form approved by the Commissioner; and
 (b) may be *lodged electronically; and
 (c) must be signed for the entity, or include the entity&#39;s *electronic signature if the application is lodged electronically; and
 (d) must be lodged at, or posted to, an office or facility designated by the Commissioner as a receiving centre for applications of that kind.
Note: The Commissioner could approve a form that is part of an application form for an ABN.
 (3) Section 426-5 does not prevent the Commissioner from approving a single form to be used by an entity to make applications for 2 or more kinds of endorsement.
Section 426-20 Dealing with an application for endorsement
Requiring further information or documents
 (1) The Commissioner may require an applicant to give the Commissioner specified information, or a specified document, that the Commissioner needs in order to decide whether the applicant is entitled to endorsement.
Treating application as being refused
 (2) After the time worked out under subsection  (3), the applicant may give the Commissioner written notice that the applicant wishes to treat the application as having been refused, if the Commissioner has not given the applicant before that time written notice that the Commissioner endorses or refuses to endorse the applicant.
Note: Section 426-25 requires the Commissioner to give the applicant written notice if the Commissioner endorses or refuses to endorse the applicant.
 (3) The time is the end of the 60th day after the application was made. However, if before that time the Commissioner requires the applicant under subsection  (1) to give information or a document, the time is the later of the following (or either of them if they are the same):
 (a) the end of the 28th day after the last day on which the applicant gives the Commissioner information or a document he or she has required;
 (b) the end of the 60th day after the application was made.
 (4) If the applicant gives notice under subsection  (2), section 426-35 operates as if the Commissioner had refused the application on the day on which the notice is given.
Note: Section 426-35 lets the applicant object against refusal of an application in the manner set out in Part  IVC of this Act. That Part provides for review of the refusal objected against.
 (5) The notice given by the applicant:
 (a) may be *lodged electronically; and
 (b) must be signed for the applicant, or include the applicant&#39;s *electronic signature if the application is *lodged electronically.
Section 426-25 Notifying outcome of application for endorsement
 (1) The Commissioner must give the applicant written notice if:
 (a) the Commissioner endorses the applicant; or
 (b) the Commissioner refuses to endorse the applicant.
 (2) The Commissioner may give the notice by way of electronic transmission. This does not limit the ways in which the Commissioner may give the notice.
Section 426-30 Date of effect of endorsement
 (1) The endorsement has effect from a date specified by the Commissioner.
 (2) The date specified may be any date (including a date before the application for endorsement was made and a date before the applicant had an *ABN).
Section 426-35 Review of refusal of endorsement
  If the applicant is dissatisfied with the Commissioner&#39;s refusal to endorse the applicant in accordance with the application, the applicant may object against the refusal in the manner set out in Part  IVC of this Act.
Note: That Part provides for review of the refusal objected against.
Section 426-40 Checking entitlement to endorsement
 (1) The Commissioner may require an entity that is endorsed to give the Commissioner information or a document that is relevant to the entity&#39;s entitlement to endorsement. The entity must comply with the requirement.
Note 1: The conditions for an entity to be entitled to be endorsed are set out in:
        (a) subsections 176-1(2) of the GST Act; and
        (b) subsections 123C(2), 123D(2) and 123E(2) of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986 ; and
        (c) sections 30-120 and 50-105 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Note 2: Failure to comply with this subsection is an offence against section 8C. Also, the Commissioner may revoke the endorsement of the entity under section  426-55 if it fails to comply with this subsection.
Note 3: Section 426-50 modifies the way this subsection operates in relation to partnerships and unincorporated bodies.
 (2) The requirement:
 (a) is to be made by notice in writing to the entity; and
 (b) may ask the entity to give the information in writing; and
 (c) must specify:
 (i) the information or document the entity is to give; and
 (ii) the period within which the entity is to give the information or document.
The period specified under subparagraph (c)(ii) must end at least 28 days after the notice is given.
 (3) The Commissioner may give the notice by way of electronic transmission. This does not limit the ways in which the Commissioner may give the notice.
 (4) If the requirement is for the entity to give information in writing, the document setting out the information:
 (a) must be given to the Commissioner; and
 (b) may be *lodged electronically; and
 (c) must be signed for the entity, or include the entity&#39;s *electronic signature if the document is lodged electronically.
Section 426-45 Telling Commissioner of loss of entitlement to endorsement
 (1) Before, or as soon as practicable after, an entity that is endorsed ceases to be entitled to be endorsed, the entity must give the Commissioner written notice of the cessation.
Note 1: Failure to comply with this subsection is an offence against section 8C.
Note 2: Section 426-50 modifies the way this subsection operates in relation to partnerships and unincorporated bodies.
 (2) The notice:
 (a) may be *lodged electronically; and
 (b) must be signed for the entity, or include the entity&#39;s *electronic signature if the document is lodged electronically.
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to an entitlement to endorsement ceasing because the entity ceases to have an *ABN.
Section 426-50 Partnerships and unincorporated bodies
Application to partnerships
 (1) If, apart from this subsection, section  426-40 or 426-45 would impose an obligation on a partnership, the obligation is imposed on each partner, but may be discharged by any of the partners.
Application to unincorporated bodies
 (2) If, apart from this subsection, section  426-40 or 426-45 would impose an obligation on an unincorporated association or body, the obligation is imposed on each member of the committee of management of the association or body, but may be discharged by any of the members of the committee.
Defences for partners and members of committee of management
 (3) In a prosecution of a person for an offence against section  8C of this Act because of subsection (1) or (2), it is a defence if the person proves that the person:
 (a) did not aid, abet, counsel or procure the act or omission because of which the offence is taken to have been committed; and
 (b) was not in any way, by act or omission, directly or indirectly, knowingly concerned in, or party to, the act or omission because of which the offence is taken to have been committed.
Section 426-55 Revoking endorsement
 (1) The Commissioner may revoke the endorsement of an entity if:
 (a) at any time after the date of effect of the endorsement, the entity is not, or was not, entitled to be endorsed; or
 (b) the Commissioner has required the entity under section  426-40 to provide information or a document that is relevant to its entitlement to endorsement and the entity has not provided the required information or document within the time specified in the requirement; or
 (c) in the case of an entity endorsed under section  30-120 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997--the entity has contravened Subdivision  30-CA of that Act (which requires the entity to ensure that certain things are stated in any receipts it issues for certain gifts).
Note: The conditions for an entity to be entitled to be endorsed are set out in:
        (a) subsections 176-1(2) of the GST Act; and
        (b) subsections 58PB(4) and (4A), 123C(2), 123D(2) and 123E(2) of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986; and
        (c) sections 30-120 and 50 -105 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (2) The revocation has effect from a day specified by the Commissioner (which may be a day before the Commissioner decided to revoke the endorsement).
 (3) However, if the Commissioner revokes the endorsement because the entity is not, or was not, entitled to it, the Commissioner must not specify a day before the day on which the entity first ceased to be entitled.
 (4) The Commissioner must give the entity written notice if the Commissioner revokes its endorsement.
 (5) The Commissioner may give the notice by way of electronic transmission. This does not limit the ways in which the Commissioner may give the notice.
Section 426-60 Review of revocation of endorsement
  If the entity is dissatisfied with the revocation of its endorsement, the entity may object against the revocation in the manner set out in Part  IVC of this Act.
Note: That Part provides for review of the revocation objected against.
Subdivision 426-C--Entries on Australian Business Register
Table of sections
Section 426-65 Entries on Australian Business Register
 (1) If an entity that is endorsed in any of these ways:
 (a) as a charity under subsection  176-1(1) of the *GST Act;
 (ba) as an approved worker entitlement fund under subsection  58PB(3) of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986;
 (bb) for the operation of an approved worker entitlement fund under subsection  58PB(3A) of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986;
 (c) as a public benevolent institution under subsection  123C(1) of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986;
 (e) as a health promotion charity under subsection  123D(1) of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986;
 (f) as a registered charity covered by table item  1 in subsection 65J(1) of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986 under subsection 123E(1) of that Act;
 (g) as exempt from income tax under section  50-105 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997;
the *Australian Business Registrar must enter in the *Australian Business Register a statement that the entity is so endorsed for a specified period.
Note 1: An entry (or lack of entry) of a statement required by this section does not affect concessions available to the entity under the Act for the purposes of which it is endorsed.
Note 2: For entities and government entities that are endorsed under section  30-120 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, see section 30-229 of that Act.
 (2) The *Australian Business Registrar may remove the statement from the *Australian Business Register after the end of the period.
 (2A) If the endorsed entity is also registered under the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission Act 2012 as an entity of a particular type or subtype, the *Australian Business Registrar must also enter in the *Australian Business Register:
 (a) a statement that the entity is so registered; and
 (b) a statement as to the date of effect of the registration.
 (2B) The *Australian Business Registrar may remove the statements from the *Australian Business Register if the registration is revoked under the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission Act 2012 .
 (3) The *Australian Business Registrar must take reasonable steps to ensure that a statement appearing in the *Australian Business Register under this section is true. For this purpose, the Registrar may:
 (a) change the statement; or
 (b) remove the statement from the Register if the statement is not true; or
 (c) remove the statement from the Register and enter another statement in the Register under this section.
 (4) Making, changing or removing an entry in the *Australian Business Register as required or permitted by this section does not contravene section 355-25 or 355 -155.
Subdivision 426-D--Ancillary and community charity trust funds
 Guide to Subdivision 426-D
Section 426-100 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision deals with types of philanthropic trust funds known as public ancillary funds, private ancillary funds and community charity trusts .The Minister must make guidelines determining when such trust funds are entitled to be endorsed as deductible gift recipients.This Subdivision also provides for: (a) penalties for trustees who fail to comply with the applicable trust fund guidelines, and the liability of directors of trustees to pay those penalties in certain circumstances; and (b) powers for the Commissioner to suspend or remove trustees who breach their obligations.
Table of sections
Public ancillary funds
Section 426-102 Public ancillary funds
Section 426-103 Public ancillary fund guidelines
Section 426-104 Australian Business Register must show public ancillary fund status
Private ancillary funds
Section 426-105 Private ancillary funds
Section 426-110 Private ancillary fund guidelines
Section 426-115 Australian Business Register must show private ancillary fund status
Community charity trusts
Section 426-117 Community charity trusts
Section 426-118 Community charity trust guidelines
Section 426-119 Australian Business Register must show community charity trust status
Administrative penalties
Section 426-120 Administrative penalties for trustees of ancillary funds
Suspension and removal of trustees
Section 426-125 Suspension or removal of trustees
Section 426-130 Commissioner to appoint acting trustee in cases of suspension or removal
Section 426-135 Terms and conditions of appointment of acting trustee
Section 426-140 Termination of appointment of acting trustee
Section 426-145 Resignation of acting trustee
Section 426-150 Property vesting orders
Section 426-155 Powers of acting trustee
Section 426-160 Commissioner may give directions to acting trustee
Section 426-165 Property vested in acting trustee--former trustees&#39; obligations relating to books, identification of property and transfer of property
Limitation on certain transfers
Section 426-170 Limitation on ancillary and community charity trust funds making certain transfers
 Public ancillary funds
Section 426-102 Public ancillary funds
 (1) A trust is a public ancillary fund if:
 (a) at least one of the following subparagraphs applies:
 (i) each trustee of the trust is a *constitutional corporation;
 (ii) the only trustee of the trust is the Public Trustee of a State or Territory, or each trustee of the trust is prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this subparagraph; and
 (b) each trustee of the trust has agreed, in the *approved form given to the Commissioner, to comply with the rules in the *public ancillary fund guidelines, as in force from time to time; and
 (c) none of the trustees has revoked that agreement in accordance with subsection  (2).
 (2) A trustee may revoke an agreement mentioned in paragraph  (1)(b) only by giving the revocation to the Commissioner in the *approved form.
 (3) Sections 426-125 to 426-165 do not apply to a *public ancillary fund if subparagraph (1)(a)(ii) of this section applies to the fund.
Section 426-103 Public ancillary fund guidelines
  The Minister must, by legislative instrument, formulate guidelines (the public ancillary fund guidelines) setting out:
 (a) rules that *public ancillary funds and their trustees must comply with if the funds are to be, or are to remain, endorsed as *deductible gift recipients; and
 (b) the amount of the administrative penalty, or how to work out the amount of the administrative penalty, under subsection  426-120(1) in relation to public ancillary funds.
Section 426-104 Australian Business Register must show public ancillary fund status
 (1) If a *public ancillary fund has an *ABN, the *Australian Business Registrar must enter in the *Australian Business Register in relation to the fund a statement that it is a public ancillary fund.
Note 1: An entry (or lack of entry) of a statement required by this section does not affect whether a trust is a public ancillary fund.
Note 2: The Australian Business Register will also show if a public ancillary fund is endorsed as a deductible gift recipient: see section  30-229 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (2) The *Australian Business Registrar must take reasonable steps to ensure that a statement appearing in the *Australian Business Register under this section is true. For this purpose, the Registrar may:
 (a) change the statement; or
 (b) remove the statement from the Register if the statement is not true.
 Private ancillary funds
Section 426-105 Private ancillary funds
 (1) A trust is a private ancillary fund if:
 (a) each trustee of the trust is a *constitutional corporation; and
 (b) each trustee has agreed, in the *approved form given to the Commissioner, to comply with the rules in the *private ancillary fund guidelines, as in force from time to time; and
 (c) none of the trustees has revoked that agreement in accordance with subsection  (2).
 (2) A trustee may revoke an agreement mentioned in paragraph  (1)(b) only by giving the revocation to the Commissioner in the *approved form.
Section 426-110 Private ancillary fund guidelines
  The Minister must, by legislative instrument, formulate guidelines (the private ancillary fund guidelines) setting out:
 (a) rules that *private ancillary funds and their trustees must comply with if the funds are to be, or are to remain, endorsed as *deductible gift recipients; and
 (b) the amount of the administrative penalty, or how to work out the amount of the administrative penalty, under subsection  426-120(1) in relation to private ancillary funds.
Section 426-115 Australian Business Register must show private ancillary fund status
 (1) If a *private ancillary fund has an *ABN, the *Australian Business Registrar must enter in the *Australian Business Register in relation to the fund a statement that it is a private ancillary fund.
Note 1: An entry (or lack of entry) of a statement required by this section does not affect whether a trust is a private ancillary fund.
Note 2: The Australian Business Register will also show if a private ancillary fund is endorsed as a deductible gift recipient: see section  30-229 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (2) The *Australian Business Registrar must take reasonable steps to ensure that a statement appearing in the *Australian Business Register under this section is true. For this purpose, the Registrar may:
 (a) change the statement; or
 (b) remove the statement from the Register if the statement is not true.
 Community charity trusts
Section 426-117 Community charity trusts
 (1) A trust is a community charity trust if:
 (a) the trust is specified in a declaration in force under subsection  (3); and
 (b) each trustee of the trust is a *constitutional corporation; and
 (c) each trustee has agreed, in the *approved form given to the Commissioner, to comply with the rules in the *community charity trust guidelines, as in force from time to time; and
 (d) none of the trustees has revoked that agreement in accordance with subsection  (2).
 (2) A trustee may revoke an agreement mentioned in paragraph  (1)(c) only by giving the revocation to the Commissioner in the *approved form.
 (3) The Minister may, by legislative instrument, declare one or more trusts for the purposes of paragraph  (1)(a).
Section 426-118 Community charity trust guidelines
  The Minister must, by legislative instrument, formulate guidelines (the community charity trust guidelines) setting out:
 (a) rules that *community charity trusts and their trustees must comply with if the trusts are to be, or are to remain, endorsed as *deductible gift recipients; and
 (b) the amount of the administrative penalty, or how to work out the amount of the administrative penalty, under subsection  426-120(1) in relation to community charity trusts.
Section 426-119 Australian Business Register must show community charity trust status
 (1) If a *community charity trust has an *ABN, the *Australian Business Registrar must enter in the *Australian Business Register in relation to the trust a statement that it is a community charity trust.
Note 1: An entry (or lack of entry) of a statement required by this section does not affect whether a trust is a community charity trust.
Note 2: The Australian Business Register will also show if a community charity trust is endorsed as a deductible gift recipient: see section  30-229 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (2) The *Australian Business Registrar must take reasonable steps to ensure that a statement appearing in the *Australian Business Register under this section is true. For this purpose, the Registrar may:
 (a) change the statement; or
 (b) remove the statement from the Register if the statement is not true.
 Administrative penalties
Section 426-120 Administrative penalties for trustees of ancillary and community charity trust funds
Administrative penalty
 (1) The persons mentioned in subsection  (2) are jointly and severally liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) a trustee of an *ancillary or community charity trust fund holds the fund out as being endorsed, entitled to be endorsed, or entitled to remain endorsed, as a *deductible gift recipient; and
 (b) the fund is not so endorsed or entitled.
Note: The Commissioner is required to give written notice of the penalty (see section  298-10).
 (2) The persons are:
 (a) each person who is a trustee of the fund; and
 (b) each director of each *constitutional corporation that is a trustee of the fund, if:
 (i) any of the penalty cannot reasonably be recovered from the constitutional corporation; and
 (ii) the constitutional corporation is neither a licensed trustee company (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) nor the Public Trustee of a State or Territory.
Note: A person mentioned in paragraph (2)(a) may, in certain circumstances, not be a constitutional corporation: see item  28 of Schedule 2 to the Tax Laws Amendment (2009 Measures No. 4) Act 2009 (former prescribed private funds).
 (3) The amount of the penalty is:
 (a) the amount specified in the *applicable trust fund guidelines for the purposes of subsection (1); or
 (b) the amount worked out in accordance with the method specified in the applicable trust fund guidelines for the purposes of subsection  (1).
The guidelines may specify different penalties or methods for different circumstances.
 (4) The penalty must not be reimbursed from the fund.
Note: Division 298 in this Schedule contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
Defences for directors
 (5) Paragraph (2)(b) does not apply to a director if:
 (a) the director was not aware of the holding out mentioned in paragraph  (1)(a) and it would not have been reasonable to expect the director to have been aware of that holding out; or
 (b) the director took all reasonable steps to ensure that the holding out mentioned in that paragraph did not occur; or
 (c) there were no such steps that the director could have taken.
 (6) In determining what is reasonable for the purposes of paragraph  (5)(a), (b) or (c), have regard to all relevant circumstances.
 (7) A person who wishes to rely on subsection  (5) bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in that subsection.
Power of courts to grant relief
 (8) Section 1318 of the Corporations Act 2001 (power of Court to grant relief in case of breach of director&#39;s duty) does not apply to a liability of a director under this section.
 Suspension and removal of trustees
Section 426-125 Suspension or removal of trustees
Suspension
 (1) The Commissioner may suspend all of the trustees of an *ancillary or community charity trust fund if the Commissioner is satisfied that the fund, or any of the trustees of the fund, have breached:
 (a) the *applicable trust fund guidelines; or
 (b) any other *Australian law.
 (2) The suspension of a trustee:
 (a) starts when the Commissioner gives the trustee notice of the suspension under subsection  (3); and
 (b) ends at the time specified in the notice.
 (3) If the Commissioner decides to suspend a trustee under this section, the Commissioner must give to the trustee a written notice:
 (a) setting out the decision; and
 (b) giving the reasons for the decision; and
 (c) setting out the time the suspension ends.
Extension of suspensions
 (4) The Commissioner may change the time the suspension of a trustee ends.
 (5) If the Commissioner decides to change the time the suspension of a trustee ends under this section, the Commissioner must give to the trustee a written notice:
 (a) setting out the decision; and
 (b) giving the reasons for the decision; and
 (c) setting out the new time the suspension ends.
Removal
 (6) The Commissioner may remove all of the trustees of an *ancillary or community charity trust fund if the Commissioner is satisfied that the fund, or any of the trustees of the fund, have breached:
 (a) the *applicable trust fund guidelines; or
 (b) any other *Australian law.
 (7) If the Commissioner decides to remove a trustee under this section, the Commissioner must give to the trustee a written notice:
 (a) setting out the decision; and
 (b) giving the reasons for the decision.
Review of decisions under this section
 (8) A trustee who is dissatisfied with any of the following decisions under this section may object in the manner set out in Part  IVC of this Act:
 (a) a decision to suspend the trustee;
 (b) a decision to change the time a suspension of the trustee ends;
 (c) a decision to remove the trustee.
Section 426-130 Commissioner to appoint acting trustee in cases of suspension or removal
Appointment of acting trustee
 (1) If the Commissioner suspends all of the trustees of an *ancillary or community charity trust fund under section 426-125, the Commissioner must appoint a single entity to act as the trustee (the acting trustee) of the fund during the period of the suspension.
 (2) If the Commissioner removes all of the trustees of an *ancillary or community charity trust fund under section 426-125, the Commissioner must appoint a single entity to act as the trustee (the acting trustee) of the fund until all of the vacancies in the position of trustee are filled.
Acting trustee need not be constitutional corporation
 (3) An acting trustee need not be a *constitutional corporation, and may be the Commissioner.
 (4) An entity that is not a *constitutional corporation may not act as trustee under this section for longer than 6 months.
Acting trustee must have agreed to comply with guidelines
 (5) An entity may only be appointed as acting trustee if the entity has agreed, in accordance with paragraph  426-102(1)(b), 426-105(1)(b) or 426-117(1)(c), to comply with the rules in the *applicable trust fund guidelines as in force from time to time.
Section 426-135 Terms and conditions of appointment of acting trustee
 (1) The Commissioner may determine the terms and conditions of the appointment of the acting trustee, including fees. The determination has effect despite anything in:
 (a) any *Australian law other than this section; or
 (b) the *ancillary or community charity trust fund&#39;s governing rules.
 (2) Without limiting subsection  (1), the Commissioner may make a determination under that subsection to the effect that the acting trustee&#39;s fees are to be paid out of the corpus of the *ancillary or community charity trust fund.
Section 426-140 Termination of appointment of acting trustee
  The Commissioner may terminate the appointment of the acting trustee at any time.
Section 426-145 Resignation of acting trustee
 (1) The acting trustee may resign by writing given to the Commissioner.
 (2) The resignation does not take effect until the end of the seventh day after the day on which it was given to the Commissioner.
Section 426-150 Property vesting orders
 (1) If the Commissioner appoints an acting trustee, the Commissioner must make a written order vesting the property of the *ancillary or community charity trust fund in the acting trustee.
 (2) If the appointment ends, the Commissioner must make a written order vesting the property of the fund in the new acting trustee, the previously suspended trustee or trustees or the new actual trustee or trustees (whichever is applicable).
 (3) If the Commissioner makes an order under this section vesting property of an *ancillary or community charity trust fund in an entity or entities, then, subject to subsection (4), the property immediately vests in the entity or entities by force of this section.
 (4) If:
 (a) the property is of a kind whose transfer or transmission may be registered under an *Australian law; and
 (b) that law enables the registration of such an order, or enables the entity or entities to be registered as the owner of that property;
the property does not vest in the entity or entities until the requirements of the law referred to in paragraph (a) have been complied with.
Section 426-155 Powers of acting trustee
  Subject to section  426-150:
 (a) the acting trustee has and may exercise all the rights, title and powers, and must perform all the functions and duties, of the original trustee or trustees; and
 (b) the *ancillary or community charity trust fund&#39;s governing rules and every *Australian law apply in relation to the acting trustee as if the acting trustee were the trustee of the fund.
Section 426-160 Commissioner may give directions to acting trustee
 (1) The Commissioner may give the acting trustee a written notice directing the acting trustee to do, or not to do, one or more specified acts or things in relation to the *ancillary or community charity trust fund.
 (2) The acting trustee commits an offence if:
 (a) the acting trustee engages in conduct (within the meaning of subsection  2(1) of this Act); and
 (b) that engagement in conduct contravenes a notice given to the acting trustee under subsection  (1).
Penalty: 100 penalty units.
 (3) This section does not affect the validity of a transaction entered into in contravention of a notice given under subsection  (1).
Section 426-165 Property vested in acting trustee--former trustees&#39; obligations relating to books, identification of property and transfer of property
Books
 (1) An entity commits an offence if:
 (a) the Commissioner makes an order under subsection  426-150(1) or (2) vesting the property of an *ancillary or community charity trust fund in an acting trustee; and
 (b) just before the Commissioner made the order, the property was vested in:
 (i) the entity (the former trustee); or
 (ii) 2 or more entities (the former trustees), including the entity; and
 (c) the former trustee or former trustees do not, within 14 days of the Commissioner making the order, give the acting trustee all books (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001) relating to the fund&#39;s affairs that are in the former trustee&#39;s or former trustees&#39; possession, custody or control.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Identification of property and transfer of property
 (2) Subsections (3) to (5) apply if:
 (a) the property of an *ancillary or community charity trust fund is vested in an entity (the former trustee) or entities (the former trustees); and
 (b) the Commissioner makes an order under subsection 426-150(1) or (2) vesting the property in an acting trustee.
 (3) The acting trustee may, by notice in writing to the former trustee or former trustees, require the former trustee or former trustees, so far as the former trustee or former trustees can do so:
 (a) to identify property of the fund; and
 (b) to explain how the former trustee or former trustees have kept account of that property.
 (4) The acting trustee may, by notice in writing to the former trustee or former trustees, require the former trustee or former trustees to take specified action that is necessary to bring about a transfer of specified property of the fund to the acting trustee.
 (5) The former trustee, or each of the former trustees, commits an offence if:
 (a) the acting trustee gives the former trustee or former trustees a notice under subsection  (3) or (4); and
 (b) the former trustee or former trustees do not, within 28 days of the notice being given, comply with the requirement in the notice.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Strict liability
 (6) Subsections (1) and (5) are offences of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code .
 Limitation on certain transfers
Section 426-170 Limitation on ancillary and community charity trust funds making certain transfers
 (1) An *ancillary fund must not provide money, property or benefits to another ancillary fund unless permitted to do so by the *public ancillary fund guidelines or the *private ancillary fund guidelines (whichever are applicable) for the first-mentioned fund.
 (2) A *community charity trust must not provide money, property or benefits to:
 (a) another community charity trust; or
 (b) an *ancillary fund; or
 (c) a *community charity corporation;
unless permitted to do so by the *community charity trust guidelines.
Subdivision 426-E--Community charity corporations
 Guide to Subdivision 426-E
Section 426-175 What this Subdivision is about
This Subdivision deals with philanthropic companies known as community charity corporations .The Minister must make guidelines determining when community charity corporations are entitled to be endorsed as deductible gift recipients.This Subdivision also provides for penalties for failures to comply with the guidelines.
Table of sections
Community charity corporations
Section 426-180 Community charity corporations
Section 426-185 Community charity corporation guidelines
Section 426-190 Australian Business Register must show community charity corporation status
Administrative penalties
Section 426-195 Administrative penalties for community charity corporations
Limitation on certain transfers
Section 426-200 Limitation on community charity corporations making certain transfers
 Community charity corporations
Section 426-180 Community charity corporations
 (1) A company is a community charity corporation if:
 (a) the company is:
 (i) a *constitutional corporation; or
 (ii) a body corporate that is not a constitutional corporation; and
 (b) the company is specified in a declaration in force under subsection  (3); and
 (c) each director of the company has agreed, in the *approved form given to the Commissioner, to comply with the rules in the *community charity corporation guidelines, as in force from time to time; and
 (d) none of the directors of the company has revoked that agreement in accordance with subsection  (2).
 (2) A director may revoke an agreement mentioned in paragraph  (1)(c) only by giving the revocation to the Commissioner in the *approved form.
 (3) The Minister may, by legislative instrument, declare one or more companies for the purposes of paragraph  (1)(b).
Section 426-185 Community charity corporation guidelines
  The Minister must, by legislative instrument, formulate guidelines (the community charity corporation guidelines) setting out:
 (a) rules that *community charity corporations and their directors must comply with if the corporations are to be, or are to remain, endorsed as *deductible gift recipients; and
 (b) the amount of the administrative penalty, or how to work out the amount of the administrative penalty, under subsection  426-195(1) in relation to community charity corporations.
Section 426-190 Australian Business Register must show community charity corporation status
 (1) If a *community charity corporation has an *ABN, the *Australian Business Registrar must enter in the *Australian Business Register in relation to the corporation a statement that it is a community charity corporation.
Note 1: An entry (or lack of entry) of a statement required by this section does not affect whether a company is a community charity corporation.
Note 2: The Australian Business Register will also show if a community charity corporation is endorsed as a deductible gift recipient: see section  30-229 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
 (2) The *Australian Business Registrar must take reasonable steps to ensure that a statement appearing in the *Australian Business Register under this section is true. For this purpose, the Registrar may:
 (a) change the statement; or
 (b) remove the statement from the Register if the statement is not true.
 Administrative penalties
Section 426-195 Administrative penalties for community charity corporations
Administrative penalty
 (1) All of the directors of a *community charity corporation are jointly and severally liable to an administrative penalty if:
 (a) the corporation, or a director of the corporation, holds out that the corporation is endorsed as a *deductible gift recipient and the corporation is not so endorsed; or
 (b) the corporation, or a director of the corporation, holds out that the corporation is entitled to remain endorsed as a deductible gift recipient and the corporation is not so entitled; or
 (c) the corporation, or a director of the corporation, holds out that the corporation will be endorsed, as a deductible gift recipient, at a particular time and the corporation is not so endorsed at that time.
Note: The Commissioner is required to give written notice of the penalty (see section  298-10).
 (2) The amount of the penalty is:
 (a) the amount specified in the *community charity corporation guidelines for the purposes of subsection (1); or
 (b) the amount worked out in accordance with the method specified in the community charity corporation guidelines for the purposes of subsection  (1).
The guidelines may specify different penalties or methods for different circumstances.
 (3) A director who is liable to the penalty must not be reimbursed the penalty from the corporation.
Note: Division 298 in this Schedule contains machinery provisions for administrative penalties.
Defences for directors
 (4) Subsection (1) does not apply to a director if:
 (a) the director was not aware of the holding out mentioned in paragraph  (1)(a), (b) or (c) (whichever applicable) and it would not have been reasonable to expect the director to have been aware of that holding out; or
 (b) the director took all reasonable steps to ensure that the holding out mentioned in that paragraph did not occur; or
 (c) there were no such steps that the director could have taken.
 (5) In determining what is reasonable for the purposes of paragraph  (4)(a), (b) or (c), have regard to all relevant circumstances.
 (6) A person who wishes to rely on subsection  (4) bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in that subsection.
Power of courts to grant relief
 (7) Section 1318 of the Corporations Act 2001 (power of Court to grant relief in case of breach of director&#39;s duty) does not apply to a liability of a director under this section.
 Limitation on certain transfers
Section 426-200 Limitation on community charity corporations making certain transfers
  A *community charity corporation must not provide money, property or benefits to:
 (a) another community charity corporation; or
 (b) an *ancillary fund; or
 (c) a *community charity trust;
unless permitted to do so by the *community charity corporation guidelines.
Part 5-45--Application of taxation laws to certain entities
Division 444--Obligations of entities on behalf of other entities
Table of Subdivisions
 Guide to Division 444
Section 444-A Unincorporated associations and bodies and companies
Section 444-B Partnerships
Section 444-C Superannuation funds
Section 444-D Incapacitated entities
Section 444-E Indirect tax specific entities
Section 444-F Trusts
 Guide to Division 444
Section 444-1 What this Division is about
This Division imposes onto other entities the liabilities of unincorporated associations or bodies, companies, partnerships, superannuation funds, incapacitated entities, trusts and various indirect tax specific entities.
Subdivision 444-A--Unincorporated associations and bodies and companies
Table of sections
Section 444-5 Unincorporated associations and bodies
Section 444-10 Public officers of companies
Section 444-15 Notifying and serving companies
Section 444-5 Unincorporated associations and bodies
 (1) Obligations that would be imposed under this Schedule or an *indirect tax law on an unincorporated association or body of entities are imposed on each member of the committee of management of the association or body, but may be discharged by any of those members.
 (2) Any offence against this Schedule or an *indirect tax law that is committed by the association or body is taken to have been committed by each member of its committee of management.
 (3) In a prosecution of an entity for an offence that the entity is taken to have committed because of subsection  (2), it is a defence if the entity proves that the entity:
 (a) did not aid, abet, counsel or procure the relevant act or omission; and
 (b) was not in any way knowingly concerned in, or party to, the relevant act or omission (whether directly or indirectly and whether by any act or omission of the entity).
Note 1: The defence in subsection (3) does not apply in relation to offences under Part  2.4 of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: A defendant bears a legal burden in relation to the matters in subsection (3): see section  13.4 of the Criminal Code.
 (4) A reference in this section to an obligation imposed under, or an offence against, this Schedule does not include an obligation imposed under, or an offence against, the *Minimum Tax law.
Note: See Subdivision 128-B in relation to such obligations and offences.
Section 444-10 Public officers of companies
 (1) The individual who is the public officer of a company for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 is also the public officer of the company for the purposes of an *indirect tax law. The public officer&#39;s address for service under that Act is also the public officer&#39;s address for service for the same purposes.
 (2) The public officer is answerable for doing everything required to be done by the company under an *indirect tax law, and in case of default is liable to the same penalties.
 (3) A proceeding under an *indirect tax law that is brought against the public officer is taken to have been brought against the company, and the company is liable jointly with the public officer for any penalty imposed on the public officer.
 (4) Everything done by the public officer that the public officer is required to do in that capacity is taken to have been done by the company.
 (5) Service of a notice or other document on the public officer or at the public officer&#39;s address for service is sufficient service on the company for the purposes of an *indirect tax law. If at any time there is no public officer, service on an individual who is acting or appears to be acting in the business of the company is sufficient.
Note: See section 444-15 for alternative ways to give a notice to, or serve a process on, a company (through its officers, attorneys or agents).
 (6) This section does not, by implication, reduce any of the obligations or liabilities of the company.
Section 444-15 Notifying and serving companies
  For the purposes of an *indirect tax law, if the Commissioner considers it appropriate, a notice or process may be given to, or served on, a company by giving the notice to, or serving the process on:
 (a) a director, the secretary or another officer of the company; or
 (b) an attorney or agent of the company.
Note: See subsection 444-10(5) for alternative ways to serve a notice or another document on a company (through its public officer or someone else acting or appearing to act for the company).
Subdivision 444-B--Partnerships
Table of sections
Section 444-30 Partnerships
 (1) Obligations that are imposed under this Schedule or an *indirect tax law on a partnership are imposed on each partner, but may be discharged by any of the partners.
 (2) The partners are jointly and severally liable to pay any amount that is payable under this Schedule or an *indirect tax law by the partnership.
 (3) Any offence against this Schedule or an *indirect tax law that is committed by a partnership is taken to have been committed by each of the partners.
 (4) In a prosecution of an entity for an offence that the entity is taken to have committed because of subsection  (3), it is a defence if the entity proves that the entity:
 (a) did not aid, abet, counsel or procure the relevant act or omission; and
 (b) was not in any way knowingly concerned in, or party to, the relevant act or omission (whether directly or indirectly and whether by any act or omission of the entity).
Note 1: The defence in subsection (4) does not apply in relation to offences under Part  2.4 of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: A defendant bears a legal burden in relation to the matters in subsection (4): see section  13.4 of the Criminal Code.
 (5) If a civil penalty may be imposed in relation to a contravention of a provision of this Schedule or an *indirect tax law:
 (a) subsection (3) applies to a contravention of the provision in a corresponding way to the way in which it applies to an offence; and
 (b) subsection (4) does not apply.
 (6) A reference in this section to an obligation imposed or an amount payable under, or an offence against, this Schedule does not include an obligation imposed or an amount payable under, or an offence against, the *Minimum Tax law.
Note: See Subdivision 128-B in relation to such obligations, amounts and offences.
Subdivision 444-C--Superannuation funds
Table of sections
Section 444-50 Superannuation funds
  If a superannuation fund does not have a trustee of the fund, this Schedule applies to the fund as if:
 (a) the entity that manages the fund were the trustee of the fund; or
 (b) each of the entities that manage the fund were a trustee of the fund.
Note: The trustee of a superannuation fund is taken to be an entity: see subsection  960-100(2) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
Subdivision 444-D--Incapacitated entities
Table of sections
Section 444-70 Representatives of incapacitated entities
 (1) If:
 (a) there are, at the same time, 2 or more *representatives of the same *incapacitated entity; and
 (b) the representatives were not appointed to act in different capacities as representatives;
the representatives are jointly and severally liable to pay any amount that is payable under an *indirect tax law by any of the representatives in relation to that same incapacitated entity.
 (2) If:
 (a) there are, at the same time, 2 or more *representatives of the same *incapacitated entity; and
 (b) the representatives were not appointed to act in different capacities as representatives;
any offence against an *indirect tax law that is committed by one of the representatives is taken to have been committed by each of the representatives.
 (3) In a prosecution of an entity for an offence that the entity is taken to have committed because of subsection  (2), it is a defence if the entity proves that the entity:
 (a) did not aid, abet, counsel or procure the relevant act or omission; and
 (b) was not in any way knowingly concerned in, or party to, the relevant act or omission (whether directly or indirectly and whether by any act or omission of the entity).
Note 1: The defence in subsection (3) does not apply in relation to offences under Part  2.4 of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: A defendant bears a legal burden in relation to the matters in subsection (3): see section  13.4 of the Criminal Code.
Subdivision 444-E--Indirect tax specific entities
Table of sections
Section 444-80 GST joint ventures
Section 444-85 Non-profit sub-entities
Section 444-90 GST groups
Section 444-80 GST joint ventures
Joint and several liability
 (1) The *participants in a *GST joint venture are jointly and severally liable to pay any amount (an indirect tax amount) that is payable under an *indirect tax law by the *joint venture operator for the joint venture, to the extent that the amount relates to the joint venture.
Indirect tax sharing agreements
 (1A) Despite subsection  (1), if:
 (a) before the *joint venture operator for the joint venture is required to give to the Commissioner a *GST return for a *tax period, an agreement (the indirect tax sharing agreement) has been entered into between:
 (i) the joint venture operator; and
 (ii) one or more *participants in the joint venture (the contributing participant) (other than the joint venture operator); and
 (b) a particular amount (the contribution amount) could be determined under the indirect tax sharing agreement for each contributing participant in relation to that tax period; and
 (c) the contribution amounts for each of the contributing participants under the indirect tax sharing agreement represent a reasonable allocation among:
 (i) the joint venture operator; and
 (ii) the contributing participants;
  of the total amount payable, under *indirect tax laws, for which the participants in the joint venture would be jointly or severally liable under subsection (1) in relation to that tax period;
then:
 (d) if the contributing participant leaves the joint venture before the joint venture operator for the joint venture is required to give to the Commissioner a GST return for that tax period, and subsection  (1B) applies--the contributing participant is not liable under subsection  (1) in relation to an indirect tax amount relating to that tax period; or
 (e) otherwise--the contributing participant&#39;s liability under subsection  (1) in relation to that tax period is not to exceed that contribution amount.
 (1B) This subsection applies if:
 (a) leaving the joint venture was not part of an arrangement, a purpose of which was to prejudice the recovery by the Commissioner of the indirect tax amount; and
 (b) before the day on which the *joint venture operator is required to give to the Commissioner a *GST return for that tax period, the contributing participant pays to the joint venture operator:
 (i) the contribution amount relating to that tax period; or
 (ii) if the contribution amount cannot be determined at the time of the payment--an amount that is a reasonable estimate of the contribution amount.
 (1C) Subsection (1A) does not apply if:
 (a) the indirect tax sharing agreement was entered into as part of an arrangement; and
 (b) a purpose of the arrangement was to prejudice the recovery by the Commissioner of the indirect tax amount.
 (1D) Subsection (1A) does not apply if:
 (a) the Commissioner gives the *joint venture operator of the joint venture written notice under this subsection in relation to the indirect tax sharing agreement (whether before, when or after an indirect tax amount to which the agreement relates becomes payable); and
 (b) the notice requires the joint venture operator to give the Commissioner a copy of the agreement in the *approved form within 14 days after the notice is given; and
 (c) the Commissioner does not receive a copy of the agreement by the time required.
 (1E) Subsection (1A) does not apply if, apart from this subsection, the requirements of subsection  (1A) would be satisfied in relation to 2 or more agreements:
 (a) that were entered into by the *joint venture operator; and
 (b) that relate to the same tax period.
Criminal liability of participants in GST joint ventures
 (2) Any offence against an *indirect tax law that:
 (a) is committed by the *joint venture operator for a *GST joint venture; and
 (b) relates to the joint venture;
is taken to have been committed by each of the *participants in the joint venture.
 (3) In a prosecution of an entity for an offence that the entity is taken to have committed because of subsection  (2), it is a defence if the entity proves that the entity:
 (a) did not aid, abet, counsel or procure the relevant act or omission; and
 (b) was not in any way knowingly concerned in, or party to, the relevant act or omission (whether directly or indirectly and whether by any act or omission of the entity).
Note 1: The defence in subsection (3) does not apply in relation to offences under Part  2.4 of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: A defendant bears a legal burden in relation to the matters in subsection (3): see section  13.4 of the Criminal Code.
Section 444-85 Non-profit sub -entities
 (1) Obligations that would be imposed under the *GST law or the *fuel tax law on a *non-profit sub-entity are imposed on each entity who is responsible, to entities or bodies outside the sub-entity, for the management of the sub -entity, but may be discharged by any entity who is so responsible.
 (2) The entities who are so responsible in respect of the sub -entity are jointly and severally liable to pay any amount that is payable under the *GST law or the *fuel tax law by the sub-entity.
 (3) Any offence against the *GST law or the *fuel tax law that is committed by the sub-entity is taken to have been committed by each entity who is responsible, to entities or bodies outside the sub -entity, for the management of the sub-entity.
 (4) In a prosecution of an entity for an offence that the entity is taken to have committed because of subsection  (3), it is a defence if the entity proves that the entity:
 (a) did not aid, abet, counsel or procure the relevant act or omission; and
 (b) was not in any way knowingly concerned in, or party to, the relevant act or omission (whether directly or indirectly and whether by any act or omission of the entity).
Note 1: The defence in subsection (4) does not apply in relation to offences under Part  2.4 of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: A defendant bears a legal burden in relation to the matters in subsection (4): see section  13.4 of the Criminal Code.
Section 444-90 GST groups
Joint and several liability
 (1) The *members of a *GST group are jointly and severally liable to pay any amount (an indirect tax amount) that is payable under an *indirect tax law by the *representative member for the group.
Indirect tax sharing agreements
 (1A) Despite subsection  (1), if:
 (a) before the *representative member of the group is required to give to the Commissioner a *GST return for a *tax period, an agreement (the indirect tax sharing agreement) has been entered into between:
 (i) the representative member; and
 (ii) one or more other *members of the group (the contributing member); and
 (b) a particular amount (the contribution amount) could be determined under the indirect tax sharing agreement for each contributing member in relation to that tax period; and
 (c) the contribution amounts for each of the contributing members under the indirect tax sharing agreement represent a reasonable allocation among:
 (i) the representative member; and
 (ii) the contributing members;
  of the total amount payable, under *indirect tax laws, for which the members of the group would be jointly or severally liable under subsection (1) in relation to that tax period;
then:
 (d) if the contributing member leaves the group before the representative member of the group is required to give to the Commissioner a GST return for that tax period, and subsection  (1B) applies--the contributing member is not liable under subsection  (1) in relation to an indirect tax amount relating to that tax period; or
 (e) otherwise--the contributing member&#39;s liability under subsection  (1) in relation to that tax period is not to exceed that contribution amount.
 (1B) This subsection applies if:
 (a) leaving the group was not part of an arrangement, a purpose of which was to prejudice the recovery by the Commissioner of the indirect tax amount; and
 (b) before the day on which the *representative member is required to give to the Commissioner a *GST return for that tax period, the contributing member pays to the representative member:
 (i) the contribution amount relating to that tax period; or
 (ii) if the contribution amount cannot be determined at the time of the payment--an amount that is a reasonable estimate of the contribution amount.
 (1C) Subsection (1A) does not apply if:
 (a) the indirect tax sharing agreement was entered into as part of an arrangement; and
 (b) a purpose of the arrangement was to prejudice the recovery by the Commissioner of the indirect tax amount.
 (1D) Subsection (1A) does not apply if:
 (a) the Commissioner gives the *representative member of the group written notice under this subsection in relation to the indirect tax sharing agreement (whether before, when or after an indirect tax amount to which the agreement relates becomes payable); and
 (b) the notice requires the representative member to give the Commissioner a copy of the agreement in the *approved form within 14 days after the notice is given; and
 (c) the Commissioner does not receive a copy of the agreement by the time required.
 (1E) Subsection (1A) does not apply if, apart from this subsection, the requirements of subsection  (1A) would be satisfied in relation to 2 or more agreements:
 (a) that were entered into by the *representative member; and
 (b) that relate to the same tax period.
Effect of prohibitions on certain arrangements
 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a *member of a *GST group if an *Australian law has the effect of prohibiting the member from entering into any *arrangement under which the member becomes subject to the liability referred to in that subsection.
 (3) However, a *member to which subsection (2) applies remains liable for any amount payable under an *indirect tax law by the *representative member for the group, to the extent that the liability arises from an act or omission of the member to which subsection (2) applies.
Criminal liability of members of GST groups
 (4) Any offence against an *indirect tax law that is committed by the *representative member for a *GST group is taken to have been committed by each of the *members of the group.
 (5) In a prosecution of an entity for an offence that the entity is taken to have committed because of subsection  (4), it is a defence if the entity proves that the entity:
 (a) did not aid, abet, counsel or procure the relevant act or omission; and
 (b) was not in any way knowingly concerned in, or party to, the relevant act or omission (whether directly or indirectly and whether by any act or omission of the entity).
Note 1: The defence in subsection (5) does not apply in relation to offences under Part  2.4 of the Criminal Code.
Note 2: A defendant bears a legal burden in relation to the matters in subsection (5): see section  13.4 of the Criminal Code.
Subdivision 444-F--Trusts
Table of sections
 444-120 Joint and several liability for all trustees
Section 444-120 Joint and several liability for all trustees
 (1) If:
 (a) a trust has more than one trustee; and
 (b) a civil penalty is imposed in relation to a contravention of a provision of this Schedule or an *indirect tax law on one of those trustees;
then all the trustees are jointly and severally liable to pay the amount of the penalty.
 (2) A reference in this section to a contravention of a provision of this Schedule does not include a contravention of a provision of the *Minimum Tax law.
Note: See Subdivision 128-B in relation to such contraventions.
Division 446--Local governing bodies
 Guide to Division
Section 446-1 What this Division is about
A local governing body can resolve that its members are subject to Pay As You Go withholding. This also results in the members being treated as employees for a wide range of other taxation purposes.
Table of sections
Operative provisions
Section 446-5 Requirements for unanimous resolutions by local governing bodies
 Operative provisions
Section 446-5 Requirements for unanimous resolutions by local governing bodies
When section applies
 (1) This section applies to the following unanimous resolutions made by a *local governing body:
 (a) a resolution that the remuneration of members of the body be subject to withholding under Part 2-5 (about Pay As You Go withholding) ;
 (b) a resolution cancelling a resolution covered by paragraph  (a).
When resolution takes effect
 (2) The resolution must specify a day as the day on which the resolution takes effect. The specified day must be within the 28 -day period beginning on the day after the day on which the resolution was made.
Resolution not affected by change in membership of body
 (3) The resolution continues in force in spite of a change in the membership of the *local governing body.
Commissioner to be notified of resolution
 (4) The *local governing body must give written notice of the resolution to the Commissioner within 7 days after the resolution was made.
Eligible local governing bodies to be notified by notifiable instrument
 (5) If the Commissioner is notified of the resolution, the Commissioner must, by notifiable instrument, publish notice of the making of the resolution. The instrument must also set out:
 (a) the name of the *local governing body; and
 (b) the day on which the resolution takes effect.
When resolution applies for purposes of affected provisions
 (6) This table sets out when the resolution applies for the purposes of particular provisions whose operation it affects.
When the resolution appliesItemIf the resolution affects the operation of ...the resolution applies to ... 1section 12-45amounts that become payable after the day on which the resolution takes effect2Subdivision AB of Division 17 of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (about tax offset for lump sum payments in arrears)*ordinary income *derived, and amounts that become *statutory income, after the day on which the resolution takes effect3sections 26-30 and 34-5 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about deductions for relatives&#39; travel expenses and non-compulsory uniforms)expenditure incurred after the day on which the resolution takes effect4Divisions 28 and 900 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about car expenses and substantiation)expenses incurred after the day on which the resolution takes effect 5section 130-80 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about capital gains tax and employee share trusts)*shares and rights to which a beneficiary becomes absolutely entitled after the day on which the resolution takes effect6provisions of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986 relating to assessments(a) in the case of a loan benefit within the meaning of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986--a loan made after the day on which the resolution takes effect;(b) in the case of a housing benefit within the meaning of that Act--the subsistence, after the day on which the resolution takes effect, of the housing right concerned;(c) in the case of a residual benefit within the meaning of that Act that is *provided during a period--so much of the period as occurs after the day on which the resolution takes effect;(d) any other *fringe benefit provided after the day on which the resolution takes effect.7Division 4 of Part II of the When the resolution appliesItemIf the resolution affects the operation of ...the resolution applies to ... 1section 12-45amounts that become payable after the day on which the resolution takes effect2Subdivision AB of Division 17 of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (about tax offset for lump sum payments in arrears)*ordinary income *derived, and amounts that become *statutory income, after the day on which the resolution takes effect3sections 26-30 and 34-5 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about deductions for relatives&#39; travel expenses and non-compulsory uniforms)expenditure incurred after the day on which the resolution takes effect4Divisions 28 and 900 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about car expenses and substantiation)expenses incurred after the day on which the resolution takes effect 5section 130-80 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (about capital gains tax and employee share trusts)*shares and rights to which a beneficiary becomes absolutely entitled after the day on which the resolution takes effect6provisions of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986 relating to assessments(a) in the case of a loan benefit within the meaning of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986--a loan made after the day on which the resolution takes effect;(b) in the case of a housing benefit within the meaning of that Act--the subsistence, after the day on which the resolution takes effect, of the housing right concerned;(c) in the case of a residual benefit within the meaning of that Act that is *provided during a period--so much of the period as occurs after the day on which the resolution takes effect;(d) any other *fringe benefit provided after the day on which the resolution takes effect.7Division 4 of Part II of the Income Tax Rates Act 1986 (about pro-rating the tax -free threshold)amounts that become assessable income after the day on which the resolution takes effect8the provisions of the Child Support (Registration and Collection) Act 1988*ordinary income *derived, and amounts that become *statutory income, after the day on which the resolution takes effect9section 9-20 of the *GST Act (about the meaning of enterprise)activities, or series of activities, done after the day on which the resolution takes effect 10Division 111 of the *GST Act (about reimbursement of employees)reimbursements made after the day on which the resolution takes effect
Part 5-100--Miscellaneous
Division 850--Transactions exempt from application of taxation laws
Table of Subdivisions
Section 850-A Declaration relating to security or intelligence agency
Subdivision 850-A--Declaration relating to security or intelligence agency
Table of sections
Section 850-100 Declaration relating to security or intelligence agency
Object
 (1) The object of this section is to remove the possibility of a conflict arising between Australia&#39;s national security interests and Australia&#39;s taxation laws.
Making a declaration
 (2) The Director-General of Security holding office under the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act 1979 may declare that this section applies to one or more specified entities (the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation itself may be specified) in relation to one or more specified transactions.
 (3) The Director-General of the Australian Secret Intelligence Service ( ASIS) may declare that this section applies to one or more specified entities (ASIS itself may be specified) in relation to one or more specified transactions.
 (3A) The Director-General of the Australian Signals Directorate ( ASD) may declare that this section applies to one or more specified entities (ASD itself may be specified) in relation to one or more specified transactions.
 (4) A declaration under this section may only be made if the relevant Director -General is satisfied that the making of the declaration is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of:
 (a) for the Director-General of Security--the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation; or
 (b) for the Director-General of ASIS--ASIS; or
 (c) for the Director-General of ASD--ASD.
 (5) A declaration under this section must be in writing, signed by the relevant Director -General.
Note 1: A declaration may specify an entity or transaction by reference to a class of entities or transactions (see subsection  33(3AB) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901). For example, a declaration may specify the subsidiaries of a specified company, or the parties to a specified transaction.
Note 2: For variation and revocation, see subsection 33(3) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901.
 (6) A declaration may be made even though:
 (a) a transaction it specifies has already been entered into or carried out; or
 (b) an entity it specifies has died or ceased to exist;
(whether before or after the commencement of this section).
 (7) A written document signed by the relevant Director -General purporting to be a declaration is prima facie evidence that this section has been complied with in making the declaration, but this subsection does not affect the performance of the functions of the Inspector -General of Intelligence and Security.
Effect of declaration
 (8) For an entity specified in a declaration in relation to a specified transaction, the transaction is to be disregarded in determining any of the following:
 (a) the existence or amount of a liability of the entity relating to taxation under any *Commonwealth law, even if the law requires express words to be used to exempt an entity or transaction from liability to taxation under that law;
Example: Examples of liabilities covered by paragraph (a) are a liability to GST (despite section  177-5 of the GST Act), and amounts required to be paid by Part 2-5 in this Schedule (Pay as you go (PAYG) withholding).
 (b) the existence or amount of any kind of benefit (however the benefit is expressed) relating to taxation under any Commonwealth law;
Example: Examples of benefits covered by paragraph (b) are deductions, credits and offsets under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, and input tax credits under the GST Act.
 (c) the existence or extent of any other obligation (or right) of the entity relating to a liability or benefit of a kind mentioned in paragraph  (a) or (b).
Example: Examples of obligations covered by paragraph (c) include the following:
        (a) an obligation to withhold money from a payment;
        (b) an obligation to lodge a return, or to provide information, to the Commissioner of Taxation;
        (c) an obligation to become registered under a taxation law.
 (9) A declaration under this section is not a legislative instrument.
Division 990--Miscellaneous
Table of Subdivisions
Section 990-A Combining notices
Subdivision 990-A--Combining notices
Table of sections
Section 990-5 Commissioner may combine notices
 (1) For the purposes of a *taxation law under which the Commissioner must or may give you a document (however described), that document may be included in or with any other document (however described) that the Commissioner gives you under a taxation law.
 (2) This section is enacted for the avoidance of doubt.
TAXATION ADMINISTRATION ACT 1953
- NOTES
No. 1, 1953
Compilation No. 220
Compilation date: 3 August 2025
Includes amendments: Act No. 30, 2025
This compilation is in 4 volumes
Volume 1: sections 1 to 18
 Schedule 1 (sections  6-1 to 21 -5)
Volume 2: Schedule 1 (sections  45-1 to 298-110)
Volume 3: Schedule 1 (sections  308-1 to 990-5)
Volume 4: Endnotes
Each volume has its own contents
This compilation was rectified to take into account a retrospective amendment made by Act No. 72, 2025. The original compilation and any other previous compilations for this point in time are available in the replacement history on the Federal Register of Legislation.
 About this compilation
 This compilation
This is a compilation of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 that shows the text of the law as amended and in force on 3 August 2025 (the compilation date).
The notes at the end of this compilation (the endnotes) include information about amending laws and the amendment history of provisions of the compiled law.
Uncommenced amendments
The effect of uncommenced amendments is not shown in the text of the compiled law. The details of amendments made up to, but not commenced at, the compilation date are underlined in the endnotes. Any uncommenced amendments affecting the law are accessible on the Register (www.legislation.gov.au).
Application, saving and transitional provisions
If the operation of a provision or amendment of the compiled law is affected by an application, saving or transitional provision that is not included in this compilation, details are included in the endnotes.
Editorial changes
For more information about any editorial changes made in this compilation, see the endnotes.
Presentational changes
The Legislation Act 2003 provides for First Parliamentary Counsel to make presentational changes to a compilation. Presentational changes are applied to give a more consistent look and feel to legislation published on the Register, and enable the user to more easily navigate those documents.
Modifications
If the compiled law is modified by another law, the compiled law operates as modified but the modification does not amend the text of the law. Accordingly, this compilation does not show the text of the compiled law as modified. Any modifications affecting the law are accessible on the Register.
Self-repealing provisions
If a provision of the compiled law has been repealed in accordance with a provision of the law, details are included in the endnotes.
TAXATION ADMINISTRATION ACT 1953
- NOTES
 Endnotes
TAXATION ADMINISTRATION ACT 1953
- NOTES
 Endnote 1--About the endnotes
The endnotes provide information about this compilation and the compiled law.
The following endnotes are included in every compilation:
Endnote 1--About the endnotes
Endnote 2--Abbreviation key
Endnote 3--Legislation history
Endnote 4--Amendment history
Abbreviation key--Endnote 2
The abbreviation key sets out abbreviations that may be used in the endnotes.
Legislation history and amendment history--Endnotes 3 and 4
Amending laws are annotated in the legislation history and amendment history.
The legislation history in endnote 3 provides information about each law that has amended (or will amend) the compiled law. The information includes commencement details for amending laws and details of any application, saving or transitional provisions that are not included in this compilation.
The amendment history in endnote 4 provides information about amendments at the provision (generally section or equivalent) level. It also includes information about any provision of the compiled law that has been repealed in accordance with a provision of the law.
Editorial changes
The Legislation Act 2003 authorises First Parliamentary Counsel to make editorial and presentational changes to a compiled law in preparing a compilation of the law for registration. The changes must not change the effect of the law. Editorial changes take effect from the compilation registration date.
If the compilation includes editorial changes, the endnotes include a brief outline of the changes in general terms. Full details of any changes can be obtained from the Office of Parliamentary Counsel.
Misdescribed amendments
A misdescribed amendment is an amendment that does not accurately describe how an amendment is to be made. If, despite the misdescription, the amendment can be given effect as intended, then the misdescribed amendment can be incorporated through an editorial change made under section 15V of the Legislation Act 2003.
If a misdescribed amendment cannot be given effect as intended, the amendment is not incorporated and &quot;(md not incorp)&quot; is added to the amendment history.
TAXATION ADMINISTRATION ACT 1953
- NOTES
 Endnote 2--Abbreviation key
ad = added or insertedorig = originalam = amendedp = page(s)amdt = amendmentpara = paragraph(s)/subparagraph(s)C[x] = Compilation No. x/sub-subparagraph(s)ch = Chapter(s)pres = presentcl = clause(s)prev = previouscont. = continued(prev ... ) = previouslydef = definition(s)pt = Part(s)Dict = Dictionaryr = regulation(s)/Court rule(s)disallowed = disallowed by Parliamentreloc = relocateddiv = Division(s)renum = renumbereded = editorial changerep = repealedexp = expires/expired or ceases/ceased to havers = repealed and substitutedeffects = section(s)/subsection(s)gaz = gazette/rule(s)/subrule(s)/order(s)/suborder(s)LA = Legislation Act 2003sch = Schedule(s)LIA = Legislative Instruments Act 2003SLI = Select Legislative Instrument(md) = misdescribed amendment can be givenSR = Statutory Ruleseffectsub ch = Sub-Chapter(s)(md not incorp) = misdescribed amendmentad = added or insertedorig = originalam = amendedp = page(s)amdt = amendmentpara = paragraph(s)/subparagraph(s)C[x] = Compilation No. x/sub-subparagraph(s)ch = Chapter(s)pres = presentcl = clause(s)prev = previouscont. = continued(prev ... ) = previouslydef = definition(s)pt = Part(s)Dict = Dictionaryr = regulation(s)/Court rule(s)disallowed = disallowed by Parliamentreloc = relocateddiv = Division(s)renum = renumbereded = editorial changerep = repealedexp = expires/expired or ceases/ceased to havers = repealed and substitutedeffects = section(s)/subsection(s)gaz = gazette/rule(s)/subrule(s)/order(s)/suborder(s)LA = Legislation Act 2003sch = Schedule(s)LIA = Legislative Instruments Act 2003SLI = Select Legislative Instrument(md) = misdescribed amendment can be givenSR = Statutory Ruleseffectsub ch = Sub-Chapter(s)(md not incorp) = misdescribed amendmentsub div = Subdivision(s)cannot be given effectsub pt = Subpart(s)mod = modified/modificationunderlining = whole or part notNo. = Number(s)commenced or to be commencedOrd = Ordinance
TAXATION ADMINISTRATION ACT 1953
- NOTES
 Endnote 3--Legislation history
ActNumber and yearAssentCommencementApplication, saving and transitional provisionsTaxation Administration Act 19531, 19534 Mar 19531 Apr 1953 Income Tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment Act 195328, 195315 Apr 195315 Apr 1953--Entertainments Tax Abolition Act 195339, 195330 Sept 19531 Oct 1953--Pay-roll Tax Assessment Act 195340, 19532 Oct 19531 Oct 1953--Estate Duty Assessment Act 195352, 195328 Oct 195328 Oct 1953--Salaries Adjustment Act 195518, 195510 June 195510 June 1955s. 3(2)Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Act 195739, 1957ActNumber and yearAssentCommencementApplication, saving and transitional provisionsTaxation Administration Act 19531, 19534 Mar 19531 Apr 1953 Income Tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment Act 195328, 195315 Apr 195315 Apr 1953--Entertainments Tax Abolition Act 195339, 195330 Sept 19531 Oct 1953--Pay-roll Tax Assessment Act 195340, 19532 Oct 19531 Oct 1953--Estate Duty Assessment Act 195352, 195328 Oct 195328 Oct 1953--Salaries Adjustment Act 195518, 195510 June 195510 June 1955s. 3(2)Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Act 195739, 195712 Sept 19571 July 1957--Taxation Administration Act 195995, 19594 Dec 19594 Dec 1959--Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Act 196017, 196017 May 196017 May 1960s. 2Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Act 196475, 19645 Nov 19645 Nov 1964s. 2Taxation Administration Act 1965155, 196518 Dec 196514 Feb 1966--Statute Law Revision (Decimal Currency) Act 196693, 196629 Oct 19661 Dec 1966--Salaries Act 1968120, 19682 Dec 19682 Dec 1968s. 2Statute Law Revision Act 1973216, 197319 Dec 197331 Dec 1973ss. 9(1) and 1012 Sept 19571 July 1957--Taxation Administration Act 195995, 19594 Dec 19594 Dec 1959--Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Act 196017, 196017 May 196017 May 1960s. 2Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Act 196475, 19645 Nov 19645 Nov 1964s. 2Taxation Administration Act 1965155, 196518 Dec 196514 Feb 1966--Statute Law Revision (Decimal Currency) Act 196693, 196629 Oct 19661 Dec 1966--Salaries Act 1968120, 19682 Dec 19682 Dec 1968s. 2Statute Law Revision Act 1973216, 197319 Dec 197331 Dec 1973ss. 9(1) and 10Taxation Administration Act 1974133, 19749 Dec 1974ss. 1 and 2: Royal Assentss. 3, 4, 7, 8 and 10-12: 23 Dec 1974 (see Gazette 1974, No. 103D)Remainder: 1 July 1976 (see Gazette 1976, No. S107)s. 9(2)Jurisdiction of Courts (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 197919, 197928 Mar 1979Parts II-XVII (ss. 3-123): 15 May 1979 (see Gazette 1979, No. S86)Remainder: Royal Assentss. 110(2) and 125-127Taxation Administration Amendment Act 197959, 197915 June 197915 June 1979--Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No. 1) 198339, 198320 June 1983s 7(1), (5) and Sch 1: 18 July 1983 (s 2(1))s 7(1) and (5)Taxation Administration Amendment Act 1983117, 198316 Dec 198316 Dec 1983--Taxation Laws Amendment Act 1984123, 198419 Oct 1984ss. 1 and 2: Royal Assents. 319(1): 14 Feb 1983 (see s. 2(2))Remainder: 14 Dec 1984s. 317Trust Recoupment Tax (Consequential Amendments) Act 19854, 198524 Mar 1985Taxation Administration Act 1974133, 19749 Dec 1974ss. 1 and 2: Royal Assentss. 3, 4, 7, 8 and 10-12: 23 Dec 1974 (see Gazette 1974, No. 103D)Remainder: 1 July 1976 (see Gazette 1976, No. S107)s. 9(2)Jurisdiction of Courts (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 197919, 197928 Mar 1979Parts II-XVII (ss. 3-123): 15 May 1979 (see Gazette 1979, No. S86)Remainder: Royal Assentss. 110(2) and 125-127Taxation Administration Amendment Act 197959, 197915 June 197915 June 1979--Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No. 1) 198339, 198320 June 1983s 7(1), (5) and Sch 1: 18 July 1983 (s 2(1))s 7(1) and (5)Taxation Administration Amendment Act 1983117, 198316 Dec 198316 Dec 1983--Taxation Laws Amendment Act 1984123, 198419 Oct 1984ss. 1 and 2: Royal Assents. 319(1): 14 Feb 1983 (see s. 2(2))Remainder: 14 Dec 1984s. 317Trust Recoupment Tax (Consequential Amendments) Act 19854, 198524 Mar 19855 Apr 1985 (see s. 2)--Sales Tax Laws Amendment Act 198547, 198530 May 1985ss. 3, 4(2), 11, 12 and Part XI (ss. 54-56): 21 Aug 1981ss. 5, 18, 20, 22, 24, 28(2), 39, 40, 45, 48, 50, 51 and 53: 10 May 1985 (see s. 2(3))Remainder: Royal Assents. 2(4) and (5)Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No. 1) 198565, 19855 June 1985Sch 1: 3 July 1985 (s 2(1))Sch 1: 14 Dec 1984 (s 2(45))--as amended by    Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No. 2) 1985193, 198516 Dec 1985Sch 1: 3 July 1985 (s 2(15)(b))--National Crime Authority (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1985104, 198516 Oct 1985s. 14(1): 1 July 1984Remainder: Royal Assent--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 1985123, 198528 Oct 198528 Oct 1985--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 1985168, 198516 Dec 1985Part II (ss. 3-9): 1 Jan 1986Parts IV-VI (ss. 12-17): 1 July 1969Remainder: Royal Assent5 Apr 1985 (see s. 2)--Sales Tax Laws Amendment Act 198547, 198530 May 1985ss. 3, 4(2), 11, 12 and Part XI (ss. 54-56): 21 Aug 1981ss. 5, 18, 20, 22, 24, 28(2), 39, 40, 45, 48, 50, 51 and 53: 10 May 1985 (see s. 2(3))Remainder: Royal Assents. 2(4) and (5)Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No. 1) 198565, 19855 June 1985Sch 1: 3 July 1985 (s 2(1))Sch 1: 14 Dec 1984 (s 2(45))--as amended by    Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No. 2) 1985193, 198516 Dec 1985Sch 1: 3 July 1985 (s 2(15)(b))--National Crime Authority (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1985104, 198516 Oct 1985s. 14(1): 1 July 1984Remainder: Royal Assent--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 1985123, 198528 Oct 198528 Oct 1985--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 1985168, 198516 Dec 1985Part II (ss. 3-9): 1 Jan 1986Parts IV-VI (ss. 12-17): 1 July 1969Remainder: Royal Assent--Fringe Benefits Tax (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 198641, 198624 June 198624 June 1986 (see s. 2)s. 2(2)Taxation Laws Amendment Act 198646, 198624 June 1986Part IV (ss. 31-41): 1 July 1986Part V (ss. 42, 43): 28 Oct 1985Remainder: Royal Assent--Taxation Boards of Review (Transfer of Jurisdiction) Act 198648, 198624 June 1986s. 31 and Parts VII and VIII (ss. 45-56): 24 June 1986 (see s. 2(2))Remainder: 1 July 1986ss. 213, 221, 229 and 231Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 198649, 198624 June 1986ss. 33 and 36: 16 Dec 1985 (see s. 2(2))ss. 34, 35 and 37-39: 22 May 1986 (see s. 2(3) and Gazette 1986, No. S225)Remainder: Royal Assent--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 1986112, 19864 Nov 19864 Nov 1986--Taxation Administration Amendment (Recovery of Tax Debts) Act 1986144, 19869 Dec 19869 Dec 1986--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 4) 1986--Fringe Benefits Tax (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 198641, 198624 June 198624 June 1986 (see s. 2)s. 2(2)Taxation Laws Amendment Act 198646, 198624 June 1986Part IV (ss. 31-41): 1 July 1986Part V (ss. 42, 43): 28 Oct 1985Remainder: Royal Assent--Taxation Boards of Review (Transfer of Jurisdiction) Act 198648, 198624 June 1986s. 31 and Parts VII and VIII (ss. 45-56): 24 June 1986 (see s. 2(2))Remainder: 1 July 1986ss. 213, 221, 229 and 231Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 198649, 198624 June 1986ss. 33 and 36: 16 Dec 1985 (see s. 2(2))ss. 34, 35 and 37-39: 22 May 1986 (see s. 2(3) and Gazette 1986, No. S225)Remainder: Royal Assent--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 1986112, 19864 Nov 19864 Nov 1986--Taxation Administration Amendment (Recovery of Tax Debts) Act 1986144, 19869 Dec 19869 Dec 1986--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 4) 1986154, 198618 Dec 1986Part II (ss. 3-6) and ss. 8(a) and 9-11: 1 Jan 1987s. 8(c): 10 June 1986ss. 26(b), (c), 28, 40, 49(3) and (7): 1 Jan 1987 (see s. 2(4) and Gazette 1986, No. S650)s. 55: 1 Mar 1987 (see Gazette 1987, No. S32)Remainder: Royal Assents. 55(2)Taxation Laws Amendment (Company Distributions) Act 198758, 19875 June 19875 June 1987 (see s. 2)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 198762, 19875 June 1987s 55 and Sch 4: 5 June 1987 (s 2(1))Sch 1: 1 July 1987 (s 2(6))s 55(2)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 1987108, 198713 Nov 198713 Nov 1987s. 43Crimes Legislation Amendment Act 1987120, 198716 Dec 1987s 33: 16 Dec 1987 (s 2(2))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 4) 1987138, 198718 Dec 1987s. 6 and Parts IV, V (ss. 63-88): 21 Dec 1987 (see s. 2(2) and Gazette 1987, No. S347)Remainder: Royal Assent--Petroleum Resource Rent Tax (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1987145, 198718 Dec 1987154, 198618 Dec 1986Part II (ss. 3-6) and ss. 8(a) and 9-11: 1 Jan 1987s. 8(c): 10 June 1986ss. 26(b), (c), 28, 40, 49(3) and (7): 1 Jan 1987 (see s. 2(4) and Gazette 1986, No. S650)s. 55: 1 Mar 1987 (see Gazette 1987, No. S32)Remainder: Royal Assents. 55(2)Taxation Laws Amendment (Company Distributions) Act 198758, 19875 June 19875 June 1987 (see s. 2)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 198762, 19875 June 1987s 55 and Sch 4: 5 June 1987 (s 2(1))Sch 1: 1 July 1987 (s 2(6))s 55(2)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 1987108, 198713 Nov 198713 Nov 1987s. 43Crimes Legislation Amendment Act 1987120, 198716 Dec 1987s 33: 16 Dec 1987 (s 2(2))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 4) 1987138, 198718 Dec 1987s. 6 and Parts IV, V (ss. 63-88): 21 Dec 1987 (see s. 2(2) and Gazette 1987, No. S347)Remainder: Royal Assent--Petroleum Resource Rent Tax (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1987145, 198718 Dec 198715 Jan 1988 (see s. 2)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 4) 198895, 198824 Nov 1988ss. 44(a) and 54(11): 16 Mar 1989 (see s. 2(2))Remainder: Royal Assent--as amended by    Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 1989107, 198930 June 1989(see 107, 1989 below)--Taxation Laws Amendment (Tax File Numbers) Act 198897, 198825 Nov 1988s 22-28 and 29(1): 1 Jan 1989 (s 2(1))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 198997, 198930 June 198930 June 1989--Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Act 1989105, 198930 June 1989s. 5(o): 18 Dec 1987Remainder: 30 June 1989 (see s. 2(1))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 1989107, 198930 June 1989Part 6 (ss. 29, 30): 24 Nov 1988 (see s. 2(2))Remainder: Royal Assent--15 Jan 1988 (see s. 2)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 4) 198895, 198824 Nov 1988ss. 44(a) and 54(11): 16 Mar 1989 (see s. 2(2))Remainder: Royal Assent--as amended by    Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 1989107, 198930 June 1989(see 107, 1989 below)--Taxation Laws Amendment (Tax File Numbers) Act 198897, 198825 Nov 1988s 22-28 and 29(1): 1 Jan 1989 (s 2(1))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 198997, 198930 June 198930 June 1989--Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Act 1989105, 198930 June 1989s. 5(o): 18 Dec 1987Remainder: 30 June 1989 (see s. 2(1))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 1989107, 198930 June 1989Part 6 (ss. 29, 30): 24 Nov 1988 (see s. 2(2))Remainder: Royal Assent--Child Support (Assessment) Act 1989124, 198921 Sept 19891 Oct 1989 (see Gazette 1989, No. S314)--Social Security and Veterans&#39; Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 3) 1989163, 198919 Dec 1989s 50 and 51: 13 Nov 1989 (s 2)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 4) 1989167, 198919 Dec 1989s. 31: 19 Jan 1989Part 4 (ss. 35-37): 25 Jan 1989Remainder: Royal Assent--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 5) 198920, 199017 Jan 199017 Jan 1990s. 2(2)Training Guarantee (Administration) Act 199060, 199016 June 1990s. 43 and Part 10 (ss. 88-95): 31 Oct 1990 (see Gazette 1990, No. S272)Remainder: 1 July 1990--Occupational Superannuation (Reasonable Benefit Limits) Amendment Act 199061, 199016 June 1990s 26: 1 July 1990 (s 2(4))--Corporations Legislation Amendment Act 1990110, 199018 Dec 1990Parts 1 and 2 (ss. 1-7): Royal Assents. 9(2): 8 Apr 1991 (see Gazette 1991, No. S79)Remainder: 1 Jan 1991 (see Gazette 1990, No. S335)--Social Security and Veterans&#39; Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1990119, 199028 Dec 1990ss. 4-6, 7(g), 8, 19-21, 22(g) and 23: 22 Aug 1990ss. 7(a)-(f) and 22(a)-(f): 1 Mar 1991ss. 9, 10, 41(b) and 42(b): 1 Jan 1991Remainder: Royal Assent--as amended by    Social Security Legislation Amendment Act 199169, 199125 June 1991s 23: 28 Dec 1990 (s 2)--Debits Tax Termination Act 1990136, 199028 Dec 19901 Jan 1991--Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Income) Act 19905, 19918 Jan 19918 Jan 1991--Social Security Legislation Amendment Act 19906, 19918 Jan 1991s 97 and 98: 1 Jan 1991 (s 2)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act 199148, 199124 Apr 1991s 101 and 102: 24 Apr 1991 (s 2(1))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 1991100, 1991see Gazette 1990, No. S335)--Social Security and Veterans&#39; Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1990119, 199028 Dec 1990ss. 4-6, 7(g), 8, 19-21, 22(g) and 23: 22 Aug 1990ss. 7(a)-(f) and 22(a)-(f): 1 Mar 1991ss. 9, 10, 41(b) and 42(b): 1 Jan 1991Remainder: Royal Assent--as amended by    Social Security Legislation Amendment Act 199169, 199125 June 1991s 23: 28 Dec 1990 (s 2)--Debits Tax Termination Act 1990136, 199028 Dec 19901 Jan 1991--Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Income) Act 19905, 19918 Jan 19918 Jan 1991--Social Security Legislation Amendment Act 19906, 19918 Jan 1991s 97 and 98: 1 Jan 1991 (s 2)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act 199148, 199124 Apr 1991s 101 and 102: 24 Apr 1991 (s 2(1))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 1991100, 199127 June 1991s 93: 27 June 1991 (s 2(1))--Industrial Relations Legislation Amendment Act 1991122, 199127 June 1991ss. 4(1), 10(b) and 15-20: 1 Dec 1988ss. 28(b)-(e), 30 and 31: 10 Dec 1991 (see Gazette 1991, No. S332)Remainder: Royal Assents. 31(2)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 1991216, 199124 Dec 1991ss. 11 and 89(2): 22 Jan 1991ss. 40 and 42: 6 Jan 1992 (see s. 2(3))ss. 45, 46, 48-51, 54-58, 60-66, 90(1), (3)-(14), 93-96 and 98-101: 21 Aug 1991ss. 47, 52, 53, 59, 90(2) and 97: 3 pm (A.C.T.) 20 Aug 1991 (s 2(5))s. 82(2): 25 Dec 1991s. 107: 24 June 1992ss. 112-117: 1 Mar 1992 (see Gazette 1992, No. GN7)Part 9 (ss. 121, 122): 1 July 1991Remainder: Royal Assentss. 114-117Taxation Administration Amendment Act 199247, 199217 June 199217 June 1992--Superannuation Guarantee (Consequential Amendments) Act 199292, 199230 June 19921 July 1992--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 199298, 199230 June 1992ss. 32-36: 1 July 1992Remainder: Royal Assent--Taxation Laws Amendment (Self Assessment) Act 1992101, 199227 June 1991s 93: 27 June 1991 (s 2(1))--Industrial Relations Legislation Amendment Act 1991122, 199127 June 1991ss. 4(1), 10(b) and 15-20: 1 Dec 1988ss. 28(b)-(e), 30 and 31: 10 Dec 1991 (see Gazette 1991, No. S332)Remainder: Royal Assents. 31(2)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 1991216, 199124 Dec 1991ss. 11 and 89(2): 22 Jan 1991ss. 40 and 42: 6 Jan 1992 (see s. 2(3))ss. 45, 46, 48-51, 54-58, 60-66, 90(1), (3)-(14), 93-96 and 98-101: 21 Aug 1991ss. 47, 52, 53, 59, 90(2) and 97: 3 pm (A.C.T.) 20 Aug 1991 (s 2(5))s. 82(2): 25 Dec 1991s. 107: 24 June 1992ss. 112-117: 1 Mar 1992 (see Gazette 1992, No. GN7)Part 9 (ss. 121, 122): 1 July 1991Remainder: Royal Assentss. 114-117Taxation Administration Amendment Act 199247, 199217 June 199217 June 1992--Superannuation Guarantee (Consequential Amendments) Act 199292, 199230 June 19921 July 1992--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 199298, 199230 June 1992ss. 32-36: 1 July 1992Remainder: Royal Assent--Taxation Laws Amendment (Self Assessment) Act 1992101, 199230 June 199230 June 1992ss. 12-14Sales Tax Amendment (Transitional) Act 1992118, 199230 Sept 199228 Oct 1992--Student Assistance Amendment Act 1992138, 199219 Nov 1992ss. 31-43: 1 Jan 1993Remainder: Royal Assent--Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Act 1992208, 199222 Dec 1992s 91-93: 22 Dec 1992 (s 2(1))--Corporate Law Reform Act 1992210, 199224 Dec 1992s 125: 23 June 1993 (s 2(3) and gaz 1993, No S186)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 5) 1992224, 199224 Dec 1992s 122-126: 24 Dec 1992 (s 2(1))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act 199317, 19939 June 1993s 63: 9 June 1993 (s 2(1))--Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Consequential Amendments Act 199382, 199330 Nov 199330 June 199230 June 1992ss. 12-14Sales Tax Amendment (Transitional) Act 1992118, 199230 Sept 199228 Oct 1992--Student Assistance Amendment Act 1992138, 199219 Nov 1992ss. 31-43: 1 Jan 1993Remainder: Royal Assent--Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Act 1992208, 199222 Dec 1992s 91-93: 22 Dec 1992 (s 2(1))--Corporate Law Reform Act 1992210, 199224 Dec 1992s 125: 23 June 1993 (s 2(3) and gaz 1993, No S186)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 5) 1992224, 199224 Dec 1992s 122-126: 24 Dec 1992 (s 2(1))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act 199317, 19939 June 1993s 63: 9 June 1993 (s 2(1))--Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Consequential Amendments Act 199382, 199330 Nov 1993ss. 1, 2, 14, 16(2), 41, 42, 45, 46, 48(1) and 52-64: 1 Dec 1993Remainder: 1 July 1994s. 77Taxation Laws Amendment (Infrastructure Borrowings) Act 1994163, 199416 Dec 199416 Dec 1994--Superannuation Laws Amendment (Small Accounts and Other Measures) Act 199553, 199523 June 19951 July 1995--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 1) 1995120, 199525 Oct 1995Schedule 1 (item 58): 23 Nov 1994 (see s. 2(2))Schedule 2 (items 8-13): 1 July 1994Remainder: Royal AssentSch. 2 (items 1, 7, 18, 20)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 1995169, 199516 Dec 1995Sch 8 (items 6-8): 16 Dec 1995 (s 2(1))Sch 8 (item 8)Statute Law Revision Act 199643, 199625 Oct 1996Sch 4 (item 145): 25 Oct 1996 (s 2(1))--Family (Tax Initiative) Act 199663, 199627 Nov 19961 Jan 1997--Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 199734, 1997ss. 1, 2, 14, 16(2), 41, 42, 45, 46, 48(1) and 52-64: 1 Dec 1993Remainder: 1 July 1994s. 77Taxation Laws Amendment (Infrastructure Borrowings) Act 1994163, 199416 Dec 199416 Dec 1994--Superannuation Laws Amendment (Small Accounts and Other Measures) Act 199553, 199523 June 19951 July 1995--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 1) 1995120, 199525 Oct 1995Schedule 1 (item 58): 23 Nov 1994 (see s. 2(2))Schedule 2 (items 8-13): 1 July 1994Remainder: Royal AssentSch. 2 (items 1, 7, 18, 20)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 1995169, 199516 Dec 1995Sch 8 (items 6-8): 16 Dec 1995 (s 2(1))Sch 8 (item 8)Statute Law Revision Act 199643, 199625 Oct 1996Sch 4 (item 145): 25 Oct 1996 (s 2(1))--Family (Tax Initiative) Act 199663, 199627 Nov 19961 Jan 1997--Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 199734, 199717 Apr 1997Sch 16 (items 1-6, 8-11): 1 July 1997 (s 2(2) and gaz 1997, No S244)Sch 16 (item 7): 17 Apr 1997 (s 2(1))--Income Tax (Consequential Amendments) Act 199739, 199717 Apr 19971 July 1997Sch. 2 (items 5, 6)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 4) 1997174, 199721 Nov 1997Sch 7 (items 17, 18): 21 Nov 1997 (s 2(1))--Taxation Laws (Technical Amendments) Act 199841, 19984 June 1998Sch 1 (items 1-3) and Sch 6 (item 19): 4 June 1998 (s 2(1))--Taxation Laws Amendment (Farm Management Deposits) Act 199885, 19982 July 19982 Jan 1999--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 199911, 199931 Mar 1999Sch 1 (items 346-352): 1 July 1999 (s 2(3))&iuml;&#130;&frac34;Financial Sector Reform (Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act (No. 1) 199944, 199917 June 1999Sch 7 (items 227, 228): 1 July 1999 (s 3(2)(e), (16) and gaz 1999, No S283)--as amended by    Financial Sector Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 2000160, 200021 Dec 2000Schedule 1 (item 21): Royal AssentRemainder: 18 Jan 2001--A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax Administration) Act 199956, 19998 July 19991 July 2000--as amended by    A New Tax System (Pay As You Go) Act 1999178, 199922 Dec 1999Sch 1 (items 70, 71): 1 July 2000 (s 2(2))--A New Tax System (Indirect Tax Administration) Act 199959, 19998 July 19991 July 2000 (s 2)--as amended by    A New Tax System (Indirect Tax and Consequential Amendments) Act 1999176, 199922 Dec 1999Sch 5 (item 1): 1 July 2000 (s 2(10))--A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act (No. 1) 200044, 20003 May 2000Sch 4 (item 1): 1 July 2000 (s 2(10))--A New Tax System (Family Assistance) (Consequential and Related Measures) Act (No. 2) 199983, 19998 July 1999Sch 10 (items 66, 67A): 10 Dec 1999 (s 2(6A)-(6C))Sch 10 (item 67): never commenced (s 2(6B), (6C))Sch 10 (item 68): 1 July 2000 (s 2(2))Sch 10 (item 68)as amended by    Family and Community Services Legislation Amendment (1999 Budget and Other Measures) Act 1999172, 199910 Dec 1999Sch 2 (items 1, 2, 5): 8 July 1999 (s 2(4))--A New Tax System (Australian Business Number Consequential Amendments) Act 199985, 19998 July 19998 July 1999 (see s. 2)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 4) 199994, 199916 July 1999Sch 7: 16 July 1999 (s 2(1))--Statute Stocktake Act 1999118, 199922 Sept 1999Sch 2 (items 25-28): 22 Sept 1999 (s 2)--Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Consequential and Transitional Act 1999128, 199913 Oct 1999s 9, Sch 1 (items 75, 76) and Sch 3 (items 5, 6): 13 Oct 1999 (s 2(1), (2), (6))Sch 3 (items 2, 3): 2 June 1997 (s 2(5))s 9A New Tax System (Family Assistance) (Consequential and Related Measures) Act (No. 2) 199983, 19998 July 1999Sch 10 (items 66, 67A): 10 Dec 1999 (s 2(6A)-(6C))Sch 10 (item 67): never commenced (s 2(6B), (6C))Sch 10 (item 68): 1 July 2000 (s 2(2))Sch 10 (item 68)as amended by    Family and Community Services Legislation Amendment (1999 Budget and Other Measures) Act 1999172, 199910 Dec 1999Sch 2 (items 1, 2, 5): 8 July 1999 (s 2(4))--A New Tax System (Australian Business Number Consequential Amendments) Act 199985, 19998 July 19998 July 1999 (see s. 2)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 4) 199994, 199916 July 1999Sch 7: 16 July 1999 (s 2(1))--Statute Stocktake Act 1999118, 199922 Sept 1999Sch 2 (items 25-28): 22 Sept 1999 (s 2)--Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Consequential and Transitional Act 1999128, 199913 Oct 1999s 9, Sch 1 (items 75, 76) and Sch 3 (items 5, 6): 13 Oct 1999 (s 2(1), (2), (6))Sch 3 (items 2, 3): 2 June 1997 (s 2(5))s 9Public Employment (Consequential and Transitional) Amendment Act 1999146, 199911 Nov 1999Sch 1 (items 911-915): 5 Dec 1999 (s 2(1), (2))--Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Legislation Amendment Act 1999161, 199910 Dec 1999Sch 6: 10 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))--A New Tax System (Indirect Tax and Consequential Amendments) Act 1999176, 199922 Dec 1999Sch 5 (items 2-10): 1 July 2000 (s 2(10), (11))--A New Tax System (Indirect Tax and Consequential Amendments) Act (No. 2) 1999177, 199922 Dec 1999Sch 7 (item 38) and Sch 8 (items 19-22): 1 July 2000 (s 2(9))--A New Tax System (Pay As You Go) Act 1999178, 199922 Dec 1999Sch 1 (items 1-4, 85-88) and Sch 2 (items 1-22, 35, 36, 75-82, 92, 93): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))Sch 1 (items 3, 4) and Sch 2 (items 35, 36, 92, 93)as amended by    A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act 1999179, 199922 Dec 1999Sch 10 (item 20): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))--A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act (No. 1) 200044, 20003 May 2000Public Employment (Consequential and Transitional) Amendment Act 1999146, 199911 Nov 1999Sch 1 (items 911-915): 5 Dec 1999 (s 2(1), (2))--Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Legislation Amendment Act 1999161, 199910 Dec 1999Sch 6: 10 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))--A New Tax System (Indirect Tax and Consequential Amendments) Act 1999176, 199922 Dec 1999Sch 5 (items 2-10): 1 July 2000 (s 2(10), (11))--A New Tax System (Indirect Tax and Consequential Amendments) Act (No. 2) 1999177, 199922 Dec 1999Sch 7 (item 38) and Sch 8 (items 19-22): 1 July 2000 (s 2(9))--A New Tax System (Pay As You Go) Act 1999178, 199922 Dec 1999Sch 1 (items 1-4, 85-88) and Sch 2 (items 1-22, 35, 36, 75-82, 92, 93): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))Sch 1 (items 3, 4) and Sch 2 (items 35, 36, 92, 93)as amended by    A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act 1999179, 199922 Dec 1999Sch 10 (item 20): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))--A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act (No. 1) 200044, 20003 May 2000Sch 4 (items 2, 3): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))--A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act 1999179, 199922 Dec 1999Sch 1 (items 1-4, 7, 8), Sch 2 (items 1-4, 86-93, 103-107, 130, 131), Sch 3 (items 1, 2), Sch 4, Sch 5 (items  69, 73, 74), Sch 6 (items 14-24), Sch 10 (items 1-18), Sch 12 (item 21) and Sch 14: 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1)-(6), (7)(b), (c))Sch 2 (items 94-102), Sch 11 (items 111, 112), Sch 12 (items 4-20) and Sch 15 (items 9-18): 1  July 2000 (s 2(8), (9)(b), (12))Sch 1 (items 7, 8), Sch 2 (items 2, 107, 130, 131), Sch 3 (item 2), Sch 4 (item  2), Sch 5 (items 73, 74) and Sch 6 (item 24)as amended by    A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act (No. 1) 200044, 20003 May 2000Sch 3 (item 4): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))--A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act (No. 2) 200091, 200030 June 2000Sch 2 (item 1A): 1 July 2000 (s 3(1))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 200257, 20023 July 2002Sch 12 (item 41): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1) item 45)--Federal Magistrates (Consequential Amendments) Act 1999194, 199923 Dec 1999Sch 24: 23 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))--Diesel and Alternative Fuels Grants Scheme (Administration and Compliance) Act 1999201, 1999Sch 4 (items 2, 3): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))--A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act 1999179, 199922 Dec 1999Sch 1 (items 1-4, 7, 8), Sch 2 (items 1-4, 86-93, 103-107, 130, 131), Sch 3 (items 1, 2), Sch 4, Sch 5 (items  69, 73, 74), Sch 6 (items 14-24), Sch 10 (items 1-18), Sch 12 (item 21) and Sch 14: 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1)-(6), (7)(b), (c))Sch 2 (items 94-102), Sch 11 (items 111, 112), Sch 12 (items 4-20) and Sch 15 (items 9-18): 1  July 2000 (s 2(8), (9)(b), (12))Sch 1 (items 7, 8), Sch 2 (items 2, 107, 130, 131), Sch 3 (item 2), Sch 4 (item  2), Sch 5 (items 73, 74) and Sch 6 (item 24)as amended by    A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act (No. 1) 200044, 20003 May 2000Sch 3 (item 4): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))--A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act (No. 2) 200091, 200030 June 2000Sch 2 (item 1A): 1 July 2000 (s 3(1))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 200257, 20023 July 2002Sch 12 (item 41): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1) item 45)--Federal Magistrates (Consequential Amendments) Act 1999194, 199923 Dec 1999Sch 24: 23 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))--Diesel and Alternative Fuels Grants Scheme (Administration and Compliance) Act 1999201, 199923 Dec 1999Sch 2: 24 Dec 1999 (s 2(3))--A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act (No. 1) 200044, 20003 May 2000Sch 1, Sch 3 (items 55-67) and Sch 4 (items 17-48): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))Sch 2 (item 12): 1 Apr 2000 (s 2(2))Sch 3 (item 68): 1 July 2000 (s 2(8))Sch 3 (item 62)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 200058, 200031 May 2000Sch 8 (item 20): 1 July 1999 (s 2(13))--Fuel Sales Grants (Consequential Amendments) Act 200060, 200019 June 200019 June 2000 (s 2)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 6) 200076, 200028 June 200028 June 2000Sch. 1 (item 8(4))Diesel and Alternative Fuels Grants Scheme Amendment Act 200077, 200030 June 2000Sch 2: 30 June 2000 (s 2(1))--New Business Tax System (Alienation of Personal Services Income) Act 200086, 200030 June 2000Sch 1 (items 26A, 26B, 27-58): 30 June 2000 (s 2(1))23 Dec 1999Sch 2: 24 Dec 1999 (s 2(3))--A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act (No. 1) 200044, 20003 May 2000Sch 1, Sch 3 (items 55-67) and Sch 4 (items 17-48): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))Sch 2 (item 12): 1 Apr 2000 (s 2(2))Sch 3 (item 68): 1 July 2000 (s 2(8))Sch 3 (item 62)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 200058, 200031 May 2000Sch 8 (item 20): 1 July 1999 (s 2(13))--Fuel Sales Grants (Consequential Amendments) Act 200060, 200019 June 200019 June 2000 (s 2)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 6) 200076, 200028 June 200028 June 2000Sch. 1 (item 8(4))Diesel and Alternative Fuels Grants Scheme Amendment Act 200077, 200030 June 2000Sch 2: 30 June 2000 (s 2(1))--New Business Tax System (Alienation of Personal Services Income) Act 200086, 200030 June 2000Sch 1 (items 26A, 26B, 27-58): 30 June 2000 (s 2(1))Sch 1 (item 58)New Business Tax System (Miscellaneous) Act (No. 2) 200089, 200030 June 2000Sch 2 (items 114, 116) and Sch 7: 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(6), (10))Sch 2 (items 115, 117): 30 June 2000 (s 2(1)) as amended by    Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 200257, 20023 July 2002Sch 12 (item 46): 30 June 2000 (s 2(1) item 49)--A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act (No. 2) 200091, 200030 June 2000Sch 1 and Sch 2 (items 68-120, 142A, 143, 144): 1 July 2000 (s 3(1))Sch 3 (items 1-16): 22 Dec 1999 (s 3(4))Sch 1 (items 3, 4) and Sch 2 (item 144)as amended by    Tax Laws Amendment (Repeal of Inoperative Provisions) Act 2006101, 200614 Sept 2006Sch 2 (items 14-17): 14 Sept 2006 (s 2(1) item 2)--Indirect Tax Legislation Amendment Act 200092, 200030 June 2000Sch 1 (items 10, 10A, 11), Sch 4 (item 10), Sch 6 (items  8-10), Sch 7 (items 31-33), Sch 9 (items 12-16, 18) and Sch  11 (item 17): 1 July 2000 (s 2(1), (3))Sch 9 (item 18)Sch 1 (item 58)New Business Tax System (Miscellaneous) Act (No. 2) 200089, 200030 June 2000Sch 2 (items 114, 116) and Sch 7: 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(6), (10))Sch 2 (items 115, 117): 30 June 2000 (s 2(1)) as amended by    Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 200257, 20023 July 2002Sch 12 (item 46): 30 June 2000 (s 2(1) item 49)--A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act (No. 2) 200091, 200030 June 2000Sch 1 and Sch 2 (items 68-120, 142A, 143, 144): 1 July 2000 (s 3(1))Sch 3 (items 1-16): 22 Dec 1999 (s 3(4))Sch 1 (items 3, 4) and Sch 2 (item 144)as amended by    Tax Laws Amendment (Repeal of Inoperative Provisions) Act 2006101, 200614 Sept 2006Sch 2 (items 14-17): 14 Sept 2006 (s 2(1) item 2)--Indirect Tax Legislation Amendment Act 200092, 200030 June 2000Sch 1 (items 10, 10A, 11), Sch 4 (item 10), Sch 6 (items  8-10), Sch 7 (items 31-33), Sch 9 (items 12-16, 18) and Sch  11 (item 17): 1 July 2000 (s 2(1), (3))Sch 9 (item 18)Social Security and Veterans&#39; Entitlements Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous Matters) Act 200094, 200030 June 2000Sch 5: 1 July 2000 (s 2(5))--Youth Allowance Consolidation Act 2000106, 20006 July 2000Sch 5 (items 10, 11): 1 July 1998 (s 2(3))Sch 5 (item 12): 1 July 1999 (s 2(17))--Social Security and Veterans&#39; Entitlements Legislation Amendment (Private Trusts and Private Companies-Integrity of Means Testing) Act 2000132, 200013 Nov 2000Sch 5: 13 Nov 2000 (s 2)--Criminal Code Amendment (Theft, Fraud, Bribery and Related Offences) Act 2000137, 200024 Nov 2000Sch 2 (items 395-398, 418, 419): 24 May 2001 (s 2(3))Sch 2 (items 418, 419)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 8) 2000156, 200021 Dec 2000Sch 5 (items 4-17, 18(1A), (2)): 21 Dec 2000 (s 2(1))Sch 7 (items 19, 20): 1 July 2000 (s 2(8))Sch 5 (item 18(1A), (2))Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 7) 2000173, 200021 Dec 2000Sch 2: 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(2))Sch 2 (item 5)Taxation Laws Amendment (Excise Arrangements) Act 200125, 20016 Apr 2001Sch 7 (items 28-37): 4 May 2001 (s 2(1)(b))--Corporations (Repeals, Consequentials and Transitionals) Act 200155, 200128 June 2001s 4-14 and Sch 3 (items 509, 510): 15 July 2001 (s 2(1), (3))s 4-14Family and Community Services Legislation (Simplification and Other Measures) Act 200171, 200130 June 2001Sch 2 (item 24): 1 July 1998 (s 2(6))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 200173, 200130 June 2001Sch 1 (items 21, 22, 58-62(1)), Sch 2 (items 1-40, 53, 86-95(1)), Sch 3 (items 20-33), Sch 4 (items  1, 10) and Sch 5: 30 June 2001 (s 2(1))Sch 2 (items 48-52): 1 Jan 2001 (s 2(2))Sch 3 (items 35, 36): 1 Apr 2001 (s 2(3))Sch 1 (items 22, 62(1)), Sch 2 (items 40, 48-53, 95(1)), Sch 3 (items 29, 32, 33), Sch 4 (item 10) and Sch 5 (item  3)as amended by    Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 200257, 20023 July 2002Sch 12 (item 56): 30 June 2001 (s 2(1) item 56)--Child Support Legislation Amendment Act 200175, 200130 June 2001Sch 5 (items 71-74): 30 June 2001 (s 2(1))Sch 5 (item 74)Sch 7 (items 28-37): 4 May 2001 (s 2(1)(b))--Corporations (Repeals, Consequentials and Transitionals) Act 200155, 200128 June 2001s 4-14 and Sch 3 (items 509, 510): 15 July 2001 (s 2(1), (3))s 4-14Family and Community Services Legislation (Simplification and Other Measures) Act 200171, 200130 June 2001Sch 2 (item 24): 1 July 1998 (s 2(6))--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 200173, 200130 June 2001Sch 1 (items 21, 22, 58-62(1)), Sch 2 (items 1-40, 53, 86-95(1)), Sch 3 (items 20-33), Sch 4 (items  1, 10) and Sch 5: 30 June 2001 (s 2(1))Sch 2 (items 48-52): 1 Jan 2001 (s 2(2))Sch 3 (items 35, 36): 1 Apr 2001 (s 2(3))Sch 1 (items 22, 62(1)), Sch 2 (items 40, 48-53, 95(1)), Sch 3 (items 29, 32, 33), Sch 4 (item 10) and Sch 5 (item  3)as amended by    Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 200257, 20023 July 2002Sch 12 (item 56): 30 June 2001 (s 2(1) item 56)--Child Support Legislation Amendment Act 200175, 200130 June 2001Sch 5 (items 71-74): 30 June 2001 (s 2(1))Sch 5 (item 74)Financial Sector (Collection of Data-Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 2001121, 200124 Sept 2001ss. 1-3: Royal AssentRemainder: 1 July 2002 (see s. 2(2) and Gazette 2002, No. GN24)--National Crime Authority Legislation Amendment Act 2001135, 20011 Oct 2001Schedules 1-7 and 9-12: 12 Oct 2001 (see Gazette 2001, No. S428)Schedule 8: 13 Oct 2001 (see Gazette 2001, No. S428)Remainder: Royal Assent--Treasury Legislation Amendment (Application of Criminal Code) Act (No. 2) 2001146, 20011 Oct 2001s 4 and Sch 3: 15 Dec 2001 (s 2(1))s 4Abolition of Compulsory Age Retirement (Statutory Officeholders) Act 2001159, 20011 Oct 200129 Oct 2001Sch. 1 (item 97)New Business Tax System (Debt and Equity) Act 2001163, 20011 Oct 20011 July 2001--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 5) 2001168, 20011 Oct 2001Schedule 2: 1 July 2000Remainder: Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 25)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 6) 2001169, 20011 Oct 2001Financial Sector (Collection of Data-Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 2001121, 200124 Sept 2001ss. 1-3: Royal AssentRemainder: 1 July 2002 (see s. 2(2) and Gazette 2002, No. GN24)--National Crime Authority Legislation Amendment Act 2001135, 20011 Oct 2001Schedules 1-7 and 9-12: 12 Oct 2001 (see Gazette 2001, No. S428)Schedule 8: 13 Oct 2001 (see Gazette 2001, No. S428)Remainder: Royal Assent--Treasury Legislation Amendment (Application of Criminal Code) Act (No. 2) 2001146, 20011 Oct 2001s 4 and Sch 3: 15 Dec 2001 (s 2(1))s 4Abolition of Compulsory Age Retirement (Statutory Officeholders) Act 2001159, 20011 Oct 200129 Oct 2001Sch. 1 (item 97)New Business Tax System (Debt and Equity) Act 2001163, 20011 Oct 20011 July 2001--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 5) 2001168, 20011 Oct 2001Schedule 2: 1 July 2000Remainder: Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 25)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 6) 2001169, 20011 Oct 2001Sch 6 (items 18, 18A, 19(3), (4)): 1 Oct 2001 (s 2(1))Sch 6 (item 19(3), (4))Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Act (No. 1) 200215, 20024 Apr 20024 Apr 2002Sch. 1 (item 21)Taxation Laws Amendment (Superannuation) Act (No. 2) 200251, 200229 June 2002Sch 6 (items 10, 11): 1 July 2002 (s 2(1) item 13)Sch 6 (items 12-14): 27 July 2002 (s 2(1) item 14)Sch 6 (items 11, 14)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 200257, 20023 July 2002Sch 12 (items 36, 37): 15 Dec 2001 (s 2(1) items 40, 41)Sch 12 (items 87-94): 3 July 2002 (s 2(1) item 66)--New Business Tax System (Consolidation) Act (No. 1) 200268, 200222 Aug 200224 Oct 2002 (see s. 2)--Proceeds of Crime (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act 200286, 200211 Oct 2002ss. 1-3: Royal AssentRemainder: 1 Jan 2003 (see s. 2(1) and Gazette 2002, No. GN44)--New Business Tax System (Consolidation and Other Measures) Act (No. 1) 2002117, 20022 Dec 2002Sch 11 (items 12-15) and Sch 14 (items 14, 15): 24 Oct 2002 (s 2(1) item  9)--Australian Crime Commission Establishment Act 2002125, 200210 Dec 2002Schedule 2 (items 125-187, 226): 1 Jan 2003Sch. 2 (item 226)Petroleum (Timor Sea Treaty) (Consequential Amendments) Act 200310, 20032 Apr 2003Schedule 1 (items 1-52, 54-75, 78-82): 20 May 2002Remainder: Royal Assent--New Business Tax System (Consolidation and Other Measures) Act 200316, 200311 Apr 2003Sch 4 (items 8-10), Sch 6 (items 11, 12), Sch 14 (items  8-12), Sch 23 (item 14) and Sch 24 (items 1-19): 24 Oct 2002 (s 2(1) items  3, 4, 9, 13, 14)Sch 28 (items 14-18, 19(3)): 29 June 2002 (s 2(1) items 17, 19)Sch 24 (item 19) and Sch 28 (item 19(3))Energy Grants (Credits) Scheme (Consequential Amendments) Act 200354, 200327 June 20031 July 2003Sch. 5 (items 36, 37)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 4) 200366, 200330 June 2003Schedule 3 (items 134-139, 140(1)), Schedule 5 and Schedule 6 (items  2, 3): Royal AssentSch. 3 (item 140(1)), Sch. 5 (item 30) and Sch. 6 (item 3)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 6) 200367, 200330 June 2003 14, 15): 24 Oct 2002 (s 2(1) item  9)--Australian Crime Commission Establishment Act 2002125, 200210 Dec 2002Schedule 2 (items 125-187, 226): 1 Jan 2003Sch. 2 (item 226)Petroleum (Timor Sea Treaty) (Consequential Amendments) Act 200310, 20032 Apr 2003Schedule 1 (items 1-52, 54-75, 78-82): 20 May 2002Remainder: Royal Assent--New Business Tax System (Consolidation and Other Measures) Act 200316, 200311 Apr 2003Sch 4 (items 8-10), Sch 6 (items 11, 12), Sch 14 (items  8-12), Sch 23 (item 14) and Sch 24 (items 1-19): 24 Oct 2002 (s 2(1) items  3, 4, 9, 13, 14)Sch 28 (items 14-18, 19(3)): 29 June 2002 (s 2(1) items 17, 19)Sch 24 (item 19) and Sch 28 (item 19(3))Energy Grants (Credits) Scheme (Consequential Amendments) Act 200354, 200327 June 20031 July 2003Sch. 5 (items 36, 37)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 4) 200366, 200330 June 2003Schedule 3 (items 134-139, 140(1)), Schedule 5 and Schedule 6 (items  2, 3): Royal AssentSch. 3 (item 140(1)), Sch. 5 (item 30) and Sch. 6 (item 3)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 6) 200367, 200330 June 2003Schedule 9 (items 1, 2, 18(2), 19): 1 Sept 2003Schedule 10 (item 12): Royal AssentSch. 9 (items 18(2), 19)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 2003101, 200314 Oct 2003Sch 6 (item 32): 10 Dec 1999 (s 2(1) item 28)Sch 6 (item 33): 1 July 2000 (s 2(1) item 29)Sch 6 (items 34, 35): 14 Oct 2003 (s 2(1) items 30, 31)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 8) 2003107, 200321 Oct 2003Schedule 2 (items 15-26, 40) and Schedule 7 (items 19-22): Royal AssentSch. 2 (item 40) and Sch. 7 (items 20, 22)Superannuation (Government Co-contribution for Low Income Earners) (Consequential Amendments) Act 2003111, 200312 Nov 200312 Nov 2003Sch. 1 (item 25)Family and Community Services and Veterans&#39; Affairs Legislation Amendment (2003 Budget and Other Measures) Act 2003122, 20035 Dec 2003Schedule 2 (items 24-26): Royal AssentSch. 2 (item 26)New Business Tax System (Taxation of Financial Arrangements) Act (No. 1) 2003133, 200317 Dec 200317 Dec 2003Sch. 4 (item 79)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 5) 2003142, 200317 Dec 2003Schedule 8 (items 22, 23, 24(4)): Royal AssentSchedule 9 (items 1, 2, 18(2), 19): 1 Sept 2003Schedule 10 (item 12): Royal AssentSch. 9 (items 18(2), 19)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 3) 2003101, 200314 Oct 2003Sch 6 (item 32): 10 Dec 1999 (s 2(1) item 28)Sch 6 (item 33): 1 July 2000 (s 2(1) item 29)Sch 6 (items 34, 35): 14 Oct 2003 (s 2(1) items 30, 31)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 8) 2003107, 200321 Oct 2003Schedule 2 (items 15-26, 40) and Schedule 7 (items 19-22): Royal AssentSch. 2 (item 40) and Sch. 7 (items 20, 22)Superannuation (Government Co-contribution for Low Income Earners) (Consequential Amendments) Act 2003111, 200312 Nov 200312 Nov 2003Sch. 1 (item 25)Family and Community Services and Veterans&#39; Affairs Legislation Amendment (2003 Budget and Other Measures) Act 2003122, 20035 Dec 2003Schedule 2 (items 24-26): Royal AssentSch. 2 (item 26)New Business Tax System (Taxation of Financial Arrangements) Act (No. 1) 2003133, 200317 Dec 200317 Dec 2003Sch. 4 (item 79)Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 5) 2003142, 200317 Dec 2003Schedule 8 (items 22, 23, 24(4)): Royal AssentSch. 8 (item 24(4))Higher Education Support (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 2003150, 200319 Dec 2003Sch 2 (items 152-160): 1 Jan 2004 (s 2(1) item 16)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 200420, 200423 Mar 2004Schedule 6: 1 July 2000Remainder: Royal Assent--Military Rehabilitation and Compensation (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 200452, 200427 Apr 2004ss. 1-3: Royal AssentRemainder: 1 July 2004 (see s. 2(1))--Tax Laws Amendment (2004 Measures No. 2) Act 200483, 200425 June 2004Sch 1 (item 84): 30 June 2000 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 107): 17 Dec 2003 (s 2(1) item 11)Sch 1 (items 125, 126(1), (6), (11)): 25 June 2004 (s 2(1) item 12)Sch 1 (item 126(1), (6), (11))Tax Laws Amendment (2004 Measures No. 1) Act 200495, 200429 June 2004Sch 10 (item 40): repealed before commencing (s 2(1) item 8)Sch 10 (items 41, 44(2), (3), 45): 1 July 2005 (s 2(1) item 8)Sch 10 (items 44(2), (3), 45)as amended by    Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 2) Act 2006Sch. 8 (item 24(4))Higher Education Support (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 2003150, 200319 Dec 2003Sch 2 (items 152-160): 1 Jan 2004 (s 2(1) item 16)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 200420, 200423 Mar 2004Schedule 6: 1 July 2000Remainder: Royal Assent--Military Rehabilitation and Compensation (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 200452, 200427 Apr 2004ss. 1-3: Royal AssentRemainder: 1 July 2004 (see s. 2(1))--Tax Laws Amendment (2004 Measures No. 2) Act 200483, 200425 June 2004Sch 1 (item 84): 30 June 2000 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 107): 17 Dec 2003 (s 2(1) item 11)Sch 1 (items 125, 126(1), (6), (11)): 25 June 2004 (s 2(1) item 12)Sch 1 (item 126(1), (6), (11))Tax Laws Amendment (2004 Measures No. 1) Act 200495, 200429 June 2004Sch 10 (item 40): repealed before commencing (s 2(1) item 8)Sch 10 (items 41, 44(2), (3), 45): 1 July 2005 (s 2(1) item 8)Sch 10 (items 44(2), (3), 45)as amended by    Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 2) Act 200658, 200622 June 2006Sch 7 (items 210, 211): 1 July 2005 (s 2(1) items 22, 23)--Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 1) 2004101, 200430 June 2004Sch 11 (items 3-15): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1) item 12)Sch 11 (item 130): 30 June 2001 (s 2(1) item 15)Sch 11 (items 155-160, 163, 164): 30 June 2004 (s 2(1) items 17, 18)--Tax Laws Amendment (Small Business Measures) Act 2004134, 200413 Dec 2004Schedule 1 (items 15, 16), Schedule 2 (items 22, 23) and Schedule 3 (items  8-10): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 16), Sch. 2 (item 23), and Sch. 3 (item 10)Financial Framework Legislation Amendment Act 20058, 200522 Feb 2005s. 4 and Schedule 1 (items 426, 496): Royal Assents. 4 and Sch. 1 (item 496)Tax Laws Amendment (Long-term Non-reviewable Contracts) Act 200510, 200522 Feb 2005Schedule 1 (item 18): 1 July 2005--Tax Laws Amendment (2004 Measures No. 6) Act 200523, 200521 Mar 2005Schedule 2 (items 13, 14(2)) and Schedule 3 (items 103-109, 111(3)): Royal AssentSch. 2 (item 14(2)) and Sch. 3 (item 111(3))Tax Laws Amendment (2004 Measures No. 7) Act 200541, 20051 Apr 2005Schedule 1 (items 12, 13) and Schedule 10 (items 233-241, 275): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 13)Tax Laws Amendment (2005 Measures No. 3) Act 200563, 200526 June 2005Schedule 3: Royal AssentSch. 3 (item 3)Tax Laws Amendment (Improvements to Self Assessment) Act (No. 1) 200575, 200529 June 200529 June 2005Sch. 1 (item 31) and Sch. 2 (item 16)Tax Laws Amendment (2005 Measures No. 1) Act 200577, 200529 June 200529 June 2005Sch. 4 (items 7, 9)Tax Laws Amendment (2005 Measures No. 2) Act 200578, 200529 June 200529 June 2005Sch. 4 (item 5) and Sch. 6 (item 28(1))Higher Education Legislation Amendment (2005 Measures No. 2) Act 200583, 20056 July 2005Schedule 3: Royal Assent--Statute Law Revision Act 2005100, 20056 July 200541, 20051 Apr 2005Schedule 1 (items 12, 13) and Schedule 10 (items 233-241, 275): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 13)Tax Laws Amendment (2005 Measures No. 3) Act 200563, 200526 June 2005Schedule 3: Royal AssentSch. 3 (item 3)Tax Laws Amendment (Improvements to Self Assessment) Act (No. 1) 200575, 200529 June 200529 June 2005Sch. 1 (item 31) and Sch. 2 (item 16)Tax Laws Amendment (2005 Measures No. 1) Act 200577, 200529 June 200529 June 2005Sch. 4 (items 7, 9)Tax Laws Amendment (2005 Measures No. 2) Act 200578, 200529 June 200529 June 2005Sch. 4 (item 5) and Sch. 6 (item 28(1))Higher Education Legislation Amendment (2005 Measures No. 2) Act 200583, 20056 July 2005Schedule 3: Royal Assent--Statute Law Revision Act 2005100, 20056 July 2005Schedule 1 (items 64, 65): Royal Assent--Tax Laws Amendment (Loss Recoupment Rules and Other Measures) Act 2005147, 200514 Dec 2005Schedule 2 (item 25): Royal Assent--Tax Laws Amendment (2005 Measures No. 4) Act 2005160, 200519 Dec 2005Schedule 4: 6 June 2006 (see F2006L01656)Remainder: Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 14(2), (3)) and Sch. 4 (item 27)Tax Laws Amendment (Improvements to Self Assessment) Act (No. 2) 2005161, 200519 Dec 2005Schedule 1 (items 27-37, 46-56, 59) and Schedule 2 (items 1, 16-32): Royal AssentSch. 1 (items 32, 35, 37, 59) and Sch. 2 (items 28-32)Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 1) Act 200632, 20066 Apr 20066 Apr 2006Sch. 3 (item 17)Student Assistance Legislation Amendment Act 200647, 200622 May 2006Schedule 1 (items 24, 25) and Schedule 2 (items 26, 27): 1 July 2006Sch. 1 (item 25) and Sch. 2 (item 27)Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 2) Act 200658, 200622 June 2006Sch 7 (items 131-169, 217-219): 22 June 2006 (s 2(1) items 6, 24)Schedule 1 (items 64, 65): Royal Assent--Tax Laws Amendment (Loss Recoupment Rules and Other Measures) Act 2005147, 200514 Dec 2005Schedule 2 (item 25): Royal Assent--Tax Laws Amendment (2005 Measures No. 4) Act 2005160, 200519 Dec 2005Schedule 4: 6 June 2006 (see F2006L01656)Remainder: Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 14(2), (3)) and Sch. 4 (item 27)Tax Laws Amendment (Improvements to Self Assessment) Act (No. 2) 2005161, 200519 Dec 2005Schedule 1 (items 27-37, 46-56, 59) and Schedule 2 (items 1, 16-32): Royal AssentSch. 1 (items 32, 35, 37, 59) and Sch. 2 (items 28-32)Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 1) Act 200632, 20066 Apr 20066 Apr 2006Sch. 3 (item 17)Student Assistance Legislation Amendment Act 200647, 200622 May 2006Schedule 1 (items 24, 25) and Schedule 2 (items 26, 27): 1 July 2006Sch. 1 (item 25) and Sch. 2 (item 27)Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 2) Act 200658, 200622 June 2006Sch 7 (items 131-169, 217-219): 22 June 2006 (s 2(1) items 6, 24)Sch 7 (items 133, 138, 139, 165)Fuel Tax (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 200673, 200626 June 2006Sch 5 (items 39-60, 160-165): 1 July 2006 (s 2(1) items 18, 19, 21)Sch 5 (items 53-58, 60)Excise Laws Amendment (Fuel Tax Reform and Other Measures) Act 200674, 200626 June 2006Schedule 1 (items 97-100): 1 July 2006--Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Amendment Act 200678, 200630 June 2006Schedule 1 (items 11, 12) and Schedule 4 (items 25-38): 1 July 2006Sch. 1 (item 12) and Sch. 4 (item 38)Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 3) Act 200680, 200630 June 2006Schedule 4 (items 10-14), Schedule 6 (items 10, 11) and Schedule 7 (items  4-6): Royal AssentSch. 4 (item 14) and Sch. 7 (item 6)as amended by    Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 6) Act 20074, 200719 Feb 2007Schedule 2 (item 23): Royal Assent--Law Enforcement Integrity Commissioner (Consequential Amendments) Act 200686, 200630 June 2006Sch 7 (items 133, 138, 139, 165)Fuel Tax (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 200673, 200626 June 2006Sch 5 (items 39-60, 160-165): 1 July 2006 (s 2(1) items 18, 19, 21)Sch 5 (items 53-58, 60)Excise Laws Amendment (Fuel Tax Reform and Other Measures) Act 200674, 200626 June 2006Schedule 1 (items 97-100): 1 July 2006--Petroleum Resource Rent Tax Assessment Amendment Act 200678, 200630 June 2006Schedule 1 (items 11, 12) and Schedule 4 (items 25-38): 1 July 2006Sch. 1 (item 12) and Sch. 4 (item 38)Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 3) Act 200680, 200630 June 2006Schedule 4 (items 10-14), Schedule 6 (items 10, 11) and Schedule 7 (items  4-6): Royal AssentSch. 4 (item 14) and Sch. 7 (item 6)as amended by    Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 6) Act 20074, 200719 Feb 2007Schedule 2 (item 23): Royal Assent--Law Enforcement Integrity Commissioner (Consequential Amendments) Act 200686, 200630 June 2006Schedule 1 (items 71, 72): 30 Dec 2006 (see s. 2(1))--International Tax Agreements Amendment Act (No. 1) 2006100, 200614 Sept 200614 Sept 2006Sch. 1 (item 11) and Sch. 2 (item 7)Tax Laws Amendment (Repeal of Inoperative Provisions) Act 2006101, 200614 Sept 2006Schedules 3 and 4: 1 Jan 2008Remainder: Royal AssentSch. 6 (items 1, 3-11, 14, 15)Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 6) Act 20074, 200719 Feb 2007Schedule 2 (items 17-21): Royal AssentSch. 2 (item 19)Statute Law Revision Act 20078, 200715 Mar 2007Sch 1 (item 25): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1) item 21)Sch 4 (item 32): 15 Mar 2007 (s 2(1) item 44)--Tax Laws Amendment (Simplified Superannuation) Act 20079, 200715 Mar 2007Sch 1 (items 19-24), Sch 2 (items 4, 5), Sch  4 (items 11-16) and Sch 5 (items 31-36): 15 Mar 2007 (s 2(1) items 2-8)Sch 1 (item 24), Sch 4 (item 16) and Sch 5 (items 32, 36)Superannuation Legislation Amendment (Simplification) Act 200715, 200715 Mar 2007Sch 1 (items 366-393, 406(1)-(3)), SchSchedule 1 (items 71, 72): 30 Dec 2006 (see s. 2(1))--International Tax Agreements Amendment Act (No. 1) 2006100, 200614 Sept 200614 Sept 2006Sch. 1 (item 11) and Sch. 2 (item 7)Tax Laws Amendment (Repeal of Inoperative Provisions) Act 2006101, 200614 Sept 2006Schedules 3 and 4: 1 Jan 2008Remainder: Royal AssentSch. 6 (items 1, 3-11, 14, 15)Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 6) Act 20074, 200719 Feb 2007Schedule 2 (items 17-21): Royal AssentSch. 2 (item 19)Statute Law Revision Act 20078, 200715 Mar 2007Sch 1 (item 25): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1) item 21)Sch 4 (item 32): 15 Mar 2007 (s 2(1) item 44)--Tax Laws Amendment (Simplified Superannuation) Act 20079, 200715 Mar 2007Sch 1 (items 19-24), Sch 2 (items 4, 5), Sch  4 (items 11-16) and Sch 5 (items 31-36): 15 Mar 2007 (s 2(1) items 2-8)Sch 1 (item 24), Sch 4 (item 16) and Sch 5 (items 32, 36)Superannuation Legislation Amendment (Simplification) Act 200715, 200715 Mar 2007Sch 1 (items 366-393, 406(1)-(3)), Sch 3 (items 61-66) and Sch 4 (item 12): 15 Mar 2007 (s 2(1) items  2, 8, 12)Sch 1 (item 406(1)-(3)) and Sch 3 (item 66)Private Health Insurance (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 200732, 200730 Mar 2007Schedule 3 (items 17, 18): 1 July 2007--Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 7) Act 200755, 200712 Apr 200712 Apr 2007--Tax Laws Amendment (2007 Measures No. 1) Act 200756, 200712 Apr 200712 Apr 2007Sch. 1 (item 5) and Sch. 3 (item 39)Tax Laws Amendment (2007 Measures No. 2) Act 200778, 200721 June 2007Schedule 3 (item 22): Royal Assent--Tax Laws Amendment (2007 Measures No. 3) Act 200779, 200721 June 2007Schedule 8 (items 3, 26(1), (2)): 1 July 2007Schedule 10 (items 1, 2, 14-32): Royal AssentSch. 8 (item 26(1), (2)) and Sch. 10 (item 32)Tax Laws Amendment (Small Business) Act 200780, 200721 June 200721 June 2007Sch. 2 (item 67(3)) and Sch. 6 (item 9) 3 (items 61-66) and Sch 4 (item 12): 15 Mar 2007 (s 2(1) items  2, 8, 12)Sch 1 (item 406(1)-(3)) and Sch 3 (item 66)Private Health Insurance (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 200732, 200730 Mar 2007Schedule 3 (items 17, 18): 1 July 2007--Tax Laws Amendment (2006 Measures No. 7) Act 200755, 200712 Apr 200712 Apr 2007--Tax Laws Amendment (2007 Measures No. 1) Act 200756, 200712 Apr 200712 Apr 2007Sch. 1 (item 5) and Sch. 3 (item 39)Tax Laws Amendment (2007 Measures No. 2) Act 200778, 200721 June 2007Schedule 3 (item 22): Royal Assent--Tax Laws Amendment (2007 Measures No. 3) Act 200779, 200721 June 2007Schedule 8 (items 3, 26(1), (2)): 1 July 2007Schedule 10 (items 1, 2, 14-32): Royal AssentSch. 8 (item 26(1), (2)) and Sch. 10 (item 32)Tax Laws Amendment (Small Business) Act 200780, 200721 June 200721 June 2007Sch. 2 (item 67(3)) and Sch. 6 (item 9)Tax Laws Amendment (2007 Measures No. 4) Act 2007143, 200724 Sept 2007Sch 1 (items 212, 222, 225, 226), Sch 4 (items 47, 48, 51, 52), Sch  5 (items 29, 30, 48(1), (4), (5)) and Sch 7 (items 99-102, 104(3)): 24 Sept 2007 (s 2(1) items  2, 4, 5, 7, 11)Sch 5 (item 47): 15 Mar 2007 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 1 (items 222, 225, 226), Sch 4 (items 51, 52) and Sch 5 (item 48(1), (4), (5))Tax Laws Amendment (2007 Measures No. 5) Act 2007164, 200725 Sept 2007Schedule 1 (items 68-70, 71(12)): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 71(12))Tax Laws Amendment (Election Commitments No. 1) Act 200832, 200823 June 2008Schedule 1 (items 1, 24-58): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 58)First Home Saver Accounts (Consequential Amendments) Act 200845, 200825 June 2008Schedule 1 (items 53-66), Schedule 4 (item 64), Schedule 6 (items  18-21) and Schedule 7 (item 56): 26 June 2008--Statute Law Revision Act 200873, 20083 July 2008Schedule 4 (items 480-491): 4 July 2008--Tax Laws Amendment (2008 Measures No. 3) Act 200891, 200820 Sept 2008Schedule 2: 1 July 2008Tax Laws Amendment (2007 Measures No. 4) Act 2007143, 200724 Sept 2007Sch 1 (items 212, 222, 225, 226), Sch 4 (items 47, 48, 51, 52), Sch  5 (items 29, 30, 48(1), (4), (5)) and Sch 7 (items 99-102, 104(3)): 24 Sept 2007 (s 2(1) items  2, 4, 5, 7, 11)Sch 5 (item 47): 15 Mar 2007 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 1 (items 222, 225, 226), Sch 4 (items 51, 52) and Sch 5 (item 48(1), (4), (5))Tax Laws Amendment (2007 Measures No. 5) Act 2007164, 200725 Sept 2007Schedule 1 (items 68-70, 71(12)): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 71(12))Tax Laws Amendment (Election Commitments No. 1) Act 200832, 200823 June 2008Schedule 1 (items 1, 24-58): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 58)First Home Saver Accounts (Consequential Amendments) Act 200845, 200825 June 2008Schedule 1 (items 53-66), Schedule 4 (item 64), Schedule 6 (items  18-21) and Schedule 7 (item 56): 26 June 2008--Statute Law Revision Act 200873, 20083 July 2008Schedule 4 (items 480-491): 4 July 2008--Tax Laws Amendment (2008 Measures No. 3) Act 200891, 200820 Sept 2008Schedule 2: 1 July 2008Sch. 2 (items 16, 18)First Home Saver Accounts (Further Provisions) Amendment Act 200892, 200830 Sept 2008Schedule 1 (items 24-26) and Schedule 2 (items 41, 42): 1 Oct 2008Sch. 1 (item 26)Tax Laws Amendment (2008 Measures No. 4) Act 200897, 20083 Oct 2008Schedule 3 (items 177-185): Royal Assent--Financial System Legislation Amendment (Financial Claims Scheme and Other Measures) Act 2008105, 200817 Oct 2008Sch 1 (item 60): 18 Oct 2008 (s 2(1) item 2)--Tax Laws Amendment (Education Refund) Act 2008141, 20089 Dec 2008Schedule 1 (items 8-10): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 10)Tax Laws Amendment (Luxury Car Tax-Minor Amendments) Act 2008150, 200811 Dec 2008Schedule 1 (items 6, 7): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 7)Temporary Residents&#39; Superannuation Legislation Amendment Act 2008151, 200811 Dec 2008Schedule 1 (items 23-26): 18 Dec 2008 (see F2008L04636)--Migration Legislation Amendment (Worker Protection) Act 2008159, 2008Sch. 2 (items 16, 18)First Home Saver Accounts (Further Provisions) Amendment Act 200892, 200830 Sept 2008Schedule 1 (items 24-26) and Schedule 2 (items 41, 42): 1 Oct 2008Sch. 1 (item 26)Tax Laws Amendment (2008 Measures No. 4) Act 200897, 20083 Oct 2008Schedule 3 (items 177-185): Royal Assent--Financial System Legislation Amendment (Financial Claims Scheme and Other Measures) Act 2008105, 200817 Oct 2008Sch 1 (item 60): 18 Oct 2008 (s 2(1) item 2)--Tax Laws Amendment (Education Refund) Act 2008141, 20089 Dec 2008Schedule 1 (items 8-10): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 10)Tax Laws Amendment (Luxury Car Tax-Minor Amendments) Act 2008150, 200811 Dec 2008Schedule 1 (items 6, 7): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 7)Temporary Residents&#39; Superannuation Legislation Amendment Act 2008151, 200811 Dec 2008Schedule 1 (items 23-26): 18 Dec 2008 (see F2008L04636)--Migration Legislation Amendment (Worker Protection) Act 2008159, 200818 Dec 2008Schedule 2: 14 Sept 2009 (see F2009L02375)Sch. 2 (item 2)Tax Bonus for Working Australians (Consequential Amendments) Act (No. 2) 20096, 200918 Feb 2009Schedule 1 (items 5-7): 18 Feb 2009 (see s. 2(1))--Tax Laws Amendment (2008 Measures No. 6) Act 200914, 200926 Mar 2009Schedule 2 and Schedule 4 (items 37-44): Royal AssentSch. 2 (item 9) and Sch. 4 (items 39, 44)Tax Laws Amendment (Taxation of Financial Arrangements) Act 200915, 200926 Mar 2009Schedule 1 (items 101-105): Royal AssentSch. 1 (items 102, 103, 104(1)-(4), (6), (8)-(13), (16)-(19), 105(2))Sch. 1 (item 104(5)) (am. by 147, 2011, Sch. 4 [item 1])Sch. 1 (item 104(7)) (am. by 136, 2010, Sch. 3 [item 133])Sch. 1 (item 104(7A)) (ad. by 136, 2010, Sch. 3 [item 134])Sch 1 (item 104(14)) (am by 85, 2013, Sch 8 [items 49-51])Sch 1 (item 104(15)) (am by 85, 2013, Sch 8 [items 52-54])Sch. 1 (item 104A) (ad. by 147, 2011, Sch. 4 [item 2])Sch. 1 (items 104B, 104C) (ad. by 99, 2012, Sch. 2 [item 5])Sch. 1 (item 105(1)) (am. by 147, 2011, Sch. 4 [item 3])as amended by    Tax Laws Amendment (2010 Measures No. 4) Act 2010136, 20107 Dec 2010Sch 3 (items 133, 134): 26 Mar 2009 (s 2(1) item 8)--Tax Laws Amendment (2011 Measures No. 7) Act 2011147, 201129 Nov 2011Schedule 4: 30 Nov 2011Sch. 4 (item 4)18 Dec 2008Schedule 2: 14 Sept 2009 (see F2009L02375)Sch. 2 (item 2)Tax Bonus for Working Australians (Consequential Amendments) Act (No. 2) 20096, 200918 Feb 2009Schedule 1 (items 5-7): 18 Feb 2009 (see s. 2(1))--Tax Laws Amendment (2008 Measures No. 6) Act 200914, 200926 Mar 2009Schedule 2 and Schedule 4 (items 37-44): Royal AssentSch. 2 (item 9) and Sch. 4 (items 39, 44)Tax Laws Amendment (Taxation of Financial Arrangements) Act 200915, 200926 Mar 2009Schedule 1 (items 101-105): Royal AssentSch. 1 (items 102, 103, 104(1)-(4), (6), (8)-(13), (16)-(19), 105(2))Sch. 1 (item 104(5)) (am. by 147, 2011, Sch. 4 [item 1])Sch. 1 (item 104(7)) (am. by 136, 2010, Sch. 3 [item 133])Sch. 1 (item 104(7A)) (ad. by 136, 2010, Sch. 3 [item 134])Sch 1 (item 104(14)) (am by 85, 2013, Sch 8 [items 49-51])Sch 1 (item 104(15)) (am by 85, 2013, Sch 8 [items 52-54])Sch. 1 (item 104A) (ad. by 147, 2011, Sch. 4 [item 2])Sch. 1 (items 104B, 104C) (ad. by 99, 2012, Sch. 2 [item 5])Sch. 1 (item 105(1)) (am. by 147, 2011, Sch. 4 [item 3])as amended by    Tax Laws Amendment (2010 Measures No. 4) Act 2010136, 20107 Dec 2010Sch 3 (items 133, 134): 26 Mar 2009 (s 2(1) item 8)--Tax Laws Amendment (2011 Measures No. 7) Act 2011147, 201129 Nov 2011Schedule 4: 30 Nov 2011Sch. 4 (item 4)Tax Laws Amendment (2012 Measures No. 2) Act 201299, 201229 June 2012Sch 2 (item 5): 26 Mar 2009 (s 2(1) item 6)--Taxation and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2013 Measures No. 2) Act 201385, 201328 June 2013Sch 8 (items 49-54): 26 Mar 2009 (s 2(1) item 11)--Tax Laws Amendment (2009 Measures No. 1) Act 200927, 200926 Mar 2009Schedule 1 (items 1-3, 5): Royal AssentSchedule 1 (item 4): 1 July 2013Schedule 2 (items 64-66) and Schedule 3 (items 11-18, 102(1)): 27 Mar 2009Sch. 1 (item 5) and Sch. 3 (item 102(1))Tax Laws Amendment (2009 Measures No. 2) Act 200942, 200923 June 2009Schedule 1 (items 34, 35) and Schedule 6 (item 34): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 35)Tax Laws Amendment (2009 Measures No. 3) Act 200947, 200924 June 2009Schedule 1 (items 1, 2, 6): 25 June 2009Schedule 1 (items 3-5): 1 July 2014Schedule 2 (items 2-15): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 6) and Sch. 2 (item 15)as amended by    Tax Laws Amendment (2011 Measures No. 4) Act 201143, 201127 June 2011Sch 1 (items 5-8, 12): 28 June 2011 (s 2(1) items 2, 4)Sch 1 (item 12)Tax Laws Amendment (2009 Measures No. 4) Act 200988, 200918 Sept 2009Schedule 2 (items 16-22, 25-31): 1 Oct 2009Schedule 2 (item 24): 1 Jan 2010Schedule 5 (items 233-236, 239-243, 246-257): Royal AssentSch. 2 (items 25-31)Tax Agent Services (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 2009114, 200916 Nov 2009Sch 1 (items 14-26) and Sch 2: 1 Mar 2010 (s 2(1) items 2, 4)Sch 1 (item 26) and Sch 2Tax Laws Amendment (2009 Measures No. 5) Act 2009118, 20094 Dec 2009Sch 1 (items 47-49, 51(2), 53, 54) and Sch 2: 4 Dec 2009 (s 2(1) items 4-6)Sch 1 (items 51(2), 53, 54) and Sch 2 (items 2, 3, 5)Tax Laws Amendment (Resale Royalty Right for Visual Artists) Act 2009126, 20099 Dec 2009Schedule 1 (items 19, 20): 9 June 2010 (see s. 2(1))Sch. 1 (item 20)Tax Laws Amendment (2009 Budget Measures No. 2) Act 2009133, 200914 Dec 2009Schedule 1 (items 2-5, 78-82, 86, 87): 14 Dec 2009Schedule 3 (items 41-45): Royal AssentSch. 1 (items 86, 87) and Sch. 3 (items 44, 45)Crimes Legislation Amendment (Serious and Organised Crime) Act (No. 2) 20104, 201019 Feb 20102, 4)Sch 1 (item 12)Tax Laws Amendment (2009 Measures No. 4) Act 200988, 200918 Sept 2009Schedule 2 (items 16-22, 25-31): 1 Oct 2009Schedule 2 (item 24): 1 Jan 2010Schedule 5 (items 233-236, 239-243, 246-257): Royal AssentSch. 2 (items 25-31)Tax Agent Services (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 2009114, 200916 Nov 2009Sch 1 (items 14-26) and Sch 2: 1 Mar 2010 (s 2(1) items 2, 4)Sch 1 (item 26) and Sch 2Tax Laws Amendment (2009 Measures No. 5) Act 2009118, 20094 Dec 2009Sch 1 (items 47-49, 51(2), 53, 54) and Sch 2: 4 Dec 2009 (s 2(1) items 4-6)Sch 1 (items 51(2), 53, 54) and Sch 2 (items 2, 3, 5)Tax Laws Amendment (Resale Royalty Right for Visual Artists) Act 2009126, 20099 Dec 2009Schedule 1 (items 19, 20): 9 June 2010 (see s. 2(1))Sch. 1 (item 20)Tax Laws Amendment (2009 Budget Measures No. 2) Act 2009133, 200914 Dec 2009Schedule 1 (items 2-5, 78-82, 86, 87): 14 Dec 2009Schedule 3 (items 41-45): Royal AssentSch. 1 (items 86, 87) and Sch. 3 (items 44, 45)Crimes Legislation Amendment (Serious and Organised Crime) Act (No. 2) 20104, 201019 Feb 2010Schedule 11 (items 20, 21): 20 Feb 2010--Statute Law Revision Act 20108, 20101 Mar 2010Schedule 1 (item 47): Royal Assent--Tax Laws Amendment (2009 GST Administration Measures) Act 201020, 201024 Mar 2010Schedule 1 (items 15, 16, 18-20), Schedule 3 (items 30, 31) and Schedule  5 (items 8-11): Royal AssentSchedule 2 (items 19-22, 23(1)): 1 July 2010Sch. 1 (items 19, 20), Sch. 2 (item 23(1)) and Sch. 3 (item 31)Tax Laws Amendment (2010 GST Administration Measures No. 1) Act 201021, 201024 Mar 2010Schedule 1 (items 24-29): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 29)Tax Laws Amendment (2010 Measures No. 1) Act 201056, 20103 June 2010s 4(2), Sch 3 (items 9, 10(1), (5)), Sch 5 (items 191-193) and Sch  6 (items 12-14, 27-36, 44-53, 110, 111, 116, 159, 160): 3 June 2010 (s 2(1) items 1, 7, 11, 15, 20, 23)Sch 1 (item 8): 17 Dec 2010 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 2 (items 3, 4) and Sch 6 (items 58-97, 101-105): 4 June 2010 (s 2(1) items  6, 16, 17)s 4(2), Sch 2 (item 4), Sch 3 (item 10(1), (5)), Sch 5 (item 193) and Sch 6 (items 14, 53, 101, 105)Tax Laws Amendment (2010 GST Administration Measures No. 2) Act 201074, 201028 June 2010Schedule 1 (items 41, 42, 45, 56-63): Royal AssentSchedule 2 (items 13-46): 1 July 2010Sch. 1 (items 45, 63) and Sch. 2 (item 46)Tax Laws Amendment (2010 Measures No. 2) Act 201075, 201028 June 2010Schedule 2 (items 3-24): 1 July 2010Sch. 2 (item 24)Tax Laws Amendment (Transfer of Provisions) Act 201079, 201029 June 2010Schedule 1 (items 6-10, 36-53, 57-66) and Schedule 4 (items 7, 47-49, 51): 1  July 2010Sch. 1 (items 53, 57-66) and Sch. 4 (item 51)Tax Laws Amendment (2010 Measures No. 3) Act 201090, 201029 June 2010Sch 3 and Sch 5 (items 4, 5, 7): 29 June 2010 (s 2(1) item  3)Sch 5 (item 7)as amended by    Tax Laws Amendment (2011 Measures No. 9) Act 201212, 201221 Mar 2012Sch 6 (item 190): 21 Mar 2012 (s 2(1) item 31)--Tax Laws Amendment (New Tax System for Managed Investment Trusts) Act 201653, 20165 May 2016Sch 6 (item 69) and Sch 8 (item 1): 5 May 2016 (s  2(1) items 2, 4))Sch 8 (item 1)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (2018 Measures No. 5) Act 201915, 201912 Mar 2019Tax Laws Amendment (2010 Measures No. 2) Act 201075, 201028 June 2010Schedule 2 (items 3-24): 1 July 2010Sch. 2 (item 24)Tax Laws Amendment (Transfer of Provisions) Act 201079, 201029 June 2010Schedule 1 (items 6-10, 36-53, 57-66) and Schedule 4 (items 7, 47-49, 51): 1  July 2010Sch. 1 (items 53, 57-66) and Sch. 4 (item 51)Tax Laws Amendment (2010 Measures No. 3) Act 201090, 201029 June 2010Sch 3 and Sch 5 (items 4, 5, 7): 29 June 2010 (s 2(1) item  3)Sch 5 (item 7)as amended by    Tax Laws Amendment (2011 Measures No. 9) Act 201212, 201221 Mar 2012Sch 6 (item 190): 21 Mar 2012 (s 2(1) item 31)--Tax Laws Amendment (New Tax System for Managed Investment Trusts) Act 201653, 20165 May 2016Sch 6 (item 69) and Sch 8 (item 1): 5 May 2016 (s  2(1) items 2, 4))Sch 8 (item 1)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (2018 Measures No. 5) Act 201915, 201912 Mar 2019Sch 1 (items 43-46): 1 Apr 2019 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 46)Paid Parental Leave (Consequential Amendments) Act 2010105, 201014 July 2010Sch 1 (items 71-82) and Sch 2 (items 1, 2): 1 Oct 2010 (s 2(1) items  11, 14)Sch 1 (item 83): 17 Dec 2010 (s 2(1) item 12)Sch 2 (items 1, 2)Superannuation Legislation Amendment Act 2010117, 201016 Nov 2010Schedule 4 (item 25): Royal Assent--Tax Laws Amendment (Confidentiality of Taxpayer Information) Act 2010145, 201016 Dec 2010Schedule 1, Schedule 2 (items 96-117, 124, 125) and Schedule 3 (items  16-19): 17 Dec 2010Sch. 1 (items 2, 3) and Sch. 2 (items 124, 125)Human Services Legislation Amendment Act 201132, 201125 May 2011Sch 4 (item 628): never commenced (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 4 (item 629): 1 July 2011 (s 2(1) item 5)--Tax Laws Amendment (2011 Measures No. 2) Act 201141, 201127 June 2011Schedule 5 (items 10-14, 21-23): 28 June 2011Schedule 5 (item 24): 1 July 2011 (see s. 2(1))Schedule 5 (items 34, 35, 146, 147, 168-172, 401-411, 421, 422): Royal AssentSch. 5 (items 13, 14, 422)Tax Laws Amendment (2011 Measures No. 4) Act 201143, 2011Sch 1 (items 43-46): 1 Apr 2019 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 46)Paid Parental Leave (Consequential Amendments) Act 2010105, 201014 July 2010Sch 1 (items 71-82) and Sch 2 (items 1, 2): 1 Oct 2010 (s 2(1) items  11, 14)Sch 1 (item 83): 17 Dec 2010 (s 2(1) item 12)Sch 2 (items 1, 2)Superannuation Legislation Amendment Act 2010117, 201016 Nov 2010Schedule 4 (item 25): Royal Assent--Tax Laws Amendment (Confidentiality of Taxpayer Information) Act 2010145, 201016 Dec 2010Schedule 1, Schedule 2 (items 96-117, 124, 125) and Schedule 3 (items  16-19): 17 Dec 2010Sch. 1 (items 2, 3) and Sch. 2 (items 124, 125)Human Services Legislation Amendment Act 201132, 201125 May 2011Sch 4 (item 628): never commenced (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 4 (item 629): 1 July 2011 (s 2(1) item 5)--Tax Laws Amendment (2011 Measures No. 2) Act 201141, 201127 June 2011Schedule 5 (items 10-14, 21-23): 28 June 2011Schedule 5 (item 24): 1 July 2011 (see s. 2(1))Schedule 5 (items 34, 35, 146, 147, 168-172, 401-411, 421, 422): Royal AssentSch. 5 (items 13, 14, 422)Tax Laws Amendment (2011 Measures No. 4) Act 201143, 201127 June 2011Sch 1 (items 1-4, 12): 28 June 2011 (s 2(1) items 2, 4)Sch 1 (items 9-11): 1 July 2016 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 4: 27 June 2011 (s 2(1) item 9)Sch 1 (item 12) and Sch 4 (item 5)Acts Interpretation Amendment Act 201146, 201127 June 2011Schedule 2 (items 1109-1111) and Schedule 3 (items 10, 11): 27 Dec 2011Sch. 3 (items 10, 11)Tax Laws Amendment (2010 Measures No. 5) Act 201161, 201129 June 2011Schedule 6: 1 July 2011--Taxation of Alternative Fuels Legislation Amendment Act 201168, 201129 June 2011Schedule 1 (item 36): 1 Dec 2011--Tax Laws Amendment (Research and Development) Act 201193, 20118 Sept 2011Schedule 3 (items 109-111) and Schedule 4 (items 1-6): Royal AssentSch. 4 (items 1-6)Clean Energy (Consequential Amendments) Act 2011132, 201118 Nov 2011Schedule 1 (item 212A) and Schedule 2 (item 73): 2 Apr 2012 (see s. 2(1))--Clean Energy (Household Assistance Amendments) Act 2011141, 201127 June 2011Sch 1 (items 1-4, 12): 28 June 2011 (s 2(1) items 2, 4)Sch 1 (items 9-11): 1 July 2016 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 4: 27 June 2011 (s 2(1) item 9)Sch 1 (item 12) and Sch 4 (item 5)Acts Interpretation Amendment Act 201146, 201127 June 2011Schedule 2 (items 1109-1111) and Schedule 3 (items 10, 11): 27 Dec 2011Sch. 3 (items 10, 11)Tax Laws Amendment (2010 Measures No. 5) Act 201161, 201129 June 2011Schedule 6: 1 July 2011--Taxation of Alternative Fuels Legislation Amendment Act 201168, 201129 June 2011Schedule 1 (item 36): 1 Dec 2011--Tax Laws Amendment (Research and Development) Act 201193, 20118 Sept 2011Schedule 3 (items 109-111) and Schedule 4 (items 1-6): Royal AssentSch. 4 (items 1-6)Clean Energy (Consequential Amendments) Act 2011132, 201118 Nov 2011Schedule 1 (item 212A) and Schedule 2 (item 73): 2 Apr 2012 (see s. 2(1))--Clean Energy (Household Assistance Amendments) Act 2011141, 201129 Nov 2011Sch 6 (items 12, 13): 14 May 2012 (s 2(1) item 14)--Tax Laws Amendment (2011 Measures No. 7) Act 2011147, 201129 Nov 2011Schedule 3, Schedule 5 (items 10-16) and Schedule 8 (item 43): Royal AssentSchedule 8 (items 10-35, 37, 39, 40): 1 Jan 2012Schedule 8 (item 36): 1 July 2012Sch. 3 (items 2, 3), Sch. 5 (item 16) and Sch. 8 (items 37, 39, 40)Tax Laws Amendment (2011 Measures No. 9) Act 201212, 201221 Mar 2012Sch 6 (items 27-29): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1) item 11)Sch 6 (items 84-93, 186, 187, 191, 192, 212, 213, 218, 241-246, 248-251): 21 Mar 2012 (s 2(1) items 14, 31)Sch 6 (item 182): 3 Oct 2008 (s 2(1) item 30)Sch 6 (items 192, 248, 251)as amended by    Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 4) Act 2014110, 201416 Oct 2014Sch 5 (item 147): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1) item 12)--Minerals Resource Rent Tax (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act 201214, 201229 Mar 2012Sch 1 and Sch 2 (items 1-9): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) items 2, 3)Sch 2 (items 17-28): never commenced (s 2(1) item 4)--as amended by    Indirect Tax Laws Amendment (Assessment) Act 201239, 201229 Nov 2011Sch 6 (items 12, 13): 14 May 2012 (s 2(1) item 14)--Tax Laws Amendment (2011 Measures No. 7) Act 2011147, 201129 Nov 2011Schedule 3, Schedule 5 (items 10-16) and Schedule 8 (item 43): Royal AssentSchedule 8 (items 10-35, 37, 39, 40): 1 Jan 2012Schedule 8 (item 36): 1 July 2012Sch. 3 (items 2, 3), Sch. 5 (item 16) and Sch. 8 (items 37, 39, 40)Tax Laws Amendment (2011 Measures No. 9) Act 201212, 201221 Mar 2012Sch 6 (items 27-29): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1) item 11)Sch 6 (items 84-93, 186, 187, 191, 192, 212, 213, 218, 241-246, 248-251): 21 Mar 2012 (s 2(1) items 14, 31)Sch 6 (item 182): 3 Oct 2008 (s 2(1) item 30)Sch 6 (items 192, 248, 251)as amended by    Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 4) Act 2014110, 201416 Oct 2014Sch 5 (item 147): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1) item 12)--Minerals Resource Rent Tax (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act 201214, 201229 Mar 2012Sch 1 and Sch 2 (items 1-9): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) items 2, 3)Sch 2 (items 17-28): never commenced (s 2(1) item 4)--as amended by    Indirect Tax Laws Amendment (Assessment) Act 201239, 201215 Apr 2012Sch 1 (items 265, 266): 29 Mar 2012 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 1 (items 269, 270): never commenced (s 2(1) item 5)--Tax Laws Amendment (Stronger, Fairer, Simpler and Other Measures) Act 201223, 201229 Mar 2012Schedule 1 (items 9, 10): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 10)Fairer Private Health Insurance Incentives Act 201226, 20124 Apr 2012Schedule 1 (items 41, 42, 48(1)): 1 July 2012Sch. 1 (item 48(1))Indirect Tax Laws Amendment (Assessment) Act 201239, 201215 Apr 2012Sch 1 (items 1, 2, 29, 190-223, 231-240): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (items 255-264): 1 Jan 2017 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 4 (items 19-24): 15 Apr 2012 (s 2(1) item 8)Sch 1 (items 239, 240, 264)as amended by    Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2016 Measures No. 2) Act 201715, 201728 Feb 2017Sch 4 (item 93): 1 Apr 2017 (s 2(1) item 12)--Tax Laws Amendment (Shipping Reform) Act 201257, 201221 June 2012Schedule 5: Royal Assent--Tax Laws Amendment (2012 Measures No. 3) Act 201258, 201215 Apr 2012Sch 1 (items 265, 266): 29 Mar 2012 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 1 (items 269, 270): never commenced (s 2(1) item 5)--Tax Laws Amendment (Stronger, Fairer, Simpler and Other Measures) Act 201223, 201229 Mar 2012Schedule 1 (items 9, 10): Royal AssentSch. 1 (item 10)Fairer Private Health Insurance Incentives Act 201226, 20124 Apr 2012Schedule 1 (items 41, 42, 48(1)): 1 July 2012Sch. 1 (item 48(1))Indirect Tax Laws Amendment (Assessment) Act 201239, 201215 Apr 2012Sch 1 (items 1, 2, 29, 190-223, 231-240): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (items 255-264): 1 Jan 2017 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 4 (items 19-24): 15 Apr 2012 (s 2(1) item 8)Sch 1 (items 239, 240, 264)as amended by    Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2016 Measures No. 2) Act 201715, 201728 Feb 2017Sch 4 (item 93): 1 Apr 2017 (s 2(1) item 12)--Tax Laws Amendment (Shipping Reform) Act 201257, 201221 June 2012Schedule 5: Royal Assent--Tax Laws Amendment (2012 Measures No. 3) Act 201258, 201221 June 2012Schedule 1 (items 8-28): 21 June 2012 (see s. 2(1))Sch. 1 (item 11)as amended by    Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 4) Act 2014110, 201416 Oct 2014Sch 5 (item 150): 21 June 2012 (s 2(1) item 15)--Tax Laws Amendment (2012 Measures No. 1) Act 201271, 201227 June 2012Sch 5 (item 17): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 7)Sch 5 (item 18): never commenced (s 2(1) item 8)Sch 5 (item 19): 27 June 2012(s 2(1) item 9)--Telecommunications Interception and Other Legislation Amendment (State Bodies) Act 201274, 201227 June 2012Schedule 1 (items 3, 28): 10 Feb 2013 (see s. 2(1))Sch. 1 (item 28)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2012 Measures No. 1) Act 201275, 201227 June 2012Schedule 4 (items 13-16, 20), Schedule 5 and Schedule 7: Royal AssentSch. 4 (item 20)Financial Framework Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 201282, 201228 June 2012Schedule 1 (item 124): 29 June 201221 June 2012Schedule 1 (items 8-28): 21 June 2012 (see s. 2(1))Sch. 1 (item 11)as amended by    Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 4) Act 2014110, 201416 Oct 2014Sch 5 (item 150): 21 June 2012 (s 2(1) item 15)--Tax Laws Amendment (2012 Measures No. 1) Act 201271, 201227 June 2012Sch 5 (item 17): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 7)Sch 5 (item 18): never commenced (s 2(1) item 8)Sch 5 (item 19): 27 June 2012(s 2(1) item 9)--Telecommunications Interception and Other Legislation Amendment (State Bodies) Act 201274, 201227 June 2012Schedule 1 (items 3, 28): 10 Feb 2013 (see s. 2(1))Sch. 1 (item 28)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2012 Measures No. 1) Act 201275, 201227 June 2012Schedule 4 (items 13-16, 20), Schedule 5 and Schedule 7: Royal AssentSch. 4 (item 20)Financial Framework Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 201282, 201228 June 2012Schedule 1 (item 124): 29 June 2012--Superannuation Legislation Amendment (Stronger Super) Act 201291, 201228 June 2012Schedule 1 (items 3, 20): 29 June 2012Sch. 1 (item 20) (am. by 158, 2012, Sch. 4 [item 73])as amended by    Superannuation Laws Amendment (Capital Gains Tax Relief and Other Efficiency Measures) Act 2012158, 201228 Nov 2012Schedule 4 (item 73): 29 Nov 2012--Tax Laws Amendment (Managed Investment Trust Withholding Tax) Act 201297, 201229 June 2012Schedule 1: 29 June 2012 (see s. 2(1))Remainder: Royal Assent--Tax Laws Amendment (2012 Measures No. 2) Act 201299, 201229 June 2012Sch 1 (items 1-9, 12-15, 23, 36-47, 49-57): 30 June 2012 (s 2(1) items 2-5)Sch 1 (items 4, 7, 9, 23, 46, 47, 57)Paid Parental Leave and Other Legislation Amendment (Dad and Partner Pay and Other Measures) Act 2012109, 201222 July 2012Sch 1 (items 114-119): 1 Oct 2012 (s 2(1) item 2)--Tax Laws Amendment (Cross-Border Transfer Pricing) Act (No. 1) 2012115, 20128 Sept 2012--Superannuation Legislation Amendment (Stronger Super) Act 201291, 201228 June 2012Schedule 1 (items 3, 20): 29 June 2012Sch. 1 (item 20) (am. by 158, 2012, Sch. 4 [item 73])as amended by    Superannuation Laws Amendment (Capital Gains Tax Relief and Other Efficiency Measures) Act 2012158, 201228 Nov 2012Schedule 4 (item 73): 29 Nov 2012--Tax Laws Amendment (Managed Investment Trust Withholding Tax) Act 201297, 201229 June 2012Schedule 1: 29 June 2012 (see s. 2(1))Remainder: Royal Assent--Tax Laws Amendment (2012 Measures No. 2) Act 201299, 201229 June 2012Sch 1 (items 1-9, 12-15, 23, 36-47, 49-57): 30 June 2012 (s 2(1) items 2-5)Sch 1 (items 4, 7, 9, 23, 46, 47, 57)Paid Parental Leave and Other Legislation Amendment (Dad and Partner Pay and Other Measures) Act 2012109, 201222 July 2012Sch 1 (items 114-119): 1 Oct 2012 (s 2(1) item 2)--Tax Laws Amendment (Cross-Border Transfer Pricing) Act (No. 1) 2012115, 20128 Sept 2012Sch 1 (items 13, 14): 8 Sept 2012 (s 2)Sch 1 (item 14)Statute Law Revision Act 2012136, 201222 Sept 2012Sch 6 (items 82-84): 22 Sept 2012 (s 2(1) item 37)--Superannuation Laws Amendment (Capital Gains Tax Relief and Other Efficiency Measures) Act 2012158, 201228 Nov 2012Sch 2 (item 69): 31 Jan 2013 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 3: 28 Nov 2012 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 4 (item 74): 29 Nov 2012 (s 2(1) item 10)Sch 3 (item 9)Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission (Consequential and Transitional) Act 2012169, 20123 Dec 2012Sch 2 (items 68-68C, 131-134) and Sch 3 (items 2A-17): 3 Dec 2012 (s 2(1))Sch 3 (item 19): 3 June 2013 (s 2(1) item 9)--Personal Liability for Corporate Fault Reform Act 2012180, 201210 Dec 2012Sch 6 (items 30, 31) and Sch 7: 11 Dec 2012 (s 2)Sch 7Superannuation Legislation Amendment (New Zealand Arrangement) Act 2012181, 201210 Dec 2012Sch 1 (items 10-12): 1 July 2013 (s 2(1) and gaz 2013, No GN25)Sch 1 (item 12)Tax Laws Amendment (Clean Building Managed Investment Trust) Act 2012185, 201210 Dec 2012Sch 1 (items 13, 14): 8 Sept 2012 (s 2)Sch 1 (item 14)Statute Law Revision Act 2012136, 201222 Sept 2012Sch 6 (items 82-84): 22 Sept 2012 (s 2(1) item 37)--Superannuation Laws Amendment (Capital Gains Tax Relief and Other Efficiency Measures) Act 2012158, 201228 Nov 2012Sch 2 (item 69): 31 Jan 2013 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 3: 28 Nov 2012 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 4 (item 74): 29 Nov 2012 (s 2(1) item 10)Sch 3 (item 9)Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission (Consequential and Transitional) Act 2012169, 20123 Dec 2012Sch 2 (items 68-68C, 131-134) and Sch 3 (items 2A-17): 3 Dec 2012 (s 2(1))Sch 3 (item 19): 3 June 2013 (s 2(1) item 9)--Personal Liability for Corporate Fault Reform Act 2012180, 201210 Dec 2012Sch 6 (items 30, 31) and Sch 7: 11 Dec 2012 (s 2)Sch 7Superannuation Legislation Amendment (New Zealand Arrangement) Act 2012181, 201210 Dec 2012Sch 1 (items 10-12): 1 July 2013 (s 2(1) and gaz 2013, No GN25)Sch 1 (item 12)Tax Laws Amendment (Clean Building Managed Investment Trust) Act 2012185, 201210 Dec 2012Sch 1 (items 7-20): 10 Dec 2012 (s 2)--Privacy Amendment (Enhancing Privacy Protection) Act 2012197, 201212 Dec 2012Sch 5 (items 133, 134) and Sch 6 (items 15-19): 12 Mar 2014 (s 2(1) items  3, 19)Sch 6 (item 1): 12 Dec 2012 (s 2(1) item 16)Sch 6 (items 1, 15-19)Federal Circuit Court of Australia (Consequential Amendments) Act 201313, 201314 Mar 2013Sch 1 (items 510, 511): 12 Apr 2013 (s 2(1) item 2)--Electoral and Referendum Amendment (Improving Electoral Administration) Act 201326, 201328 Mar 2013Sch 1 (item 53): 29 Mar 2013 (s 2(1) item 6)--Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (Increased Concessional Contributions Cap and Other Measures) Act 201382, 201328 June 2013Sch 3 (items 2-5, 14-37, 39): 28 June 2013 (s 2)Sch 3 (item 39)Tax Laws Amendment (2012 Measures No. 6) Act 201384, 201328 June 2013Sch 8 (items 33-37): 28 June 2013 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 8 (item 36)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2013 Measures No. 1) Act 201388, 201328 June 2013Sch 5 (items 22-27): 1 July 2013 (s 2(1) item 10)Sch 6 (items 44-48, 66): 29 June 2013 (s 2(1) item 14)Sch 7 (items 167-183): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 11)Sch 7 (item 225): 28 June 2013 (s 2(1) item 23)Sch 5 (items 24, 27) and Sch 7 (item 169)as amended by    Minerals Resource Rent Tax Repeal and Other Measures Act 201496, 20145 Sept 2014Sch 1 (item 53): 30 Sept 2014 (s 2(1) item 2 and F2014L01256)--Tax Laws Amendment (Countering Tax Avoidance and Multinational Profit Shifting) Act 2013101, 201329 June 2013Sch 1 (items 9, 10) and Sch 2 (items 3-7, 44-50): 29 June 2013 (s  2(1) items 2, 3)Sch 2 (items 58, 59): 8 Sept 2012 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 1 (item 10) and Sch 2 (items 50, 59)Parliamentary Service Amendment (Parliamentary Budget Officer) Act 2013102, 201329 June 2013Sch 2 (item 1): 30 June 2013 (s 2(1) item  2)--Private Health Insurance Amendment (Lifetime Health Cover Loading and Other Measures) Act 2013105, 201329 June 2013Sch 2 (items 27, 28(4)): 1 July 2013 (s 2)Sch 2 (item 28(4))Tax Laws Amendment (Fairer Taxation of Excess Concessional Contributions) Act 2013118, 201329 June 2013Sch 1 (items 2, 29-36, 81-84, 101-110): 29 June 2013 (s 2(1) items 2, 10, 11)Sch 1 (item 110) 11)Sch 7 (item 225): 28 June 2013 (s 2(1) item 23)Sch 5 (items 24, 27) and Sch 7 (item 169)as amended by    Minerals Resource Rent Tax Repeal and Other Measures Act 201496, 20145 Sept 2014Sch 1 (item 53): 30 Sept 2014 (s 2(1) item 2 and F2014L01256)--Tax Laws Amendment (Countering Tax Avoidance and Multinational Profit Shifting) Act 2013101, 201329 June 2013Sch 1 (items 9, 10) and Sch 2 (items 3-7, 44-50): 29 June 2013 (s  2(1) items 2, 3)Sch 2 (items 58, 59): 8 Sept 2012 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 1 (item 10) and Sch 2 (items 50, 59)Parliamentary Service Amendment (Parliamentary Budget Officer) Act 2013102, 201329 June 2013Sch 2 (item 1): 30 June 2013 (s 2(1) item  2)--Private Health Insurance Amendment (Lifetime Health Cover Loading and Other Measures) Act 2013105, 201329 June 2013Sch 2 (items 27, 28(4)): 1 July 2013 (s 2)Sch 2 (item 28(4))Tax Laws Amendment (Fairer Taxation of Excess Concessional Contributions) Act 2013118, 201329 June 2013Sch 1 (items 2, 29-36, 81-84, 101-110): 29 June 2013 (s 2(1) items 2, 10, 11)Sch 1 (item 110)Tax Laws Amendment (2013 Measures No. 2) Act 2013124, 201329 June 2013Sch 1 (items 1-36, 45-49) and Sch 5 (items 1-6, 8): 29 June 2013 (s 2(1) items 2, 10)Sch 11 (items 26, 27): 30 June 2013 (s 2(1) item 17)Sch 1 (items 45-49), Sch 5 (item 8) and Sch 11 (item 27)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 1) Act 201411, 201418 Mar 2014Sch 2 (items 26, 27): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 2 (item 27)Tax Bonus for Working Australians Repeal Act 201432, 201427 May 2014Sch 1(items 2-4, 10): 28 May 2014 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 10)Tax Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 1) Act 201434, 201430 May 2014Sch 2 (items 15-24): 30 May 2014 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 2 (items 25-28): 1 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 2 (items 16, 21-24, 28)Public Governance, Performance and Accountability (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 201462, 201430 June 2014Sch 12 (item 188) and Sch 14: 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) items 6, 14)Sch 14as amended by    Public Governance and Resources Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 201536, 201513 Apr 2015Sch 2 (items 7-9) and Sch 7: 14 Apr 2015 (s 2)Tax Laws Amendment (2013 Measures No. 2) Act 2013124, 201329 June 2013Sch 1 (items 1-36, 45-49) and Sch 5 (items 1-6, 8): 29 June 2013 (s 2(1) items 2, 10)Sch 11 (items 26, 27): 30 June 2013 (s 2(1) item 17)Sch 1 (items 45-49), Sch 5 (item 8) and Sch 11 (item 27)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 1) Act 201411, 201418 Mar 2014Sch 2 (items 26, 27): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 2 (item 27)Tax Bonus for Working Australians Repeal Act 201432, 201427 May 2014Sch 1(items 2-4, 10): 28 May 2014 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 10)Tax Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 1) Act 201434, 201430 May 2014Sch 2 (items 15-24): 30 May 2014 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 2 (items 25-28): 1 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 2 (items 16, 21-24, 28)Public Governance, Performance and Accountability (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 201462, 201430 June 2014Sch 12 (item 188) and Sch 14: 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) items 6, 14)Sch 14as amended by    Public Governance and Resources Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 201536, 201513 Apr 2015Sch 2 (items 7-9) and Sch 7: 14 Apr 2015 (s 2)Sch 7as amended by    Acts and Instruments (Framework Reform) (Consequential Provisions) Act 2015126, 201510 Sept 2015Sch 1 (item 486): 5 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)--Acts and Instruments (Framework Reform) (Consequential Provisions) Act 2015126, 201510 Sept 2015Sch 1 (item 495): 5 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)--Tax Laws Amendment (Implementation of the FATCA Agreement) Act 201467, 201430 June 2014Sch 1 (items 2, 3): 30 June 2014 (s 2)Sch 1 (item 3)Trade Support Loans (Consequential Amendments) Act 201482, 201417 July 2014Sch 1 (items 8-24): 18 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 2)--Clean Energy Legislation (Carbon Tax Repeal) Act 201483, 201417 July 2014Sch 1 (items 319, 340): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) items 2, 3)Sch 1 (item 340)Minerals Resource Rent Tax Repeal and Other Measures Act 201496, 20145 Sept 2014Sch 1 (items 54-108, 122-124) and Sch 2 (items 41-43): 30 Sept 2014 (s 2(1) item 2 and F2014L01256)Sch 1 (items 122-124) and Sch 2 (items 42, 43)Sch 7as amended by    Acts and Instruments (Framework Reform) (Consequential Provisions) Act 2015126, 201510 Sept 2015Sch 1 (item 486): 5 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)--Acts and Instruments (Framework Reform) (Consequential Provisions) Act 2015126, 201510 Sept 2015Sch 1 (item 495): 5 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)--Tax Laws Amendment (Implementation of the FATCA Agreement) Act 201467, 201430 June 2014Sch 1 (items 2, 3): 30 June 2014 (s 2)Sch 1 (item 3)Trade Support Loans (Consequential Amendments) Act 201482, 201417 July 2014Sch 1 (items 8-24): 18 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 2)--Clean Energy Legislation (Carbon Tax Repeal) Act 201483, 201417 July 2014Sch 1 (items 319, 340): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) items 2, 3)Sch 1 (item 340)Minerals Resource Rent Tax Repeal and Other Measures Act 201496, 20145 Sept 2014Sch 1 (items 54-108, 122-124) and Sch 2 (items 41-43): 30 Sept 2014 (s 2(1) item 2 and F2014L01256)Sch 1 (items 122-124) and Sch 2 (items 42, 43)National Security Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 2014108, 20142 Oct 2014Sch 1 (items 55, 56, 78-87): 30 Oct 2014 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (items 78-87)Omnibus Repeal Day (Autumn 2014) Act 2014109, 201416 Oct 2014Sch 10 (items 18, 19): 17 Oct 2014 (s 2(1) item 8)--Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 4) Act 2014110, 201416 Oct 2014Sch 4 (items 2, 3) and Sch 5 (items 68-75, 123-140): 16 Oct 2014 (s 2(1) items 3, 4, 7)Sch 4 (item 3) and Sch 5 (items 74, 75, 132, 135, 140)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 6) Act 2014133, 201412 Dec 2014Sch 1 (items 33-36, 39) and Sch 2 (items 4, 5): 12 Dec 2014 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 39) and Sch 2 (item 5)Treasury Legislation Amendment (Repeal Day) Act 20152, 201525 Feb 2015Sch 2 (items 8-20, 72, 73, 90-99) and Sch 4 (items 75-79): 25 Feb 2015 (s 2(1) items 3, 5, 6)Sch 2 (items 66-71): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 2 (items 73, 95-99) and Sch 4 (item 79)as amended by    Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2015 Measures No. 1) Act 201570, 201525 June 2015Sch 6 (item 64): 25 Feb 2015 (s 2(1) item 1) 2014108, 20142 Oct 2014Sch 1 (items 55, 56, 78-87): 30 Oct 2014 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (items 78-87)Omnibus Repeal Day (Autumn 2014) Act 2014109, 201416 Oct 2014Sch 10 (items 18, 19): 17 Oct 2014 (s 2(1) item 8)--Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 4) Act 2014110, 201416 Oct 2014Sch 4 (items 2, 3) and Sch 5 (items 68-75, 123-140): 16 Oct 2014 (s 2(1) items 3, 4, 7)Sch 4 (item 3) and Sch 5 (items 74, 75, 132, 135, 140)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 6) Act 2014133, 201412 Dec 2014Sch 1 (items 33-36, 39) and Sch 2 (items 4, 5): 12 Dec 2014 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 39) and Sch 2 (item 5)Treasury Legislation Amendment (Repeal Day) Act 20152, 201525 Feb 2015Sch 2 (items 8-20, 72, 73, 90-99) and Sch 4 (items 75-79): 25 Feb 2015 (s 2(1) items 3, 5, 6)Sch 2 (items 66-71): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 2 (items 73, 95-99) and Sch 4 (item 79)as amended by    Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2015 Measures No. 1) Act 201570, 201525 June 2015Sch 6 (item 64): 25 Feb 2015 (s 2(1) item 18)--Statute Law Revision Act (No. 1) 20155, 201525 Feb 2015Sch 3 (items 192-194): 25 Mar 2015 (s 2(1) item 10)--Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 5) Act 201520, 201519 Mar 2015Sch 1 (items 4-6): 20 Mar 2015 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 6)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2014 Measures No. 7) Act 201521, 201519 Mar 2015Sch 1 (items 18-49), Sch 5 and Sch 7 (items 33-43): 20 Mar 2015 (s 2(1) items 2, 6, 15)Sch 2 (items 39-46): 1 May 2015 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 4 (items 8, 9): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 6 (items 26-37, 73): 19 Mar 2015 (s 2(1) item 11, 13)Sch 6 (items 60-72, 74-79): never commenced (s 2(1) items 12, 14)Sch 1 (item 49), Sch 2 (items 44-46), Sch 4 (item 9), Sch 5 (item 4), Sch 6 (items  73-79) and Sch 7 (items 37, 39, 41, 43)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (Junior Minerals Exploration Incentive) Act 201815, 201828 Mar 2018Sch 2: 29 Mar 2018 (s 2(1) item 6)--Public Governance and Resources Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 201536, 201513 Apr 2015Sch 5 (items 69-72, 74-77) and Sch 7: 14 Apr 2015 (s 2)Sch 5 (items 74-77) and Sch 7as amended by    Acts and Instruments (Framework Reform) (Consequential Provisions) Act 2015126, 201510 Sept 2015Sch 1 (item 486): 5 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)--Customs and Other Legislation Amendment (Australian Border Force) Act 201541, 201520 May 2015Sch 5 (items 152-159), Sch 6 (items 186, 187) and Sch 9: 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) items  2, 9)Sch 5 (item 159), Sch 6 (item 187) and Sch 9as amended by    Australian Border Force Amendment (Protected Information) Act 2017115, 201730 Oct 2017Sch 1 (item 26): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) item 2)--Tribunals Amalgamation Act 201560, 201526 May 2015Sch 8 (items 45-50) and Sch 9: 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) items 19, 22)Sch 9Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2015 Measures No. 1) Act 201570, 201525 June 2015Sch 1 (items 151-174, 195-205): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) items 3, 6)Sch 6 (items 51-59): 25 June 2015 (s 2(1) item 17)Sch 1 (items 195-205) and Sch 6 (items 54, 59)Energy Grants and Other Legislation Amendment (Ethanol and Biodiesel) Act 201581, 201526 June 2015Sch 1 (items  Acts and Instruments (Framework Reform) (Consequential Provisions) Act 2015126, 201510 Sept 2015Sch 1 (item 486): 5 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)--Customs and Other Legislation Amendment (Australian Border Force) Act 201541, 201520 May 2015Sch 5 (items 152-159), Sch 6 (items 186, 187) and Sch 9: 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) items  2, 9)Sch 5 (item 159), Sch 6 (item 187) and Sch 9as amended by    Australian Border Force Amendment (Protected Information) Act 2017115, 201730 Oct 2017Sch 1 (item 26): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) item 2)--Tribunals Amalgamation Act 201560, 201526 May 2015Sch 8 (items 45-50) and Sch 9: 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) items 19, 22)Sch 9Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2015 Measures No. 1) Act 201570, 201525 June 2015Sch 1 (items 151-174, 195-205): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) items 3, 6)Sch 6 (items 51-59): 25 June 2015 (s 2(1) item 17)Sch 1 (items 195-205) and Sch 6 (items 54, 59)Energy Grants and Other Legislation Amendment (Ethanol and Biodiesel) Act 201581, 201526 June 2015Sch 1 (items 24-28): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 25-28)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (Employee Share Schemes) Act 2015105, 201530 June 2015Sch 1 (items 43, 44): 1 July 2015 (s 2)Sch 1 (item 44)Acts and Instruments (Framework Reform) (Consequential Provisions) Act 2015126, 201510 Sept 2015Sch 1 (items 601-603): 5 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)--Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2015 Measures No. 2) Act 2015130, 201516 Sept 2015s 4 and Sch 1 (item 7): 16 Sept 2015 (s 2(1) items 1, 4)s 4Social Services Legislation Amendment (Low Income Supplement) Act 2015143, 201512 Nov 2015Sch 1 (items 18, 19, 22): 1 July 2017 (s 2(1) items 2, 5)Sch 1 (item 22)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (Better Targeting the Income Tax Transparency Laws) Act 2015149, 201512 Nov 201513 Nov 2015 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 2)Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Legislation Amendment Act 2015150, 201525 Nov 2015Sch 4 (items 3-12): 1 Dec 2015 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 4 (item  July 2015 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 25-28)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (Employee Share Schemes) Act 2015105, 201530 June 2015Sch 1 (items 43, 44): 1 July 2015 (s 2)Sch 1 (item 44)Acts and Instruments (Framework Reform) (Consequential Provisions) Act 2015126, 201510 Sept 2015Sch 1 (items 601-603): 5 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)--Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2015 Measures No. 2) Act 2015130, 201516 Sept 2015s 4 and Sch 1 (item 7): 16 Sept 2015 (s 2(1) items 1, 4)s 4Social Services Legislation Amendment (Low Income Supplement) Act 2015143, 201512 Nov 2015Sch 1 (items 18, 19, 22): 1 July 2017 (s 2(1) items 2, 5)Sch 1 (item 22)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (Better Targeting the Income Tax Transparency Laws) Act 2015149, 201512 Nov 201513 Nov 2015 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 2)Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Legislation Amendment Act 2015150, 201525 Nov 2015Sch 4 (items 3-12): 1 Dec 2015 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 4 (item 12)Crimes Legislation Amendment (Powers, Offences and Other Measures) Act 2015153, 201526 Nov 2015Sch 15 (items 32, 33): 27 Nov 2015 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 15 (item 33)Education Legislation Amendment (Overseas Debt Recovery) Act 2015154, 201526 Nov 2015Sch 4 (items 1, 2): 26 Nov 2015 (s 2(1) item 8)Sch 4 (item 2)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2015 Measures No. 5) Act 2015162, 201530 Nov 2015Sch 4 (items 1, 10-21, 25-27): 30 Nov 2015 (s 2(1) items 3, 5, 6)Sch 4 (items 22-24): never commenced (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 4 (item 27)as amended by    Tax Laws Amendment (Implementation of the Common Reporting Standard) Act 201623, 201618 Mar 2016Sch 1 (items 14, 15): 19 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 1 (items 16-18): never commenced (s 2(1) item 7)Sch 1 (items 14, 15)Labor 2013-14 Budget Savings (Measures No. 2) Act 2015169, 201511 Dec 2015Sch 1 (items 82-99, 111): 1 Jan 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 111)Tax Laws Amendment (Combating Multinational Tax Avoidance) Act 2015170, 2015Crimes Legislation Amendment (Powers, Offences and Other Measures) Act 2015153, 201526 Nov 2015Sch 15 (items 32, 33): 27 Nov 2015 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 15 (item 33)Education Legislation Amendment (Overseas Debt Recovery) Act 2015154, 201526 Nov 2015Sch 4 (items 1, 2): 26 Nov 2015 (s 2(1) item 8)Sch 4 (item 2)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2015 Measures No. 5) Act 2015162, 201530 Nov 2015Sch 4 (items 1, 10-21, 25-27): 30 Nov 2015 (s 2(1) items 3, 5, 6)Sch 4 (items 22-24): never commenced (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 4 (item 27)as amended by    Tax Laws Amendment (Implementation of the Common Reporting Standard) Act 201623, 201618 Mar 2016Sch 1 (items 14, 15): 19 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 1 (items 16-18): never commenced (s 2(1) item 7)Sch 1 (items 14, 15)Labor 2013-14 Budget Savings (Measures No. 2) Act 2015169, 201511 Dec 2015Sch 1 (items 82-99, 111): 1 Jan 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 111)Tax Laws Amendment (Combating Multinational Tax Avoidance) Act 2015170, 201511 Dec 2015Sch 1 (items 4A-7), Sch 2 (items 5-7) and Sch 3: 11 Dec 2015 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 6, 7), Sch 2 (item 7) and Sch 3 (item 2)Statute Law Revision Act (No. 1) 20164, 201611 Feb 2016Sch 4 (items 1, 302-306): 10 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 6)--Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2015 Measures No. 6) Act 201610, 201625 Feb 2016Sch 1 (items 33-36, 38-43) and Sch 2 (items 1, 10-30): 26 Feb 2016 (s 2(1) items 2-4)Sch 1 (items 38, 39, 43) and Sch 2 (item 30)Insolvency Law Reform Act 201611, 201629 Feb 2016Sch 2 (items 316, 317): 1 Mar 2017 (s 2(1) item 7)--Tax Laws Amendment (Implementation of the Common Reporting Standard) Act 201623, 201618 Mar 2016Sch 1 (items 2, 8-11, 13-15, 19): 19 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) items 2, 4, 6, 8)Sch 1 (items 3-7, 12): never commenced (s 2(1) items 3, 5)Sch 1 (items 14, 15)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (2018 Measures No. 4) Act 20198, 20191 Mar 2019Sch 8 (item 2): 1 Jan 2018 (s 2(1) item 9)--Courts Administration Legislation Amendment Act 201624, 201618 Mar 201611 Dec 2015Sch 1 (items 4A-7), Sch 2 (items 5-7) and Sch 3: 11 Dec 2015 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 6, 7), Sch 2 (item 7) and Sch 3 (item 2)Statute Law Revision Act (No. 1) 20164, 201611 Feb 2016Sch 4 (items 1, 302-306): 10 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 6)--Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2015 Measures No. 6) Act 201610, 201625 Feb 2016Sch 1 (items 33-36, 38-43) and Sch 2 (items 1, 10-30): 26 Feb 2016 (s 2(1) items 2-4)Sch 1 (items 38, 39, 43) and Sch 2 (item 30)Insolvency Law Reform Act 201611, 201629 Feb 2016Sch 2 (items 316, 317): 1 Mar 2017 (s 2(1) item 7)--Tax Laws Amendment (Implementation of the Common Reporting Standard) Act 201623, 201618 Mar 2016Sch 1 (items 2, 8-11, 13-15, 19): 19 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) items 2, 4, 6, 8)Sch 1 (items 3-7, 12): never commenced (s 2(1) items 3, 5)Sch 1 (items 14, 15)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (2018 Measures No. 4) Act 20198, 20191 Mar 2019Sch 8 (item 2): 1 Jan 2018 (s 2(1) item 9)--Courts Administration Legislation Amendment Act 201624, 201618 Mar 2016Sch 5 (item 12): 1 July 2016 (s 2(1) item 7)Sch 6: 18 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 9)Sch 6Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2016 Measures No. 1) Act 201652, 20165 May 2016Sch 1 (items 37-39), Sch 2 (items 17A, 25-27) and Sch 3 (items  14, 15): 1 July 2016 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 38, 39), Sch 2 (items 25-27) and Sch 3 (item  15)Tax Laws Amendment (New Tax System for Managed Investment Trusts) Act 201653, 20165 May 2016Sch 1 (items 2-4), Sch 3 (items 5-23), Sch  4 (items 6-9), Sch 5 (items 73-75), Sch 6 (items 35-68) and Sch  8 (item 1): 5 May 2016 (s 2(1) items 2, 4)Sch 7 (items 1, 2): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 5 (item 75) and Sch 8 (item 1)as amended by    Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2015 Measures No. 6) Act 201610, 201625 Feb 2016Sch 2 (item 31): 5 May 2016 (s 2(1) item 5)--Treasury Laws Amendment (2018 Measures No. 5) Act 201915, 201912 Mar 2019Sch 1 (items 43-46): 1 Apr 2019 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 46)Tax Laws Amendment (Tax Incentives for Innovation) Act 201654, 20165 May 2016Sch 1 (items 15-19), Sch 2 (items 57-61, 63, 76): 1 July 2016 (s  2(1) items 2, 3, 7)Sch 2 (item 75): never commenced (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 1 (item 19) and Sch 2 (items 63, 76)Budget Savings (Omnibus) Act 201655, 201616 Sept 2016Sch 23 (items 1, 4-20, 22-24, 35, 36): 1 Oct 2016 (s 2(1) item 25)Sch 23 (items 22-24, 36)Statute Update Act 201661, 201623 Sep 2016Sch 1 (item 487): 21 Oct 2016 (s 2(1) item 1)--Industry Research and Development Amendment (Innovation and Science Australia) Act 201663, 201620 Oct 2016Sch 1 (item 48): 20 Oct 2016 (s 2(1) item 1)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Fair and Sustainable Superannuation) Act 201681, 201629 Nov 2016Sch 1 (items 10-25, 33, 36), Sch 2 (items 19, 20) and Sch 10 (items 55-65, 86-93): 1 Jan 2017 (s  2(1) items 2, 6)Sch 10 (items 1, 29-47, 49-54): 1 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 1 (item 36), Sch 2 (item 20) and Sch 10 (items 49-54, 64, 93)Counter-Terrorism Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 201682, 201629 Nov 2016Sch 17: 30 Nov 2016 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 17 (item 3)Law Enforcement Legislation Amendment (State Bodies and Other Measures) Act 201686, 201630 Nov 20161 (items 15-19), Sch 2 (items 57-61, 63, 76): 1 July 2016 (s  2(1) items 2, 3, 7)Sch 2 (item 75): never commenced (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 1 (item 19) and Sch 2 (items 63, 76)Budget Savings (Omnibus) Act 201655, 201616 Sept 2016Sch 23 (items 1, 4-20, 22-24, 35, 36): 1 Oct 2016 (s 2(1) item 25)Sch 23 (items 22-24, 36)Statute Update Act 201661, 201623 Sep 2016Sch 1 (item 487): 21 Oct 2016 (s 2(1) item 1)--Industry Research and Development Amendment (Innovation and Science Australia) Act 201663, 201620 Oct 2016Sch 1 (item 48): 20 Oct 2016 (s 2(1) item 1)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Fair and Sustainable Superannuation) Act 201681, 201629 Nov 2016Sch 1 (items 10-25, 33, 36), Sch 2 (items 19, 20) and Sch 10 (items 55-65, 86-93): 1 Jan 2017 (s  2(1) items 2, 6)Sch 10 (items 1, 29-47, 49-54): 1 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 1 (item 36), Sch 2 (item 20) and Sch 10 (items 49-54, 64, 93)Counter-Terrorism Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 201682, 201629 Nov 2016Sch 17: 30 Nov 2016 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 17 (item 3)Law Enforcement Legislation Amendment (State Bodies and Other Measures) Act 201686, 201630 Nov 2016Sch 1 (items 1, 56-58): 1 Dec 2016 (s 2(1) items 2, 4)Sch 1 (items 52-55): 1 July 2017 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 1 (items 1, 53-58)Treasury Laws Amendment (Working Holiday Maker Reform) Act 201689, 20162 Dec 2016Sch 2 (items 3-6), Sch 3 and 4: 2 Dec 2016 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 2 (item 6) and Sch 4 (item 2)Register of Foreign Ownership of Agricultural Land Amendment (Water) Act 201696, 20167 Dec 2016Sch 1 (items 39-43): 7 Dec 2016 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 43)Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2016 Measures No. 2) Act 201715, 201728 Feb 2017Sch 1 (items 2-4): 1 Mar 2017 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 4 (items 5, 6, 8): never commenced (s 2(1) items 5, 7)Sch 4 (items 86-92): 1 Apr 2017 (s 2(1) item 12)Sch 1 (item 4) and Sch 4 (items 8, 92)Treasury Laws Amendment (Combating Multinational Tax Avoidance) Act 201727, 20174 Apr 2017Sch 1 (items 44-49, 52) and Sch 2: 1 July 2017 (s 2(1) items 4, 5)Sch 1 (item 52) and Sch 2 (item 7)Treasury Laws Amendment (2017 Measures No. 2) Act 201755, 201722 June 2017Sch 1 (items 23, 24, 32): 1 July 2017 (s 2(1) items 5, 7)Sch 1 (item 32)Treasury Laws Amendment (Foreign Resident Capital Gains Withholding Payments) Act 201757, 201722June 20171 July 2017 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 4)Treasury Laws Amendment (Major Bank Levy) Act 201764, 201723 June 2017Sch 1 (items 14-23): 24 June 2017 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 23)Treasury Laws Amendment (GST Low Value Goods) Act 201777, 201726 June 2017Sch 1 (items 61-66): 1 July 2017 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 65, 66)Petroleum and Other Fuels Reporting (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act 201791, 201723 Aug 2017Sch 1 (items 2-7): 24 Aug 2017 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 3-7)Treasury Laws Amendment (Housing Tax Integrity) Act 2017126, 201730 Nov 2017Sch 3 (items 10-12): 15 Dec 2017 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 3 (item 12)Treasury Laws Amendment (Reducing Pressure on Housing Affordability Measures No. 1) Act 2017132, 201713 Dec 2017Sch 1 (items 1-5, 13-20): 1 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 2 (items 6, 7): 1 Jan 2018 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 2 (item 7)Statute Update (Smaller Government) Act 20184, 201820 Feb 2018Sch 6 (items 21-27): 21 Feb 2018 (s 2(1) item 1)June 20171 July 2017 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 4)Treasury Laws Amendment (Major Bank Levy) Act 201764, 201723 June 2017Sch 1 (items 14-23): 24 June 2017 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 23)Treasury Laws Amendment (GST Low Value Goods) Act 201777, 201726 June 2017Sch 1 (items 61-66): 1 July 2017 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 65, 66)Petroleum and Other Fuels Reporting (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act 201791, 201723 Aug 2017Sch 1 (items 2-7): 24 Aug 2017 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 3-7)Treasury Laws Amendment (Housing Tax Integrity) Act 2017126, 201730 Nov 2017Sch 3 (items 10-12): 15 Dec 2017 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 3 (item 12)Treasury Laws Amendment (Reducing Pressure on Housing Affordability Measures No. 1) Act 2017132, 201713 Dec 2017Sch 1 (items 1-5, 13-20): 1 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 2 (items 6, 7): 1 Jan 2018 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 2 (item 7)Statute Update (Smaller Government) Act 20184, 201820 Feb 2018Sch 6 (items 21-27): 21 Feb 2018 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 6 (item 27)Treasury Laws Amendment (Putting Consumers First--Establishment of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority) Act 201813, 20185 Mar 2018s 4: 5 Mar 2018 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 26-31, 54-58): 6 Mar 2018 (s 2(1) items 2, 6)Sch 3 (items 31, 32): 5 Mar 2022 (s 2(1) item 8)s 4, Sch 1 (items 31, 58) and Sch 3 (item 32)Treasury Laws Amendment (Junior Minerals Exploration Incentive) Act 201815, 201828 Mar 2018Sch 1 (items 26A-28, 65-67): 1 Apr 2018 (s 2(1) items 2, 4)Sch 1 (items 53-64, 68-73): repealed before commencing (s 2(1) items 3, 5)Sch 1 (items 65-73)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (2021 Measures No. 4) Act 202172, 202130 June 2021Sch 2 (items 13-16): 1 July 2021 (s 2(1) item 3)--Treasury Laws Amendment (2018 Measures No. 1) Act 201823, 201829 Mar 2018Sch 1 (items 72, 73) and Sch 5 (items 1-4, 12-28): 1 Apr 2018 (s 2(1) items 8, 12)Sch 1 (items 75-79): 30 Mar 2018 (s 2(1) item 9)Sch 1 (items 75-79) and Sch 5 (items 26-28)Intelligence Services Amendment (Establishment of the Australian Signals Directorate) Act 201825, 201811 Apr 2018Sch 1 (items 91, 92, 100-108): 1 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (items 100-108)Treasury Laws Amendment (Personal Income Tax Plan) Act 2018Sch 6 (item 27)Treasury Laws Amendment (Putting Consumers First--Establishment of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority) Act 201813, 20185 Mar 2018s 4: 5 Mar 2018 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 26-31, 54-58): 6 Mar 2018 (s 2(1) items 2, 6)Sch 3 (items 31, 32): 5 Mar 2022 (s 2(1) item 8)s 4, Sch 1 (items 31, 58) and Sch 3 (item 32)Treasury Laws Amendment (Junior Minerals Exploration Incentive) Act 201815, 201828 Mar 2018Sch 1 (items 26A-28, 65-67): 1 Apr 2018 (s 2(1) items 2, 4)Sch 1 (items 53-64, 68-73): repealed before commencing (s 2(1) items 3, 5)Sch 1 (items 65-73)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (2021 Measures No. 4) Act 202172, 202130 June 2021Sch 2 (items 13-16): 1 July 2021 (s 2(1) item 3)--Treasury Laws Amendment (2018 Measures No. 1) Act 201823, 201829 Mar 2018Sch 1 (items 72, 73) and Sch 5 (items 1-4, 12-28): 1 Apr 2018 (s 2(1) items 8, 12)Sch 1 (items 75-79): 30 Mar 2018 (s 2(1) item 9)Sch 1 (items 75-79) and Sch 5 (items 26-28)Intelligence Services Amendment (Establishment of the Australian Signals Directorate) Act 201825, 201811 Apr 2018Sch 1 (items 91, 92, 100-108): 1 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (items 100-108)Treasury Laws Amendment (Personal Income Tax Plan) Act 201847, 201821 June 2018Sch 1 (items 8, 9): 1 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (items 16-18): repealed before commencing (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 1 (item 18)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (A Tax Plan for the COVID-19 Economic Recovery) Act 202092, 202014 Oct 2020Sch 1 (items 28, 30): 15 Oct 2020 (s 2(1) item 6)--Legislation Amendment (Sunsetting Review and Other Measures) Act 201878, 201824 Aug 2018Sch 2 (item 18): 25 Aug 2018 (s 2(1) item 5)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Illicit Tobacco Offences) Act 201882, 201824 Aug 2018Sch 1 (items 4-6, 25): 25 Aug 2018 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 25)Migration and Other Legislation Amendment (Enhanced Integrity) Act 201890, 201831 Aug 2018Sch 1 (items 9, 10): 13 Dec 2018 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 10)Education and Other Legislation Amendment (VET Student Loan Debt Separation) Act 2018116, 201825 Sept 2018Sch 1 (items 47-60): 1 July 2019 (s 2(1) items 10-12)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Black Economy Taskforce Measures No. 1) Act 2018121, 201847, 201821 June 2018Sch 1 (items 8, 9): 1 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (items 16-18): repealed before commencing (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 1 (item 18)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (A Tax Plan for the COVID-19 Economic Recovery) Act 202092, 202014 Oct 2020Sch 1 (items 28, 30): 15 Oct 2020 (s 2(1) item 6)--Legislation Amendment (Sunsetting Review and Other Measures) Act 201878, 201824 Aug 2018Sch 2 (item 18): 25 Aug 2018 (s 2(1) item 5)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Illicit Tobacco Offences) Act 201882, 201824 Aug 2018Sch 1 (items 4-6, 25): 25 Aug 2018 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 25)Migration and Other Legislation Amendment (Enhanced Integrity) Act 201890, 201831 Aug 2018Sch 1 (items 9, 10): 13 Dec 2018 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 10)Education and Other Legislation Amendment (VET Student Loan Debt Separation) Act 2018116, 201825 Sept 2018Sch 1 (items 47-60): 1 July 2019 (s 2(1) items 10-12)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Black Economy Taskforce Measures No. 1) Act 2018121, 20183 Oct 2018Sch 1 (items 2-4) and Sch 2: 4 Oct 2018 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 4) and Sch 2 (items 2, 3)Treasury Laws Amendment (Tax Integrity and Other Measures) Act 2018124, 20183 Oct 2018Sch 3 (items 4, 6): 1 Jan 2019 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 3 (item 6)Treasury Laws Amendment (Working Holiday Maker Employer Register) Act 2018125, 20183 Oct 2018Sch 1 (items 2-4): 1 Jan 2019 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 4)Treasury Laws Amendment (Black Economy Taskforce Measures No. 2) Act 2018141, 201829 Nov 2018Sch 2 and Sch 3 (items 9, 10): 1 Jan 2019 (s 2(1) items 3, 4)Sch 2 (items 2, 3) and Sch 3 (item 10)Treasury Laws Amendment (2018 Measures No. 4) Act 20198, 20191 Mar 2019Sch 1 (items 1-5, 7, 8), Sch 2, Sch 3 (items 2-10), Sch 4 (items 1-7, 18), Sch 5, Sch 7 (item 2) and Sch 8 (items  9-11, 16-19, 48-63): 1 Apr 2019 (s 2(1) items 2, 3, 5, 7, 11)Sch 3 (items 11-16): 23 June 2020 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 6 (items 3, 4): 1 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 1 (items 2, 5), Sch 2 (item 4), Sch 3 (items 10, 16), Sch 4 (item 7), Sch 5 (items  6, 13, 15) and Sch 8 (items 10, 11, 63)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (2019 Measures No. 3) Act 202064, 202022 June 2020Sch 3 (item 61): 23 June 2020 (s 2(1) item 4)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Enhancing Whistleblower Protections) Act 201910, 201912 Mar 2019Sch 1 (items 14-16, 36-38): 1 July 2019 (s 2(1) items 2, 3)Sch 1 (items 16, 38)Treasury Laws Amendment (2018 Measures No. 5) Act 201915, 201912 Mar 2019Sch 1 (items 19-33, 46): 1 Apr 2019 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 46)Treasury Laws Amendment (Protecting Your Superannuation Package) Act 201916, 201912 Mar 2019Sch 3 (items 34-38): 13 Mar 2019 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 3 (item 38)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (2019 Measures No. 3) Act 202064, 202022 June 2020Sch 3 (item 62): 23 June 2020 (s 2(1) item 4)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Making Sure Foreign Investors Pay Their Fair Share of Tax in Australia and Other Measures) Act 201934, 20195 Apr 2019Sch 1 (items 6-11, 16) and Sch 5 (items 3-5): 1 July 2019 (s 2(1) items 2, 3)Sch 1 (item 16) and Sch 5 (item 5)Treasury Laws Amendment (2019 Measures No. 1) Act 201949, 20195 Apr 2019Sch 4 (items 105-111): 1 July 2019 (s 2(1) item June 2020 (s 2(1) item 4)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Enhancing Whistleblower Protections) Act 201910, 201912 Mar 2019Sch 1 (items 14-16, 36-38): 1 July 2019 (s 2(1) items 2, 3)Sch 1 (items 16, 38)Treasury Laws Amendment (2018 Measures No. 5) Act 201915, 201912 Mar 2019Sch 1 (items 19-33, 46): 1 Apr 2019 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 46)Treasury Laws Amendment (Protecting Your Superannuation Package) Act 201916, 201912 Mar 2019Sch 3 (items 34-38): 13 Mar 2019 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 3 (item 38)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (2019 Measures No. 3) Act 202064, 202022 June 2020Sch 3 (item 62): 23 June 2020 (s 2(1) item 4)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Making Sure Foreign Investors Pay Their Fair Share of Tax in Australia and Other Measures) Act 201934, 20195 Apr 2019Sch 1 (items 6-11, 16) and Sch 5 (items 3-5): 1 July 2019 (s 2(1) items 2, 3)Sch 1 (item 16) and Sch 5 (item 5)Treasury Laws Amendment (2019 Measures No. 1) Act 201949, 20195 Apr 2019Sch 4 (items 105-111): 1 July 2019 (s 2(1) item 12)Sch 4 (item 111)Treasury Laws Amendment (2018 Superannuation Measures No. 1) Act 201978, 20192 Oct 2019Sch 3 (item 3): 1 Jan 2020 (s 2(1) item 3)--Treasury Laws Amendment (2019 Tax Integrity and Other Measures No. 1) Act 201995, 201928 Oct 2019Sch 4 (items 5, 6): 1 Jan 2020 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 5 (items 2-4) and Sch 6: 29 Oct 2019 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 4 (item 6) and Sch 5 (item 4)Treasury Laws Amendment (Combating Illegal Phoenixing) Act 20206, 202017 Feb 2020Sch 3 (items 2-22) and Sch 4: 1 Apr 2020 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 3 (item 22) and Sch 4 (item 2)Coronavirus Economic Response Package Omnibus Act 202022, 202024 Mar 2020Sch 3 (items 4, 5): 24 Mar 2020 (s 2(1) item 3)--Coronavirus Economic Response Package Omnibus (Measures No. 2) Act 202038, 20209 Apr 2020Sch 2 (items 8-13) and Sch 7 (items 1, 2): 9 Apr 2020 (s 2(1) items 4, 13)Sch 7 (item 3): 1 July 2023 (s 2(1) item 14)Sch 2 (item 12) and Sch 7 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (2020 Measures No. 1) Act 202049, 202025 May 2020Sch 1 (items 18-21): 1 July 2020 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 4 (item 111)Treasury Laws Amendment (2018 Superannuation Measures No. 1) Act 201978, 20192 Oct 2019Sch 3 (item 3): 1 Jan 2020 (s 2(1) item 3)--Treasury Laws Amendment (2019 Tax Integrity and Other Measures No. 1) Act 201995, 201928 Oct 2019Sch 4 (items 5, 6): 1 Jan 2020 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 5 (items 2-4) and Sch 6: 29 Oct 2019 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 4 (item 6) and Sch 5 (item 4)Treasury Laws Amendment (Combating Illegal Phoenixing) Act 20206, 202017 Feb 2020Sch 3 (items 2-22) and Sch 4: 1 Apr 2020 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 3 (item 22) and Sch 4 (item 2)Coronavirus Economic Response Package Omnibus Act 202022, 202024 Mar 2020Sch 3 (items 4, 5): 24 Mar 2020 (s 2(1) item 3)--Coronavirus Economic Response Package Omnibus (Measures No. 2) Act 202038, 20209 Apr 2020Sch 2 (items 8-13) and Sch 7 (items 1, 2): 9 Apr 2020 (s 2(1) items 4, 13)Sch 7 (item 3): 1 July 2023 (s 2(1) item 14)Sch 2 (item 12) and Sch 7 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (2020 Measures No. 1) Act 202049, 202025 May 2020Sch 1 (items 18-21): 1 July 2020 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 21)Treasury Laws Amendment (2020 Measures No. 3) Act 202061, 202019 June 2020Sch 5 (items 1, 2): 1 July 2020 (s 2(1) item 7)Sch 5 (item 3): 1 July 2025 (s 2(1) item 8)Sch 5 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (2019 Measures No. 3) Act 202064, 202022 June 2020Sch 3 (items 124-145): 1 July 2020 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 3 (items 302-321, 325, 326): 1 Oct 2020 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 3 (items 127, 141, 325, 326) Treasury Laws Amendment (Registries Modernisation and Other Measures) Act 202069, 202022 June 2020Sch 1 (items 1431-1467): awaiting commencement (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 2 (item 16): 4 Apr 2021 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 1 (items 1465-1467) and Sch 1 (item  1468)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (2021 Measures No. 5) Act 2021127, 20217 Dec 2021Sch 3 (item 105): 22 June 2020 (s 2(1) item 8)--Treasury Laws Amendment (2022 Measures No. 1) Act 202235, 20229 Aug 2022Sch 4 (item 7): 21 June 2022 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 4 (item 15): 10 Aug 2022 (s 2(1) item 6)--Treasury Laws Amendment (2020 Measures No. 2) Act 202079, 20203 Sept 2020Sch 1 (item 21)Treasury Laws Amendment (2020 Measures No. 3) Act 202061, 202019 June 2020Sch 5 (items 1, 2): 1 July 2020 (s 2(1) item 7)Sch 5 (item 3): 1 July 2025 (s 2(1) item 8)Sch 5 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (2019 Measures No. 3) Act 202064, 202022 June 2020Sch 3 (items 124-145): 1 July 2020 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 3 (items 302-321, 325, 326): 1 Oct 2020 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 3 (items 127, 141, 325, 326) Treasury Laws Amendment (Registries Modernisation and Other Measures) Act 202069, 202022 June 2020Sch 1 (items 1431-1467): awaiting commencement (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 2 (item 16): 4 Apr 2021 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 1 (items 1465-1467) and Sch 1 (item  1468)as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (2021 Measures No. 5) Act 2021127, 20217 Dec 2021Sch 3 (item 105): 22 June 2020 (s 2(1) item 8)--Treasury Laws Amendment (2022 Measures No. 1) Act 202235, 20229 Aug 2022Sch 4 (item 7): 21 June 2022 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 4 (item 15): 10 Aug 2022 (s 2(1) item 6)--Treasury Laws Amendment (2020 Measures No. 2) Act 202079, 20203 Sept 2020Sch 2 (items 6-9): 1 Oct 2020 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 6: 4 Sept 2020 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 2 (item 9) and Sch 6 (item 2)Coronavirus Economic Response Package (Jobkeeper Payments) Amendment Act 202081, 20203 Sept 2020Sch 1 (items 4, 5): 3 Sept 2020 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 5)Payment Times Reporting (Consequential Amendments) Act 202089, 202017 Sept 2020Sch 1 (items 1, 2): 1 Jan 2021 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (A Tax Plan for the COVID-19 Economic Recovery) Act 202092, 202014 Oct 2020Sch 1 (items 22-24): 15 Oct 2020 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 2 (item 36), Sch 3 (items 37-40) and Sch 6 (items 1-3): 1 Jan 2021 (s 2(1) item 7)Sch 1 (item 24), Sch 3 (item 40) and Sch 6 (item 3)Foreign Investment Reform (Protecting Australia&#39;s National Security) Act 2020114, 202010 Dec 2020Sch 1 (items 226, 249): 1 Jan 2021 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 249)Corporations Amendment (Corporate Insolvency Reforms) Act 2020130, 202015 Dec 2020Sch 1 (items 118-127): 1 Jan 2021 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 127) Treasury Laws Amendment (2020 Measures No. 6) Act 2020141, 202017 Dec 2020Sch 4 (items 76-80): 18 Dec 2020 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 4 (item 142): 1 July 2024Sch 4 (itemsSch 2 (items 6-9): 1 Oct 2020 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 6: 4 Sept 2020 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 2 (item 9) and Sch 6 (item 2)Coronavirus Economic Response Package (Jobkeeper Payments) Amendment Act 202081, 20203 Sept 2020Sch 1 (items 4, 5): 3 Sept 2020 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 5)Payment Times Reporting (Consequential Amendments) Act 202089, 202017 Sept 2020Sch 1 (items 1, 2): 1 Jan 2021 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (A Tax Plan for the COVID-19 Economic Recovery) Act 202092, 202014 Oct 2020Sch 1 (items 22-24): 15 Oct 2020 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 2 (item 36), Sch 3 (items 37-40) and Sch 6 (items 1-3): 1 Jan 2021 (s 2(1) item 7)Sch 1 (item 24), Sch 3 (item 40) and Sch 6 (item 3)Foreign Investment Reform (Protecting Australia&#39;s National Security) Act 2020114, 202010 Dec 2020Sch 1 (items 226, 249): 1 Jan 2021 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 249)Corporations Amendment (Corporate Insolvency Reforms) Act 2020130, 202015 Dec 2020Sch 1 (items 118-127): 1 Jan 2021 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 127) Treasury Laws Amendment (2020 Measures No. 6) Act 2020141, 202017 Dec 2020Sch 4 (items 76-80): 18 Dec 2020 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 4 (item 142): 1 July 2024Sch 4 (items 143, 144): 4 Apr 2021 (s 2(1) item 15)--as amended by    Treasury Laws Amendment (2021 Measures No. 5) Act 2021127, 20217 Dec 2021Sch 3 (item 108): 17 Dec 2020 (s 2(1) item 9)--Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act 202113, 20211 Mar 2021Sch 2 (items 750-760): 1 Sept 2021 (s 2(1) item 5)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Reuniting More Superannuation) Act 202124, 202122 Mar 2021Sch 1 (items 46, 47): 23 Mar 2021 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 2 (items 32, 33): 29 Mar 2021 (s 2(1) item 3)--Treasury Laws Amendment (More Flexible Superannuation) Act 202145, 202122 June 2021Sch 2 (items 5-12, 14): 1 July 2021 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 2 (item 14)Fuel Security (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 202166, 202129 June 2021Sch 1 (items 18, 19): 30 June 2021 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 19)Treasury Laws Amendment (COVID-19 Economic Response) Act 202171, 202130 June 2021Sch 2: 1 July 2021 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 2 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (COVID-19 Economic Response No. 2) Act 202179, 202110 Aug 2021Sch 2: 11 Aug 2021 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 2 (item 3)Industry Research and Development Amendment (Industry Innovation and Science Australia) Act 2021101, 202110 Sept 2021Sch 1 (item 5): 11 Sept 2021 (s 2(1) item 1)--Treasury Laws Amendment (2021 Measures No. 6) Act 2021111, 202113 Sept 2021Sch 5 (items 2, 3): 1 Apr 2022 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 5 (items 5, 6): 28 Sept 2022 (s 2(1) item 7)Sch 5 (items 3, 6)Treasury Laws Amendment (2021 Measures No. 5) Act 2021127, 20217 Dec 2021Sch 3 (items 43, 47, 48, 64): 1 Jan 2022 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 3 (item 48)Corporate Collective Investment Vehicle Framework and Other Measures Act 20228, 202222 Feb 2022Sch 6 (item 23) and Sch 8 (items 35, 36): 1 Apr 2022 (s 2(1) items 6, 10)Sch 8 (item 32): 23 Feb 2022 (s 2(1) item 9)Sch 8 (items 41-43): 4 Apr 2021 (s 2(1) item 12)Sch 8 (items 36, 43)Treasury Laws Amendment (Enhancing Superannuation Outcomes For Australians and Helping Australian Businesses Invest) Act 202210, 202222 Feb 2022Sch 2: 23 Feb 2022 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 2 (item  1)Sch 2 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (COVID-19 Economic Response No. 2) Act 202179, 202110 Aug 2021Sch 2: 11 Aug 2021 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 2 (item 3)Industry Research and Development Amendment (Industry Innovation and Science Australia) Act 2021101, 202110 Sept 2021Sch 1 (item 5): 11 Sept 2021 (s 2(1) item 1)--Treasury Laws Amendment (2021 Measures No. 6) Act 2021111, 202113 Sept 2021Sch 5 (items 2, 3): 1 Apr 2022 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 5 (items 5, 6): 28 Sept 2022 (s 2(1) item 7)Sch 5 (items 3, 6)Treasury Laws Amendment (2021 Measures No. 5) Act 2021127, 20217 Dec 2021Sch 3 (items 43, 47, 48, 64): 1 Jan 2022 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 3 (item 48)Corporate Collective Investment Vehicle Framework and Other Measures Act 20228, 202222 Feb 2022Sch 6 (item 23) and Sch 8 (items 35, 36): 1 Apr 2022 (s 2(1) items 6, 10)Sch 8 (item 32): 23 Feb 2022 (s 2(1) item 9)Sch 8 (items 41-43): 4 Apr 2021 (s 2(1) item 12)Sch 8 (items 36, 43)Treasury Laws Amendment (Enhancing Superannuation Outcomes For Australians and Helping Australian Businesses Invest) Act 202210, 202222 Feb 2022Sch 2: 23 Feb 2022 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 2 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (Cost of Living Support and Other Measures) Act 202214, 202231 Mar 2022Sch 5 (items 1, 2): 1 Apr 2022 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 5 (item 3): 1 July 2027 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 5 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (Laminaria and Corallina Decommissioning Cost Recovery Levy) Act 202224, 20221 Apr 2022Sch 1 (items 7-21): 2 Apr 2022 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 21)Treasury Laws Amendment (2022 Measures No. 1) Act 202235, 20229 Aug 2022Sch 4 (Pt 6, items 1, 2): 10 Aug 2022 (s 2(1) item 10)Sch 4 (Pt 6, item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (2022 Measures No. 3) Act 202275, 20225 Dec 2022Sch 2 (items 2-4): 6 Dec 2022 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 4 (items 23-38): 1 July 2022 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 2 (item 4) and Sch 4 (item 38)Treasury Laws Amendment (2022 Measures No. 2) Act 202284, 202212 Dec 2022Sch 1 (items 1-15, 17-20) and Sch 2: 1 Jan 2023 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 4: 13 Dec 2022 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 1 (items 19, 20), Sch 2 (item 2) and Sch 4 (item 6)National Anti-Corruption Commission (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 202289, 202212 Dec 2022Sch 1 (items 201-204): 1 July 2023 (s 2(1) item 2)2)Treasury Laws Amendment (Cost of Living Support and Other Measures) Act 202214, 202231 Mar 2022Sch 5 (items 1, 2): 1 Apr 2022 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 5 (item 3): 1 July 2027 (s 2(1) item 6)Sch 5 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (Laminaria and Corallina Decommissioning Cost Recovery Levy) Act 202224, 20221 Apr 2022Sch 1 (items 7-21): 2 Apr 2022 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (item 21)Treasury Laws Amendment (2022 Measures No. 1) Act 202235, 20229 Aug 2022Sch 4 (Pt 6, items 1, 2): 10 Aug 2022 (s 2(1) item 10)Sch 4 (Pt 6, item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (2022 Measures No. 3) Act 202275, 20225 Dec 2022Sch 2 (items 2-4): 6 Dec 2022 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 4 (items 23-38): 1 July 2022 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 2 (item 4) and Sch 4 (item 38)Treasury Laws Amendment (2022 Measures No. 2) Act 202284, 202212 Dec 2022Sch 1 (items 1-15, 17-20) and Sch 2: 1 Jan 2023 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 4: 13 Dec 2022 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 1 (items 19, 20), Sch 2 (item 2) and Sch 4 (item 6)National Anti-Corruption Commission (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 202289, 202212 Dec 2022Sch 1 (items 201-204): 1 July 2023 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (item 204) Paid Parental Leave Amendment (Improvements for Families and Gender Equality) Act 20234, 202310 Mar 2023Sch 2 (items 27-31) and Sch 3 (items 1, 2, 4): 26 Mar 2023 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 3 (items 1, 2, 4)Treasury Laws Amendment (2023 Measures No. 2) Act 202328, 202323 June 2023Sch 4 (items 1, 2): 24 June 2023 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 4 (item 3): 1 July 2028 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 4 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (Refining and Improving Our Tax System) Act 202340, 202328 June 2023Sch 4 (item 17): 1 July 2023 (s 2(1) item 5)-- Trade Support Loans Amendment Act 202361, 202321 Aug 2023Sch 1 (items 137-148, 156-165): 1 Jan 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 156-165)Treasury Laws Amendment (Modernising Business Communications and Other Measures) Act 202369, 202314 Sept 2023Sch 1 (item 143): 1 Jan 2024 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 2 (item 160): 15 Sept 2023 (s 2(1) item 4)--Inspector-General of Intelligence and Security and Other Legislation Amendment (Modernisation) Act 202373, 202320 Sept 2023Sch 1 (item 200) and Sch 3 (item 2): 21 Sept 2023 (s 2(1) items 2, 5)Sch 1 (item 204) Paid Parental Leave Amendment (Improvements for Families and Gender Equality) Act 20234, 202310 Mar 2023Sch 2 (items 27-31) and Sch 3 (items 1, 2, 4): 26 Mar 2023 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 3 (items 1, 2, 4)Treasury Laws Amendment (2023 Measures No. 2) Act 202328, 202323 June 2023Sch 4 (items 1, 2): 24 June 2023 (s 2(1) item 4)Sch 4 (item 3): 1 July 2028 (s 2(1) item 5)Sch 4 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (Refining and Improving Our Tax System) Act 202340, 202328 June 2023Sch 4 (item 17): 1 July 2023 (s 2(1) item 5)-- Trade Support Loans Amendment Act 202361, 202321 Aug 2023Sch 1 (items 137-148, 156-165): 1 Jan 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 156-165)Treasury Laws Amendment (Modernising Business Communications and Other Measures) Act 202369, 202314 Sept 2023Sch 1 (item 143): 1 Jan 2024 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 2 (item 160): 15 Sept 2023 (s 2(1) item 4)--Inspector-General of Intelligence and Security and Other Legislation Amendment (Modernisation) Act 202373, 202320 Sept 2023Sch 1 (item 200) and Sch 3 (item 2): 21 Sept 2023 (s 2(1) items 2, 5)Sch 3 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (2023 Measures No. 3) Act 202375, 202320 Sept 2023Sch 4 (items 14-30): 15 Sept 2024 (s 2(1) item 11)Sch 4 (items 28-30)Treasury Laws Amendment (2023 Law Improvement Package No. 1) Act 202376, 202320 Sept 2023Sch 2 (items 727-737): 20 Oct 2023 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 6 (items 39, 40): 21 Sept 2023 (s 2(1) item 22)Sch 6 (items 43, 44): 1 Oct 2023 (s 2(1) item 23)Sch 6 (item 44)Public Health (Tobacco and Other Products) (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act 2023119, 202314 Dec 2023Sch 1 (items 18-20): 1 Apr 2024 (s 2(1) item 2)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Making Multinationals Pay Their Fair Share--Integrity and Transparency) Act 202423, 20248 Apr 2024Sch 2 (items 143, 144, 146): 1 July 2024 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 2 (items 144, 146)Digital ID (Transitional and Consequential Provisions) Act 202426, 202430 May 2024Sch 2 (item 7): 30 Nov 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Tax Accountability and Fairness) Act 202437, 202431 May 2024Sch 1 (items 5-37) and Sch 2: 1 July 2024 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 4 (items 1-3, 5): 1 June 2024 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 1 (item Sch 3 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (2023 Measures No. 3) Act 202375, 202320 Sept 2023Sch 4 (items 14-30): 15 Sept 2024 (s 2(1) item 11)Sch 4 (items 28-30)Treasury Laws Amendment (2023 Law Improvement Package No. 1) Act 202376, 202320 Sept 2023Sch 2 (items 727-737): 20 Oct 2023 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 6 (items 39, 40): 21 Sept 2023 (s 2(1) item 22)Sch 6 (items 43, 44): 1 Oct 2023 (s 2(1) item 23)Sch 6 (item 44)Public Health (Tobacco and Other Products) (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act 2023119, 202314 Dec 2023Sch 1 (items 18-20): 1 Apr 2024 (s 2(1) item 2)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Making Multinationals Pay Their Fair Share--Integrity and Transparency) Act 202423, 20248 Apr 2024Sch 2 (items 143, 144, 146): 1 July 2024 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 2 (items 144, 146)Digital ID (Transitional and Consequential Provisions) Act 202426, 202430 May 2024Sch 2 (item 7): 30 Nov 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Tax Accountability and Fairness) Act 202437, 202431 May 2024Sch 1 (items 5-37) and Sch 2: 1 July 2024 (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 4 (items 1-3, 5): 1 June 2024 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 1 (item 37) and Sch 4 (item 5)Administrative Review Tribunal (Consequential and Transitional Provisions No. 1) Act 202438, 202431 May 2024Sch 1 (items 48-50, 74): 14 Oct 2024 (s 2(1) item 2)--Excise and Customs Legislation Amendment (Streamlining Administration) Act 202451, 202428 June 2024Sch 1 (item 169, 189): 1 July 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Support for Small Business and Charities and Other Measures) Act 202452, 202428 June 2024Sch 3 (items 6-34): 29 June 2024 (s 2(1) item 3)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Delivering Better Financial Outcomes and Other Measures) Act 202467, 20249 July 2024Sch 5 (items 46-48): 1 Oct 2024 (s 2(1) item 10)Sch 5 (item 48)Paid Parental Leave Amendment (Adding Superannuation for a More Secure Retirement) Act 202490, 20241 Oct 2024Sch 2 (items 7, 8): 2 Oct 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Multinational--Global and Domestic Minimum Tax) (Consequential) Act 2024134, 202410 Dec 2024Sch 1 (items 32-64, 68, 69): 11 Dec 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 68, 69)Treasury Laws Amendment (2024 Tax and Other Measures No. 1) Act 202437) and Sch 4 (item 5)Administrative Review Tribunal (Consequential and Transitional Provisions No. 1) Act 202438, 202431 May 2024Sch 1 (items 48-50, 74): 14 Oct 2024 (s 2(1) item 2)--Excise and Customs Legislation Amendment (Streamlining Administration) Act 202451, 202428 June 2024Sch 1 (item 169, 189): 1 July 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Support for Small Business and Charities and Other Measures) Act 202452, 202428 June 2024Sch 3 (items 6-34): 29 June 2024 (s 2(1) item 3)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Delivering Better Financial Outcomes and Other Measures) Act 202467, 20249 July 2024Sch 5 (items 46-48): 1 Oct 2024 (s 2(1) item 10)Sch 5 (item 48)Paid Parental Leave Amendment (Adding Superannuation for a More Secure Retirement) Act 202490, 20241 Oct 2024Sch 2 (items 7, 8): 2 Oct 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Multinational--Global and Domestic Minimum Tax) (Consequential) Act 2024134, 202410 Dec 2024Sch 1 (items 32-64, 68, 69): 11 Dec 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)Sch 1 (items 68, 69)Treasury Laws Amendment (2024 Tax and Other Measures No. 1) Act 2024135, 202410 Dec 2024Sch 1, Sch 3 (items 4-6) and Sch 4: 1 Jan 2025 (s 2(1) items 2, 4)Sch 2: 11 Dec 2024 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 1 (item 7), Sch 3 (item 6) and Sch 4 (item 2)Treasury Laws Amendment (Responsible Buy Now Pay Later and Other Measures) Act 2024138, 202410 Dec 2024Sch 1 (items 13-25) and Sch 4: 1 Jan 2025 (s 2(1) items 2, 5)Sch 1 (item 25) and Sch 4 (item 4)Future Made in Australia (Production Tax Credits and Other Measures) Act 20259, 202514 Feb 2025Sch 1 (items 5-7): awaiting commencement (s 2(1) item 2)Sch 1 (items 14-21) and Sch 2 (item 15): 1 Apr 2025 (s 2(1) items 3, 5)Sch 1 (item 7) and Sch 1 (item 21)Administrative Review Tribunal (Miscellaneous Measures) Act 202514, 202520 Feb 2025Sch 2 (items 39-42): 21 Feb 2025 (s 2(1) item 2)--Treasury Laws Amendment (Tax Incentives and Integrity) Act 202529, 202527 Mar 2025Sch 3 (items 1-3): 1 July 2025 (s 2(1) item 3)Sch 3 (item 3)
Act(Register ID)Number and yearAssentCommencementApplication, saving and transitional provisionsUniversities Accord (Cutting Student Debt by 20 Per Cent) Act 2025 (C2025A00030)30, 20252 Aug 2025sch 2 (items 28, 35): 3 Aug 2025 (s 2(1) item 1)sch 2 (item 35)Treasury Laws Amendment (Strengthening Financial Systems and Other Measures) Act 2025 (C2025A00072)72, 20254 Dec 2025sch 4 (items 41-43): 1 Jan 2026 (s 2(1) item 5)sch 5 (item 33): 1 July 2024 (s 2(1) item 8)sch 4 (item 43)
TAXATION ADMINISTRATION ACT 1953
- NOTES
 Endnote 4--Amendment history
Provision affectedHow affectedTitle....................am No 95, 2019Part I Part I heading..............ad. No. 133, 1974s 2.....................am No 95, 1959 rs No 123, 1984 am No 48, 1986; No 107, 1989; No 110, 1990; No 100, 1991; No 47, 1992; No  17, 1993; No 34, 1997; No 11, 1999; No 85, 1999; No 94, 1999; No 146, 1999; No 161, 1999; No 179, 1999; No 201, 1999; No 25, 2001; No 135, 2001; No 146, 2001; No  125, 2002; No 54, 2003; No 101, 2004; No 63, 2005; No 100, 2005; No 161, 2005; No 74, 2006; No 86, 2006; No 101, 2006; No 9, 2007; No 88, 2009; No 114, 2009; No 74, 2010; No 145, 2010; No 41, 2011; No 147, 2011; No 12, 2012; No 39, 2012; No 118, 2013; No 110, 2014; No 2, 2015; No 21, 2015; No 60, 2015; No 10, 2019; No 24, 2022; No 37, 2024; No 38, 2024s. 2A....................ad. No. 146, 2001s 2B....................ad No 2, 2015s. 3.....................am. No. 95, 1959; No. 59, 1979 rs. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 88, 2009 rs No 2, 2015s. 3AA..................ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 12, 2012Part IA Part IAProvision affectedHow affectedTitle....................am No 95, 2019Part I Part I heading..............ad. No. 133, 1974s 2.....................am No 95, 1959 rs No 123, 1984 am No 48, 1986; No 107, 1989; No 110, 1990; No 100, 1991; No 47, 1992; No  17, 1993; No 34, 1997; No 11, 1999; No 85, 1999; No 94, 1999; No 146, 1999; No 161, 1999; No 179, 1999; No 201, 1999; No 25, 2001; No 135, 2001; No 146, 2001; No  125, 2002; No 54, 2003; No 101, 2004; No 63, 2005; No 100, 2005; No 161, 2005; No 74, 2006; No 86, 2006; No 101, 2006; No 9, 2007; No 88, 2009; No 114, 2009; No 74, 2010; No 145, 2010; No 41, 2011; No 147, 2011; No 12, 2012; No 39, 2012; No 118, 2013; No 110, 2014; No 2, 2015; No 21, 2015; No 60, 2015; No 10, 2019; No 24, 2022; No 37, 2024; No 38, 2024s. 2A....................ad. No. 146, 2001s 2B....................ad No 2, 2015s. 3.....................am. No. 95, 1959; No. 59, 1979 rs. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 88, 2009 rs No 2, 2015s. 3AA..................ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 12, 2012Part IA Part IA..................ad. No. 123, 1984s. 3A....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 145, 2010s 3B....................ad No 123, 1984 am No 138, 1987; No 107, 1989; No 216, 1991; No 47, 1992; No 98, 1992; No 82, 1993; No  161, 1999; No 56, 2007; No 88, 2009; No 114, 2009; No 145, 2010; No 21, 2015; No 15, 2017; No 4, 2018; No 8, 2019s 3C....................ad No 123, 1984 am No 123, 1985; No 138, 1987; No 97, 1988; No 107, 1989; No 216, 1991; No  98, 1992; No 82, 1993; No 56, 1999; No 201, 1999; No 146, 2001; No 10, 2003; No 54, 2003; No  73, 2006; No 100, 2006; No 88, 2009; No 114, 2009; No 145, 2010 rep No 145, 2010 ad No 124, 2013 am No 149, 2015; No 170, 2015; No 35, 2022s 3CA...................ad No 170, 2015 am No 27, 2017; No 49, 2020s 3D....................ad No 104, 1985 am No 168, 1985; No 120, 1987; No 97, 1988; No 201, 1999; No 146, 2001; No  125, 2002; No 54, 2003; No 143, 2007 rep No 145, 2010 ad No 124, 2013 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 138, 2024ad. No. 123, 1984s. 3A....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 145, 2010s 3B....................ad No 123, 1984 am No 138, 1987; No 107, 1989; No 216, 1991; No 47, 1992; No 98, 1992; No 82, 1993; No  161, 1999; No 56, 2007; No 88, 2009; No 114, 2009; No 145, 2010; No 21, 2015; No 15, 2017; No 4, 2018; No 8, 2019s 3C....................ad No 123, 1984 am No 123, 1985; No 138, 1987; No 97, 1988; No 107, 1989; No 216, 1991; No  98, 1992; No 82, 1993; No 56, 1999; No 201, 1999; No 146, 2001; No 10, 2003; No 54, 2003; No  73, 2006; No 100, 2006; No 88, 2009; No 114, 2009; No 145, 2010 rep No 145, 2010 ad No 124, 2013 am No 149, 2015; No 170, 2015; No 35, 2022s 3CA...................ad No 170, 2015 am No 27, 2017; No 49, 2020s 3D....................ad No 104, 1985 am No 168, 1985; No 120, 1987; No 97, 1988; No 201, 1999; No 146, 2001; No  125, 2002; No 54, 2003; No 143, 2007 rep No 145, 2010 ad No 124, 2013 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 138, 2024s 3DA...................ad No 138, 2024s 3DB...................ad No 138, 2024s. 3E....................ad. No. 107, 1989 am. No. 47, 1992; No. 161, 1999; No. 137, 2000; No. 146, 2001; No.  86, 2002; No. 101, 2006 rep. No. 145, 2010 ad No 124, 2013ss. 3EA, 3EB..............ad. No. 161, 1999 rep. No. 145, 2010s. 3EC...................ad. No. 161, 1999 am. No. 101, 2003 rep. No. 145, 2010s. 3ED...................ad. No. 159, 2008 am. No. 88, 2009 rep. No. 145, 2010s. 3F....................ad. No. 107, 1989 am. No. 25, 2001 rep. No. 145, 2010 ad No 15, 2018s 3G....................ad No 56, 2007 rep No 145, 2010 ad No 95, 2019s 3H....................ad No 56, 2007 rep No 145, 2010 ad No 92, 2020s 3J....................ad No 26, 2024s 3K....................ad No 9, 2025s 3L....................ad No 9, 2025Part II Part II heading.............ad. No. 133, 1974s. 4.....................am. No. 95, 1959; No. 65, 1985; No. 154, 1986s. 4A....................ad. No. 146, 1999s. 5.....................am. No. 18, 1955; No. 39, 1957; No. 95, 1959; No. 17, 1960; No. 75, 1964; No.  93, 1966; No. 120, 1968; No. 133, 1974; No. 123, 1984; No. 65, 1985; No.  146, 1999; No. 159, 2001s. 5A....................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 65, 1985; No. 43, 1996s. 6.....................am. No. 95, 1959 rs. No. 123, 1984; No. 122, 1991 am. No. 146, 1999145, 2010 ad No 95, 2019s 3H....................ad No 56, 2007 rep No 145, 2010 ad No 92, 2020s 3J....................ad No 26, 2024s 3K....................ad No 9, 2025s 3L....................ad No 9, 2025Part II Part II heading.............ad. No. 133, 1974s. 4.....................am. No. 95, 1959; No. 65, 1985; No. 154, 1986s. 4A....................ad. No. 146, 1999s. 5.....................am. No. 18, 1955; No. 39, 1957; No. 95, 1959; No. 17, 1960; No. 75, 1964; No.  93, 1966; No. 120, 1968; No. 133, 1974; No. 123, 1984; No. 65, 1985; No.  146, 1999; No. 159, 2001s. 5A....................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 65, 1985; No. 43, 1996s. 6.....................am. No. 95, 1959 rs. No. 123, 1984; No. 122, 1991 am. No. 146, 1999s. 6A....................ad. No. 95, 1959 rs. No. 123, 1984s 6B....................ad No 123, 1984 am No 62, 1987; No 85, 1999; No 4, 2007; No 46, 2011; No 69, 2020s. 6C....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 122, 1991s. 6D....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 201, 1999; No. 54, 2003s 8.....................am No 133, 1974; No 123, 1984; No 85, 1999; No 69, 2020Part IIA Part IIA heading............rs. No. 101, 2006Part IIA..................ad. No. 11, 1999Division 1 heading..........rep. No. 101, 2006s 8AAA..................ad No 11, 1999 am No 101, 2006; No 79, 2010s 8AAB..................ad No 11, 1999 am No 59, 1999 (as am by No 44, 2000); No 118, 1999; No 178, 1999; No 44, 2000; No 58, 2000; No 60, 2000; No 89, 2000; No 91, 2000; No  73, 2001; No 68, 2002; No 16, 2003; No 54, 2003; No 111, 2003; No 75, 2005; No 58, 2006; No 73, 2006; No 80, 2006; No 100, 2006; No 101, 2006; No 9, 2007; No 15, 2007; No 143, 2007; No 32, 2008; No 45, 2008; No 97, 2008; No 151, 2008; No 6, 2009; No 27, 2009; No 133, 2009; No 20, 2010; No 79, 2010; No  41, 2011; No 14, 2012; No 26, 2012; No 58, 2012; No 99, 2012; No 169, 2012; No  82, 2013; No 88, 2013; No 118, 2013; No 32, 2014; No 96, 2014; No 2, 2015; No 21, 2015; No 70, 2015; No 81, 2016; No 64, 2017; No 23, 2018; No 141, 2018; No 8, 2019; No 16, 2019; No 22, 2020; No 38, 2020; No 24, 2021; No 45, 2021; No 24, 2022; No  75, 2022; No 90, 2024; No 134, 2024; No 138, 2024; No 9, 2025s 8AAC..................ad No 11, 1999s. 8AAD.................ad. No. 11, 1999 rs. No. 73, 2001s. 8AAE.................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999s. 8AAF.................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. Nos. 178 and 179, 1999; No 81, 2016s. 8AAG.................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000s. 8AAGA................ad. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAH.................ad. No. 11, 1999Division 2................rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAHA................ad. No. 91, 2000 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAI..................ad. No. 11, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAJ..................ad. No.   41, 2011; No 14, 2012; No 26, 2012; No 58, 2012; No 99, 2012; No 169, 2012; No  82, 2013; No 88, 2013; No 118, 2013; No 32, 2014; No 96, 2014; No 2, 2015; No 21, 2015; No 70, 2015; No 81, 2016; No 64, 2017; No 23, 2018; No 141, 2018; No 8, 2019; No 16, 2019; No 22, 2020; No 38, 2020; No 24, 2021; No 45, 2021; No 24, 2022; No  75, 2022; No 90, 2024; No 134, 2024; No 138, 2024; No 9, 2025s 8AAC..................ad No 11, 1999s. 8AAD.................ad. No. 11, 1999 rs. No. 73, 2001s. 8AAE.................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999s. 8AAF.................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. Nos. 178 and 179, 1999; No 81, 2016s. 8AAG.................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000s. 8AAGA................ad. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAH.................ad. No. 11, 1999Division 2................rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAHA................ad. No. 91, 2000 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAI..................ad. No. 11, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAJ..................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAK.................ad. No. 11, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAL.................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s 8AAM.................ad No 11, 1999 rep No 101, 2006s 8AAN..................ad No 11, 1999 rep No 101, 2006Division 3................rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AANA................ad. No. 91, 2000 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAO.................ad. No. 11, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006ss. 8AAP, 8AAQ...........ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAR11, 1999 am. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAK.................ad. No. 11, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAL.................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s 8AAM.................ad No 11, 1999 rep No 101, 2006s 8AAN..................ad No 11, 1999 rep No 101, 2006Division 3................rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AANA................ad. No. 91, 2000 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAO.................ad. No. 11, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006ss. 8AAP, 8AAQ...........ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 8AAR.................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s 8AAS..................ad No 11, 1999 rep No 101, 2006s 8AAT..................ad No 11, 1999 rep No 101, 2006Division 4................rep. No. 179, 1999ss. 8AAU-8AAW...........ad. No. 11, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999Part IIB Part IIB..................ad. No. 11, 1999Division 1 s 8AAZA.................ad No 11, 1999 am No 178, 1999; No 179, 1999; No 92, 2000; No 106, 2000; No 54, 2003; No 150, 2003; No 100, 2006; No 150, 2008; No 6, 2009; No  56, 2010; No 32, 2014; No 82, 2014; No 169, 2015; No 116, 2018; No 38, 2020; No 61, 2023s 8AAZAA...............ad No 38, 2020s. 8AAZB................ad. No. 11, 1999Division 2 s. 8AAZC................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAZD................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAZE................ad. No. 11, 1999 rep. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAZF................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAZG................ad. No. 11, 1999s. 8AAZH................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. Nos. 178 and 179, 1999; No. 44, 2000s. 8AAZI.................ad. No. 11, 1999s. 8AAZJ.................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAZK................ad. No. 11, 1999 rep. No. 178, 1999Division 3 Division 3................ad. No. 11, 1999 rs. No. 178, 1999................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAZD................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAZE................ad. No. 11, 1999 rep. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAZF................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAZG................ad. No. 11, 1999s. 8AAZH................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. Nos. 178 and 179, 1999; No. 44, 2000s. 8AAZI.................ad. No. 11, 1999s. 8AAZJ.................ad. No. 11, 1999 am. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAZK................ad. No. 11, 1999 rep. No. 178, 1999Division 3 Division 3................ad. No. 11, 1999 rs. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAZL................ad. No. 11, 1999 rs. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 156, 2000; No. 61, 2011; No. 99, 2012ss. 8AAZLA, 8AAZLB.......ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 92, 2000s. 8AAZLC...............ad. No. 178, 1999s 8AAZLD................ad No 178, 1999 am No 150, 2003; No 56, 2010; No 82, 2014; No 169, 2015; No 116, 2018; No 61, 2023s. 8AAZLE...............ad. No. 178, 1999Division 3A Division 3A...............ad. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAZLF...............ad. No. 178, 1999s 8AAZLG................ad No 178, 1999 am No 179, 1999; No 39, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 6, 2020s 8AAZLGA..............ad No 75, 2012 am No 110, 2014; No 8, 2019; No 29, 2025s 8AAZLGB..............ad No 55, 2016 am No 8, 2019; No 64, 2020s 8AAZLGCs. 8AAZL................ad. No. 11, 1999 rs. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 156, 2000; No. 61, 2011; No. 99, 2012ss. 8AAZLA, 8AAZLB.......ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 92, 2000s. 8AAZLC...............ad. No. 178, 1999s 8AAZLD................ad No 178, 1999 am No 150, 2003; No 56, 2010; No 82, 2014; No 169, 2015; No 116, 2018; No 61, 2023s. 8AAZLE...............ad. No. 178, 1999Division 3A Division 3A...............ad. No. 178, 1999s. 8AAZLF...............ad. No. 178, 1999s 8AAZLG................ad No 178, 1999 am No 179, 1999; No 39, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 6, 2020s 8AAZLGA..............ad No 75, 2012 am No 110, 2014; No 8, 2019; No 29, 2025s 8AAZLGB..............ad No 55, 2016 am No 8, 2019; No 64, 2020s 8AAZLGC..............ad No 135, 2024s. 8AAZLH...............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 91, 2000; No. 114, 2009; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014Division 4 s. 8AAZM................ad. No. 11, 1999s. 8AAZMA...............ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 39, 2012s. 8AAZMB...............ad. No. 73, 2001s. 8AAZN................ad. No. 11, 1999Part III Part III heading.............ad. No. 133, 1974 rep. No. 59, 1979 ad. No. 117, 1983 rs. No. 123, 1984Part III..................rep. No. 59, 1979 ad. No. 117, 1983 am. No. 25, 2001Division 1 Division 1 heading..........ad. No. 123, 1984ad No 135, 2024s. 8AAZLH...............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 91, 2000; No. 114, 2009; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014Division 4 s. 8AAZM................ad. No. 11, 1999s. 8AAZMA...............ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 39, 2012s. 8AAZMB...............ad. No. 73, 2001s. 8AAZN................ad. No. 11, 1999Part III Part III heading.............ad. No. 133, 1974 rep. No. 59, 1979 ad. No. 117, 1983 rs. No. 123, 1984Part III..................rep. No. 59, 1979 ad. No. 117, 1983 am. No. 25, 2001Division 1 Division 1 heading..........ad. No. 123, 1984s. 8A....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 138, 1987; No. 97, 1988; No. 146, 2001s. 8AA..................ad. No. 138, 1987 am. No. 61, 1990 rep. No. 82, 1993 ad. No. 201, 1999 rep. No. 54, 2003s. 8AB..................ad. No. 98, 1992 rep No 4, 2018s 8AC...................ad No 114, 2009 am No 37, 2024Division 2 Division 2 heading..........ad. No. 123, 1984Subdivision A Subdivision A heading........ad. No. 123, 1984s. 8B....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 101, 2006s 8C....................ad No 123, 1984 am No 97, 1988; No 56, 1999; No 91, 2000; No 146, 2001; No 54, 2003; No  101, 2006; No 9, 2007; No 12, 2012 (as am by No 110, 2014); No 110, 2014; No 4, 2016; No 8, 2019; No 84, 2022; No 138, 2024s. 8D....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No 4, 2016s. 8E....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 143, 2007s 8F....................ad No 123, 1984s 8G....................ad No 123, 1984s. 8H....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007; No 4, 2016s. 8HA..................ad. No. 224, 1992Subdivision B Subdivision B heading........ad. No. 123, 1984s 8J....................ad No 123, 1984 am No 4, 1985; No 47, 1985; No 65, 1985; No 41, 1986; No 46, 1986; No 49, 1986; No 62, 1987; No 138, 1987; No 145, 1987; No 20, 1990; No 60, 1990; No 5, 1991; No 92, 1992; No 98, 1992; No 118, 1992; No 208, 1992; No  82, 1993; No 163, 1994; No 174, 1997; No 85, 1998; No 56, 1999; No 118, 1999; No 201, 1999; No 60, 2000; No 137, 2000; No  146, 2001; No 54, 2003; No 73, 2006; No 101, 2006; No 88, 2009; No 114, 2009; No 4, 2010; No 21, 2010; No 79, 2010; No 2, 2015; No 4, 2018; No 8, 2019s 8K....................ad No 123, 1984 am No 97, 1988; No 146, 2001; No 4, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 8, 2019s. 8L....................ad. No. 123, 1984  101, 2006; No 9, 2007; No 12, 2012 (as am by No 110, 2014); No 110, 2014; No 4, 2016; No 8, 2019; No 84, 2022; No 138, 2024s. 8D....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No 4, 2016s. 8E....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 143, 2007s 8F....................ad No 123, 1984s 8G....................ad No 123, 1984s. 8H....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007; No 4, 2016s. 8HA..................ad. No. 224, 1992Subdivision B Subdivision B heading........ad. No. 123, 1984s 8J....................ad No 123, 1984 am No 4, 1985; No 47, 1985; No 65, 1985; No 41, 1986; No 46, 1986; No 49, 1986; No 62, 1987; No 138, 1987; No 145, 1987; No 20, 1990; No 60, 1990; No 5, 1991; No 92, 1992; No 98, 1992; No 118, 1992; No 208, 1992; No  82, 1993; No 163, 1994; No 174, 1997; No 85, 1998; No 56, 1999; No 118, 1999; No 201, 1999; No 60, 2000; No 137, 2000; No  146, 2001; No 54, 2003; No 73, 2006; No 101, 2006; No 88, 2009; No 114, 2009; No 4, 2010; No 21, 2010; No 79, 2010; No 2, 2015; No 4, 2018; No 8, 2019s 8K....................ad No 123, 1984 am No 97, 1988; No 146, 2001; No 4, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 8, 2019s. 8L....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No 4, 2016s. 8M...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007s 8N....................ad No 123, 1984 rs No 146, 2001 am No 4, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 8, 2019s. 8P....................ad. No. 123, 1984 rep. No. 146, 2001s. 8Q....................ad. No. 123, 1984 rs. No. 146, 2001 am No 4, 2016s. 8R....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007s 8S....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001s 8T....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No 4, 2016s 8U....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No 4, 2016s. 8V.................... am. No. 146, 2001; No 4, 2016s. 8M...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007s 8N....................ad No 123, 1984 rs No 146, 2001 am No 4, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 8, 2019s. 8P....................ad. No. 123, 1984 rep. No. 146, 2001s. 8Q....................ad. No. 123, 1984 rs. No. 146, 2001 am No 4, 2016s. 8R....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007s 8S....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001s 8T....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No 4, 2016s 8U....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No 4, 2016s. 8V....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 143, 2007s 8W....................ad No 123, 1984 am No 138, 1987; No 97, 1989; No 105, 1989; No 98, 1992; No 224, 1992; No 82, 1993; No 163, 1994; No  201, 1999; No 60, 2000; No 146, 2001; No 16, 2003; No 54, 2003; No 107, 2003; No 8, 2010 ed C138 am No 4, 2018; No 8, 2019Subdivision BAA Subdivision BAA...........ad No 121, 2018s 8WAA.................ad No 121, 2018s 8WAB.................ad No 121, 2018s 8WAC.................ad No 121, 2018s 8WAD.................ad No 121, 2018s 8WAE.................ad No 121, 2018Subdivision BA Subdivision BA............ad. No. 97, 1988s 8WA..................ad No 97, 1988 am No 163, 1989; No 60, 1990; No 119, 1990; No 6, 1991; No 92, 1992; No 138, 1992; No 82, 1993; No  53, 1995; No 63, 1996; No 83, 1999; No 85, 1999; No 128, 1999; No 106, 2000; No 132, 2000; No 71, 2001; No 75, 2001; No 146, 2001; No 57, 2002; No  143, 2007; No 45, 2008; No 105, 2010; No 145, 2010; No 141, 2011; No 82, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 143, 2015; No 169, 2015; No 10, 2016; No 90, 2018; No 38, 2020; No 69, 2020s 8WB..................ad No 97, 1988ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 143, 2007s 8W....................ad No 123, 1984 am No 138, 1987; No 97, 1989; No 105, 1989; No 98, 1992; No 224, 1992; No 82, 1993; No 163, 1994; No  201, 1999; No 60, 2000; No 146, 2001; No 16, 2003; No 54, 2003; No 107, 2003; No 8, 2010 ed C138 am No 4, 2018; No 8, 2019Subdivision BAA Subdivision BAA...........ad No 121, 2018s 8WAA.................ad No 121, 2018s 8WAB.................ad No 121, 2018s 8WAC.................ad No 121, 2018s 8WAD.................ad No 121, 2018s 8WAE.................ad No 121, 2018Subdivision BA Subdivision BA............ad. No. 97, 1988s 8WA..................ad No 97, 1988 am No 163, 1989; No 60, 1990; No 119, 1990; No 6, 1991; No 92, 1992; No 138, 1992; No 82, 1993; No  53, 1995; No 63, 1996; No 83, 1999; No 85, 1999; No 128, 1999; No 106, 2000; No 132, 2000; No 71, 2001; No 75, 2001; No 146, 2001; No 57, 2002; No  143, 2007; No 45, 2008; No 105, 2010; No 145, 2010; No 141, 2011; No 82, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 143, 2015; No 169, 2015; No 10, 2016; No 90, 2018; No 38, 2020; No 69, 2020s 8WB..................ad No 97, 1988 am No 163, 1989; No 60, 1990; No 119, 1990; No 6, 1991; No 92, 1992; No 138, 1992; No 82, 1993; No  53, 1995; No 63, 1996; No 83, 1999 (as am by No 172, 1999); No 128, 1999; No 94, 2000; No 106, 2000; No 132, 2000; No 75, 2001; No 146, 2001; No  57, 2002; No 143, 2007; No 45, 2008; No 105, 2008; No 105, 2010; No 145, 2010; No 141, 2011; No 82, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 143, 2015; No 169, 2015; No 10, 2016; No 90, 2018; No 38, 2020; No 69, 2020; No 8, 2022s. 8WC..................ad. No. 97, 1988 am. No. 216, 1991; No. 179, 1999; No. 101, 2006; No. 143, 2007; No 4, 2016s. 8WD..................ad. No. 97, 1988 am. No. 124, 1989 rep. No. 75, 2001Subdivision C Subdivision C heading........ad. No. 123, 1984s. 8X....................ad. No. 123, 1984 rep. No. 137, 2000s. 8XA..................ad. No. 97, 1988 rs. No. 48, 1991 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007s. 8XB..................ad. No. 97, 1988 am. No. 48, 1991; No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007 rep. No. 145, 2010s. 8Y....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am No 163, 1989; No 60, 1990; No 119, 1990; No 6, 1991; No 92, 1992; No 138, 1992; No 82, 1993; No  53, 1995; No 63, 1996; No 83, 1999 (as am by No 172, 1999); No 128, 1999; No 94, 2000; No 106, 2000; No 132, 2000; No 75, 2001; No 146, 2001; No  57, 2002; No 143, 2007; No 45, 2008; No 105, 2008; No 105, 2010; No 145, 2010; No 141, 2011; No 82, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 143, 2015; No 169, 2015; No 10, 2016; No 90, 2018; No 38, 2020; No 69, 2020; No 8, 2022s. 8WC..................ad. No. 97, 1988 am. No. 216, 1991; No. 179, 1999; No. 101, 2006; No. 143, 2007; No 4, 2016s. 8WD..................ad. No. 97, 1988 am. No. 124, 1989 rep. No. 75, 2001Subdivision C Subdivision C heading........ad. No. 123, 1984s. 8X....................ad. No. 123, 1984 rep. No. 137, 2000s. 8XA..................ad. No. 97, 1988 rs. No. 48, 1991 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007s. 8XB..................ad. No. 97, 1988 am. No. 48, 1991; No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007 rep. No. 145, 2010s. 8Y....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 210, 1992; No. 55, 2001; No. 146, 2001; No. 8, 2007s. 8Z....................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 65, 1985; No. 137, 2000; No. 146, 2001 ed C142Division 3 Division 3 heading..........ad. No. 123, 1984s. 8ZA...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 224, 1992; No. 146, 2001s. 8ZB...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 224, 1992s. 8ZC...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001s. 8ZD...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No 5, 2015s. 8ZE...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. Nos. 4 and 47, 1985; No. 41, 1986; Nos. 58, 62 and 145, 1987; Nos. 20 and 60, 1990; Nos. 92, 118 and 208, 1992 rs. No. 120, 1995 am. No. 101, 2006ss. 8ZF-8ZH..............ad. No. 123, 1984Division 4 Division 4 heading..........ad. No. 123, 1984ss. 8ZJ, 8ZK...............ad. No. 123, 1984s. 8ZL...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001 ed C142ss. 8ZM, 8ZN..............ad. No. 123, 1984Division 5 Division 5 heading..........ad. No. 123, 1984s. 9.....................rep. No. 59, 1979 ad. No. 117, 1983 am. No. 123, 1984s. 10....................rep. No. 59, 1979 ad. No. 117, 1983 am. No. 123, 1984; No. 73, 2008s. 11....................rs. No. 133, 1974 rep. No. 59, 1979 ad. No. 117, 1983 am. No. 123, 1984; No.73, 2008s. 12....................rep. No. 59, 1979 ad. No. 117, 1983 am. No. 73, 2008s. 13....................rep. No. 59, 1979 ad. No. 117, 1983 am. No. 123, 1984; No. 73, 2008s 13A...................ad No 117, 1983s 13B...................ad No 117, 1983s. 13C...................ad. No. 117, 1983 am. No. 123, 1984Division 6 Division 6................ad. No. 167, 1989s. 13CA..................ad. No. 167, 1989Part IIIA Part IIIA.................ad. No. 123, 1985Division 1 s 13D...................ad No 123, 1985 am No 146, 199973, 2008s. 12....................rep. No. 59, 1979 ad. No. 117, 1983 am. No. 73, 2008s. 13....................rep. No. 59, 1979 ad. No. 117, 1983 am. No. 123, 1984; No. 73, 2008s 13A...................ad No 117, 1983s 13B...................ad No 117, 1983s. 13C...................ad. No. 117, 1983 am. No. 123, 1984Division 6 Division 6................ad. No. 167, 1989s. 13CA..................ad. No. 167, 1989Part IIIA Part IIIA.................ad. No. 123, 1985Division 1 s 13D...................ad No 123, 1985 am No 146, 1999 ed C163Division 2 s. 13E...................ad. No. 123, 1985s. 13F...................ad. No. 123, 1985 am. No. 62, 1987; No. 143, 2007s. 13G...................ad. No. 123, 1985s. 13H...................ad. No. 123, 1985 am. No. 97, 1988; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 145, 2010Division 3................rep. No. 145, 2010s. 13J...................ad. No. 123, 1985 am. No. 138, 1987; No. 97, 1988; No. 98, 1992; No. 82, 1993; No.  118, 1999; No. 146, 2001; No. 92, 2008 rep. No. 145, 2010Division 4 s. 13K...................ad. No. 123, 1985 am. No. 138, 1987; No. 98, 1992; No. 82, 1993; No 4, 2018Division 5 Division 5................ad. No. 136, 1990 ed C163Division 2 s. 13E...................ad. No. 123, 1985s. 13F...................ad. No. 123, 1985 am. No. 62, 1987; No. 143, 2007s. 13G...................ad. No. 123, 1985s. 13H...................ad. No. 123, 1985 am. No. 97, 1988; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 145, 2010Division 3................rep. No. 145, 2010s. 13J...................ad. No. 123, 1985 am. No. 138, 1987; No. 97, 1988; No. 98, 1992; No. 82, 1993; No.  118, 1999; No. 146, 2001; No. 92, 2008 rep. No. 145, 2010Division 4 s. 13K...................ad. No. 123, 1985 am. No. 138, 1987; No. 98, 1992; No. 82, 1993; No 4, 2018Division 5 Division 5................ad. No. 136, 1990s. 13L...................ad. No. 136, 1990 am. No. 44, 1999; No. 121, 2001s. 14....................rep. No. 59, 1979Part IV..................ad. No. 133, 1974 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14A...................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 19, 1979; No. 123, 1984; No. 65, 1985; No. 48, 1986; No.  216, 1991 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14B...................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 123, 1984; No. 65, 1985 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14C...................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 123, 1984; No. 65, 1985; No. 73, 2008 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14D...................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 123, 1984; No. 73, 2008 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14E...................ad. No. 133, 1974 rep. No. 123, 1984s. 13L...................ad. No. 136, 1990 am. No. 44, 1999; No. 121, 2001s. 14....................rep. No. 59, 1979Part IV..................ad. No. 133, 1974 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14A...................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 19, 1979; No. 123, 1984; No. 65, 1985; No. 48, 1986; No.  216, 1991 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14B...................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 123, 1984; No. 65, 1985 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14C...................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 123, 1984; No. 65, 1985; No. 73, 2008 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14D...................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 123, 1984; No. 73, 2008 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14E...................ad. No. 133, 1974 rep. No. 123, 1984 ad. No. 216, 1991 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14F...................ad. No. 133, 1974 rep. No. 123, 1984s. 14G...................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 48, 1986 rep. No. 216, 1991s. 14H...................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 19, 1979; No. 65, 1985 rs. No. 48, 1986 rep. No. 216, 1991s. 14HA.................ad. No. 19, 1979 rep. No. 123, 1984 ad. No. 48, 1986 rep. No. 216, 1991s. 14HB..................ad. No. 19, 1979 rs. No. 48, 1986 rep. No. 216, 1991ss. 14HC-14HG............ad. No. 48, 1986 rep. No. 216, 1991s. 14I...................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. Nos. 65 and 123, 1985; No. 73, 2008 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14J...................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 123, 1985; No. 62, 1987; No. 143, 2007; No. 73, 2008 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14K...................ad. No. 133, 1974 rep. No. 123, 1984s. 14L...................ad. No. 133, 1974 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14M..................ad. No. 133, 1974 rep. No. 65, 1985s. 14N...................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 73, 2008 rep. No. 88, 2009s. 14O...................ad. No. 133, 1974 rs. No. 39, 1983 rep. No. 123, 1984s. 14P...................ad. No. 19, 1979 am. No. 65, 1985 rep. No. 48, 1986Part IVA Part IVA.................ad. No. 123, 1984Division 1 s. 14Q...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 88, 2009; No 2, 2015Division 2 s. 14R...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007s. 14S...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 88, 2009ss. 14T, 14U...............ad. No. 123, 1984Division 3 ss. 14V-14X..............ad. No. 123, 1984s 14Y...................ad No 123, 1984 am No 112, 1986; No 38, 2024Division 4 s. 14Z................... 65, 1985 rep. No. 48, 1986Part IVA Part IVA.................ad. No. 123, 1984Division 1 s. 14Q...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 88, 2009; No 2, 2015Division 2 s. 14R...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007s. 14S...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 88, 2009ss. 14T, 14U...............ad. No. 123, 1984Division 3 ss. 14V-14X..............ad. No. 123, 1984s 14Y...................ad No 123, 1984 am No 112, 1986; No 38, 2024Division 4 s. 14Z...................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No 4, 2016; No 61, 2016s. 14ZA..................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007Part IVAAA...............ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAAA...............ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 39, 1997; No. 41, 1998; No. 54, 2003; No. 23, 2005 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAAB-14ZAAH........ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAAI-14ZAAK........ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 120, 1995 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAAL...............ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAAM...............ad. No. 39, 1997 rep. No. 161, 2005Part IVAA................ad. No. 101, 1992 ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No 4, 2016; No 61, 2016s. 14ZA..................ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 143, 2007Part IVAAA...............ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAAA...............ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 39, 1997; No. 41, 1998; No. 54, 2003; No. 23, 2005 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAAB-14ZAAH........ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAAI-14ZAAK........ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 120, 1995 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAAL...............ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAAM...............ad. No. 39, 1997 rep. No. 161, 2005Part IVAA................ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAA................ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 41, 1998; No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAB.................ad. No. 154, 1986 am. No. 60, 1990 rep. No. 216, 1991 ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAC-14ZAE..........ad. No. 154, 1986 rep. No. 216, 1991 ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAF, 14ZAG..........ad. No. 101, 1992 rs. No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAH................ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAHA...............ad. No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAA................ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 41, 1998; No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAB.................ad. No. 154, 1986 am. No. 60, 1990 rep. No. 216, 1991 ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAC-14ZAE..........ad. No. 154, 1986 rep. No. 216, 1991 ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAF, 14ZAG..........ad. No. 101, 1992 rs. No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAH................ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAHA...............ad. No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAI-14ZAK...........ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAL.................ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAM................ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAN................ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAO................ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAP.................ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAQ, 14ZAR..........ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAS.................ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 54, 2003 ss. 14ZAI-14ZAK...........ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAL.................ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAM................ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAN................ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAO................ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAP.................ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAQ, 14ZAR..........ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAS.................ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAT.................ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAU................ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAV-14ZAX..........ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAXA...............ad. No. 39, 1997 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAY, 14ZAZ..........ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAZA...............ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s 14ZAZB................ad No 101, 1992 rep No 161, 2005s 14ZAZC................ad No 101, 1992 rep No 161, 2005Part IVAB................ad. No. 154, 1986rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAT.................ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAU................ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAV-14ZAX..........ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAXA...............ad. No. 39, 1997 rep. No. 161, 2005ss. 14ZAY, 14ZAZ..........ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 14ZAZA...............ad. No. 101, 1992 am. No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s 14ZAZB................ad No 101, 1992 rep No 161, 2005s 14ZAZC................ad No 101, 1992 rep No 161, 2005Part IVAB................ad. No. 154, 1986 rep. No. 216, 1991Part IVB.................ad. No. 48, 1986 rep. No. 216, 1991s. 14ZB..................ad. No. 48, 1986 am. No. 154, 1986; No. 60, 1990 rep. No. 216, 1991ss. 14ZC-14ZK............ad. No. 48, 1986 rep. No. 216, 1991s. 14ZKA................ad. No. 144, 1986 am. Nos. 58, 62, 108 and 145, 1987 rep. No. 95, 1988Part IVC Part IVC.................ad. No. 216, 1991Division 1 s 14ZL..................ad No 216, 1991 am No 41, 1998; No 161, 2005; No 141, 2020s 14ZM..................ad No 216, 1991s 14ZN..................ad No 216, 1991s. 14ZO.................. rep. No. 216, 1991Part IVB.................ad. No. 48, 1986 rep. No. 216, 1991s. 14ZB..................ad. No. 48, 1986 am. No. 154, 1986; No. 60, 1990 rep. No. 216, 1991ss. 14ZC-14ZK............ad. No. 48, 1986 rep. No. 216, 1991s. 14ZKA................ad. No. 144, 1986 am. Nos. 58, 62, 108 and 145, 1987 rep. No. 95, 1988Part IVC Part IVC.................ad. No. 216, 1991Division 1 s 14ZL..................ad No 216, 1991 am No 41, 1998; No 161, 2005; No 141, 2020s 14ZM..................ad No 216, 1991s 14ZN..................ad No 216, 1991s. 14ZO..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 34, 1997s. 14ZP..................ad. No. 216, 1991Division 2 s 14ZQ..................ad No 216, 1991 am No 92, 1992; No 101, 1992; No 118, 1992; No 208, 1992; No 44, 2000; No 16, 2003; No 161, 2005; No  101, 2006; No 143, 2007; No 97, 2008; No 88, 2009; No 74, 2010; No  41, 2011; No 39, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 24, 2016; No 15, 2017; No 13, 2021; No 84, 2022; No 38, 2024; No 14, 2025s. 14ZR..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 101, 2006; No. 88, 2009s. 14ZS..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 101, 1992; No. 169, 1995; No. 101, 2006; No. 41, 2011s. 14ZT..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 118, 1992 rep. No. 101, 2006Division 3 s. 14ZU..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 161, 2005s. 14ZV..................ad. No. 216, 1991s 14ZVA.................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 34, 1997s. 14ZP..................ad. No. 216, 1991Division 2 s 14ZQ..................ad No 216, 1991 am No 92, 1992; No 101, 1992; No 118, 1992; No 208, 1992; No 44, 2000; No 16, 2003; No 161, 2005; No  101, 2006; No 143, 2007; No 97, 2008; No 88, 2009; No 74, 2010; No  41, 2011; No 39, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 24, 2016; No 15, 2017; No 13, 2021; No 84, 2022; No 38, 2024; No 14, 2025s. 14ZR..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 101, 2006; No. 88, 2009s. 14ZS..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 101, 1992; No. 169, 1995; No. 101, 2006; No. 41, 2011s. 14ZT..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 118, 1992 rep. No. 101, 2006Division 3 s. 14ZU..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 161, 2005s. 14ZV..................ad. No. 216, 1991s 14ZVA.................ad No 101, 1992 am No 74, 2010 rs No 170, 2015 am No 81, 2016; No 23, 2024s 14ZVB.................ad No 118, 2013s 14ZVC.................ad No 21, 2015s 14ZW..................ad No 216, 1991 am No 101, 1992; No 56, 1999; No 179, 1999; No 201, 1999; No 44, 2000; No 156, 2000; No 54, 2003; No 23, 2005; No 161, 2005; No 58, 2006; No 73, 2006; No 78, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 78, 2007; No 143, 2007; No  151, 2008; No 74, 2010; No 93, 2011; No 14, 2012; No 39, 2012; No 75, 2012; No  118, 2013; No 34, 2014; No 96, 2014; No 110, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 10, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 8, 2019 ed C162 am No 24, 2022; No 134, 2024; No 135, 2024s. 14ZX..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 101, 1992; No. 34, 1997; No. 179, 1999s. 14ZY..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 101, 1992; No. 179, 1999; No. 161, 2005; No. 39, 2012s. 14ZYA................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 41, 1998; No. 179, 1999 (as am. by No. 57, 2002); No. 161, 2005; No.  39, 2012s. 14ZYB.................ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 39, 2012s. 14ZZad No 101, 1992 am No 74, 2010 rs No 170, 2015 am No 81, 2016; No 23, 2024s 14ZVB.................ad No 118, 2013s 14ZVC.................ad No 21, 2015s 14ZW..................ad No 216, 1991 am No 101, 1992; No 56, 1999; No 179, 1999; No 201, 1999; No 44, 2000; No 156, 2000; No 54, 2003; No 23, 2005; No 161, 2005; No 58, 2006; No 73, 2006; No 78, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 78, 2007; No 143, 2007; No  151, 2008; No 74, 2010; No 93, 2011; No 14, 2012; No 39, 2012; No 75, 2012; No  118, 2013; No 34, 2014; No 96, 2014; No 110, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 10, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 8, 2019 ed C162 am No 24, 2022; No 134, 2024; No 135, 2024s. 14ZX..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 101, 1992; No. 34, 1997; No. 179, 1999s. 14ZY..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 101, 1992; No. 179, 1999; No. 161, 2005; No. 39, 2012s. 14ZYA................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 41, 1998; No. 179, 1999 (as am. by No. 57, 2002); No. 161, 2005; No.  39, 2012s. 14ZYB.................ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 39, 2012s. 14ZZ..................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 34, 1997; No. 161, 2005; No. 88, 2009; No. 169, 2012Division 4 Division 4 heading..........am No 38, 2024s 14ZZA.................ad No 216, 1991 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZB.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 101, 2006; No 84, 2022 rs No 38, 2024 am No 14, 2025s 14ZZC.................ad. No. 216, 1991 am No 60, 2015 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZD.................ad No 216, 1991 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZE.................ad No 216, 1991 rs No 34, 1997; No 60, 2015; No 38, 2024s 14ZZF.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 60, 2015 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZGad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 34, 1997; No. 161, 2005; No. 88, 2009; No. 169, 2012Division 4 Division 4 heading..........am No 38, 2024s 14ZZA.................ad No 216, 1991 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZB.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 101, 2006; No 84, 2022 rs No 38, 2024 am No 14, 2025s 14ZZC.................ad. No. 216, 1991 am No 60, 2015 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZD.................ad No 216, 1991 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZE.................ad No 216, 1991 rs No 34, 1997; No 60, 2015; No 38, 2024s 14ZZF.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 60, 2015 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZG.................ad No 216, 1991 rep No 38, 2024s 14ZZH.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 34, 1997 rep No 101, 2006 ad No 84, 2022 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZJ..................ad No 216, 1991 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZK.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 34, 1997; No 88, 2013 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZL.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 34, 1997 rs No 38, 2024 am No 14, 2025s 14ZZM.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 101, 2006; No 84, 2022 rs No 38, 2024Division 5 Division 5 heading..........rs. No. 169, 2012ad No 216, 1991 rep No 38, 2024s 14ZZH.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 34, 1997 rep No 101, 2006 ad No 84, 2022 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZJ..................ad No 216, 1991 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZK.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 34, 1997; No 88, 2013 rs No 38, 2024s 14ZZL.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 34, 1997 rs No 38, 2024 am No 14, 2025s 14ZZM.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 101, 2006; No 84, 2022 rs No 38, 2024Division 5 Division 5 heading..........rs. No. 169, 2012s. 14ZZN.................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 88, 2009s. 14ZZO.................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 88, 2009; No. 169, 2012; No 88, 2013s. 14ZZP.................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 88, 2009; No. 169, 2012s. 14ZZQ.................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 88, 2009; No. 169, 2012s. 14ZZR.................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 101, 2006s 14ZZS.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 88, 2009; No 13, 2021Part IVD Part IVD.................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZT.................ad No 10, 2019 am No 37, 2024s 14ZZTA................ad No 37, 2024s 14ZZU.................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZV.................ad No 10, 2019s. 14ZZN.................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 88, 2009s. 14ZZO.................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 88, 2009; No. 169, 2012; No 88, 2013s. 14ZZP.................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 88, 2009; No. 169, 2012s. 14ZZQ.................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 88, 2009; No. 169, 2012s. 14ZZR.................ad. No. 216, 1991 am. No. 101, 2006s 14ZZS.................ad No 216, 1991 am No 88, 2009; No 13, 2021Part IVD Part IVD.................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZT.................ad No 10, 2019 am No 37, 2024s 14ZZTA................ad No 37, 2024s 14ZZU.................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZV.................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZW.................ad No 10, 2019 am No 10, 2019s 14ZZX.................ad No 10, 2019 am No 37, 2024s 14ZZXA................ad No 37, 2024s 14ZZY.................ad No 10, 2019 am No 10, 2019s 14ZZZ.................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZZAA...............ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZZA................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZZB................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZZC................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZZD................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZZE................ad No 10, 2019Part V Part V heading.............ad. No. 133, 1974s 15....................rs No 133, 1974 am No 59, 1979 rs No 123, 1984s 14ZZW.................ad No 10, 2019 am No 10, 2019s 14ZZX.................ad No 10, 2019 am No 37, 2024s 14ZZXA................ad No 37, 2024s 14ZZY.................ad No 10, 2019 am No 10, 2019s 14ZZZ.................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZZAA...............ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZZA................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZZB................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZZC................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZZD................ad No 10, 2019s 14ZZZE................ad No 10, 2019Part V Part V heading.............ad. No. 133, 1974s 15....................rs No 133, 1974 am No 59, 1979 rs No 123, 1984 am No 138, 1987; No 98, 1992; No 82, 1993; No 201, 1999; No 54, 2003; No  114, 2009 ed C142 am No 4, 2018; No 37, 2024ss. 15AA, 15AB............ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s 15A...................ad No 123, 1985 am No 138, 1987; No 98, 1992; No 82, 1993; No 201, 1999; No 54, 2003; No  114, 2009; No 4, 2018; No 37, 2024s. 15B...................ad. No. 82, 2012 am No 36, 2015s. 15C...................ad. No. 82, 2012 am No 36, 2015; No 70, 2015s. 15D...................ad. No. 82, 2012 am No 36, 2015s. 16....................rep. No. 216, 1973 ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 8, 2005s. 16A...................ad. No. 224, 1992s. 16B...................ad. No. 120, 1995 am. No. 11, 1999 am No 138, 1987; No 98, 1992; No 82, 1993; No 201, 1999; No 54, 2003; No  114, 2009 ed C142 am No 4, 2018; No 37, 2024ss. 15AA, 15AB............ad. No. 101, 1992 rep. No. 161, 2005s 15A...................ad No 123, 1985 am No 138, 1987; No 98, 1992; No 82, 1993; No 201, 1999; No 54, 2003; No  114, 2009; No 4, 2018; No 37, 2024s. 15B...................ad. No. 82, 2012 am No 36, 2015s. 15C...................ad. No. 82, 2012 am No 36, 2015; No 70, 2015s. 15D...................ad. No. 82, 2012 am No 36, 2015s. 16....................rep. No. 216, 1973 ad. No. 123, 1984 am. No. 8, 2005s. 16A...................ad. No. 224, 1992s. 16B...................ad. No. 120, 1995 am. No. 11, 1999 rs. No. 91, 2000s. 17....................ad. No. 155, 1965 am. No. 123, 1984; No. 65, 1985s 17A...................ad No 48, 1986 am No 194, 1999; No 13, 2013; No 13, 2021s. 17B...................ad. No. 97, 1988 am. No. 201, 1999; No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 145, 2010s. 17C...................ad. No. 47, 1992 rep. No. 145, 2010s. 18....................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 19, 1979; No. 123, 1984; No. 48, 1986; No. 58, 2006Part VI heading.............rs. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006Part VI..................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 19....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rs. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006 rs. No. 91, 2000s. 17....................ad. No. 155, 1965 am. No. 123, 1984; No. 65, 1985s 17A...................ad No 48, 1986 am No 194, 1999; No 13, 2013; No 13, 2021s. 17B...................ad. No. 97, 1988 am. No. 201, 1999; No. 54, 2003 rep. No. 145, 2010s. 17C...................ad. No. 47, 1992 rep. No. 145, 2010s. 18....................ad. No. 133, 1974 am. No. 19, 1979; No. 123, 1984; No. 48, 1986; No. 58, 2006Part VI heading.............rs. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006Part VI..................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 19....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rs. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 20....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 21....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 146, 2001s. 22....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999; No. 73, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 23....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 24....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 25....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 26....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 27....................ad. No. 56, 1999s. 20....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 21....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 146, 2001s. 22....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999; No. 73, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 23....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 24....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 25....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 26....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 27....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006ss. 28, 29.................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 30....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 31....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 32....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999ss. 33, 34.................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 35....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 36....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006ss. 28, 29.................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 30....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 31....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 32....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999ss. 33, 34.................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 35....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 36....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rs. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 37....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. Nos. 59 and 177, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 38....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 39....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. Nos. 59 and 179, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 40....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rs. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 41....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 42....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 92, 2000s. 43....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999  rs. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 37....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. Nos. 59 and 177, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 38....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 39....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. Nos. 59 and 179, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 40....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rs. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 41....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 42....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 92, 2000s. 43....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 92, 2000s. 44....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 92, 2000s. 45....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 92, 2000s. 46....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 92, 2000s. 46A...................ad. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 47....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. Nos. 59 and 179, 1999; No. 44, 2000 rep. No. 101, 2004s. 48....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. Nos. 59 and 179, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2004s. 49....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 50....................rep. No. 92, 2000s. 44....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 92, 2000s. 45....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 92, 2000s. 46....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 92, 2000s. 46A...................ad. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 47....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. Nos. 59 and 179, 1999; No. 44, 2000 rep. No. 101, 2004s. 48....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. Nos. 59 and 179, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2004s. 49....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 50....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 51....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 52....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 52A...................ad. No. 177, 1999 am. No. 156, 2000; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 53....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999; No. 92, 2000; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 54....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 55....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 51....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 52....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 52A...................ad. No. 177, 1999 am. No. 156, 2000; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 53....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999; No. 92, 2000; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 54....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999; No. 146, 2001 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 55....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s 56....................ad No 56, 1999 am No 59, 1999 rep No 73, 2006s 57....................ad No 56, 1999 am No 59, 1999 rep No 73, 2006s. 58....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 59....................ad. No. 56, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006ss. 60, 61.................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 62....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 (as am. by No. 176, 1999); Nos. 176 and 177, 1999; Nos. 92 and 156, 2000; No. 73, 2001; No.  134, 2004; Nos. 78 and 160, 2005 rep. No. 73, 2006Division 7A...............ad. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 62A...................ad. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006Division 7B...............ad. No. 177, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s 62B...................ad No 177, 1999 rep No 73, 2006s 62C...................ad No 177, 1999 rep No 73, 2006ss. 63-65.................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 66....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999; No. 91, 2000 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 67....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 68....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. Nos. 59 and 176, 1999; Nos. 10 and 122, 2003 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 69....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 70....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. Nos. 59, 176 and 177, 1999; Nos. 91, 92 and 156, 2000; No. 73, 2001; No. 10, 2005 rep. No. 73, 2006Heading to................The Schedulesrep. No. 136, 2012First Schedule.............am. No. 39, 1953 rep. No. 136, 2012Second Schedule............am. Nos. 28, 39, 40 and 52, 1953 rep. No. 136, 2012Schedule 1 Schedule 1................ad. No. 178, 1999Chapter 2 Chapter 2 heading...........ad. No. 73, 2006Part 2-1 Part 2-1............ad. No. 178, 1999Division rep. No. 73, 2006s. 69....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. No. 59, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2006s. 70....................ad. No. 56, 1999 am. Nos. 59, 176 and 177, 1999; Nos. 91, 92 and 156, 2000; No. 73, 2001; No. 10, 2005 rep. No. 73, 2006Heading to................The Schedulesrep. No. 136, 2012First Schedule.............am. No. 39, 1953 rep. No. 136, 2012Second Schedule............am. Nos. 28, 39, 40 and 52, 1953 rep. No. 136, 2012Schedule 1 Schedule 1................ad. No. 178, 1999Chapter 2 Chapter 2 heading...........ad. No. 73, 2006Part 2-1 Part 2-1............ad. No. 178, 1999Division 6 s. 6-1.............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000; No. 150, 2003; No 82, 2014; No 169, 2015s. 6-5.............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001s. 6-10............ad. No. 178, 1999Part 2-5 Part 2-5............ad. No. 178, 1999Division 10 s. 10-1............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 86, 2000s 10-5.............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 168, 2001; No 15, 2002; No 66, 2003; No 9, 2007; No 15, 2007; No 79, 2007; No  32, 2008; No 56, 2010; No 75, 2010; No 58, 2012; No 10, 2016; No 53, 2016; No 132, 2017; No 75, 2022Division 11 s 11-1.............ad No 178, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 150, 2003; No 101, 2006; No 56, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 14, 2012; No  88, 2013; No 82, 2014; No 96, 2014; No 169, 2015; No 116, 2018; No 61, 2023s. 11-5............ad. No. 178, 1999 s. 6-1.............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000; No. 150, 2003; No 82, 2014; No 169, 2015s. 6-5.............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001s. 6-10............ad. No. 178, 1999Part 2-5 Part 2-5............ad. No. 178, 1999Division 10 s. 10-1............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 86, 2000s 10-5.............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 168, 2001; No 15, 2002; No 66, 2003; No 9, 2007; No 15, 2007; No 79, 2007; No  32, 2008; No 56, 2010; No 75, 2010; No 58, 2012; No 10, 2016; No 53, 2016; No 132, 2017; No 75, 2022Division 11 s 11-1.............ad No 178, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 150, 2003; No 101, 2006; No 56, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 14, 2012; No  88, 2013; No 82, 2014; No 96, 2014; No 169, 2015; No 116, 2018; No 61, 2023s. 11-5............ad. No. 178, 1999Division 12 Subdivision 12-A s. 12-1............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 168, 2001; No. 66, 2003; No. 15, 2007; No. 92, 2008; No 70, 2015; No 81, 2016s 12-5.............ad No 178, 1999 am No 168, 2001; No 66, 2003; No 15, 2007; No 79, 2007; No 56, 2010; No 75, 2010; No 53, 2016s. 12-7............ad. No. 86, 2000 am. No. 20, 2004s. 12-10...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-15...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 133, 2003s. 12-20...........ad. No. 163, 2001Subdivision 12-B s. 12-35...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-40...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-45...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 101, 2006Division 12 Subdivision 12-A s. 12-1............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 168, 2001; No. 66, 2003; No. 15, 2007; No. 92, 2008; No 70, 2015; No 81, 2016s 12-5.............ad No 178, 1999 am No 168, 2001; No 66, 2003; No 15, 2007; No 79, 2007; No 56, 2010; No 75, 2010; No 53, 2016s. 12-7............ad. No. 86, 2000 am. No. 20, 2004s. 12-10...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-15...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 133, 2003s. 12-20...........ad. No. 163, 2001Subdivision 12-B s. 12-35...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-40...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-45...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 101, 2006s. 12-47...........ad. No. 168, 2001 am. No. 41, 2005s. 12-50...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-55...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 146, 2001s. 12-60...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 41, 2005Subdivision 12-C Subdivision 12-C headingrs. No. 56, 2010Subdivision 12-C.....rs. No. 15, 2007s. 12-80...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 8, 2007 rs. No. 15, 2007s. 12-85...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 15, 2007 am. No. 56, 2010s. 12-90...........ad. No. 178, 1999 s. 12-47...........ad. No. 168, 2001 am. No. 41, 2005s. 12-50...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-55...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 146, 2001s. 12-60...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 41, 2005Subdivision 12-C Subdivision 12-C headingrs. No. 56, 2010Subdivision 12-C.....rs. No. 15, 2007s. 12-80...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 8, 2007 rs. No. 15, 2007s. 12-85...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 15, 2007 am. No. 56, 2010s. 12-90...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 15, 2007Subdivision 12-D s 12-110...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 76, 2000; No 52, 2004; No 105, 2010; No 109, 2012; No 4, 2023; No 67, 2024s. 12-115...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-120...........ad. No. 178, 1999Subdivision 12-E s 12-140...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 101, 2006; No 15, 2019s. 12-145...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-150...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 101, 2006s 12-152...........ad No 15, 2019s. 12-155...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 41, 2005s. 12-160...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-165...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 23, 2005s. 12-170...........ad. No. 178, 1999Group heading to s. 12-175 ad. No. 75, 2010s 12-175...........ad No 75, 2010 am No 95, 2019s. 12-180...........ad. No. 75, 2010s. 12-185...........ad. No. 75, 2010s. 12-190...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 66, 2003; No. 75, 2010; No 2, 2015Subdivision 12-F s. 12-210...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-215...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000s. 12-220...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-225...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-245...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-250...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000s. 12-170...........ad. No. 178, 1999Group heading to s. 12-175 ad. No. 75, 2010s 12-175...........ad No 75, 2010 am No 95, 2019s. 12-180...........ad. No. 75, 2010s. 12-185...........ad. No. 75, 2010s. 12-190...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 66, 2003; No. 75, 2010; No 2, 2015Subdivision 12-F s. 12-210...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-215...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000s. 12-220...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-225...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-245...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-250...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000s. 12-255...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 101, 2006s. 12-260...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-280...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-285...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000s. 12-300...........ad. No. 178, 1999Subdivision 12-FA Subdivision 12-FA....ad. No. 15, 2002s. 12-305...........ad. No. 15, 2002 am. No. 15, 2007s. 12-310...........ad. No. 15, 2002 am. No. 15, 2007Subdivision 12-FAA Subdivision 12-FAA...ad. No. 9, 2007 (md)s. 12-312...........ad. No. 9, 2007 (md)s. 12-313...........ad. No. 9, 2007 (md)s. 12-255...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 101, 2006s. 12-260...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-280...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-285...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000s. 12-300...........ad. No. 178, 1999Subdivision 12-FA Subdivision 12-FA....ad. No. 15, 2002s. 12-305...........ad. No. 15, 2002 am. No. 15, 2007s. 12-310...........ad. No. 15, 2002 am. No. 15, 2007Subdivision 12-FAA Subdivision 12-FAA...ad. No. 9, 2007 (md)s. 12-312...........ad. No. 9, 2007 (md)s. 12-313...........ad. No. 9, 2007 (md)Subdivision 12-FB Subdivision 12-FB....ad. No. 66, 2003s. 12-315...........ad. No. 66, 2003 am. No. 41, 2005; No. 15, 2007; No. 32, 2008s. 12-317...........ad. No. 66, 2003s. 12-319...........ad. No. 66, 2003Subdivision 12-FC Subdivision 12-FC heading rs No 75, 2022Subdivision 12-FC....ad. No. 58, 2012s 12-319A..........ad No 58, 2012 am No 8, 2019; No 8, 2022; No 75, 2022Subdivision 12-G s. 12-320...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 101, 2004s. 12-325...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 12-330...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 146, 2001; No. 14, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014s. 12-335...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 14, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014Link note to s. 12-335..rep. No. 41, 2005Subdivision 12-H Subdivision 12-H heading rs No 53, 2016Subdivision 12-H.....ad No 79, 2007 rs No 32, 2008s 12-375...........ad No 79, 2007 rs No 32, 2008 am No 185, 2012; No 53, 2016s 12-380...........ad No 79, 2007 rep No 32, 2008s 12-383...........ad No 53, 2016 am No 15, 2019s 12-385...........ad No 79, 2007 rs No 32, 2008 am No 97, 2012; No 185, 2012; No 53, 2016; No 34, 2019s 12-390...........ad No  146, 2001; No. 14, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014s. 12-335...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 14, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014Link note to s. 12-335..rep. No. 41, 2005Subdivision 12-H Subdivision 12-H heading rs No 53, 2016Subdivision 12-H.....ad No 79, 2007 rs No 32, 2008s 12-375...........ad No 79, 2007 rs No 32, 2008 am No 185, 2012; No 53, 2016s 12-380...........ad No 79, 2007 rep No 32, 2008s 12-383...........ad No 53, 2016 am No 15, 2019s 12-385...........ad No 79, 2007 rs No 32, 2008 am No 97, 2012; No 185, 2012; No 53, 2016; No 34, 2019s 12-390...........ad No 79, 2007 rs No 32, 2008 am No 97, 2012; No 185, 2012; No 70, 2015; No 53, 2016 ed C136 am No 34, 2019; No 76, 2023s 12-395...........ad No 79, 2007 rs No 32, 2008 am No 185, 2012; No 53, 2016; No 34, 2019; No 64, 2020; No 138, 2024s 12-400...........ad No 79, 2007 rs No 32, 2008; No 90, 2010 am No 162, 2015 rep No 53, 2016s 12-401...........ad No 90, 2010 rep No 53, 2016s 12-402...........ad No 90, 2010 am No 12, 2012; No 53, 2016 rep No 53, 2016s 12-402A..........ad No 90, 2010 rep No 53, 2016s 12-402B..........ad No 90, 2010 rep No 53, 201679, 2007 rs No 32, 2008 am No 97, 2012; No 185, 2012; No 70, 2015; No 53, 2016 ed C136 am No 34, 2019; No 76, 2023s 12-395...........ad No 79, 2007 rs No 32, 2008 am No 185, 2012; No 53, 2016; No 34, 2019; No 64, 2020; No 138, 2024s 12-400...........ad No 79, 2007 rs No 32, 2008; No 90, 2010 am No 162, 2015 rep No 53, 2016s 12-401...........ad No 90, 2010 rep No 53, 2016s 12-402...........ad No 90, 2010 am No 12, 2012; No 53, 2016 rep No 53, 2016s 12-402A..........ad No 90, 2010 rep No 53, 2016s 12-402B..........ad No 90, 2010 rep No 53, 2016s 12-403...........ad No 90, 2010 am No 162, 2015 rep No 53, 2016s 12-404...........ad No 90, 2010 rep No 53, 2016s 12-405...........ad No 79, 2007 rs No 32, 2008 am No 53, 2016; No 15, 2019s. 12-410...........ad. No. 79, 2007 rs. No. 32, 2008s. 12-415...........ad. No. 79, 2007 rs. No. 32, 2008s. 12-420...........ad. No. 79, 2007 rs. No. 32, 2008s 12-425...........ad No 185, 2012 am No 53, 2016s. 12-430...........ad. No. 185, 2012s 12-435...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-436...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-437s 12-403...........ad No 90, 2010 am No 162, 2015 rep No 53, 2016s 12-404...........ad No 90, 2010 rep No 53, 2016s 12-405...........ad No 79, 2007 rs No 32, 2008 am No 53, 2016; No 15, 2019s. 12-410...........ad. No. 79, 2007 rs. No. 32, 2008s. 12-415...........ad. No. 79, 2007 rs. No. 32, 2008s. 12-420...........ad. No. 79, 2007 rs. No. 32, 2008s 12-425...........ad No 185, 2012 am No 53, 2016s. 12-430...........ad. No. 185, 2012s 12-435...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-436...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-437...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-438...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-439...........ad No 34, 2019 am No 127, 2021s 12-440...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-441...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-442...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-443...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-444...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-445...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-446...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-447...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-448...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-449...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-450...........ad No 34, 2019 am No 138, 2024s 12-451...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-452...........ad No 34, 2019s 12...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-438...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-439...........ad No 34, 2019 am No 127, 2021s 12-440...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-441...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-442...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-443...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-444...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-445...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-446...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-447...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-448...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-449...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-450...........ad No 34, 2019 am No 138, 2024s 12-451...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-452...........ad No 34, 2019s 12-453...........ad No 34, 2019Subdivision 12-J Subdivision 12-J......ad No 132, 2017s 12-460...........ad No 132, 2017Division 12A Division 12A..............ad No 53, 2016s 12A-1............ad No 53, 2016Subdivision 12A-A s 12A-5............ad No 53, 2016s 12A-10...........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-15...........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-20...........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-25...........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-30...........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-35...........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-40...........ad No 53, 2016-453...........ad No 34, 2019Subdivision 12-J Subdivision 12-J......ad No 132, 2017s 12-460...........ad No 132, 2017Division 12A Division 12A..............ad No 53, 2016s 12A-1............ad No 53, 2016Subdivision 12A-A s 12A-5............ad No 53, 2016s 12A-10...........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-15...........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-20...........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-25...........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-30...........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-35...........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-40...........ad No 53, 2016Subdivision 12A-B s 12A-100..........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-105..........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-110..........ad No 53, 2016 am No 15, 2019Subdivision 12A-C s 12A-200..........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-205..........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-210..........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-215..........ad No 53, 2016 am No 15, 2019s 12A-220..........ad No 53, 2016Division 13 Division 13...............ad. No. 86, 2000s. 13-1............ad. No. 86, 2000s. 13-5............ad. No. 86, 2000 am. No. 73, 2001Subdivision 12A-B s 12A-100..........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-105..........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-110..........ad No 53, 2016 am No 15, 2019Subdivision 12A-C s 12A-200..........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-205..........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-210..........ad No 53, 2016s 12A-215..........ad No 53, 2016 am No 15, 2019s 12A-220..........ad No 53, 2016Division 13 Division 13...............ad. No. 86, 2000s. 13-1............ad. No. 86, 2000s. 13-5............ad. No. 86, 2000 am. No. 73, 2001s. 13-10...........ad. No. 86, 2000s. 13-15...........ad. No. 86, 2000 am. No. 169, 2001s. 13-20...........ad. No. 86, 2000 am. No. 73, 2001Division 14 Division 14 heading..........rs. No. 101, 2006; No 23, 2018Subdivision 14-A Subdivision 14-A heading ad. No. 101, 2006s. 14-1............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 101, 2006s. 14-5............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 56, 2007; No. 133, 2009s. 14-10...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 14-15...........ad. No. 178, 1999Link note to s. 14-15...rep. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 14-B Subdivision 14-B.....ad. No. 101, 2006s. 14-50...........ad. No. 101, 2006s. 14-55...........ad. No. 101, 2006s. 14-60...........ad. No. 101, 2006s. 14-65...........ad. No. 101, 2006s. 14-75...........ad. No. 101, 2006s. 14-85...........ad. No. 101, 2006Subdivision 14-C Subdivision 14-C.....ad. No. 133, 2009s. 14-155...........ad. No. 133, 2009 am No 105, 2015s. 14-160...........ad. No. 133, 2009s. 14-165...........ad. No. 133, 2009s. 14-170...........ad. No. 133, 2009s. 14-175...........ad. No. 133, 2009s. 14-180...........ad. No. 133, 2009Subdivision 1414-B.....ad. No. 101, 2006s. 14-50...........ad. No. 101, 2006s. 14-55...........ad. No. 101, 2006s. 14-60...........ad. No. 101, 2006s. 14-65...........ad. No. 101, 2006s. 14-75...........ad. No. 101, 2006s. 14-85...........ad. No. 101, 2006Subdivision 14-C Subdivision 14-C.....ad. No. 133, 2009s. 14-155...........ad. No. 133, 2009 am No 105, 2015s. 14-160...........ad. No. 133, 2009s. 14-165...........ad. No. 133, 2009s. 14-170...........ad. No. 133, 2009s. 14-175...........ad. No. 133, 2009s. 14-180...........ad. No. 133, 2009Subdivision 14-D Subdivision 14-D.....ad No 10, 2016s 14-200...........ad No 10, 2016 am No 57, 2017; No 135, 2024s 14-205...........ad No 10, 2016 am No 57, 2017; No 135, 2024s 14-210...........ad No 10, 2016s 14-215...........ad No 10, 2016 am No 57, 2017; No 23, 2018; No 135, 2024s 14-220...........ad No 10, 2016s 14-225...........ad No 10, 2016s 14-230...........ad No 10, 2016s 14-235...........ad No 10, 2016Subdivision 14-E Subdivision 14-E.....ad No 23, 2018s 14-250...........ad No 23, 2018s 14-255...........ad No 23, 2018 am No 49, 2019Division 15D Subdivision 14-D.....ad No 10, 2016s 14-200...........ad No 10, 2016 am No 57, 2017; No 135, 2024s 14-205...........ad No 10, 2016 am No 57, 2017; No 135, 2024s 14-210...........ad No 10, 2016s 14-215...........ad No 10, 2016 am No 57, 2017; No 23, 2018; No 135, 2024s 14-220...........ad No 10, 2016s 14-225...........ad No 10, 2016s 14-230...........ad No 10, 2016s 14-235...........ad No 10, 2016Subdivision 14-E Subdivision 14-E.....ad No 23, 2018s 14-250...........ad No 23, 2018s 14-255...........ad No 23, 2018 am No 49, 2019Division 15 Division 15...............ad. No. 179, 1999s. 15-1............ad. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 15-A s. 15-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 15, 2002; No. 66, 2003; No. 32, 2008; No. 27, 2009; No 58, 2012 (as am by No 110, 2014); No 132, 2017s 15-15............ad No 179, 1999 am No 79, 2007; No 32, 2008; No 75, 2010; No 58, 2012; No 53, 2016; No 64, 2020; No 75, 2022Subdivision 15-B s 15-25............ad No 179, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 91, 2000; No 83, 2005; No 56, 2010; No 82, 2014; No 169, 2015; No 116, 2018; No 64, 2020s 15-30............ad No 179, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 150, 2003; No 47, 2006; No 56, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 82, 2014; No 110, 2014; No 169, 2015; No 89, 2016; No 116, 2018; No 61, 2023; No 30, 2025s. 15-35...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 79, 2007; No. 32, 2008Subdivision 15-C s. 15-50...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. Nos. 44 and 86, 2000; No. 83, 2005; No. 56, 2010; No 82 and 110, 2014; No 169, 2015; No 116, 2018Division 16 s 16-1.............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 53, 2016Subdivision 16-A Group heading to s. 16-5rs. No. 179, 1999s 16-5.............ad No 178, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 32, 2008; No 14, 2009; No 75, 2010s 16-7.............ad No 53, 2016s. 16-10...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s 16-15............ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s 16-20............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 10, 2016; No 53, 2016s 16-25............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 91, 2000; No 146, 2001; No 66, 2003; No 53, 2016; No 23, 2018s 16-30ad. No. 179, 1999 am. Nos. 44 and 86, 2000; No. 83, 2005; No. 56, 2010; No 82 and 110, 2014; No 169, 2015; No 116, 2018Division 16 s 16-1.............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 53, 2016Subdivision 16-A Group heading to s. 16-5rs. No. 179, 1999s 16-5.............ad No 178, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 32, 2008; No 14, 2009; No 75, 2010s 16-7.............ad No 53, 2016s. 16-10...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s 16-15............ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s 16-20............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 10, 2016; No 53, 2016s 16-25............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 91, 2000; No 146, 2001; No 66, 2003; No 53, 2016; No 23, 2018s 16-30............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 101, 2004 rs No 58, 2006 am No 53, 2016; No 23, 2018s. 16-35...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 66, 2003; No. 101, 2004; No. 32, 2006s. 16-40...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 66, 2003; No. 101, 2004 rs. No. 58, 2006s. 16-43...........ad. No. 66, 2003 am. No. 101, 2004; No. 32, 2006 rs. No. 58, 2006s. 16-45...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 58, 2006s. 16-50...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 58, 2006Subdivision 16-B s. 16-70ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 101, 2004 rs No 58, 2006 am No 53, 2016; No 23, 2018s. 16-35...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 66, 2003; No. 101, 2004; No. 32, 2006s. 16-40...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 66, 2003; No. 101, 2004 rs. No. 58, 2006s. 16-43...........ad. No. 66, 2003 am. No. 101, 2004; No. 32, 2006 rs. No. 58, 2006s. 16-45...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 58, 2006s. 16-50...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 58, 2006Subdivision 16-B s. 16-70...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No 44, 2000; No. 86, 2000; No. 101, 2006; No. 133, 2009; No 10, 2016; No 23, 2018s. 16-75...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001; No. 101, 2006; No. 75, 2010s. 16-80...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 101, 2006; No. 133, 2009; No 10, 2016s. 16-85...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 86, 2000; No. 91, 2000s. 16-90...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 16-95...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 101, 2006s. 16-100...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 101, 2006s. 16-105...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 16-110...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 16-115...........ad. No. 178, 1999Group heading to s. 16-120 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 16-120...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 16-125...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 16-130...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 16-135...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006Subdivision 16-BA Subdivision 16-BA....ad. No. 179, 1999s 16-140...........ad No 179, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 91, 2000; No 101, 2004; No 32, 2006; No 10, 2016; No 53, 2016; No 23, 2018s. 16-141...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 16-142...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000s. 16-143...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 16-120...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 16-125...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 16-130...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 16-135...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006Subdivision 16-BA Subdivision 16-BA....ad. No. 179, 1999s 16-140...........ad No 179, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 91, 2000; No 101, 2004; No 32, 2006; No 10, 2016; No 53, 2016; No 23, 2018s. 16-141...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 16-142...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000s. 16-143...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 86, 2000; No 10, 2016s. 16-144...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 16-145...........ad. No. 179, 1999Group heading to s 16-146 ad No 89, 2016s 16-146...........ad No 89, 2016s 16-147...........ad No 89, 2016 am No 125, 2018; No 69, 2020s 16-148...........ad No 89, 2016 am No 69, 2020Subdivision 16-C s 16-150...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 91, 2000; No 56, 2010; No 10, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 23, 2018; No 138, 2024s. 16-152...........ad. No. 75, 2010s 16-153...........ad No 179, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 91, 2000; No 15, 2002; No 66, 2003; No 79, 2007; No 32, 2008; No 27, 2009; No 75, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 58, 2012; No 53, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 64, 2020s. 16-155...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. Nos. 86 and 91, 2000; No. 66, 2003; No. 79, 2007; No. 27, 2009; Nos. 75 and 105, 2010; No.  109, 2012; No 55, 2016; No 4, 2023 am. No. 86, 2000; No 10, 2016s. 16-144...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 16-145...........ad. No. 179, 1999Group heading to s 16-146 ad No 89, 2016s 16-146...........ad No 89, 2016s 16-147...........ad No 89, 2016 am No 125, 2018; No 69, 2020s 16-148...........ad No 89, 2016 am No 69, 2020Subdivision 16-C s 16-150...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 91, 2000; No 56, 2010; No 10, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 23, 2018; No 138, 2024s. 16-152...........ad. No. 75, 2010s 16-153...........ad No 179, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 91, 2000; No 15, 2002; No 66, 2003; No 79, 2007; No 32, 2008; No 27, 2009; No 75, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 58, 2012; No 53, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 64, 2020s. 16-155...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. Nos. 86 and 91, 2000; No. 66, 2003; No. 79, 2007; No. 27, 2009; Nos. 75 and 105, 2010; No.  109, 2012; No 55, 2016; No 4, 2023s. 16-156...........ad. No. 75, 2010s 16-157...........ad No 79, 2007 am No 32, 2008; No 53, 2016s. 16-160...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. Nos. 86 and 91, 2000; No. 66, 2003; No. 79, 2007; No. 27, 2009; No. 105, 2010; No.  109, 2012; No 55, 2016; No 4, 2023s. 16-165...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 44, 2000; No. 15, 2007 am. No. 143, 2007; No. 56, 2010; No 55, 2016s. 16-166...........ad. No. 15, 2002 am. No. 15, 2007s. 16-167...........ad. No. 91, 2000s 16-170...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 86, 2000; No 91, 2000; No 51, 2002; No 15, 2007; No 79, 2007; No 27, 2009; No 75, 2010; No 53, 2016s. 16-175...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 146, 2001; No. 51, 2002; No. 79, 2007; No.  75, 2010s 16-180...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 64, 2020s. 16-182s. 16-156...........ad. No. 75, 2010s 16-157...........ad No 79, 2007 am No 32, 2008; No 53, 2016s. 16-160...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. Nos. 86 and 91, 2000; No. 66, 2003; No. 79, 2007; No. 27, 2009; No. 105, 2010; No.  109, 2012; No 55, 2016; No 4, 2023s. 16-165...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 44, 2000; No. 15, 2007 am. No. 143, 2007; No. 56, 2010; No 55, 2016s. 16-166...........ad. No. 15, 2002 am. No. 15, 2007s. 16-167...........ad. No. 91, 2000s 16-170...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 86, 2000; No 91, 2000; No 51, 2002; No 15, 2007; No 79, 2007; No 27, 2009; No 75, 2010; No 53, 2016s. 16-175...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 146, 2001; No. 51, 2002; No. 79, 2007; No.  75, 2010s 16-180...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 64, 2020s. 16-182...........ad. No. 27, 2009 am. No. 43, 2011Subdivision 16-D Subdivision 16-D heading rs No 32, 2008s 16-195...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 91, 2000; No 15, 2002; No 101, 2003; No 32, 2008; No 58, 2012; No 53, 2016; No  75, 2022s. 16-200...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 91, 2000Link note to s. 16-200..rep. No. 91, 2000Division 18 Subdivision 18-A Subdivision 18-A heading rs. No. 14, 2012s. 18-1............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 32, 2008; No. 58, 2012Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s. 18-5............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 58, 2006; No. 99, 2012s 18-10............ad. No. 27, 2009 am. No. 43, 2011Subdivision 16-D Subdivision 16-D heading rs No 32, 2008s 16-195...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 91, 2000; No 15, 2002; No 101, 2003; No 32, 2008; No 58, 2012; No 53, 2016; No  75, 2022s. 16-200...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 91, 2000Link note to s. 16-200..rep. No. 91, 2000Division 18 Subdivision 18-A Subdivision 18-A heading rs. No. 14, 2012s. 18-1............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 32, 2008; No. 58, 2012Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s. 18-5............ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 58, 2006; No. 99, 2012s 18-10............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 15, 2002; No 66, 2003; No 32, 2008; No 14, 2012; No 58, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 53, 2016; No 23, 2018; No  75, 2022s. 18-15...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 86, 2000; No. 161, 2005; No. 58, 2006; No. 79, 2007; No.  32, 2008s. 18-20...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 161, 2005; No. 58, 2006s. 18-25...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 161, 2005; No. 58, 2006; No. 79, 2007; No. 32, 2008s. 18-27...........ad. No. 86, 2000 rs. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 58, 2006Group heading to s 18-30rs No 32, 2008; No 58, 2012 am No 75, 2022s 18-30............ad No 178, 1999 am No 58, 2006; No 101, 2006; No 53, 2016s 18-32............ad No 32, 2008 am No 133, 2014; No 53, 2016s 18-33............ad No 58, 2012 ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 15, 2002; No 66, 2003; No 32, 2008; No 14, 2012; No 58, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 53, 2016; No 23, 2018; No  75, 2022s. 18-15...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 86, 2000; No. 161, 2005; No. 58, 2006; No. 79, 2007; No.  32, 2008s. 18-20...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 161, 2005; No. 58, 2006s. 18-25...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 161, 2005; No. 58, 2006; No. 79, 2007; No. 32, 2008s. 18-27...........ad. No. 86, 2000 rs. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 58, 2006Group heading to s 18-30rs No 32, 2008; No 58, 2012 am No 75, 2022s 18-30............ad No 178, 1999 am No 58, 2006; No 101, 2006; No 53, 2016s 18-32............ad No 32, 2008 am No 133, 2014; No 53, 2016s 18-33............ad No 58, 2012 am No 75, 2022s 18-35............ad No 178, 1999 am No 58, 2006; No 32, 2008; No 58, 2012; No 75, 2022 ed C195s. 18-40...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 58, 2006; No 101, 2013s. 18-42...........ad. No. 15, 2002 am. No. 58, 2006; No. 15, 2007s. 18-45...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 58, 2006Group heading to s. 18-49 ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 18-49...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014Group heading to s. 18-50 ad. No. 79, 2007 rep. No. 14, 2012s. 18-50...........ad. No. 79, 2007 rep. No. 32, 2008s 18-55............ad No 88, 2013Group heading to s. 18-60 ad No 23, 2018s 18-60............ad No 23, 2018 am No 76, 2023Subdivision 18-B s 18-65............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 15, 2007; No 56, 2010; No 75, 2010; No 105, 2010; No 109, 2012; No 10, 2016; No  53, 2016; No 23, 2018; No 4, 2023s 18-70............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 105, 2010; No 109, 2012; No 10, 2016; No 53, 2016; No 4, 2023s. 18-75...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 101, 2004; No. 41, 2005; No. 58, 2006 rep. No. 15, 2007s. 18-80...........ad. No. 178, 1999s 18-85............ad No 23, 2018 am No 49, 2019Subdivision 18-C s. 18-100...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 146, 2001; No. 161, 2005-60 ad No 23, 2018s 18-60............ad No 23, 2018 am No 76, 2023Subdivision 18-B s 18-65............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 15, 2007; No 56, 2010; No 75, 2010; No 105, 2010; No 109, 2012; No 10, 2016; No  53, 2016; No 23, 2018; No 4, 2023s 18-70............ad No 178, 1999 am No 86, 2000; No 105, 2010; No 109, 2012; No 10, 2016; No 53, 2016; No 4, 2023s. 18-75...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 101, 2004; No. 41, 2005; No. 58, 2006 rep. No. 15, 2007s. 18-80...........ad. No. 178, 1999s 18-85............ad No 23, 2018 am No 49, 2019Subdivision 18-C s. 18-100...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 146, 2001; No. 161, 2005Link note to s. 18-10...rep. No. 41, 2005Subdivision 18-D Subdivision 18-D.....ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-120...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-125...........ad. No. 99, 2012s 18-130...........ad No 99, 2012 am No 130, 2020s 18-135...........ad No 99, 2012 am No 8, 2019; No 130, 2020s. 18-140...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-145...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-150...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-155...........ad. No. 99, 2012 am No 2, 2015s. 18-160...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-165...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-170...........ad. No. 99, 2012Link note to s. 18-10...rep. No. 41, 2005Subdivision 18-D Subdivision 18-D.....ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-120...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-125...........ad. No. 99, 2012s 18-130...........ad No 99, 2012 am No 130, 2020s 18-135...........ad No 99, 2012 am No 8, 2019; No 130, 2020s. 18-140...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-145...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-150...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-155...........ad. No. 99, 2012 am No 2, 2015s. 18-160...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-165...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-170...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-175...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-180...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-185...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-190...........ad. No. 99, 2012Division 20 Subdivision 20-A.....ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 20-5............ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 20-10...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 20-15...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 20-B s. 20-35...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 66, 2003; No. 79, 2007; No. 32, 2008; No. 14, 2009s. 20-40...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 20-45-175...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-180...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-185...........ad. No. 99, 2012s. 18-190...........ad. No. 99, 2012Division 20 Subdivision 20-A.....ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 20-5............ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 20-10...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 20-15...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 20-B s. 20-35...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 66, 2003; No. 79, 2007; No. 32, 2008; No. 14, 2009s. 20-40...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 20-45...........ad. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 20-C.....ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 20-60...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 20-D s. 20-80...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 66, 2003; No 10, 2016; No 89, 2016Division 21 Division 21...............ad. No. 42, 2009s. 21-1............ad. No. 42, 2009Subdivision 21-A s. 21-5............ad. No. 42, 2009Part 2-10 Part 2-10...........ad. No. 178, 1999Division 45 s. 45-1............ad. No. 178, 1999 ad. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 20-C.....ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s. 20-60...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 20-D s. 20-80...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 66, 2003; No 10, 2016; No 89, 2016Division 21 Division 21...............ad. No. 42, 2009s. 21-1............ad. No. 42, 2009Subdivision 21-A s. 21-5............ad. No. 42, 2009Part 2-10 Part 2-10...........ad. No. 178, 1999Division 45 s. 45-1............ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 73, 2001 am. No. 47, 2009; No 124, 2013Subdivision 45-A s 45-5.............ad No 178, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 124, 2013 rs No 89, 2000 am No 73, 2001; No 150, 2003; No 164, 2007; No 56, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 82, 2014; No 169, 2015; No 116, 2018; No 61, 2023s. 45-10...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000; No. 14, 2009s. 45-15...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000; No. 68, 2002s. 45-20...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 73, 2001; No 124, 2013s. 45-25...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000s. 45-30...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001; No. 68, 2002; No. 161, 2005Subdivision 45-B s. 45-50...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 73, 2001 am. No. 78, 2005; No 124, 2013s. 45-55...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2001s. 45-60...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 73, 2001s. 45-61...........ad. No. 73, 2001 am. No. 68, 2002s. 45-65...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2001 ad No 124, 2013s 45-67............ad No 124, 2013s. 45-70...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 101, 2006s. 45-72...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999 ad No 124, 2013s. 45-75...........ad. No. 178, 1999 -50...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 73, 2001 am. No. 78, 2005; No 124, 2013s. 45-55...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2001s. 45-60...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rs. No. 73, 2001s. 45-61...........ad. No. 73, 2001 am. No. 68, 2002s. 45-65...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 73, 2001 ad No 124, 2013s 45-67............ad No 124, 2013s. 45-70...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 101, 2006s. 45-72...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999 ad No 124, 2013s. 45-75...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000s. 45-80...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 45-85...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s 45-90............ad No 178, 1999 am No 73, 2001; No 64, 2020Subdivision 45-C s. 45-110...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001s. 45-112...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 73, 2001s 45-114...........ad No 124, 2013 am No 126, 2015s. 45-115...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000; No. 101, 2006s. 45-120...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No 44, 2000; No 86, 2000; No 89, 2000; No. 169, 2001; No. 68, 2002; No. 16, 2003; No 15, 2007; No 164, 2007; No 32, 2008; No 45, 2008; No 15, 2009; No 118, 2009; No.  79, 2010; No 132, 2011; No 147, 2011; No 70, 2015Subdivision 45-D am. No. 44, 2000s. 45-80...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 45-85...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999s 45-90............ad No 178, 1999 am No 73, 2001; No 64, 2020Subdivision 45-C s. 45-110...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001s. 45-112...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 73, 2001s 45-114...........ad No 124, 2013 am No 126, 2015s. 45-115...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000; No. 101, 2006s. 45-120...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No 44, 2000; No 86, 2000; No 89, 2000; No. 169, 2001; No. 68, 2002; No. 16, 2003; No 15, 2007; No 164, 2007; No 32, 2008; No 45, 2008; No 15, 2009; No 118, 2009; No.  79, 2010; No 132, 2011; No 147, 2011; No 70, 2015Subdivision 45-D Subdivision 45-D heading rs. No. 73, 2001s. 45-125...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999 rs. No. 73, 2001 am. No. 78, 2005; No. 80, 2007; No 124, 2013s 45-130...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 179, 1999 rs No 73, 2001 am No 80, 2007; No 79, 2010; No 124, 2013; No 92, 2020s. 45-132...........ad. No. 73, 2001 am No 124, 2013s. 45-134...........ad. No. 73, 2001 am No 124, 2013s. 45-135...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 45-DA Subdivision 45-DA....ad No 124, 2013s 45-136...........ad No 124, 2013s 45-138...........Subdivision 45-D heading rs. No. 73, 2001s. 45-125...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999 rs. No. 73, 2001 am. No. 78, 2005; No. 80, 2007; No 124, 2013s 45-130...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 179, 1999 rs No 73, 2001 am No 80, 2007; No 79, 2010; No 124, 2013; No 92, 2020s. 45-132...........ad. No. 73, 2001 am No 124, 2013s. 45-134...........ad. No. 73, 2001 am No 124, 2013s. 45-135...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 45-DA Subdivision 45-DA....ad No 124, 2013s 45-136...........ad No 124, 2013s 45-138...........ad No 124, 2013Subdivision 45-E s. 45-140...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001; No. 68, 2002; No. 47, 2009s. 45-145...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 45-150...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001 rs. No. 78, 2005 am. No. 47, 2009s. 45-155...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001; No. 47, 2009s. 45-160...........ad. No. 16, 2003 am. No. 47, 2009Group heading to s. 45-170 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 45-170...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 45-175...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 101, 2006s. 45-180...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001 rep. No. 101, 2006Subdivision 45-F Subdivision 45-F headingrs. No. 73, 2001; No 124, 2013s. 45-200...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001; No 124, 2013s. 45-205...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am No 124, 2013s. 45-210...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 45-215...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 44, 2000; No. 73, 2001Subdivision 45-G s 45-225...........ad No 124, 2013s. 45-230...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 91, 2000; No. 68, 2002s. 45-232...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 73, 2001; No. 68, 2002s. 45-233...........178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001 rep. No. 101, 2006Subdivision 45-F Subdivision 45-F headingrs. No. 73, 2001; No 124, 2013s. 45-200...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001; No 124, 2013s. 45-205...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am No 124, 2013s. 45-210...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 45-215...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 44, 2000; No. 73, 2001Subdivision 45-G s 45-225...........ad No 124, 2013s. 45-230...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 91, 2000; No. 68, 2002s. 45-232...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 73, 2001; No. 68, 2002s. 45-233...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000s. 45-235...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 101, 2006; No 110, 2014s. 45-240...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 45-H s. 45-260...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000Subdivision 45-I Subdivision 45-I headingrs. No. 44, 2000Group heading to s. 45-280 rep. No. 44, 2000s 45-280...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 173, 2000; No 53, 2016s. 45-285...........ad. No. 173, 2000s 45-286...........ad No 56, 2010 am No 90, 2010; No 53, 2016s. 45-287...........ad. No. 173, 2000 am. No. 9, 2007; No. 41, 2011s. 45-288...........ad. No. 173, 2000 am. No. 56, 2010s. 45-290...........ad. No. 44, 2000 am. No. 173, 2000; No. 15, 2007; No. 45, 2008; No 70, 2015Group heading to s. 45-300 rep. No. 44, 2000s. 45-300...........ad. No. 178, 1999 rep. No. 44, 2000Subdivision 45-J s. 45-320...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 68, 2002; No 81, 2016s. 45-325...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 89, 2000; No. 143, 2007s 45-330...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 89, 2000; No 68, 2002; No 16, 2003; No 142, 2003; No 83, 2004; No 15, 2007; No 164, 2007; No 45, 2008; No 88, 2013; No 70, 2015s. 45-335...........ad. No. 178, 1999s 45-340...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 107, 2003; No 150, 2003; No 41, 2005; No 77, 2005; No 160, 2005; No 80, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 32, 2007; No  141, 2008; No 56, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 23, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 82, 2014; No 96, 2014; No 109, 2014; No 20, 2015; No 21, 2015; No 169, 2015; No 54, 2016; No 15, 2018; No 47, 2018; No 116, 2018; No 49, 2019; No 92, 2020; No 8, 2022; No 61, 2023Subdivision 45-K s. 45-355...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 101, 2006s. 45-360...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 45-365...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 86, 2000; No. 143, 2007s. 45-370...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 89, 2000; No. 15, 2007; No. 45, 2008; No 70, 2015s 45-375...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 107, 2003; No 150, 2003; No 77, 2005; No 160, 2005; No 80, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 32, 2007; No 141, 2008; No  56, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 82, 2014; No 109, 2014; No 20, 2015; No 21, 2015; No 169, 2015; No 54, 2016; No 15, 2018; No 47, 2018; No 116, 2018; No 49, 2019; No 92, 2020; No 61, 2023Subdivision 45-L s. 45-400...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 73, 2001; No. 27, 2009s. 45-402...........ad. No. 73, 2001 am. No. 43, 2011s 45-405...........  141, 2008; No 56, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 23, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 82, 2014; No 96, 2014; No 109, 2014; No 20, 2015; No 21, 2015; No 169, 2015; No 54, 2016; No 15, 2018; No 47, 2018; No 116, 2018; No 49, 2019; No 92, 2020; No 8, 2022; No 61, 2023Subdivision 45-K s. 45-355...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 101, 2006s. 45-360...........ad. No. 178, 1999s. 45-365...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 86, 2000; No. 143, 2007s. 45-370...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 89, 2000; No. 15, 2007; No. 45, 2008; No 70, 2015s 45-375...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 107, 2003; No 150, 2003; No 77, 2005; No 160, 2005; No 80, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 32, 2007; No 141, 2008; No  56, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 82, 2014; No 109, 2014; No 20, 2015; No 21, 2015; No 169, 2015; No 54, 2016; No 15, 2018; No 47, 2018; No 116, 2018; No 49, 2019; No 92, 2020; No 61, 2023Subdivision 45-L s. 45-400...........ad. No. 178, 1999 am. No. 179, 1999; No. 73, 2001; No. 27, 2009s. 45-402...........ad. No. 73, 2001 am. No. 43, 2011s 45-405...........ad No 178, 1999 am No 44, 2000; No 73, 2001; No 68, 2002; No 47, 2009 (as am by 43, 2011); No  43, 2011; No 61, 2020; No 14, 2022 (Sch 5 item 3); No 28, 2023 (Sch 4 item 3)Subdivision 45-M Subdivision 45-M.....ad. No. 179, 1999s. 45-410...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001s. 45-412...........ad. No. 73, 2001s. 45-415...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 45-420...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 73, 2001Link note to s. 45-420..ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 91, 2000Subdivision 45-N Subdivision 45-N.....ad. No. 44, 2000s 45-450...........ad No 44, 2000 am No 73, 2001; No 14, 2009; No 53, 2016s. 45-455...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-460...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-465...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-468...........ad. No. 44, 2000 am. No. 73, 2001 (as am. by No. 57, 2002)s. 45-470...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-473...........ad. No. 44, 2000 am No 81, 2016s. 45-475...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-480...........ad. No. 44, 2000 am No 88, 2013s. 45-483...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-485...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-525...........ad. No. 44, 2000 am. No. 101, 2006s. 45-530...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-535...........ad. No. 44, 2000Subdivision 45-P s. 45-460...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-465...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-468...........ad. No. 44, 2000 am. No. 73, 2001 (as am. by No. 57, 2002)s. 45-470...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-473...........ad. No. 44, 2000 am No 81, 2016s. 45-475...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-480...........ad. No. 44, 2000 am No 88, 2013s. 45-483...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-485...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-525...........ad. No. 44, 2000 am. No. 101, 2006s. 45-530...........ad. No. 44, 2000s. 45-535...........ad. No. 44, 2000Subdivision 45-P Subdivision 45-P.....ad. No. 89, 2000s. 45-595...........ad. No. 89, 2000s 45-597...........ad No 124, 2013s. 45-600...........ad. No. 89, 2000s. 45-605...........ad. No. 89, 2000s. 45-610...........ad. No. 89, 2000 am. No. 73, 2001s. 45-615...........ad. No. 89, 2000s. 45-620...........ad. No. 89, 2000s. 45-625...........ad. No. 89, 2000s. 45-630...........ad. No. 89, 2000 am No 84, 2013s. 45-635...........ad. No. 89, 2000 am. No. 117, 2002s. 45-640...........ad. No. 89, 2000Subdivision 45-Q Subdivision 45-Q.....ad. No. 68, 2002Subdivision 45-P.....ad. No. 89, 2000s. 45-595...........ad. No. 89, 2000s 45-597...........ad No 124, 2013s. 45-600...........ad. No. 89, 2000s. 45-605...........ad. No. 89, 2000s. 45-610...........ad. No. 89, 2000 am. No. 73, 2001s. 45-615...........ad. No. 89, 2000s. 45-620...........ad. No. 89, 2000s. 45-625...........ad. No. 89, 2000s. 45-630...........ad. No. 89, 2000 am No 84, 2013s. 45-635...........ad. No. 89, 2000 am. No. 117, 2002s. 45-640...........ad. No. 89, 2000Subdivision 45-Q Subdivision 45-Q.....ad. No. 68, 2002s. 45-700...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s 45-703...........ad No 124, 2013s. 45-705...........ad. No. 68, 2002 rs. No. 16, 2003 am No 124, 2013; No 133, 2014s. 45-710...........ad. No. 68, 2002s. 45-715...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am No 124, 2013s. 45-720...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003Link note to s. 45-720..rep. No. 16, 2003s. 45-740...........ad. No. 16, 2003 am No 133, 2014s. 45-755...........ad. No. 68, 2002s. 45-760...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003Link note to s. 45-760..s. 45-700...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s 45-703...........ad No 124, 2013s. 45-705...........ad. No. 68, 2002 rs. No. 16, 2003 am No 124, 2013; No 133, 2014s. 45-710...........ad. No. 68, 2002s. 45-715...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am No 124, 2013s. 45-720...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003Link note to s. 45-720..rep. No. 16, 2003s. 45-740...........ad. No. 16, 2003 am No 133, 2014s. 45-755...........ad. No. 68, 2002s. 45-760...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003Link note to s. 45-760..rep. No. 41, 2005s. 45-775...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003Subdivision 45-R Subdivision 45-R headingrs. No. 16, 2003Subdivision 45-R.....ad. No. 68, 2002s. 45-850...........ad. No. 68, 2002 rs. No. 16, 2003Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s. 45-855...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003s. 45-860...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003; No 124, 2013s. 45-865...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003; No. 161, 2005s. 45-870...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am No 124, 2013s. 45-875...........ad. No. 68, 2002s. 45-880...........rep. No. 41, 2005s. 45-775...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003Subdivision 45-R Subdivision 45-R headingrs. No. 16, 2003Subdivision 45-R.....ad. No. 68, 2002s. 45-850...........ad. No. 68, 2002 rs. No. 16, 2003Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s. 45-855...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003s. 45-860...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003; No 124, 2013s. 45-865...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am. No. 16, 2003; No. 161, 2005s. 45-870...........ad. No. 68, 2002 am No 124, 2013s. 45-875...........ad. No. 68, 2002s. 45-880...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-885...........ad. No. 16, 2003 am. No. 56, 2010Subdivision 45-S Subdivision 45-S.....ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-900...........ad. No. 16, 2003Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s. 45-905...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-910...........ad. No. 16, 2003 am. No. 12, 2012s. 45-913...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-915...........ad. No. 16, 2003 am No 124, 2013s. 45-917...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-920...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-922...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-925...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-930...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-885...........ad. No. 16, 2003 am. No. 56, 2010Subdivision 45-S Subdivision 45-S.....ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-900...........ad. No. 16, 2003Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s. 45-905...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-910...........ad. No. 16, 2003 am. No. 12, 2012s. 45-913...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-915...........ad. No. 16, 2003 am No 124, 2013s. 45-917...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-920...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-922...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-925...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-930...........ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-935...........ad. No. 16, 2003 am. No. 56, 2010Part 2-15 Part 2-15...........ad No 110, 2014Division 70 s 70-1.............ad No 110, 2014Subdivision 70-A s 70-5.............ad No 110, 2014Part 2-30 Part 2-30...........ad. No. 56, 2010Division 90 Subdivision 90-A s. 90-1............ad. No. 56, 2010 am. No. 12, 2012Part 2-35 Part 2-35 heading.....rs No 21, 2015Part 2-35ad. No. 16, 2003s. 45-935...........ad. No. 16, 2003 am. No. 56, 2010Part 2-15 Part 2-15...........ad No 110, 2014Division 70 s 70-1.............ad No 110, 2014Subdivision 70-A s 70-5.............ad No 110, 2014Part 2-30 Part 2-30...........ad. No. 56, 2010Division 90 Subdivision 90-A s. 90-1............ad. No. 56, 2010 am. No. 12, 2012Part 2-35 Part 2-35 heading.....rs No 21, 2015Part 2-35...........ad No 118, 2013Division 95...............rep No 45, 2021s 95-1.............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 45, 2021s 95-5.............ad No 118, 2013 am No 81, 2016 rep No 45, 2021s 95-10............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 45, 2021s 95-15............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 45, 2021s 95-20............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 45, 2021s 95-25............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 45, 2021Division 96...............rep No 81, 2016s 96-1.............ad No 118, 2013 rs No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-5.............ad No 118, 2013ad No 118, 2013Division 95...............rep No 45, 2021s 95-1.............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 45, 2021s 95-5.............ad No 118, 2013 am No 81, 2016 rep No 45, 2021s 95-10............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 45, 2021s 95-15............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 45, 2021s 95-20............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 45, 2021s 95-25............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 45, 2021Division 96...............rep No 81, 2016s 96-1.............ad No 118, 2013 rs No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-5.............ad No 118, 2013 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-7.............ad No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-10............ad No 118, 2013 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-12............ad No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-15............ad No 118, 2013 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-20............ad No 118, 2013 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-25............ad No 118, 2013 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-30............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 81, 2016s 96-35............ad No 118, 2013  am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-7.............ad No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-10............ad No 118, 2013 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-12............ad No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-15............ad No 118, 2013 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-20............ad No 118, 2013 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-25............ad No 118, 2013 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-30............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 81, 2016s 96-35............ad No 118, 2013 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-40............ad No 118, 2013 rs No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-42............ad No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-45............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 81, 2016s 96-50............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 81, 2016s 96-55............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 81, 2016s 96-60............ad No 118, 2013 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016Division 97 Division 97 heading..........rs No 21, 2015Subdivision 97-A s 97-1.............ad No 118, 2013 am No 45, 2021am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-40............ad No 118, 2013 rs No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-42............ad No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s 96-45............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 81, 2016s 96-50............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 81, 2016s 96-55............ad No 118, 2013 rep No 81, 2016s 96-60............ad No 118, 2013 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016Division 97 Division 97 heading..........rs No 21, 2015Subdivision 97-A s 97-1.............ad No 118, 2013 am No 45, 2021s 97-5.............ad No 118, 2013 am No 81, 2016; No 45, 2021s 97-10............ad No 118, 2013Subdivision 97-B Subdivision 97-B.....ad No 21, 2015s 97-20............ad No 21, 2015s 97-25............ad No 21, 2015 am No 81, 2016s 97-30............ad No 21, 2015s 97-35............ad No 21, 2015Chapter 3 Chapter 3.................ad. No. 73, 2006Part 3-10 Division 105 s. 105-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 74, 2010; No. 39, 2012; No 70, 2015Subdivision 105-A....rep No 39, 2012s. 105-3...........s 97-5.............ad No 118, 2013 am No 81, 2016; No 45, 2021s 97-10............ad No 118, 2013Subdivision 97-B Subdivision 97-B.....ad No 21, 2015s 97-20............ad No 21, 2015s 97-25............ad No 21, 2015 am No 81, 2016s 97-30............ad No 21, 2015s 97-35............ad No 21, 2015Chapter 3 Chapter 3.................ad. No. 73, 2006Part 3-10 Division 105 s. 105-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 74, 2010; No. 39, 2012; No 70, 2015Subdivision 105-A....rep No 39, 2012s. 105-3...........ad. No. 39, 2012 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-5...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-10...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-15...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-20...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-25...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-30...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep No 39, 2012Subdivision 105-B....rep No 39, 2012s. 105-40...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am No. 39, 2012 rep No 39, 2012Subdivision 105-C heading ed C155s. 105-50...........ad. No. 73, 2006ad. No. 39, 2012 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-5...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-10...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-15...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-20...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-25...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-30...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep No 39, 2012Subdivision 105-B....rep No 39, 2012s. 105-40...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am No. 39, 2012 rep No 39, 2012Subdivision 105-C heading ed C155s. 105-50...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 91, 2008; No. 39, 2012 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-55...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 91, 2008; No. 20, 2010; No. 39, 2012 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-60...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep. No. 74, 2010s. 105-65...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rs. No. 91, 2008 am. No. 39, 2012; No 34, 2014 rep No 34, 2014Subdivision 105-D s. 105-80...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 39, 2012s. 105-85...........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 105-E....rep. No. 39, 2012s. 105-100..........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep. No. 39, 2012s. 105-105..........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 91, 2008; No. 39, 2012 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-55...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 91, 2008; No. 20, 2010; No. 39, 2012 rep No 39, 2012s. 105-60...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep. No. 74, 2010s. 105-65...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rs. No. 91, 2008 am. No. 39, 2012; No 34, 2014 rep No 34, 2014Subdivision 105-D s. 105-80...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 39, 2012s. 105-85...........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 105-E....rep. No. 39, 2012s. 105-100..........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep. No. 39, 2012s. 105-105..........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep. No. 39, 2012s. 105-110..........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep. No. 39, 2012Subdivision 105-F s. 105-120..........ad. No. 73, 2006s. 105-125..........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 105-G s. 105-140..........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 42, 2009; No 70, 2015s. 105-145..........ad. No. 73, 2006Division 110 s. 110-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 110-F s. 110-50...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 97, 2008; No. 118, 2009; No. 74, 2010; No. 39, 2012Division 111 s. 111-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep. No. 39, 2012s. 105-110..........ad. No. 73, 2006 rep. No. 39, 2012Subdivision 105-F s. 105-120..........ad. No. 73, 2006s. 105-125..........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 105-G s. 105-140..........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 42, 2009; No 70, 2015s. 105-145..........ad. No. 73, 2006Division 110 s. 110-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 110-F s. 110-50...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 97, 2008; No. 118, 2009; No. 74, 2010; No. 39, 2012Division 111 s. 111-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 111-C s. 111-50...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 73, 2006; No. 39, 2012Subdivision 111-D s. 111-60...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am No 70, 2015Division 112 s. 112-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 112-E s. 112-50...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am No 39, 2012Part 3-15 Part 3-15...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017Division 115 s. 115-1...........ad. No. 14, 2012Subdivision 111-C s. 111-50...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 73, 2006; No. 39, 2012Subdivision 111-D s. 111-60...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am No 70, 2015Division 112 s. 112-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 112-E s. 112-50...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am No 39, 2012Part 3-15 Part 3-15...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017Division 115 s. 115-1...........ad. No. 14, 2012 am No 88, 2013 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017s. 115-5...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017s. 115-10...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017s. 115-15...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-20...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-25...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-30...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-35...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-40...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-45...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-50...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-55...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-60...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-65...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-70...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-75...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-80...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-85...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-45...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-50...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-55...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-60...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-65...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-70...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-75...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-80...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-85...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-90...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-95...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-100..........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-105..........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-110..........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014Division 117 s. 117-1...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017Subdivision 117-A s. 117-5...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017s. 117-10...........ad. No. 14, 2012s. 115-90...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-95...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-100..........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-105..........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 115-110..........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014Division 117 s. 117-1...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017Subdivision 117-A s. 117-5...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017s. 117-10...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017s. 117-15...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017s. 117-20...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 am No 88, 2013 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017Subdivision 117-B s. 117-25...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017s. 117-30...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017s 117-35...........ad No 64, 2017s 117-40...........ad No 64, 2017s 117-45...........ad No 64, 2017s 117-50 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017s. 117-15...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017s. 117-20...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 am No 88, 2013 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017Subdivision 117-B s. 117-25...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017s. 117-30...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 64, 2017s 117-35...........ad No 64, 2017s 117-40...........ad No 64, 2017s 117-45...........ad No 64, 2017s 117-50...........ad No 64, 2017s. 119-1...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 119-5...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 119-10...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 119-15...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 121-1...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 121-5...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 121-10...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 121-12...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 121-15...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 123-1ad No 64, 2017s. 119-1...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 119-5...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 119-10...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 119-15...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 121-1...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 121-5...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 121-10...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 121-12...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 121-15...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 123-1...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 123-5...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 123-10...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 123-15...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014Part 3-17 Part 3-17...........ad No 24, 2022Division 125 s. 125-1...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 24, 2022s 125-5............ad No 24, 2022s 125-10...........ad No 24, 2022s 125-15...........ad No 24, 2022Part 3-18 Part 3-18...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 123-5...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 123-10...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 123-15...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014Part 3-17 Part 3-17...........ad No 24, 2022Division 125 s. 125-1...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 24, 2022s 125-5............ad No 24, 2022s 125-10...........ad No 24, 2022s 125-15...........ad No 24, 2022Part 3-18 Part 3-18...........ad No 134, 2024Division 127 s 127-1............ad No 134, 2024Subdivision 127-A s 127-5............ad No 134, 2024s 127-10...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-15...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-20...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-25...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-30...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-35...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-40...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-45...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-50...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-55...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-60...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-65...........ad No 134, 2024Subdivision 127-B ad No 134, 2024Division 127 s 127-1............ad No 134, 2024Subdivision 127-A s 127-5............ad No 134, 2024s 127-10...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-15...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-20...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-25...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-30...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-35...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-40...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-45...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-50...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-55...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-60...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-65...........ad No 134, 2024Subdivision 127-B s 127-70...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-75...........ad No 134, 2024Subdivision 127-C s 127-80...........ad No 134, 2024Division 128 s 128-1............ad No 134, 2024Subdivision 128-A s 128-5............ad No 134, 2024s 128-10...........ad No 134, 2024Subdivision 128-B s 128-15...........ad No 134, 2024s 128-20...........ad No 134, 2024s 128-25...........ad No 134, 2024Subdivision 128-C s 128-30...........ad No 134, 2024s 128-35...........ad No 134, 2024Part 3-20 s 127-70...........ad No 134, 2024s 127-75...........ad No 134, 2024Subdivision 127-C s 127-80...........ad No 134, 2024Division 128 s 128-1............ad No 134, 2024Subdivision 128-A s 128-5............ad No 134, 2024s 128-10...........ad No 134, 2024Subdivision 128-B s 128-15...........ad No 134, 2024s 128-20...........ad No 134, 2024s 128-25...........ad No 134, 2024Subdivision 128-C s 128-30...........ad No 134, 2024s 128-35...........ad No 134, 2024Part 3-20 Part 3-20 heading.....rs No 81, 2016Part 3-20...........ad No 82, 2013Division 131 Division 131..............ad No 81, 2016Subdivision 131-A s 131-1............ad No 81, 2016 am No 132, 2017s 131-5............ad No 81, 2016 am No 132, 2017; No 75, 2023s 131-10...........ad No 81, 2016 am No 132, 2017s 131-12...........ad No 75, 2023s 131-15...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-20...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-25...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-30...........ad No 81, 2016 rs No 75, 2023s 131-35...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-40Part 3-20 heading.....rs No 81, 2016Part 3-20...........ad No 82, 2013Division 131 Division 131..............ad No 81, 2016Subdivision 131-A s 131-1............ad No 81, 2016 am No 132, 2017s 131-5............ad No 81, 2016 am No 132, 2017; No 75, 2023s 131-10...........ad No 81, 2016 am No 132, 2017s 131-12...........ad No 75, 2023s 131-15...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-20...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-25...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-30...........ad No 81, 2016 rs No 75, 2023s 131-35...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-40...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-45...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-50...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-55...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-60...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-65...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-70...........ad No 81, 2016s 131-75...........ad No 81, 2016Group heading to s 131-80 ad No 75, 2023s 131-80...........ad No 75, 2023Division 133 Division 133 heading.........rs No 81, 2016s 133-1............ad No 82, 2013Subdivision 133-A s 133-5............ad No 82, 2013s 133-10...........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016s 133-15...........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016s 133-20...........ad No 82, 2013s 133-25...........ad No 82, 2013s 133-30...........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016Subdivision 133-B s 133-55...........ad No 82, 2013s 133-60...........ad No 82, 2013s 133-65...........ad No 82, 2013s 133-70...........ad No 82, 2013s 133-75...........ad No 82, 2013Subdivision 133-C s 133-100..........ad No 82, 2013s 133-105..........ad No 82, 2013s 133-110..........ad No 82, 2013s 133-115..........ad No 82, 2013s 133-120ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016s 133-20...........ad No 82, 2013s 133-25...........ad No 82, 2013s 133-30...........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016Subdivision 133-B s 133-55...........ad No 82, 2013s 133-60...........ad No 82, 2013s 133-65...........ad No 82, 2013s 133-70...........ad No 82, 2013s 133-75...........ad No 82, 2013Subdivision 133-C s 133-100..........ad No 82, 2013s 133-105..........ad No 82, 2013s 133-110..........ad No 82, 2013s 133-115..........ad No 82, 2013s 133-120..........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016; No 13, 2018; No 76, 2023s 133-125..........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016s 133-130..........ad No 82, 2013 am No 126, 2015; No 78, 2018; No 127, 2021s 133-135..........ad No 82, 2013 rs No 81, 2016s 133-140..........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016; No 13, 2018; No 76, 2023s 133-145..........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016Division 135 s 135-1............ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016Subdivision 135-A s 135-5............ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016s 135-10...........ad No 82, 2013..........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016; No 13, 2018; No 76, 2023s 133-125..........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016s 133-130..........ad No 82, 2013 am No 126, 2015; No 78, 2018; No 127, 2021s 133-135..........ad No 82, 2013 rs No 81, 2016s 133-140..........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016; No 13, 2018; No 76, 2023s 133-145..........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016Division 135 s 135-1............ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016Subdivision 135-A s 135-5............ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016s 135-10...........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016Subdivision 135-B s 135-35...........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016s 135-40...........ad No 82, 2013s 135-45...........ad No 82, 2013 rep No 81, 2016Subdivision 135-C s 135-70...........ad No 82, 2013s 135-75...........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016s 135-80...........ad No 82, 2013s 135-85...........ad No 82, 2013 am No 118, 2013; No 81, 2016s 135-90...........ad No 82, 2013 am No 81, 2016s 135-95...........ad No 82, 2013 am No 118, 2013s 135-100..........ad No 82, 2013Division 136 Division 136..............ad No 81, 2016s 136-1............ad No 81, 2016Subdivision 136-A s 136-5............ad No 81, 2016s 136-10...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-15...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-20...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-25...........ad No 81, 2016Subdivision 136-B s 136-50...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-55...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-60...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-65...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-70...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-80...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-85...........ad No 81, 2016 82, 2013Division 136 Division 136..............ad No 81, 2016s 136-1............ad No 81, 2016Subdivision 136-A s 136-5............ad No 81, 2016s 136-10...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-15...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-20...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-25...........ad No 81, 2016Subdivision 136-B s 136-50...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-55...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-60...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-65...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-70...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-80...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-85...........ad No 81, 2016s 136-90...........ad No 81, 2016Division 138 Division 138..............ad No 132, 2017s 138-1............ad No 132, 2017Subdivision 138-A s 138-5............ad No 132, 2017s 138-10...........ad No 132, 2017 am No 75, 2023s 138-12...........ad No 75, 2023s 138-13...........ad No 75, 2023s 138-15...........ad No 132, 2017 am No 75, 2023Subdivision 138-B s 138-20...........ad No 132, 2017s 138-25...........ad No 132, 2017s 138-30...........ad No 132, 2017s 138-35...........ad No 132, 2017 am No 10, 2022s 136-90...........ad No 81, 2016Division 138 Division 138..............ad No 132, 2017s 138-1............ad No 132, 2017Subdivision 138-A s 138-5............ad No 132, 2017s 138-10...........ad No 132, 2017 am No 75, 2023s 138-12...........ad No 75, 2023s 138-13...........ad No 75, 2023s 138-15...........ad No 132, 2017 am No 75, 2023Subdivision 138-B s 138-20...........ad No 132, 2017s 138-25...........ad No 132, 2017s 138-30...........ad No 132, 2017s 138-35...........ad No 132, 2017 am No 10, 2022s 138-40...........ad No 132, 2017Part 3-30 Part 3-30...........ad No 27, 2017Division 145 s 145-1............ad No 27, 2017s 145-5............ad No 27, 2017s 145-10...........ad No 27, 2017s 145-15...........ad No 27, 2017s 145-20...........ad No 27, 2017s 145-25...........ad No 27, 2017Chapter 4 Chapter 4 heading...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rs. No. 39, 2012Part 4-1 Part 4-1............ad. No. 39, 2012Division 155 s. 155-1...........ad. No. 39, 2012Subdivision 155-A s 155-5............ad No 39, 2012 am No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 81, 2016; No 27, 2017; No 64, 2017; No 132, 2017; No 24, 2022; No 134, 2024; No 138, 2024s. 155-10...........ad. No. 39, 2012s 155-15...........ad No 39, 2012 am No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 110, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 41, 2015; No 81, 2016; No 64, 2017; No 132, 2017; No 40, 2023; No 134, 2024s. 155-20...........ad. No. 39, 2012 am No 41, 2015s. 155-25...........ad. No. 39, 2012s 155-30...........ad No 39, 2012 am No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 81, 2016; No 132, 2017; No 24, 2022; No 138, 2024Subdivision 155-B s. 155-35...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-40...........ad. No. 39, 2012 am No 41, 2015s. 155-45...........ad. No. 39, 2012 39, 2012Subdivision 155-A s 155-5............ad No 39, 2012 am No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 81, 2016; No 27, 2017; No 64, 2017; No 132, 2017; No 24, 2022; No 134, 2024; No 138, 2024s. 155-10...........ad. No. 39, 2012s 155-15...........ad No 39, 2012 am No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 110, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 41, 2015; No 81, 2016; No 64, 2017; No 132, 2017; No 40, 2023; No 134, 2024s. 155-20...........ad. No. 39, 2012 am No 41, 2015s. 155-25...........ad. No. 39, 2012s 155-30...........ad No 39, 2012 am No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 81, 2016; No 132, 2017; No 24, 2022; No 138, 2024Subdivision 155-B s. 155-35...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-40...........ad. No. 39, 2012 am No 41, 2015s. 155-45...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-50...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-55...........ad. No. 39, 2012 rs. No. 14, 2012 am No 96, 2014s. 155-57...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 155-60...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-65...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-70...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-75...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-80...........ad. No. 39, 2012Subdivision 155-C s. 155-85...........ad. No. 39, 2012s 155-90...........ad No 39, 2012 am No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 13, 2018; No 76, 2023Subdivision 155-D s. 155-95...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-50...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-55...........ad. No. 39, 2012 rs. No. 14, 2012 am No 96, 2014s. 155-57...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 155-60...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-65...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-70...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-75...........ad. No. 39, 2012s. 155-80...........ad. No. 39, 2012Subdivision 155-C s. 155-85...........ad. No. 39, 2012s 155-90...........ad No 39, 2012 am No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 13, 2018; No 76, 2023Subdivision 155-D s. 155-95...........ad. No. 39, 2012Part 4-15 Part 4-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999Division 250 Subdivision 250-A s. 250-1...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 250-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 79, 2010s 250-10...........ad No 179, 1999 am No 60, 2000; No 77, 2000; No 91, 2000; No 25, 2001; No 73, 2001; No 16, 2003; No 54, 2003; No 66, 2003; No 101, 2003; No 75, 2005; No 58, 2006; No 73, 2006; No 74, 2006; No 78, 2006; No 80, 2006; No 100, 2006; No 101, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 143, 2007; No 32, 2008; No 45, 2008; No 97, 2008; No 151, 2008; No 6, 2009; No 27, 2009; No 88, 2009; No 133, 2009; No 20, 2010; No 79, 2010; No  68, 2011; No 14, 2012; No 26, 2012; No 39, 2012; No 58, 2012; No 75, 2012; No 99, 2012; No  82, 2013; No 88, 2013; No 118, 2013; No 124, 2013; No 32, 2014; No 82, 2014; No 96, 2014; No 2, 2015; No 21, 2015; No 70, 2015; No 169, 2015; No 10, 2016; No 81, 2016; No 27, 2017; No 64, 2017; No 126, 2017 ed C150 am No 132, 2017; No 4, 2018; No 23, 2018; No 116, 2018; No 8, 2019; No 16, 2019; No 22, 2020; No 38, 2020; No 24, 2021; No 45, 2021; No 24, 2022; No 75, 2022; No 61, 2023; No 90, 2024; No 134, 2024; No 138, 2024; No 9, 2025Subdivision 250-B s. 250-25...........ad. No. 179, 1999Link note to s. 250-25..rep. No. 41, 2005Division 255 Part 4-15 Part 4-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999Division 250 Subdivision 250-A s. 250-1...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 250-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 79, 2010s 250-10...........ad No 179, 1999 am No 60, 2000; No 77, 2000; No 91, 2000; No 25, 2001; No 73, 2001; No 16, 2003; No 54, 2003; No 66, 2003; No 101, 2003; No 75, 2005; No 58, 2006; No 73, 2006; No 74, 2006; No 78, 2006; No 80, 2006; No 100, 2006; No 101, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 143, 2007; No 32, 2008; No 45, 2008; No 97, 2008; No 151, 2008; No 6, 2009; No 27, 2009; No 88, 2009; No 133, 2009; No 20, 2010; No 79, 2010; No  68, 2011; No 14, 2012; No 26, 2012; No 39, 2012; No 58, 2012; No 75, 2012; No 99, 2012; No  82, 2013; No 88, 2013; No 118, 2013; No 124, 2013; No 32, 2014; No 82, 2014; No 96, 2014; No 2, 2015; No 21, 2015; No 70, 2015; No 169, 2015; No 10, 2016; No 81, 2016; No 27, 2017; No 64, 2017; No 126, 2017 ed C150 am No 132, 2017; No 4, 2018; No 23, 2018; No 116, 2018; No 8, 2019; No 16, 2019; No 22, 2020; No 38, 2020; No 24, 2021; No 45, 2021; No 24, 2022; No 75, 2022; No 61, 2023; No 90, 2024; No 134, 2024; No 138, 2024; No 9, 2025Subdivision 250-B s. 250-25...........ad. No. 179, 1999Link note to s. 250-25..rep. No. 41, 2005Division 255 Subdivision 255-A s. 255-1...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 32, 2006; No. 114, 2009s. 255-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 39, 2012Subdivision 255-B s. 255-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 79, 2010s. 255-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 255-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 79, 2010Subdivision 255-C Subdivision 255-C heading rs No 64, 2020s. 255-35...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am No 64, 2020Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s. 255-40...........ad. No. 179, 1999 Subdivision 255-A s. 255-1...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 32, 2006; No. 114, 2009s. 255-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 39, 2012Subdivision 255-B s. 255-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 79, 2010s. 255-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 255-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 79, 2010Subdivision 255-C Subdivision 255-C heading rs No 64, 2020s. 255-35...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am No 64, 2020Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s. 255-40...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 100, 2006; No 64, 2020s. 255-45...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 100, 2006; No. 39, 2012 rep No 64, 2020s. 255-50...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep No 64, 2020s. 255-55...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep No 64, 2020Link note to s. 255-55..rep. No. 41, 2005Subdivision 255-D Subdivision 255-D....ad. No. 79, 2010s. 255-100..........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 255-105..........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 255-110..........ad. No. 79, 2010s 255-115..........ad No 8, 2019s 225-120..........ad No 8, 2019Division 260 s. 260-1...........ad. No. 179, 1999am. No. 100, 2006; No 64, 2020s. 255-45...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 100, 2006; No. 39, 2012 rep No 64, 2020s. 255-50...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep No 64, 2020s. 255-55...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep No 64, 2020Link note to s. 255-55..rep. No. 41, 2005Subdivision 255-D Subdivision 255-D....ad. No. 79, 2010s. 255-100..........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 255-105..........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 255-110..........ad. No. 79, 2010s 255-115..........ad No 8, 2019s 225-120..........ad No 8, 2019Division 260 s. 260-1...........ad. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 260-A s. 260-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 260-B s. 260-40...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-45...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-50...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-55...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-60...........ad. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 260-C s. 260-75...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-80...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-85...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-90...........ad. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 260-A s. 260-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 260-B s. 260-40...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-45...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-50...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-55...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-60...........ad. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 260-C s. 260-75...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-80...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-85...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-90...........ad. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 260-D Subdivision 260-D heading rs. No. 41, 2005s. 260-105..........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 41, 2005s. 260-110..........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-115..........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-120..........ad. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 260-E s. 260-140..........ad. No. 179, 1999s 260-145..........ad No 179, 1999 am No 69, 2023s. 260-150..........ad. No. 179, 1999Link note to s. 260-150.rep. No. 41, 2005Division 263 Division 263 heading.........am No 64, 2020Division 263..............ad. No. 100, 2006Subdivision 263-ASubdivision 260-D Subdivision 260-D heading rs. No. 41, 2005s. 260-105..........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 41, 2005s. 260-110..........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-115..........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 260-120..........ad. No. 179, 1999Subdivision 260-E s. 260-140..........ad. No. 179, 1999s 260-145..........ad No 179, 1999 am No 69, 2023s. 260-150..........ad. No. 179, 1999Link note to s. 260-150.rep. No. 41, 2005Division 263 Division 263 heading.........am No 64, 2020Division 263..............ad. No. 100, 2006Subdivision 263-A s. 263-5...........ad. No. 100, 2006s. 263-10...........ad. No. 100, 2006 am No 64, 2020s. 263-15...........ad. No. 100, 2006s. 263-20...........ad. No. 100, 2006s. 263-25...........ad. No. 100, 2006s. 263-30...........ad. No. 100, 2006 am. No. 14, 2009Heading to s. 263-35...rep. No. 14, 2009Heading to s. 363-35...Renumbered s. 263-35..ad. No. 14, 2009No. 56, 2010s. 263-35...........ad. No. 100, 2006 am. No. 14, 2009s. 263-40...........ad. No. 100, 2006 am. No. 14, 2009Subdivision 263-B Subdivision 263-B....ad No 64, 2020s 263-55........... s. 263-5...........ad. No. 100, 2006s. 263-10...........ad. No. 100, 2006 am No 64, 2020s. 263-15...........ad. No. 100, 2006s. 263-20...........ad. No. 100, 2006s. 263-25...........ad. No. 100, 2006s. 263-30...........ad. No. 100, 2006 am. No. 14, 2009Heading to s. 263-35...rep. No. 14, 2009Heading to s. 363-35...Renumbered s. 263-35..ad. No. 14, 2009No. 56, 2010s. 263-35...........ad. No. 100, 2006 am. No. 14, 2009s. 263-40...........ad. No. 100, 2006 am. No. 14, 2009Subdivision 263-B Subdivision 263-B....ad No 64, 2020s 263-55...........ad No 64, 2020s 263-60...........ad No 64, 2020s 263-65...........ad No 64, 2020Division 265 Subdivision 265-A s. 265-35...........ad. No. 179, 1999Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s. 265-40...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 265-45...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 101, 2006Subdivision 265-B s. 265-65...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 265-70...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 146, 2001Link note to s. 265-70..ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000 rep. No. 146, 2001Subdivision 265-C ad No 64, 2020s 263-60...........ad No 64, 2020s 263-65...........ad No 64, 2020Division 265 Subdivision 265-A s. 265-35...........ad. No. 179, 1999Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s. 265-40...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 265-45...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 101, 2006Subdivision 265-B s. 265-65...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 265-70...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 146, 2001Link note to s. 265-70..ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000 rep. No. 146, 2001Subdivision 265-C Subdivision 265-C....ad No 8, 2019s 265-85...........ad No 8, 2019s 265-90...........ad No 8, 2019s 265-95...........ad No 8, 2019s 265-100..........ad No 8, 2019s 265-105..........ad No 8, 2019s 265-110..........ad No 8, 2019s 265-115..........ad No 8, 2019 am No 38, 2024Division 268 Division 268 heading.........rs No 99, 2012; No 6, 2020Division 268..............ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-1...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 99, 2012; No 6, 2020Subdivision 268-A s. 268-5...........ad No 79, 2010 rs No 99, 2012 am No 6, 2020Subdivision 265-C....ad No 8, 2019s 265-85...........ad No 8, 2019s 265-90...........ad No 8, 2019s 265-95...........ad No 8, 2019s 265-100..........ad No 8, 2019s 265-105..........ad No 8, 2019s 265-110..........ad No 8, 2019s 265-115..........ad No 8, 2019 am No 38, 2024Division 268 Division 268 heading.........rs No 99, 2012; No 6, 2020Division 268..............ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-1...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 99, 2012; No 6, 2020Subdivision 268-A s. 268-5...........ad No 79, 2010 rs No 99, 2012 am No 6, 2020Subdivision 268-B s 268-10...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 99, 2012; No 6, 2020s. 268-15...........ad. No. 79, 2010Subdivision 268-C s 268-20...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 6, 2020s. 268-25...........ad. No. 79, 2010s 268-30...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 6, 2020Subdivision 268-D s. 268-35...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-40...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-45...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-50...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-55...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-60...........Subdivision 268-B s 268-10...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 99, 2012; No 6, 2020s. 268-15...........ad. No. 79, 2010Subdivision 268-C s 268-20...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 6, 2020s. 268-25...........ad. No. 79, 2010s 268-30...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 6, 2020Subdivision 268-D s. 268-35...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-40...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-45...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-50...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-55...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-60...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-65...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-70...........ad. No. 79, 2010Subdivision 268-E s. 268-75...........ad. No. 79, 2010 am. No. 99, 2012s 268-80...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 6, 2020Subdivision 268-F s. 268-85...........ad. No. 79, 2010s 268-90...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 99, 2012; No 6, 2020s. 268-95...........ad. No. 79, 2010s 268-100..........ad No 79, 2010 am No 11, 2016Division 269 Division 269..............ad. No. 79, 2010s 269-1............ad No 79, 2010ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-65...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 268-70...........ad. No. 79, 2010Subdivision 268-E s. 268-75...........ad. No. 79, 2010 am. No. 99, 2012s 268-80...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 6, 2020Subdivision 268-F s. 268-85...........ad. No. 79, 2010s 268-90...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 99, 2012; No 6, 2020s. 268-95...........ad. No. 79, 2010s 268-100..........ad No 79, 2010 am No 11, 2016Division 269 Division 269..............ad. No. 79, 2010s 269-1............ad No 79, 2010 am No 99, 2012; No 6, 2020; No 130, 2020Subdivision 269-A s 269-5............ad No 79, 2010 am No 99, 2012; No 6, 2020; No 130, 2020s 269-10...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 99, 2012; No 8, 2019; No 6, 2020Subdivision 269-B s 269-15...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 8, 2019; No 130, 2020s. 269-20...........ad. No. 79, 2010 am. No. 99, 2012s. 269-25...........ad. No. 79, 2010s 269-30...........ad No 79, 2010 rs No 99, 2012 am No 99, 2012; No 55, 2016; No 8, 2019; No 6, 2020; No 130, 2020s 269-35...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 99, 2012; No 8, 2019; No 6, 2020; No 130, 2020Subdivision 269-C  am No 99, 2012; No 6, 2020; No 130, 2020Subdivision 269-A s 269-5............ad No 79, 2010 am No 99, 2012; No 6, 2020; No 130, 2020s 269-10...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 99, 2012; No 8, 2019; No 6, 2020Subdivision 269-B s 269-15...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 8, 2019; No 130, 2020s. 269-20...........ad. No. 79, 2010 am. No. 99, 2012s. 269-25...........ad. No. 79, 2010s 269-30...........ad No 79, 2010 rs No 99, 2012 am No 99, 2012; No 55, 2016; No 8, 2019; No 6, 2020; No 130, 2020s 269-35...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 99, 2012; No 8, 2019; No 6, 2020; No 130, 2020Subdivision 269-C s. 269-40...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 269-45...........ad. No. 79, 2010Subdivision 269-D s 269-50...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 162, 2015; No 141, 2020; No 72, 2025s. 269-52...........ad. No. 99, 2012s 269-55...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 11, 2016Part 4-25 Part 4-25 heading.....rs. No. 101, 2004; No. 32, 2006Part 4-25...........ad. No. 179, 1999Division 280 Division 280..............ad. No. 75, 2005s 280-1............ad No 75, 2005 am No 78, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 118, 2013; No  96, 2014; No 27, 2017; No 24, 2022; No 134, 2024; No 9, 2025Subdivision 280-A s 280s. 269-40...........ad. No. 79, 2010s. 269-45...........ad. No. 79, 2010Subdivision 269-D s 269-50...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 162, 2015; No 141, 2020; No 72, 2025s. 269-52...........ad. No. 99, 2012s 269-55...........ad No 79, 2010 am No 11, 2016Part 4-25 Part 4-25 heading.....rs. No. 101, 2004; No. 32, 2006Part 4-25...........ad. No. 179, 1999Division 280 Division 280..............ad. No. 75, 2005s 280-1............ad No 75, 2005 am No 78, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 118, 2013; No  96, 2014; No 27, 2017; No 24, 2022; No 134, 2024; No 9, 2025Subdivision 280-A s 280-50...........ad No 75, 2005 am No 78, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 118, 2013; No  96, 2014; No 27, 2017; No 24, 2022; No 134, 2024 rs No 9, 2025Subdivision 280-B s 280-100..........ad No 75, 2005 am No 78, 2006; No 79, 2010; No 75, 2012; No 118, 2013; No 10, 2016; No 45, 2021s 280-101..........ad No 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 21, 2015s. 280-102..........ad. No. 78, 2006s. 280-102A.........ad. No. 15, 2007 am No 117, 2010; No 118, 2013; No 10, 2016s 280-102B.........ad No 82, 2013 am No 10, 2016s 280-102C.........ad No 27, 2017s 280-102D.........ad No 24, 2022s 280-102E.........ad No 134, 2024s 280-102F.........ad No 9, 2025-50...........ad No 75, 2005 am No 78, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 118, 2013; No  96, 2014; No 27, 2017; No 24, 2022; No 134, 2024 rs No 9, 2025Subdivision 280-B s 280-100..........ad No 75, 2005 am No 78, 2006; No 79, 2010; No 75, 2012; No 118, 2013; No 10, 2016; No 45, 2021s 280-101..........ad No 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 21, 2015s. 280-102..........ad. No. 78, 2006s. 280-102A.........ad. No. 15, 2007 am No 117, 2010; No 118, 2013; No 10, 2016s 280-102B.........ad No 82, 2013 am No 10, 2016s 280-102C.........ad No 27, 2017s 280-102D.........ad No 24, 2022s 280-102E.........ad No 134, 2024s 280-102F.........ad No 9, 2025s. 280-103..........ad. No. 78, 2006s 280-105..........ad No 75, 2005 am No 78, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 118, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 9, 2025 ed C218s 280-110..........ad No 75, 2005 am No 78, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 81, 2016; No 24, 2022; No 134, 2024; No 9, 2025Subdivision 280-C s. 280-160..........ad. No. 75, 2005s. 280-165..........ad. No. 75, 2005s. 280-170..........ad. No. 75, 2005 am. No. 78, 2006; No. 15, 2007; No. 14, 2012; Nos 82 and 118, 2013; No  96 and 110, 2014Division 284 Division 284..............ad. No. 91, 2000s. 284-5...........ad. No. 91, 2000Subdivision 284-A s. 284-10...........ad. No. 91, 2000 s. 280-103..........ad. No. 78, 2006s 280-105..........ad No 75, 2005 am No 78, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 118, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 9, 2025 ed C218s 280-110..........ad No 75, 2005 am No 78, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 81, 2016; No 24, 2022; No 134, 2024; No 9, 2025Subdivision 280-C s. 280-160..........ad. No. 75, 2005s. 280-165..........ad. No. 75, 2005s. 280-170..........ad. No. 75, 2005 am. No. 78, 2006; No. 15, 2007; No. 14, 2012; Nos 82 and 118, 2013; No  96 and 110, 2014Division 284 Division 284..............ad. No. 91, 2000s. 284-5...........ad. No. 91, 2000Subdivision 284-A s. 284-10...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 75, 2005s 284-15...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 75, 2005; No 161, 2005; No 101, 2013; No 38, 2024s. 284-20...........ad. No. 91, 2000s. 284-25...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 56, 2010s 284-27...........ad No 134, 2024s. 284-30...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 14, 2012; No 96, 2014s. 284-35...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 14, 2012; No 96, 2014Subdivision 284-B s. 284-70...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 75, 2005Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s 284-75...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 25, 2001; No 75, 2005; No 114, 2009; No 56, 2010; No 41, 2011; No  14, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 52, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 77, 2017; No 8, 2019; No 141, 2020; No 134, 2024s 284-80...........ad No am. No. 75, 2005s 284-15...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 75, 2005; No 161, 2005; No 101, 2013; No 38, 2024s. 284-20...........ad. No. 91, 2000s. 284-25...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 56, 2010s 284-27...........ad No 134, 2024s. 284-30...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 14, 2012; No 96, 2014s. 284-35...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 14, 2012; No 96, 2014Subdivision 284-B s. 284-70...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 75, 2005Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s 284-75...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 25, 2001; No 75, 2005; No 114, 2009; No 56, 2010; No 41, 2011; No  14, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 52, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 77, 2017; No 8, 2019; No 141, 2020; No 134, 2024s 284-80...........ad No 91, 2000 am. No 16, 2003; No 107, 2003; No 75, 2005; No 151, 2008; No 56, 2010; No 41, 2011; No  14, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 134, 2024s. 284-85...........ad. No. 91, 2000s 284-90...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 75, 2005; No 56, 2010; No 41, 2011; No 14, 2012; No 88, 2013; No 101, 2013; No  96, 2014; No 27, 2017; No 64, 2020; No 134, 2024s. 284-95...........ad. No. 56, 2010Subdivision 284-C s. 284-140..........ad. No. 91, 2000Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s 284-145..........ad No 91, 2000 am No 73, 2006; No 115, 2012; No 101, 2013; No 170, 2015; No 53, 2016s 284-150..........ad No 91, 2000 am No 16, 2003; No 107, 2003; No 56, 2010; No 101, 2013; No 53, 2016s. 284-155..........ad. No. 91, 2000 am No 170, 2015s 284-160..........ad No 91, 2000 am No 56, 2010; No 101, 2013 rs No 101, 2013 am No 53, 2016s 284-165..........ad No 101, 2013Subdivision 284-D s. 284-215..........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 75, 2005 rep. No. 56, 2010s 284-220..........ad No 91, 2000 am No 75, 2005; No 97, 2008; No 56, 2010; No 134, 2024s. 284-224..........ad. No. 56, 2010s. 284-225..........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 58, 2006; No. 56, 2010Link note to s. 284-225.rep. No. 41, 2005Subdivision 284-E s 284-250..........ad No 101, 2013s 284-255..........ad No 101, 2013Division 286 Division 286..............ad. No. 91, 2000rs No 101, 2013 am No 53, 2016s 284-165..........ad No 101, 2013Subdivision 284-D s. 284-215..........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 75, 2005 rep. No. 56, 2010s 284-220..........ad No 91, 2000 am No 75, 2005; No 97, 2008; No 56, 2010; No 134, 2024s. 284-224..........ad. No. 56, 2010s. 284-225..........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 58, 2006; No. 56, 2010Link note to s. 284-225.rep. No. 41, 2005Subdivision 284-E s 284-250..........ad No 101, 2013s 284-255..........ad No 101, 2013Division 286 Division 286..............ad. No. 91, 2000Subdivision 286-A s. 286-1...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 117, 2002Subdivision 286-B s. 286-25...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 117, 2002Subdivision 286-C Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s 286-75...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 117, 2002; No 16, 2003; No 9, 2007; No 45, 2008; No 114, 2009; No  133, 2009; No 93, 2011; No 14, 2012; No 96, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 70, 2015; No 52, 2016; No  53, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 81, 2016; No 8, 2019s 286-80...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 117, 2002; No 16, 2003; No 9, 2007; No 80, 2007; No 45, 2008; No  133, 2009; No 93, 2011; No 14, 2012; No 96, 2014; No 53, 2016; No 27, 2017; No 55, 2017; No 64, 2020; No 134, 2024Link note to s. 286-80..rep. No. 41, 2005Division 288 Division 288 heading.........rs. No. 91, 2000s. 288-5...........Subdivision 286-A s. 286-1...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 117, 2002Subdivision 286-B s. 286-25...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 117, 2002Subdivision 286-C Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s 286-75...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 117, 2002; No 16, 2003; No 9, 2007; No 45, 2008; No 114, 2009; No  133, 2009; No 93, 2011; No 14, 2012; No 96, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 70, 2015; No 52, 2016; No  53, 2016; No 55, 2016; No 81, 2016; No 8, 2019s 286-80...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 117, 2002; No 16, 2003; No 9, 2007; No 80, 2007; No 45, 2008; No  133, 2009; No 93, 2011; No 14, 2012; No 96, 2014; No 53, 2016; No 27, 2017; No 55, 2017; No 64, 2020; No 134, 2024Link note to s. 286-80..rep. No. 41, 2005Division 288 Division 288 heading.........rs. No. 91, 2000s. 288-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 91, 2000s. 288-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 101, 2004; No. 32, 2006; No 124, 2013s. 288-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 91, 2000s. 288-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 101, 2004; No. 32, 2006; No. 58, 2006; No.  39, 2012; No 124, 2013s 288-25...........ad No. 91, 2000 am No 84, 2022s. 288-30...........ad. No. 91, 2000s. 288-35...........ad. No. 91, 2000s. 288-40...........ad. No. 92, 2000s 288-45...........ad No 92, 2000 am No 21, 2010; No 77, 2017s 288-46...........ad No 77, 2017s. 288-50...........ad. No. 92, 2000 am. No. 21, 2010s. 288-70ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 91, 2000s. 288-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 101, 2004; No. 32, 2006; No 124, 2013s. 288-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 91, 2000s. 288-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 101, 2004; No. 32, 2006; No. 58, 2006; No.  39, 2012; No 124, 2013s 288-25...........ad No. 91, 2000 am No 84, 2022s. 288-30...........ad. No. 91, 2000s. 288-35...........ad. No. 91, 2000s. 288-40...........ad. No. 92, 2000s 288-45...........ad No 92, 2000 am No 21, 2010; No 77, 2017s 288-46...........ad No 77, 2017s. 288-50...........ad. No. 92, 2000 am. No. 21, 2010s. 288-70...........ad. No. 83, 2004 am. No. 45, 2008; No 70, 2015s. 288-75...........ad. No. 23, 2005 rs. No. 126, 2009Link note to s. 288-75..rep. No. 41, 2005s. 288-80...........ad. No. 147, 2005 am. No. 143, 2007; No. 12, 2012s. 288-85...........ad. No. 9, 2007 rep. No. 56, 2010 ad No 23, 2016s. 288-90...........ad. No. 9, 2007 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s. 288-95...........ad. No. 9, 2007 am. No. 75, 2012; Nos 82 and 118, 2013; No 21, 2015; No 81, 2016s. 288-100..........ad. No. 9, 2007 am No 82, 2013; No 81, 2016s. 288-105..........ad. No. 9, 2007s. 288-110..........ad. No. 91, 2012ad. No. 83, 2004 am. No. 45, 2008; No 70, 2015s. 288-75...........ad. No. 23, 2005 rs. No. 126, 2009Link note to s. 288-75..rep. No. 41, 2005s. 288-80...........ad. No. 147, 2005 am. No. 143, 2007; No. 12, 2012s. 288-85...........ad. No. 9, 2007 rep. No. 56, 2010 ad No 23, 2016s. 288-90...........ad. No. 9, 2007 am No 21, 2015 rep No 81, 2016s. 288-95...........ad. No. 9, 2007 am. No. 75, 2012; Nos 82 and 118, 2013; No 21, 2015; No 81, 2016s. 288-100..........ad. No. 9, 2007 am No 82, 2013; No 81, 2016s. 288-105..........ad. No. 9, 2007s. 288-110..........ad. No. 91, 2012 am. No. 158, 2012s 288-115..........ad No 53, 2016s 288-115 (second occurring) ad No 52, 2016 renum ed C137s 288-120 (prev s 288-115second occurring) s 288-125..........ad No 121, 2018s 288-130..........ad No 121, 2018s 288-135..........ad No 121, 2018s 288-140..........ad No 138, 2024Division 290 Division 290..............ad. No. 32, 2006Subdivision 290-A Subdivision 290-A heading rs No 84, 2013s 290-5............ad No 32, 2006 am No 37, 2024s 290-10...........ad No 84, 2013Subdivision 290-B  am. No. 158, 2012s 288-115..........ad No 53, 2016s 288-115 (second occurring) ad No 52, 2016 renum ed C137s 288-120 (prev s 288-115second occurring) s 288-125..........ad No 121, 2018s 288-130..........ad No 121, 2018s 288-135..........ad No 121, 2018s 288-140..........ad No 138, 2024Division 290 Division 290..............ad. No. 32, 2006Subdivision 290-A Subdivision 290-A heading rs No 84, 2013s 290-5............ad No 32, 2006 am No 37, 2024s 290-10...........ad No 84, 2013Subdivision 290-B s 290-50...........ad No 32, 2006 am No 56, 2010; No 37, 2024s 290-55...........ad No 32, 2006 am No 37, 2024s 290-60...........ad No 32, 2006 am No 37, 2024s 290-65...........ad No 32, 2006 am No 37, 2024Subdivision 290-C s 290-120..........ad No 32, 2006 am No 37, 2024s. 290-125..........ad. No. 32, 2006s. 290-130..........ad. No. 32, 2006s 290-135..........ad No 32, 2006 am No 37, 2024s. 290-140..........ad. No. 32, 2006s. 290-145..........ad. No. 32, 2006s. 290-150..........ad. No. 32, 2006Subdivision 290-D s. 290-200..........ad. No. 32, 2006Division 295 Division 295..............ad No 82, 2018Subdivision 295-B s 295-70...........ad No 82, 2018s 295-75...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 295-80...........ad No 82, 2018Division 298 Division 298 heading.........rs. No. 101, 2004; No. 32, 2006Subdivision 298-A Subdivision 298-A heading ad. No. 32, 2006s 298-5............ad No 179, 1999 rs No 91, 2000; No 73, 2001 am No 101, 2004 rs No 32, 2006 am No 58, 2006; No 80, 2006; No 4, 2007; No 9, 2007; No 15, 2007; No 32, 2008; No 88, 2009; No 11, 2014; No 110, 2014; No 10, 2016; No 8, 2019; No 49, 2019; No 84, 2022; No 52, 2024s 298-10...........ad No 179, 1999 am No 75, 2005; No 55, 2017s. 298-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000s. 298-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 75, 2005s. 298-25...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 101, 2006s 298-30...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 2, 2015; No 53, 2016Link note to s 298-30...ad No 67, 2003 rep No 41, 2005Subdivision 298-B Subdivision 298-B....ad. No. 32, 2006s. 298-80...........ad. No. 32, 2006 rs. No. 114, 2009 am No 82, 2018s. 298-85...........ad. No. 32, 2006s 298-10...........ad No 179, 1999 am No 75, 2005; No 55, 2017s. 298-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000s. 298-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 75, 2005s. 298-25...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 101, 2006s 298-30...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 2, 2015; No 53, 2016Link note to s 298-30...ad No 67, 2003 rep No 41, 2005Subdivision 298-B Subdivision 298-B....ad. No. 32, 2006s. 298-80...........ad. No. 32, 2006 rs. No. 114, 2009 am No 82, 2018s. 298-85...........ad. No. 32, 2006s. 298-90...........ad. No. 32, 2006s. 298-95...........ad. No. 32, 2006s. 298-100..........ad. No. 32, 2006s. 298-105..........ad. No. 32, 2006s. 298-110..........ad. No. 32, 2006Part 4-30 Part 4-30...........ad No 82, 2018Division 308 s 308-1............ad No 82, 2018Subdivision 308-A s 308-5............ad No 82, 2018s 308-10...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-15...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-20...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-25...........s. 298-90...........ad. No. 32, 2006s. 298-95...........ad. No. 32, 2006s. 298-100..........ad. No. 32, 2006s. 298-105..........ad. No. 32, 2006s. 298-110..........ad. No. 32, 2006Part 4-30 Part 4-30...........ad No 82, 2018Division 308 s 308-1............ad No 82, 2018Subdivision 308-A s 308-5............ad No 82, 2018s 308-10...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-15...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-20...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-25...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-30...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-35...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-40...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-45...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-50...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-55...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 119, 2023Subdivision 308-B s 308-105..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-110..........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-115..........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-120..........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-30...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-35...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-40...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-45...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-50...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-55...........ad No 82, 2018 am No 119, 2023Subdivision 308-B s 308-105..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-110..........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-115..........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-120..........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-125..........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-130..........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-135..........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024Subdivision 308-C s 308-200..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-205..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-210..........ad No 82, 2018Subdivision 308-E s 308-500..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-505..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-510..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-515..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-520..........ad No 82, 2018Part 4-50 ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-125..........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-130..........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024s 308-135..........ad No 82, 2018 am No 51, 2024Subdivision 308-C s 308-200..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-205..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-210..........ad No 82, 2018Subdivision 308-E s 308-500..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-505..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-510..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-515..........ad No 82, 2018s 308-520..........ad No 82, 2018Part 4-50 Part 4-50...........ad. No. 67, 2003Division 340 Division 340 heading.........rs. No. 56, 2010s. 340-1...........ad. No. 67, 2003Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s. 340-5...........ad. No. 67, 2003 am. No. 58, 2006s 340-10...........ad No 67, 2003 am No 75, 2005; No 101, 2006; No 32, 2008; No 79, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 58, 2012; No  110, 2014; No 2, 2015; No 8, 2019s. 340-15...........ad. No. 67, 2003s. 340-20...........ad. No. 67, 2003s. 340-25...........ad. No. 67, 2003Link note to s. 340-25..rep. No. 41, 2005Division 342 Division 342..............ad. No. 56, 2010s. 342-1...........ad. No. 56, 2010Subdivision 342-Part 4-50...........ad. No. 67, 2003Division 340 Division 340 heading.........rs. No. 56, 2010s. 340-1...........ad. No. 67, 2003Link note to Guide..........rep. No. 41, 2005s. 340-5...........ad. No. 67, 2003 am. No. 58, 2006s 340-10...........ad No 67, 2003 am No 75, 2005; No 101, 2006; No 32, 2008; No 79, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 58, 2012; No  110, 2014; No 2, 2015; No 8, 2019s. 340-15...........ad. No. 67, 2003s. 340-20...........ad. No. 67, 2003s. 340-25...........ad. No. 67, 2003Link note to s. 340-25..rep. No. 41, 2005Division 342 Division 342..............ad. No. 56, 2010s. 342-1...........ad. No. 56, 2010Subdivision 342-----------------------------A s. 342-5...........ad. No. 56, 2010s. 342-10...........ad. No. 56, 2010Part 4-90 Part 4-90...........ad. No. 39, 2012Division 350 s. 350-1...........ad. No. 39, 2012 am No 2, 2015; No 64, 2020Subdivision 350-A s. 350-5...........ad. No. 39, 2012 rs. No. 14, 2012 am No 82, 2013 rs No 2, 2015s 350-10...........ad No 39, 2012 am No 14, 2012; No 39, 2012 (as am by No 15, 2017 (amdt never applied (Sch 4 item 93))); No 71, 2012; No 2, 2015; No 15, 2017 (amdt never applied (Sch 4 item  89)); No 64, 2020; No 8, 2022s 350-12...........ad No 64, 2020s 350-15...........ad No 39, 2012s 350-20...........A s. 342-5...........ad. No. 56, 2010s. 342-10...........ad. No. 56, 2010Part 4-90 Part 4-90...........ad. No. 39, 2012Division 350 s. 350-1...........ad. No. 39, 2012 am No 2, 2015; No 64, 2020Subdivision 350-A s. 350-5...........ad. No. 39, 2012 rs. No. 14, 2012 am No 82, 2013 rs No 2, 2015s 350-10...........ad No 39, 2012 am No 14, 2012; No 39, 2012 (as am by No 15, 2017 (amdt never applied (Sch 4 item 93))); No 71, 2012; No 2, 2015; No 15, 2017 (amdt never applied (Sch 4 item  89)); No 64, 2020; No 8, 2022s 350-12...........ad No 64, 2020s 350-15...........ad No 39, 2012s 350-20...........ad No 64, 2020s 350-25...........ad No 64, 2020Chapter 5 Chapter 5 heading...........ad. No. 73, 2006Part 5-1 Part 5-1............ad. No. 179, 1999Division 352 Division 352 heading.........rs No 89, 2016Division 352..............ad. No. 73, 2006s. 352-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 14, 2012; No 96, 2014; No 89, 2016Subdivision 352-A s. 352-5...........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 352-B....ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 352-10...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014Subdivision 352-Cad No 64, 2020s 350-25...........ad No 64, 2020Chapter 5 Chapter 5 heading...........ad. No. 73, 2006Part 5-1 Part 5-1............ad. No. 179, 1999Division 352 Division 352 heading.........rs No 89, 2016Division 352..............ad. No. 73, 2006s. 352-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 14, 2012; No 96, 2014; No 89, 2016Subdivision 352-A s. 352-5...........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 352-B....ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 352-10...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014Subdivision 352-C Subdivision 352-C....ad No 89, 2016s 352-25...........ad No 89, 2016Division 353 Group heading to s 353-1ad No 8, 2019s 353-1............ad No 8, 2019Subdivision 353-A Subdivision 353-A heading ad No 8, 2019s. 353-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 67, 2003; No. 73, 2006; No. 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 2, 2015Link note to s. 353-10..ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 41, 2005s. 353-15...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 2, 2015s. 353-17...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 353-20...........ad. No. 55, 2007 am. No. 88, 2009Subdivision  Subdivision 352-C....ad No 89, 2016s 352-25...........ad No 89, 2016Division 353 Group heading to s 353-1ad No 8, 2019s 353-1............ad No 8, 2019Subdivision 353-A Subdivision 353-A heading ad No 8, 2019s. 353-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 67, 2003; No. 73, 2006; No. 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 2, 2015Link note to s. 353-10..ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 41, 2005s. 353-15...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 14, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 2, 2015s. 353-17...........ad. No. 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014s. 353-20...........ad. No. 55, 2007 am. No. 88, 2009Subdivision 353-B Subdivision 353-B....ad No 8, 2019s 353-25...........ad No 8, 2019s 353-30...........ad No 8, 2019Division 354 Division 354..............ad No 150, 2015s 354-5............ad No 150, 2015Division 355 Division 355..............ad. No. 73, 2006 rs. No. 145, 2010s. 355-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rs. No. 145, 2010 am No 21, 2015Subdivision 355-A s. 355-5...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 100, 2006 rep. No. 145, 2010s. 355-10...........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-15-B Subdivision 353-B....ad No 8, 2019s 353-25...........ad No 8, 2019s 353-30...........ad No 8, 2019Division 354 Division 354..............ad No 150, 2015s 354-5............ad No 150, 2015Division 355 Division 355..............ad. No. 73, 2006 rs. No. 145, 2010s. 355-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006 rs. No. 145, 2010 am No 21, 2015Subdivision 355-A s. 355-5...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 100, 2006 rep. No. 145, 2010s. 355-10...........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-15...........ad. No. 145, 2010Subdivision 355-B s. 355-20...........ad. No. 145, 2010s 355-25...........ad No 145, 2010 am No 21, 2015; No 127, 2021; No 134, 2024s. 355-30...........ad. No. 145, 2010 am. No. 39, 2012s. 355-35...........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-40...........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-45...........ad. No. 145, 2010s 355-47...........ad No 124, 2013s 355-50...........ad No 145, 2010 am No 124, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 110, 2014; No 55, 2016; No 8, 2019; No 92, 2020; No 51, 2024s 355-55...........ad No 145, 2010 am No 39, 2012; No 62, 2014; No 126, 2015; No 150, 2015; No 96, 2016s 355-60...........ad No 145, 2010s 355-65...........ad No 145, 2010ad. No. 145, 2010Subdivision 355-B s. 355-20...........ad. No. 145, 2010s 355-25...........ad No 145, 2010 am No 21, 2015; No 127, 2021; No 134, 2024s. 355-30...........ad. No. 145, 2010 am. No. 39, 2012s. 355-35...........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-40...........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-45...........ad. No. 145, 2010s 355-47...........ad No 124, 2013s 355-50...........ad No 145, 2010 am No 124, 2013; No 96, 2014; No 110, 2014; No 55, 2016; No 8, 2019; No 92, 2020; No 51, 2024s 355-55...........ad No 145, 2010 am No 39, 2012; No 62, 2014; No 126, 2015; No 150, 2015; No 96, 2016s 355-60...........ad No 145, 2010s 355-65...........ad No 145, 2010 am No 56, 2010; No 105, 2010; No 32, 2011; No 41, 2011; No 132, 2011; No  147, 2011; No 12, 2012; No 57, 2012; No 71, 2012; No 75, 2012; No  158, 2012; No 169, 2012; No 26, 2013; No 102, 2013; No 105, 2013; No 124, 2013; No 82, 2014; No  83, 2014; No 110, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 41, 2015; No 70, 2015; No 81, 2015; No 130, 2015; No 150, 2015; No 154, 2015; No 162, 2015 (Sch 4 item  26 md not incorp); No 63, 2016; No 82, 2016; No 89, 2016; No 96, 2016; No 15, 2017; No 64, 2017; No 91, 2017; No 132, 2017; No 4, 2018; No 13, 2018; No 116, 2018; No 125, 2018; No 8, 2019 ed C160 am No 8, 2019; No 34, 2019; No 38, 2020; No 64, 2020; No 79, 2020; No 81, 2020; No 89, 2020; No 114, 2020; No 66, 2021; No 71, 2021; No 79, 2021; No 101, 2021; No 111, 2021; No 75, 2022; No 89, 2022; No 61, 2023; No 75, 2023; No 76, 2023; No 37, 2024; No 52, 2024; No 9, 2025s 355-66...........ad No 75, 2022s 355-67...........ad No 141, 2020 am No 141, 2020s 355-70...........ad No 145, 2010 am No 145, 2010; No 39, 2012; No 74, 2012: No 84, 2013; No 108, 2014; No 110, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 153, 2015; No 162, 2015; No 86, 2016; No 89, 2022s 355-72...........ad No 95, 2019s. 355-75...........ad. No. 145, 2010 rs No 150, 2015Subdivision 355-C s. 355-150..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-155..........ad. No. 145, 2010 am No 150, 2015s. 355-160..........am No 56, 2010; No 105, 2010; No 32, 2011; No 41, 2011; No 132, 2011; No  147, 2011; No 12, 2012; No 57, 2012; No 71, 2012; No 75, 2012; No  158, 2012; No 169, 2012; No 26, 2013; No 102, 2013; No 105, 2013; No 124, 2013; No 82, 2014; No  83, 2014; No 110, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 41, 2015; No 70, 2015; No 81, 2015; No 130, 2015; No 150, 2015; No 154, 2015; No 162, 2015 (Sch 4 item  26 md not incorp); No 63, 2016; No 82, 2016; No 89, 2016; No 96, 2016; No 15, 2017; No 64, 2017; No 91, 2017; No 132, 2017; No 4, 2018; No 13, 2018; No 116, 2018; No 125, 2018; No 8, 2019 ed C160 am No 8, 2019; No 34, 2019; No 38, 2020; No 64, 2020; No 79, 2020; No 81, 2020; No 89, 2020; No 114, 2020; No 66, 2021; No 71, 2021; No 79, 2021; No 101, 2021; No 111, 2021; No 75, 2022; No 89, 2022; No 61, 2023; No 75, 2023; No 76, 2023; No 37, 2024; No 52, 2024; No 9, 2025s 355-66...........ad No 75, 2022s 355-67...........ad No 141, 2020 am No 141, 2020s 355-70...........ad No 145, 2010 am No 145, 2010; No 39, 2012; No 74, 2012: No 84, 2013; No 108, 2014; No 110, 2014; No 21, 2015; No 153, 2015; No 162, 2015; No 86, 2016; No 89, 2022s 355-72...........ad No 95, 2019s. 355-75...........ad. No. 145, 2010 rs No 150, 2015Subdivision 355-C s. 355-150..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-155..........ad. No. 145, 2010 am No 150, 2015s. 355-160..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-165..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-170..........ad. No. 145, 2010s 355-172..........ad No 124, 2013s. 355-175..........ad. No. 145, 2010s 355-180..........ad No 145, 2010s 355-181..........ad No 37, 2024s 355-182..........ad No 82, 2016s 355-185..........ad No 145, 2010 am No 108, 2014 rs No 73, 2023s. 355-190..........ad. No. 145, 2010s 355-192..........ad No 89, 2022s. 355-195..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-200..........ad. No. 145, 2010 am No 197, 2012; No 2, 2015s. 355-205..........ad. No. 145, 2010 rs No 150, 2015s 355-210ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-165..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-170..........ad. No. 145, 2010s 355-172..........ad No 124, 2013s. 355-175..........ad. No. 145, 2010s 355-180..........ad No 145, 2010s 355-181..........ad No 37, 2024s 355-182..........ad No 82, 2016s 355-185..........ad No 145, 2010 am No 108, 2014 rs No 73, 2023s. 355-190..........ad. No. 145, 2010s 355-192..........ad No 89, 2022s. 355-195..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-200..........ad. No. 145, 2010 am No 197, 2012; No 2, 2015s. 355-205..........ad. No. 145, 2010 rs No 150, 2015s 355-210..........ad No 145, 2010 am No 37, 2024s 355-215..........ad No 95, 2019Subdivision 355-D s. 355-260..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-265..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-270..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-275..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-280..........ad. No. 145, 2010Subdivision 355-E s. 355-320..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-325..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-330..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-335..........ad. No. 145, 2010Division 356 Division 356..............ad. No. 73, 2006s. 356-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006ad No 145, 2010 am No 37, 2024s 355-215..........ad No 95, 2019Subdivision 355-D s. 355-260..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-265..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-270..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-275..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-280..........ad. No. 145, 2010Subdivision 355-E s. 355-320..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-325..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-330..........ad. No. 145, 2010s. 355-335..........ad. No. 145, 2010Division 356 Division 356..............ad. No. 73, 2006s. 356-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am No 64, 2017Subdivision 356-A s. 356-5...........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 356-B Subdivision 356-B....ad No 64, 2017s 356-10...........ad No 64, 2017Subdivision 356-C Subdivision 356-C....ad No 24, 2022s 356-15...........ad No 24, 2022Subdivision 356-D Subdivision 356-D....ad No 134, 2024s 356-20...........ad No 134, 2024Part 5-5 Part 5-5............ad. No. 179, 1999Division 357 Division 357..............ad No 161, 2005s 357-1............ am No 64, 2017Subdivision 356-A s. 356-5...........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 356-B Subdivision 356-B....ad No 64, 2017s 356-10...........ad No 64, 2017Subdivision 356-C Subdivision 356-C....ad No 24, 2022s 356-15...........ad No 24, 2022Subdivision 356-D Subdivision 356-D....ad No 134, 2024s 356-20...........ad No 134, 2024Part 5-5 Part 5-5............ad. No. 179, 1999Division 357 Division 357..............ad No 161, 2005s 357-1............ad No 161, 2005 am No 54, 2016; No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021Subdivision 357-A s 357-5............ad No 161, 2005 am No 54, 2016; No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021Subdivision 357-B s 357-50...........ad No 161, 2005 am No 54, 2016; No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 357-55...........ad No 161, 2005 am No 73, 2006; No 78, 2006; No 74, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 14, 2012; No 39, 2012; No 96, 2014; No 64, 2017; No 24, 2022; No 134, 2024; No 138, 2024s. 357-60...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 74, 2010s. 357-65...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-70...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-75...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 74, 2010s. 357-80...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-85...........ad. No. 161, 2005ad No 161, 2005 am No 54, 2016; No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021Subdivision 357-A s 357-5............ad No 161, 2005 am No 54, 2016; No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021Subdivision 357-B s 357-50...........ad No 161, 2005 am No 54, 2016; No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 357-55...........ad No 161, 2005 am No 73, 2006; No 78, 2006; No 74, 2010; No 12, 2012; No 14, 2012; No 39, 2012; No 96, 2014; No 64, 2017; No 24, 2022; No 134, 2024; No 138, 2024s. 357-60...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 74, 2010s. 357-65...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-70...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-75...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 74, 2010s. 357-80...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-85...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-90...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-95...........ad. No. 161, 2005s 357-100..........ad No 161, 2005 am No 39, 2012 rep No 64, 2020s. 357-105..........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-110..........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-115..........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-120..........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-125..........ad. No. 161, 2005Division 358 Division 358..............ad. No. 161, 2005s. 358-1...........ad. No. 161, 2005s 358-5............ad No 161, 2005 am No 64, 2020s. 358-10...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 74, 2010s. 358-15s. 357-90...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-95...........ad. No. 161, 2005s 357-100..........ad No 161, 2005 am No 39, 2012 rep No 64, 2020s. 357-105..........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-110..........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-115..........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-120..........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 357-125..........ad. No. 161, 2005Division 358 Division 358..............ad. No. 161, 2005s. 358-1...........ad. No. 161, 2005s 358-5............ad No 161, 2005 am No 64, 2020s. 358-10...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 74, 2010s. 358-15...........ad. No. 161, 2005s 358-20...........ad No 161, 2005 am No 74, 2010; No 64, 2020Division 359 Division 359..............ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-1...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-5...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-10...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-15...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-20...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-25...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 74, 2010s. 359-30...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 74, 2010s 359-35...........ad No 161, 2005 am No 134, 2024s. 359-40...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-45...........ad. No. ad. No. 161, 2005s 358-20...........ad No 161, 2005 am No 74, 2010; No 64, 2020Division 359 Division 359..............ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-1...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-5...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-10...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-15...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-20...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-25...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 74, 2010s. 359-30...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 74, 2010s 359-35...........ad No 161, 2005 am No 134, 2024s. 359-40...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-45...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-50...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-55...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 74, 2010s. 359-60...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 74, 2010s. 359-65...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 359-70...........ad. No. 161, 2005Division 360 Division 360..............rs. No. 161, 2005s. 360-1...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rs. No. 161, 2005s. 360-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rs. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 74, 2010; No. 14, 2012; No 96, 2014s. 360-10...........ad. No. 161, 2005s. 360-15...........ad. No. 161, 2005Subdivision 360-A....rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-25...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-30...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-35...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-40...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005Subdivision 360-B....rep. No. 161, 2005Group heading to...........Subdivision 360-Brs. No. 44, 2000rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-60...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-65...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-70......................ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-25...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-30...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-35...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-40...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005Subdivision 360-B....rep. No. 161, 2005Group heading to...........Subdivision 360-Brs. No. 44, 2000rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-60...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-65...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-70...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-75...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000; No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-77...........ad. No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-80...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-85...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000; No. 23, 2005 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-100..........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 57, 2002; No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-105..........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-110..........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-75...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000; No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-77...........ad. No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-80...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-85...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 44, 2000; No. 23, 2005 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-100..........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 57, 2002; No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-105..........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-110..........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-115..........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 23, 2005 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-120..........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005Subdivision 360-C....rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-140..........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 57, 2002; No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-145..........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 57, 2002 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-150..........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-155..........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005Subdivision 360-D....rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-175..........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-115..........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 23, 2005 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-120..........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005Subdivision 360-C....rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-140..........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 57, 2002; No. 66, 2003 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-145..........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 57, 2002 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-150..........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-155..........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005Subdivision 360-D....rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-175..........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 161, 2005s. 360-180..........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000 rep. No. 161, 2005Link note to s. 360-180.ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000 rep. No. 41, 2005Division 361 Division 361..............ad. No. 161, 2005s. 361-5...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 56, 2010Division 362 Division 362 heading.........am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021Division 362..............ad No 54, 2016s 362-1............ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021Group heading to s 362-5am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-5............ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 124, 2018; No 64, 2020; No 101, 2021s 362-10...........s. 360-180..........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000 rep. No. 161, 2005Link note to s. 360-180.ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000 rep. No. 41, 2005Division 361 Division 361..............ad. No. 161, 2005s. 361-5...........ad. No. 161, 2005 am. No. 56, 2010Division 362 Division 362 heading.........am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021Division 362..............ad No 54, 2016s 362-1............ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021Group heading to s 362-5am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-5............ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 124, 2018; No 64, 2020; No 101, 2021s 362-10...........ad No 54, 2016s 362-15...........ad No 54, 2016s 362-20...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 64, 2020; No 101, 2021Group heading to s 362-25 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-25...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 124, 2018; No 101, 2021s 362-30...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-35...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-40...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-45...........ad No 54, 2016s 362-50...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-55...........ad No 54, 2016s 362-60...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-65...........ad No 54, 2016s 362-15...........ad No 54, 2016s 362-20...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 64, 2020; No 101, 2021Group heading to s 362-25 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-25...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 124, 2018; No 101, 2021s 362-30...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-35...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-40...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-45...........ad No 54, 2016s 362-50...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-55...........ad No 54, 2016s 362-60...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-65...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-70...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-75...........ad No 54, 2016Part 5-10 Part 5-10...........ad No 15, 2017Division 370 s 370-1............ad No 15, 2017Subdivision 370-A s 370-5............ad No 15, 2017s 370-10...........ad No 15, 2017s 370-15...........ad No 15, 2017s 370-20...........ad No 15, 2017Part 5-25 Part 5-25 heading.....rs No 162, 2015Part 5-25...........ad. No. 91, 2000Division 382 ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-70...........ad No 54, 2016 am No 63, 2016; No 101, 2021s 362-75...........ad No 54, 2016Part 5-10 Part 5-10...........ad No 15, 2017Division 370 s 370-1............ad No 15, 2017Subdivision 370-A s 370-5............ad No 15, 2017s 370-10...........ad No 15, 2017s 370-15...........ad No 15, 2017s 370-20...........ad No 15, 2017Part 5-25 Part 5-25 heading.....rs No 162, 2015Part 5-25...........ad. No. 91, 2000Division 382 Division 382..............ad. No. 73, 2006s. 382-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 55, 2007Subdivision 382-A s 382-5............ad No 73, 2006 am No 20, 2010; No 39, 2012; No 70, 2015; No 72, 2025Subdivision 382-B Subdivision 382-B....ad. No. 55, 2007s. 382-15...........ad. No. 55, 2007Subdivision 382-C Subdivision 382-C....ad No 134, 2024s 382-20...........ad No 134, 2024Division 384 Division 384..............ad No 8, 2019s 384-5............ad No 8, 2019s 384-10...........ad No 8, 2019 am No 84, 2022Division 382..............ad. No. 73, 2006s. 382-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 55, 2007Subdivision 382-A s 382-5............ad No 73, 2006 am No 20, 2010; No 39, 2012; No 70, 2015; No 72, 2025Subdivision 382-B Subdivision 382-B....ad. No. 55, 2007s. 382-15...........ad. No. 55, 2007Subdivision 382-C Subdivision 382-C....ad No 134, 2024s 382-20...........ad No 134, 2024Division 384 Division 384..............ad No 8, 2019s 384-5............ad No 8, 2019s 384-10...........ad No 8, 2019 am No 84, 2022s 384-12...........ad No 84, 2022s 384-15...........ad No 8, 2019 rs No 84, 2022s 384-17...........ad No 84, 2022s 384-20...........ad No 8, 2019 am No 84, 2022s 384-25...........ad No 8, 2019s 384-30...........ad No 8, 2019 am No 84, 2022s 384-35...........ad No 8, 2019 am No 84, 2022s 384-40...........ad No 8, 2019 am No 84, 2022Division 388 Subdivision 388-A s. 388-5...........ad. No. 91, 2000Subdivision 388-B s. 388-50...........ad. No. 91, 2000s 384-12...........ad No 84, 2022s 384-15...........ad No 8, 2019 rs No 84, 2022s 384-17...........ad No 84, 2022s 384-20...........ad No 8, 2019 am No 84, 2022s 384-25...........ad No 8, 2019s 384-30...........ad No 8, 2019 am No 84, 2022s 384-35...........ad No 8, 2019 am No 84, 2022s 384-40...........ad No 8, 2019 am No 84, 2022Division 388 Subdivision 388-A s. 388-5...........ad. No. 91, 2000Subdivision 388-B s. 388-50...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 73, 2001; No. 58, 2006s. 388-52...........ad. No. 73, 2001s. 388-55...........ad. No. 91, 2000s. 388-60...........ad. No. 91, 2000s. 388-65...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 161, 2005; No. 41, 2011; No 135, 2024s 388-70...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 135, 2024s. 388-75...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 73, 2001s. 388-80...........ad. No. 91, 2000s. 388-85...........ad. No. 91, 2000Division 389 Division 389..............ad No 55, 2016s 389-1............ad No 55, 2016 rs No 8, 2019; No 79, 2020 am No 135, 2024Heading preceding s 389-5 ad No 135, 2024 am. No. 73, 2001; No. 58, 2006s. 388-52...........ad. No. 73, 2001s. 388-55...........ad. No. 91, 2000s. 388-60...........ad. No. 91, 2000s. 388-65...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 161, 2005; No. 41, 2011; No 135, 2024s 388-70...........ad No 91, 2000 am No 135, 2024s. 388-75...........ad. No. 91, 2000 am. No. 73, 2001s. 388-80...........ad. No. 91, 2000s. 388-85...........ad. No. 91, 2000Division 389 Division 389..............ad No 55, 2016s 389-1............ad No 55, 2016 rs No 8, 2019; No 79, 2020 am No 135, 2024Heading preceding s 389-5 ad No 135, 2024s 389-5............ad No 55, 2016 am No 8, 2019; No 4, 2023s 389-10...........ad No 55, 2016s 389-15...........ad No 55, 2016 am No 8, 2019; No 79, 2020s 389-20...........ad No 55, 2016 am No 23, 2018s 389-25...........ad No 55, 2016 am No 8, 2019s 389-30...........ad No 79, 2020s 389-35ad No 135, 2024Division 390 Division 390...............ad No 9, 2007s. 390-1...........ad No 9, 2007 am No 15, 2007; No 56, 2010; No 81, 2016Subdivision 390-A Subdivision 390-A heading rs. No. 158, 2012s 390-5............ad No 9, 2007 am No 158, 2012; No 82, 2013; No 118, 2013; No 13, 2018; No 8, 2019; No 78, 2019; No 76, 2023s 390-7............ad No 8, 2019s. 390-10...........ad. No. 9, 2007 am. No. 15, 2007; No 21, 2015s 390-12...........ad No 181, 2012s. 390-15...........ad. No. 9, 2007 am No 181, 2012; No 81, 2016s 390-20...........ad No 81, 2016Subdivision 390-B s. 390-65...........ad. No. 9, 2007 am No 82, 2013; No 81, 2016Subdivision 390-C s. 390-115..........ad. No. 9, 2007Division 391..............ad. No. 45, 2008 rep No 70, 2015s. 391-1...........ad. No. 45, 2008 rep No 70, 2015s. 391-5...........ad. No. 45, 2008 82, 2013; No 118, 2013; No 13, 2018; No 8, 2019; No 78, 2019; No 76, 2023s 390-7............ad No 8, 2019s. 390-10...........ad. No. 9, 2007 am. No. 15, 2007; No 21, 2015s 390-12...........ad No 181, 2012s. 390-15...........ad. No. 9, 2007 am No 181, 2012; No 81, 2016s 390-20...........ad No 81, 2016Subdivision 390-B s. 390-65...........ad. No. 9, 2007 am No 82, 2013; No 81, 2016Subdivision 390-C s. 390-115..........ad. No. 9, 2007Division 391..............ad. No. 45, 2008 rep No 70, 2015s. 391-1...........ad. No. 45, 2008 rep No 70, 2015s. 391-5...........ad. No. 45, 2008 am. No. 92, 2008 rep No 70, 2015s. 391-10...........ad. No. 45, 2008 rep No 70, 2015Division 392 Division 392..............ad. No. 133, 2009s. 392-1...........ad. No. 133, 2009Subdivision 392-A s. 392-5...........ad. No. 133, 2009s. 392-10...........ad. No. 133, 2009Subdivision 392-B s. 392-15...........ad. No. 133, 2009Division 393 Division 393..............ad No 2, 2015s 393-1............ad No 2, 2015s 393-5............ad No 2, 2015s 393-10...........ad No 2, 2015 am No 53, 2016 am. No. 92, 2008 rep No 70, 2015s. 391-10...........ad. No. 45, 2008 rep No 70, 2015Division 392 Division 392..............ad. No. 133, 2009s. 392-1...........ad. No. 133, 2009Subdivision 392-A s. 392-5...........ad. No. 133, 2009s. 392-10...........ad. No. 133, 2009Subdivision 392-B s. 392-15...........ad. No. 133, 2009Division 393 Division 393..............ad No 2, 2015s 393-1............ad No 2, 2015s 393-5............ad No 2, 2015s 393-10...........ad No 2, 2015 am No 53, 2016s 393-15...........ad No 2, 2015Division 394 Division 394..............ad. No. 79, 2007s. 394-1...........ad. No. 79, 2007s. 394-5...........ad. No. 79, 2007s. 394-10...........ad. No. 79, 2007Division 396 Division 396 heading.........rs No 162, 2015Division 396..............ad No 67, 2014s 396-1A...........ad No 162, 2015 rs No 23, 2016Subdivision 396-A Subdivision 396-A heading ad No 162, 2015Group heading to s 396-1ad No 162, 2015s 396-1............ad No 67, 2014 am No 162, 2015Group heading to s 396-5ad No 162, 2015s 396-5............ad No 67, 2014s 393-15...........ad No 2, 2015Division 394 Division 394..............ad. No. 79, 2007s. 394-1...........ad. No. 79, 2007s. 394-5...........ad. No. 79, 2007s. 394-10...........ad. No. 79, 2007Division 396 Division 396 heading.........rs No 162, 2015Division 396..............ad No 67, 2014s 396-1A...........ad No 162, 2015 rs No 23, 2016Subdivision 396-A Subdivision 396-A heading ad No 162, 2015Group heading to s 396-1ad No 162, 2015s 396-1............ad No 67, 2014 am No 162, 2015Group heading to s 396-5ad No 162, 2015s 396-5............ad No 67, 2014 am No 23, 2016s 396-10...........ad No 67, 2014 am No 23, 2016s 396-15...........ad No 67, 2014s 396-20...........ad No 67, 2014 am No 162, 2015s 396-25...........ad No 67, 2014Subdivision 396-B Subdivision 396-B....ad No 162, 2015s 396-50...........ad No 162, 2015s 396-55...........ad No 162, 2015 am No 54, 2016; No 121, 2018; No 141, 2018; No 34, 2019; No 84, 2022; No 69, 2023s 396-60...........ad No 162, 2015 am No 54, 2016s 396-65...........ad No 162, 2015 rs No 8, 2019 am No 76, 2023s 396-70...........ad No 162, 2015s 396-75...........ad No 162, 2015Subdivision 396-C Subdivision 396-C....ad No 23, 2016s 396-100..........ad No 23, 2016s 396-105..........ad No 23, 2016s 396-110..........ad No 23, 2016s 396-115..........ad No 23, 2016 am No 141, 2020s 396-120..........ad No 23, 2016s 396-125..........ad No 23, 2016s 396-130..........ad No 23, 2016 am No 141, 2020s 396-135..........ad No 23, 2016s 396-136..........ad No 23, 2016Division 398 Division 398..............ad. No. 79, 2010s. 398-1...........ad. No. 79, 2010Subdivision 398-A ad No 162, 2015Subdivision 396-C Subdivision 396-C....ad No 23, 2016s 396-100..........ad No 23, 2016s 396-105..........ad No 23, 2016s 396-110..........ad No 23, 2016s 396-115..........ad No 23, 2016 am No 141, 2020s 396-120..........ad No 23, 2016s 396-125..........ad No 23, 2016s 396-130..........ad No 23, 2016 am No 141, 2020s 396-135..........ad No 23, 2016s 396-136..........ad No 23, 2016Division 398 Division 398..............ad. No. 79, 2010s. 398-1...........ad. No. 79, 2010Subdivision 398-A s. 398-5...........ad. No. 79, 2010 am. No. 147, 2011Part 5-30 Part 5-30...........ad. No. 179, 1999Division 400 s. 400-1...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 400-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999Division 405 s. 405-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 405-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 405-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999Division 410 s. 410-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 410-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 410-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999Division 415 s. 415-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 415-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 415-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 415-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999Division 417 s. 417-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 417-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 417-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 417-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999Division 420 s. 420-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 32, 2006Division 425 s. 425-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 425-25...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 425-30...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 133, 2003Part 5-35 179, 1999s. 415-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 415-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 415-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999Division 417 s. 417-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 417-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 417-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 417-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999Division 420 s. 420-5...........ad. No. 179, 1999 am. No. 91, 2000; No. 32, 2006Division 425 s. 425-20...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 425-25...........ad. No. 179, 1999s. 425-30...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rep. No. 133, 2003Part 5-35 Part 5-35...........ad. No. 95, 2004Division 426 s 426-1............ad No 95, 2004 am No 88, 2009; No 147, 2011; No 12, 2012; No 69, 2020; No 52, 2024Subdivision 426-A s. 426-5...........ad. No. 95, 2004 am. No. 41, 2011; Nos. 12 and 169, 2012; No 124, 2013s. 426-10...........ad. No. 95, 2004Subdivision 426-B s. 426-15...........ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-20...........ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-25...........ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-30...........ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-35...........ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-40...........ad. No. 95, 2004 am. Nos. 12 and 169, 2012s. 426-45 Part 5-35...........ad. No. 95, 2004Division 426 s 426-1............ad No 95, 2004 am No 88, 2009; No 147, 2011; No 12, 2012; No 69, 2020; No 52, 2024Subdivision 426-A s. 426-5...........ad. No. 95, 2004 am. No. 41, 2011; Nos. 12 and 169, 2012; No 124, 2013s. 426-10...........ad. No. 95, 2004Subdivision 426-B s. 426-15...........ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-20...........ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-25...........ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-30...........ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-35...........ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-40...........ad. No. 95, 2004 am. Nos. 12 and 169, 2012s. 426-45...........ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-50...........ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-55...........ad. No. 95, 2004 am No 141, 2011; No 12, 2012; No 169, 2012; No 70, 2015s. 426-60...........ad. No. 95, 2004Subdivision 426-C Subdivision 426-C heading rs No 69, 2020s 426-65...........ad No 95, 2004 am No 145, 2010; No 41, 2011; No 12, 2012; No 169, 2012; No 124, 2013; No 69, 2020Link note to s. 426-65..ad. No. 95, 2004 (as rep. by No. 58, 2006)Subdivision 426-D Subdivision 426-D heading rs No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024Subdivision 426-D....ad. No. 88, 2009s 426-100..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011 rs No 52, 2024Group heading to s. 426-102 ad. No. 147, 2011ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-50...........ad. No. 95, 2004s. 426-55...........ad. No. 95, 2004 am No 141, 2011; No 12, 2012; No 169, 2012; No 70, 2015s. 426-60...........ad. No. 95, 2004Subdivision 426-C Subdivision 426-C heading rs No 69, 2020s 426-65...........ad No 95, 2004 am No 145, 2010; No 41, 2011; No 12, 2012; No 169, 2012; No 124, 2013; No 69, 2020Link note to s. 426-65..ad. No. 95, 2004 (as rep. by No. 58, 2006)Subdivision 426-D Subdivision 426-D heading rs No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024Subdivision 426-D....ad. No. 88, 2009s 426-100..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011 rs No 52, 2024Group heading to s. 426-102 ad. No. 147, 2011s. 426-102..........ad. No. 147, 2011 am No 88, 2013s. 426-103..........ad. No. 147, 2011s 426-104..........ad No 147, 2011 am No 147, 2011; No 69, 2020s. 426-105..........ad. No. 88, 2009s. 426-110..........ad. No. 88, 2009 am. No. 147, 2011s 426-115..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 88, 2009; No 69, 2020Group heading to s 426-117 ad No 52, 2024s 426-117..........ad No 52, 2024s 426-118..........ad No 52, 2024s 426-119..........ad No 52, 2024s 426-120..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011; No 76, 2023; No 52, 2024s 426-125..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024s 426-130..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024s 426-135..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024s. 426-140..........ad. No. 88, 2009s. 426-145..........ad. No. 88, 2009s 426-150..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024s 426-155..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024s 426-160..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024s 426-165..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 56, 2010; No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024Group heading to s 426-170 ad No 147, 2011 rs No 52, 2024s 426-170..........ad No 147, 2011 rs No 52, 2024Subdivision 426-Es 426-130..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024s 426-135..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024s. 426-140..........ad. No. 88, 2009s. 426-145..........ad. No. 88, 2009s 426-150..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024s 426-155..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024s 426-160..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024s 426-165..........ad No 88, 2009 am No 56, 2010; No 147, 2011; No 52, 2024Group heading to s 426-170 ad No 147, 2011 rs No 52, 2024s 426-170..........ad No 147, 2011 rs No 52, 2024Subdivision 426-E Subdivision 426-E....ad No 52, 2024Group heading to s 426-175 ad No 52, 2024s 426-175..........ad No 52, 2024Group heading to s 426-180 ad No 52, 2024s 426-180..........ad No 52, 2024s 426-185..........ad No 52, 2024s 426-190..........ad No 52, 2024Group heading to s 426-195 ad No 52, 2024s 426-195..........ad No 52, 2024Group heading to s 426-200 ad No 52, 2024s 426-200..........ad No 52, 2024Part 5-45 Part 5-45...........ad. No. 179, 1999Division 444 Division 444..............rs. No. 73, 2006s. 444-1...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 14, 2012Subdivision 444-A s 444-5............ad No 179, 1999 rs No 73, 2006 am No 14, 2012; No 96, 2014; No 134, 2024s. 444-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rs. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 14, 2012; No. 180, 2012; No 96, 2014s. 444-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rs. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 14, 2012 rs. No. 180, 2012 am No 96, 2014Subdivision 444-B s 444-30...........ad No 73, 2006 am No 14, 2012; No 96, 2014; No 37, 2024; No 134, 2024 ed C215Subdivision 444-C s. 444-50...........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 444-A s 444-5............ad No 179, 1999 rs No 73, 2006 am No 14, 2012; No 96, 2014; No 134, 2024s. 444-10...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rs. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 14, 2012; No. 180, 2012; No 96, 2014s. 444-15...........ad. No. 179, 1999 rs. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 14, 2012 rs. No. 180, 2012 am No 96, 2014Subdivision 444-B s 444-30...........ad No 73, 2006 am No 14, 2012; No 96, 2014; No 37, 2024; No 134, 2024 ed C215Subdivision 444-C s. 444-50...........ad. No. 73, 2006Subdivision 444-D s. 444-70...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 118, 2009; No. 14, 2012; No 96, 2014Subdivision 444-E s. 444-80...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 74, 2010s. 444-85...........ad. No. 73, 2006s. 444-90...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 74, 2010Subdivision 444-F Subdivision 444-F.....ad No 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 37, 2024s 444-120..........ad No 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 37, 2024 am No 134, 2024Division 446 Division 446.............. 444-D s. 444-70...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 118, 2009; No. 14, 2012; No 96, 2014Subdivision 444-E s. 444-80...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 74, 2010s. 444-85...........ad. No. 73, 2006s. 444-90...........ad. No. 73, 2006 am. No. 74, 2010Subdivision 444-F Subdivision 444-F.....ad No 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 37, 2024s 444-120..........ad No 14, 2012 rep No 96, 2014 ad No 37, 2024 am No 134, 2024Division 446 Division 446..............ad No 101, 2006s 446-1............ad No 101, 2006s 446-5............ad No 101, 2006 am No 101, 2006; No 133, 2009; No 12, 2012; No 64, 2020Part 5-100 Part 5-100..........ad No 90, 2010Division 850 Subdivision 850-A s 850-100..........ad No 90, 2010 am No 46, 2011; No 12, 2012; No 25, 2018Division 990 Division 990..............ad No 81, 2016Subdivision 990-A s 990-5............ad No 81, 2016
