Taxation Administration Act 1997
Jurisdiction: tasmania
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/tas/consol_act/taa1997269/
Register: https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce/current/act-1997-074
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/tas/consol_act/taa1997269.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-30T03:18:22.444890Z

Taxation Administration Act 1997

   An Act to provide for the administration and enforcement of taxation
   laws

   Be it enacted by His Excellency the Governor of Tasmania, by and with
   the advice and consent of the Legislative Council and House of
   Assembly, in Parliament assembled, as follows:

     PART 1 - Preliminary

   1.   Short title

     This Act may be cited as the Taxation Administration Act 1997 .

   2.   Commencement

     This Act commences on a day to be proclaimed.

   3.   Interpretation

     In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears -

     approval means an approval referred to in Division 2 of Part 6 ;

     approved form means a form approved by the Commissioner;

     assessment means -

     (a) an assessment made under Part 3 of the tax liability of a
     person; and

     (b) a reassessment; and

     (c) a compromise assessment;

     authorised officer means -

     (a) the Commissioner; and

     (b) a person appointed as an authorised officer under section 15 ;

     business day means a day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a
     statutory holiday as defined in the Statutory Holidays Act 2000 ;

     charge includes pass on;

     commencement day means the day on which this Act commences;

     Commissioner means the Commissioner of State Revenue referred to in
     section 7 ;

     compromise assessment means an assessment under section 22 ;

     function includes a duty;

     interest means interest payable under Division 1 of Part 5 ;

     interest rate means the interest rate referred to in section 35 ;

     investigation means an investigation under Part 9 ;

     non-reviewable decision means a decision referred to in section 5 ;

     penalty tax means a tax referred to in Division 2 of Part 5 ;

     premises includes land, a vehicle, a vessel and an aircraft;

     reassessment means reassessment of tax liability under section 19 ;

     record means -

     (a) any instrument, document, record, film, tape, disc or other
     device or medium on which information is recorded or stored
     mechanically, photographically, electronically, electromagnetically
     or otherwise; and

     (b) any other information kept in any form or device;

     Recorder of Titles means the person appointed as Recorder of Titles
     under section 4(1) of the Land Titles Act 1980 ;

     required record is a record required to be kept under a taxation
     law;

     return means a return, statement, certificate, application, report
     or other record that -

     (a) is required or authorised under a taxation law to be lodged with
     the Commissioner or a specified person; and

     (b) is liable to tax or records matters in respect of which there is
     or may be a tax liability;

     tax means -

     (a) a tax or duty payable under a taxation law; and

     (b) interest and penalty tax; and

     (c) any other amount payable by a taxpayer under a taxation law;

     tax agent means a person engaged by a taxpayer for fee or reward,
     otherwise than as an employee, who prepares, or assists in the final
     preparation of, any instrument or return on behalf of the taxpayer;

     taxation law means a law referred to in section 4 ;

     tax default means a failure by a taxpayer to pay the whole or part
     of tax that the taxpayer is liable to pay;

     tax liability means a liability to pay tax;

     tax officer means -

     (a) an authorised officer; and

     (b) any other person engaged in the administration or execution of a
     taxation law;

     taxpayer means a person who -

     (a) is assessed as liable to pay an amount of tax; or

     (b) has paid an amount as tax; or

     (c) is liable or may be liable to pay tax;

     trustee includes -

     (a) a person who is a trustee under an implied or constructive
     trust; and

     (b) in relation to a deceased person, an executor of the will, or an
     administrator of the estate, of the deceased person; and

     (c) a receiver or manager of the property of a company, or a
     liquidator of a company for the purpose of its winding-up; and

     (d) a receiver, guardian, committee or manager of the property of a
     person under a legal or other disability; and

     (e) a person having possession, control or management of a business
     or property of a person who is under a legal or other disability;
     and

     (f) any person acting in a fiduciary capacity.

   4.   Meaning of taxation laws

     The following are taxation laws:

     (a) this Act;

     (ab) Debits Duties Act 2001 ;

     (ac) Duties Act 2001 ;

     (b) Land Tax Rating Act 2000 ;

     (ba) Land Tax Act 2000 ;

     (c) Pay-roll Tax Act 1971 ;

     (d) Payroll Tax Act 2008 .

   5.   Non-reviewable decisions

     If a provision of this Act provides that a decision is a
     non-reviewable decision, any court or administrative review body,
     including the Magistrates Court (Administrative Appeals Division),
     does not have jurisdiction or power to entertain any question as to
     the validity or correctness of the decision.

   6.   Act binds Crown

     (1)  This Act binds the Crown in right of Tasmania and, so far as
     the legislative power of Parliament permits, in all its other
     capacities.

     (2)  This section does not affect the liability of the Crown to tax
     under another taxation law.

     PART 2 - Tax officers

   7.   Commissioner

     The Minister administering the State Service Act 2000 may appoint a
     State Service officer or State Service employee to be Commissioner
     of State Revenue, and that officer or employee holds that office in
     conjunction with State Service employment.

   8.   Functions and powers of Commissioner

     (1)  The Commissioner has the following functions:

     (a) the general administration of the taxation laws;

     (b) any other function imposed on him or her by any other Act.

     (2)  The Commissioner may do anything necessary or convenient to
     give effect to the taxation laws.

   9.   Functions and powers under Commonwealth Act

     The Commissioner may perform the functions and exercise the powers
     of a State taxation officer under Taxation Administration Act 1953
     of the Commonwealth.

   10.   Legal proceedings

     (1)  Legal proceedings may be taken by or against the Commissioner
     in the name "Commissioner of State Revenue".

     (2)  A person who takes legal proceedings in the name of the
     Commissioner is taken to be authorised to take those proceedings, in
     the absence of evidence to the contrary.

   11.   Deputy or Assistant Commissioner

     (1)  The Minister administering the State Service Act 2000 may
     appoint a State Service officer or State Service employee to be a
     Deputy Commissioner of State Revenue or an Assistant Commissioner of
     State Revenue, and that officer or employee holds that office in
     conjunction with State Service employment.

     (2)  Subject to the direction and control of the Commissioner, a
     Deputy Commissioner or an Assistant Commissioner has the same
     functions as the Commissioner under a taxation law or another law
     under the general administration of the Commissioner.

   12.   Other staff

     Subject to and in accordance with the State Service Act 2000 , there
     may be appointed any other persons that are necessary for the
     administration and execution of the taxation laws and other laws
     under the general administration of the Commissioner.

   13.   Consultants and contractors

     The Commissioner may engage any consultants and contractors that may
     be necessary or convenient to perform the functions or exercise the
     powers of the Commissioner.

   14.   Delegation

     The Commissioner may delegate to any person any function or power of
     the Commissioner under a taxation law, other than this power of
     delegation.

   15.   Authorised officers

     The Commissioner may appoint persons as authorised officers for the
     purposes of the taxation laws.

   16.   Identity cards

     The Commissioner is to issue an authorised officer with an identity
     card in an approved form -

     (a) containing the person's name, signature and photograph; and

     (b) stating that the person is an authorised officer for the
     purposes of the taxation laws.

   17.   Personal liability

     The Commissioner or a tax officer is not personally liable for an
     honest act done or omission made in the execution of a taxation law.

     PART 3 - Assessment of tax liability

   18.   General power to make assessment

     (1)  The Commissioner may make an assessment of a tax liability of a
     taxpayer.

     (2)  The Commissioner may include in an assessment a determination
     that there is not a particular tax liability.

   19.   Reassessment

     (1)  The Commissioner may make one or more reassessments of a tax
     liability of a taxpayer.

     (2)  The Commissioner may -

     (a) make a reassessment of a tax liability of a taxpayer after an
     amount previously assessed as being payable by the taxpayer has been
     paid; or

     (b) make a reassessment of a tax liability under which the taxpayer
     is assessed as having liabilities that are additional to, or greater
     than, those under the previous assessment.

     (3)  The Commissioner must not make a reassessment of a tax
     liability more than 5 years after the initial assessment of the
     liability unless -

     (a) the reassessment is to adjust tax to give effect to a decision
     on an objection, review or appeal as to the initial assessment; or

     (b) at the time the initial assessment or a reassessment was made,
     all the facts and circumstances affecting the tax liability under
     the relevant taxation law of the person in respect of whom the
     assessment or reassessment was made were not fully and truly
     disclosed to the Commissioner; or

     (c) the initial assessment was an assessment by way of estimate
     under section 21(2) .

     (4)  The time limited by subsection (3) applies even if the initial
     assessment is withdrawn.

   19A.   Effect on assessment of change in interpretation

     If an assessment is based on a particular interpretation of the
     applicable law or a particular practice of the Commissioner that was
     generally applied to assessments of that kind when the assessment
     was made, the Commissioner cannot make a reassessment based on an
     interpretation or practice that applied after the assessment was
     made, other than to give effect to a change in interpretation or
     practice brought about by a legislative change.

   20.   Instruments and returns to include all relevant information

     (1)  A taxpayer and any tax agent of the taxpayer must include in an
     instrument that is liable to tax or in a statement that is produced
     to the Commissioner together with the instrument before the payment
     of tax, all information necessary for a proper assessment of the tax
     liability of the taxpayer in respect of the instrument.

   Penalty:  In the case of -

     (a) a body corporate, a fine not exceeding 100 penalty units; or

     (b) in any other case, a fine not exceeding 20 penalty units.

     (2)  A taxpayer and any tax agent of the taxpayer must include in a
     return required to be lodged with the Commissioner under a taxation
     law, in addition to the information required under that taxation
     law, any further information necessary for a proper assessment of
     the tax liability of the taxpayer in respect of the return or the
     matters to which the return relates.

   Penalty:  In the case of -

     (a) a body corporate, a fine not exceeding 100 penalty units; or

     (b) in any other case, a fine not exceeding 20 penalty units.

     (3)  It is a defence in proceedings under this section -

     (a) for a taxpayer to prove that he or she reasonably relied on -

     (i) another person who was liable or required with the taxpayer to
     pay the tax or lodge the return; or

     (ii) a tax agent (whether engaged by the taxpayer or that other
     person) -

     to ensure that the requirements of this section are satisfied; or

     (b) for a tax agent to prove that he or she reasonably relied on
     information supplied by the taxpayer or by another person who was
     liable or required with the taxpayer to pay the tax or lodge the
     return.

   20A.   Commissioner may require information to be provided

     (1)  If an interest in land is transferred or there is a change of
     the beneficial ownership of an interest in land -

     (a) the transferee or the person who acquires the interest in the
     beneficial ownership; or

     (b) a tax agent of the transferee or of the person who acquires the
     interest in the beneficial ownership; or

     (c) a person who is authorised under an approval and who has the
     express or implied consent of -

     (i) the transferee or a tax agent of the transferee; or

     (ii) the person who acquires the interest in the beneficial
     ownership or the tax agent of that person -

     to so lodge the information -

     must lodge with the Commissioner, in the approved form, the
     information specified, in an approved form, to be required to be
     lodged in relation to the transfer or change in beneficial
     ownership.

   Penalty:  In the case of -

     (a) a body corporate, a fine not exceeding 100 penalty units; or

     (b) in any other case, a fine not exceeding 20 penalty units.

     (1A)  If an interest in land is transferred or there is a change of
     the beneficial ownership of an interest in land -

     (a) the transferor or the person who held the interest immediately
     before the change of the beneficial ownership; or

     (b) a tax agent of the transferor or of the person who held the
     interest immediately before the change of the beneficial ownership;
     or

     (c) a person who is authorised under an approval and who has the
     express or implied consent of -

     (i) the transferor or a tax agent of the transferor; or

     (ii) the person who held the interest immediately before the change
     of the beneficial ownership or the tax agent of that person -

     to so lodge the information -

     must lodge with the Commissioner, in the approved form, the
     information specified, in an approved form, to be required to be
     lodged in relation to the transfer or change in beneficial
     ownership.

   Penalty:  In the case of -

     (a) a body corporate, a fine not exceeding 100 penalty units; or

     (b) in any other case, a fine not exceeding 20 penalty units.

     (2)  The Commissioner, or an agent of the Commissioner, must not
     stamp or endorse an instrument that relates to a transfer of, or a
     change of the beneficial ownership of, an interest in land if the
     information specified, in an approved form for the purposes of
     subsection (1) or (1A) , to be required to be lodged in relation to
     the transfer or change in beneficial ownership has not been provided
     or has not been provided in the approved form for the purposes of
     subsection (1) or (1A) .

     (3)  Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to an instrument that
     relates to a transfer of, or a change of the beneficial ownership
     of, an interest in land if the Commissioner has approved the
     stamping or endorsement of the instrument, or instruments of the
     kind specified in the approval, despite a failure to comply with
     that subsection.

     (4)  A person referred to in subsection (1)(a) , (b) or (c) is to be
     taken to have complied with subsection (1) in relation to a transfer
     or change in beneficial ownership if another person referred to in
     subsection (1)(a) , (b) or (c) has complied with subsection (1) in
     relation to the transfer or change in beneficial ownership.

     (5)  A person referred to in subsection (1A)(a) , (b) or (c) is
     taken to have complied with subsection (1A) in relation to a
     transfer or change in beneficial ownership if any of the following
     persons has complied with subsection (1A) in relation to the
     transfer or change in beneficial ownership:

     (a) another person referred to in subsection (1A)(a) , (b) or (c) ;

     (b) a person acting on behalf of the person referred to in
     subsection (1A)(a) , (b) or (c) ;

     (c) another person referred to in subsection (1)(a) , (b) or (c) .

     (6)  Without limiting the information that may be specified in an
     approved form, for the purposes of subsection (1) or (1A) , as
     information required to be lodged in relation to a transfer or
     change in beneficial ownership, the information so specified may
     consist of, or include, information that is required to be provided
     by the State under Schedule 1, subsection 396-55 of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1953 of the Commonwealth.

     (7)  As soon as practicable after receiving information under
     subsection (1) or (1A) , the Commissioner is to provide to -

     (a) the Valuer-General so much of the information as is required by
     the Valuer-General for the purposes of the Valuation of Land Act
     2001 ; and

     (b) the Recorder of Titles so much of the information as is required
     by the Recorder of Titles for the purposes of the Land Titles Act
     1980 .

   21.   Information on which assessment is made

     (1)  The Commissioner may make an assessment on the information that
     the Commissioner has from any source at the time the assessment is
     made.

     (2)  If the Commissioner has insufficient information to make an
     exact assessment of a tax liability, the Commissioner may make an
     assessment by way of estimate.

   22.   Compromise assessment

     (1)  If it is difficult or impracticable for the Commissioner to
     determine a person's tax liability under a taxation law without
     undue delay or expense because of the complexity or uncertainty of
     the case or for any other reason, the Commissioner may make an
     assessment of that liability in accordance with this section.

     (2)  The Commissioner, with the agreement of a person, may assess
     the person's tax liability in an amount specified in, or determined
     in accordance with, the agreement.

     (3)  The Commissioner must not make a reassessment of a tax
     liability assessed under this section -

     (a) except with the agreement of the taxpayer; or

     (b) unless, in the opinion of the Commissioner -

     (i) the assessment under this section was procured by fraud; or

     (ii) there was a deliberate failure to disclose material
     information.

     (4)  An assessment or reassessment made under this section with the
     agreement of a taxpayer is a non-reviewable decision.

   23.   Withdrawal of assessment

     The Commissioner may withdraw an assessment within 3 years after the
     date of service of the notice of assessment, whether or not the
     amount of tax specified in the notice of assessment has been paid.

   24.   Notice of assessment or withdrawal of assessment

     (1)  If the Commissioner makes or withdraws an assessment, the
     Commissioner -

     (a) may serve a notice of assessment or withdrawal on the taxpayer;
     and

     (b) must serve such a notice on the taxpayer if the taxpayer so
     requests.

     (2)  A notice of assessment is to -

     (a) be expressed to be an assessment of liability to a tax; and

     (b) show the amount of tax assessed; and

     (c) specify the rate of interest or penalty tax payable in respect
     of any tax default; and

     (d) specify the date on or before which any assessment is payable.

   25.   Receipt of tax is not assessment

     The receipt by the Commissioner of a return or an amount as payment
     of a tax does not constitute the making of an assessment of tax
     liability.

   26.   Validity of assessment

     The validity of an assessment is not affected because a provision of
     a taxation law has not been complied with.

     PART 4 - Refunds of tax

   27.   Application of Part

     (1)  Proceedings for the refund or recovery of tax paid or
     purportedly paid under a taxation law, whether before or after the
     commencement of this Act, may only be brought as provided in this
     Part.

     (2)  Subsection (1) and section 28 do not apply to a taxpayer if the
     taxpayer claims to be entitled to receive a refund or to recover tax
     paid or purportedly paid under a taxation law by reason of the
     invalidity of a provision of that law.

     (3)  This Part has effect despite the provisions of any other
     taxation law.

     (4)  An amount by which tax is overpaid is taken to be tax for the
     purpose of this Part.

   28.   Application for refund

     (1)  A taxpayer may apply to the Commissioner for the refund of any
     tax paid or purportedly paid if the taxpayer claims to be entitled
     to the refund or recovery of that tax.

     (2)  A taxpayer may not apply for, and is not entitled to, a refund
     if the Commissioner has previously served a notice of assessment of
     the tax liability of the taxpayer in respect of the matter in
     respect of which the payment was made to the Commissioner.

     (2A)  Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to a refund of tax
     paid under the Land Tax Act 2000 .

     (3)  An application in relation to an amount -

     (a) is to be in an approved form; and

     (b) is to be -

     (i) lodged with the Commissioner within 5 years after the date on
     which the amount was paid; or

     (ii) if the amount is one of 2 or more amounts, to which the
     application relates, that were instalments paid under section 13 of
     the Land Tax Act 2000 in the same financial year and were not paid
     under an arrangement under section 59 of this Act - lodged with the
     Commissioner within 4 years after the most recent payment in
     relation to those amounts was made.

   29.   Refund

     (1)  The Commissioner, if satisfied that a person has overpaid an
     amount, is to -

     (a) refund the overpaid amount; or

     (b) apply the overpaid amount against any liability of the person
     under a taxation law, or another Act of which the Commissioner has
     the general administration, and refund any part of the overpayment
     that is not so applied.

     (2)  The Commissioner may only take an action under subsection (1)
     in relation to an amount that a person has overpaid, if -

     (a) the person has lodged an application under section 28 in
     relation to the overpayment; or

     (b) the overpayment has been identified during an investigation
     conducted in accordance with Part 9 or Part 9A .

     (3)  A person who has lodged an application under section 28 in
     relation to an amount is not entitled to a refund of the amount, or
     to have the amount applied against any liability referred to in
     subsection (1)(b) , unless the application is  -

     (a) lodged with the Commissioner within 5 years after the date on
     which the amount was paid; or

     (b) if the amount is one of 2 or more amounts, to which the
     application relates, that were instalments paid under section 13 of
     the Land Tax Act 2000 in the same financial year and were not paid
     under an arrangement under section 59 of this Act - lodged with the
     Commissioner within 4 years after the most recent payment in
     relation to those amounts was made.

   29AA.   Effect on refund of change in interpretation

     If a person has paid, or purportedly paid, an amount of tax, the
     Commissioner cannot refund all or part of the amount based on a
     particular interpretation of the applicable law or a particular
     practice of the Commissioner that applied after the time at which it
     was paid, other than to give effect to a change in interpretation or
     practice brought about by a legislative change.

   29A.   Payment of interest

     (1)  In addition to the amount of an overpayment of tax refunded
     under section 29 , the Commissioner is required to pay interest on
     the amount of the overpayment, calculated on a daily basis from the
     date of payment of the amount overpaid until the date the refund is
     approved by the Commissioner.

     (2)  Interest is to be calculated at the rate specified as the
     market rate component in section 35(2) .

     (3)  The Commissioner is not required to pay interest under
     subsection (1) on an amount refunded unless the amount of interest
     exceeds $20.

     (4)  Despite subsection (1) , the Commissioner may apply, against
     any liability of a person under a taxation law, or another Act of
     which the Commissioner has the general administration, an amount of
     interest that the Commissioner would otherwise be required under
     that subsection to pay to the person.

   30.   Recovery of overpaid amounts

     A taxpayer may bring proceedings for the recovery of an overpaid
     amount if the taxpayer lodged an application under section 28 .

   31.   Refusal to refund

     The Commissioner must not make a refund of tax to a person unless
     satisfied that the person -

     (a) has not charged to, or recovered from, and is not likely to
     charge to, or recover from, any other person any amount in respect
     of the whole or any part of that tax; or

     (b) having charged or recovered such an amount, is likely to
     reimburse, or take all reasonable steps to reimburse, each other
     person for the amount charged or recovered.

   32.   Reimbursement after refund

     (1)  If a refund is made to a person to whom section 31(b) applies -

     (a) the person must -

     (i) within 90 days after receiving the refund, reimburse each other
     person for the amount charged to or recovered from that person; and

     (ii) notify the Commissioner in writing within 7 days after the end
     of that period that all amounts charged or recovered have been
     reimbursed; or

     (b) if the amount is not reimbursed within that period, the person,
     within 7 days after the end of that period, is to -

     (i) notify the Commissioner in writing of any amount not reimbursed;
     and

     (ii) pay any amount to the Commissioner, together with interest at a
     rate not exceeding 20% per annum as the Commissioner specifies from
     the date the refund was made to the date of payment.

   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 50 penalty units.

     (2)  An amount payable under subsection (1)(b)(ii) is a debt due to
     the Crown.

     (3)  This section prevails over sections 29 and 30 .

   33.   Application of certain sections

     Sections 31 and 32 apply in respect of proceedings for the refund or
     recovery of tax paid or purportedly paid as if -

     (a) a reference to the Commissioner in those sections, except in
     section 32(1)(b)(ii) , were a reference to the court; and

     (b) a reference to the making of a refund in those sections were a
     reference to the making of an order or decision that a refund be
     made.

     PART 5 - Interest and penalty tax

     Division 1 - Interest

   34.   Interest in respect of tax defaults

     (1)  If a tax default occurs, the taxpayer is liable to pay interest
     on the amount of tax unpaid calculated on a daily basis from the end
     of the last day for payment until the day it is paid at the interest
     rate.

     (2)  Interest is payable in respect of a tax default that consists
     of a failure to pay penalty tax.

     (3)  Interest is not payable in respect of a tax default that
     consists of a failure to pay interest.

   34A.   Imposition of interest where making of duty assessment delayed

     (1)  If in the opinion of the Commissioner the actions of the
     taxpayer or the taxpayer's representative, or both the taxpayer and
     the taxpayer's representative, unnecessarily delay the making of a
     duty assessment, the Commissioner may impose interest from the end
     of the last day for payment until the day on which the duty is paid.

     (2)  For the purposes of subsection (1) , the "last day for payment"
     is the last day of the period of 3 months after the liability for
     duty arises as provided in section 10 of the Duties Act 2001 .

   35.   Interest rate

     (1)  The interest rate is the sum of -

     (a) the market rate component; and

     (b) the premium component.

     (2)  The market rate component is -

     (a) unless an order is in force under paragraph (b) , the Bank
     Accepted Bill rate rounded to the second decimal place (rounding
     0.005 upwards); or

     (b) the rate the Minister specifies by order published in the
     Gazette.

     (3)  The Bank Accepted Bill rate in respect of any day is the yield
     rate for 90-day Bank Accepted Bills published by the Reserve Bank
     for the month of May in the financial year preceding the financial
     year in which the day occurs.

     (4)  The premium component is -

     (a) unless an order is in force under paragraph (b) , 8% per annum;
     or

     (b) the rate the Minister specifies by order published in the
     Gazette.

   36.   Minimum amount of interest

     Interest in respect of a tax default is not payable until the amount
     of that interest exceeds $20.

   37.   Interest rate prevails over other interest

     If judgment is given by, or entered in, a court for an amount of
     unpaid tax or an amount that includes an amount of unpaid tax, the
     interest rate payable under this Division continues to apply to the
     exclusion of any other interest rate until the tax is paid.

   38.   Remission of interest

     (1)  The Commissioner, in any circumstances the Commissioner
     considers appropriate, may remit interest payable by a taxpayer by
     any amount.

     (2)  If the Commissioner remits any interest under this section, he
     or she may, at any time, reimpose all or part of the interest in any
     circumstances that the Commissioner considers appropriate.

     Division 2 - Penalty tax

   39.   Penalty tax in respect of certain tax defaults

     (1)  If a tax default occurs, the taxpayer is liable to pay penalty
     tax in addition to the amount of tax unpaid.

     (2)  Penalty tax is in addition to interest.

     (3)  Penalty tax is not payable in respect of a tax default that
     consists of a failure to pay -

     (a) interest; or

     (b) penalty tax previously imposed.

   40.   Amount of penalty tax

     (1)  The amount of penalty tax payable is 25% of the amount of tax
     unpaid.

     (2)  The Commissioner may increase the amount of penalty tax payable
     to 75% of the amount of tax unpaid if satisfied that the tax default
     was caused wholly or partly by the intentional disregard by the
     taxpayer or a person acting on behalf of the taxpayer of a taxation
     law.

     (3)  The Commissioner may determine that a penalty tax is not
     payable if satisfied that -

     (a) the taxpayer or a person acting on behalf of the taxpayer took
     reasonable care to comply with the taxation law; or

     (b) the tax default occurred solely because of circumstances not
     amounting to financial incapacity that are beyond the control of the
     taxpayer or a person acting on behalf of the taxpayer.

   41.   Reduction in penalty tax for disclosure

     (1)  The amount of penalty tax is to be reduced by 80% if, before
     the Commissioner informs the taxpayer that an investigation relating
     to the taxpayer is to be carried out, the taxpayer discloses to the
     Commissioner, in writing, sufficient information to enable the
     nature and extent of the tax default to be determined.

     (2)  The amount of penalty tax is to be reduced by 20% if, after the
     Commissioner informs the taxpayer that an investigation relating to
     the taxpayer is to be carried out and before it is completed, the
     taxpayer discloses to the Commissioner, in writing, information that
     identifies the precise nature and extent of the tax default without
     the need for further investigation by the Commissioner.

   42.   Increase in penalty tax for concealment

     (1)  The amount of penalty tax is to be increased by 20% if, after
     the Commissioner has informed the taxpayer that an investigation is
     to be carried out and before the investigation is completed, the
     taxpayer took steps to prevent or hinder the Commissioner from
     becoming aware of the nature and extent of the tax default in whole
     or part.

     (2)  For the purposes of this section, a taxpayer takes steps to
     prevent or hinder the Commissioner if the taxpayer -

     (a) deliberately damages or destroys records required to be kept
     under the taxation law to which the investigation relates; or

     (b) without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with a
     requirement made by the Commissioner under Part 9 for the purposes
     of determining the taxpayer's tax liability; or

     (c) hinders or obstructs an authorised officer performing functions
     or exercising powers under that Part for that purpose.

   43.   Minimum amount of penalty tax

     Penalty tax is not to be imposed if the amount of the penalty tax is
     less than $20.

   44.   Time for payment of penalty tax

     A taxpayer is to pay penalty tax within the period specified for
     that purpose in a notice of assessment of the tax liability of the
     taxpayer.

   45.   Remission of penalty tax

     (1)  The Commissioner, in any circumstances the Commissioner
     considers appropriate, may remit penalty tax by any amount.

     (2)  If the Commissioner remits any penalty tax under this section,
     he or she may, at any time, reimpose all or part of the penalty tax
     in any circumstances that the Commissioner considers appropriate.

     PART 6 - Returns

     Division 1 - General

   46.   Form of returns

     A return is to be in an approved form.

   47.   Time of lodgment

     A return is taken to have been lodged by a person at the time the
     return is received by the Commissioner.

   48.   Extending time or period for lodgment

     The Commissioner may extend the time or period for lodgment of a
     return by a person.

     Division 2 - Approval of special tax return arrangements

   49.   Approval of special tax return arrangements

     (1)  Despite the provisions of another taxation law, the
     Commissioner, by written notice, may give approval for a special
     arrangement for the lodging of returns and payment of tax under the
     taxation law to -

     (a) a specified taxpayer or taxpayers of a specified class; or

     (b) a specified agent on behalf of a specified taxpayer or taxpayers
     of a specified class.

     (2)  An approval may -

     (a) provide an exemption or a partial exemption for the taxpayer or
     taxpayers from specified provisions of the taxation law to which it
     applies; and

     (b) authorise the lodging of returns and payments of tax by
     electronic means.

     (3)  An approval may be given on the initiative of the Commissioner
     or on application.

     (4)  The Commissioner may vary or cancel an approval by written
     notice.

   50.   Application for approval

     (1)  An application for an approval under this Division is to be
     made to the Commissioner in an approved form.

     (2)  The Commissioner may -

     (a) grant an application for an approval; or

     (b) refuse to grant the application.

     (3)  If the Commissioner has not received an application for an
     approval under this Division from -

     (a) a specified taxpayer or a taxpayer of a specified class referred
     to in section 49(1) ; or

     (b) a specified agent on behalf of a specified taxpayer or a
     taxpayer of a specified class referred to in section 49(1)  -

     the Commissioner, by written notice provided to that taxpayer or
     agent and for the purpose of exercising his or her initiative under
     section 49(3) , may require that taxpayer or agent to make that
     application, and to provide any other information specified in the
     notice, to the Commissioner.

     (4)  A taxpayer or agent must comply with a notice provided under
     subsection (3) within the period specified in that notice or within
     such further period as the Commissioner allows.

   Penalty:  In -

     (a) the case of a body corporate, a fine not exceeding 500 penalty
     units; or

     (b) any other case, a fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.

   51.   Conditions of approval

     (1)  An approval is subject to any conditions specified by the
     Commissioner in the notice of approval or by subsequent written
     notice.

     (2)  Without limiting the conditions to which an approval may be
     subject, those conditions may include -

     (a) conditions limiting the approval to matters of a specified
     class; and

     (b) conditions limiting the approval to transactions effected by
     instruments of a specified class; and

     (c) conditions requiring the lodging of returns at specified times
   Section 120

     1.   Tax officers

     The person holding office as Commissioner of Pay-roll Tax
     immediately before the commencement day continues, on that day, as
     Commissioner of State Revenue under this Act.

     2.   Assessments

     (1) Part 3 applies to the assessment of a tax liability whether the
     liability arises before, on or after the commencement day.

     (2) An assessment made under a taxation law before the commencement
     day is taken, on that day, to have been made under this Act.

     3.   Refunds

     (1) Part 4 applies to the refund or recovery of tax paid before the
     commencement day.

     (2) Part 4 does not apply to an application for a refund made but
     not determined before the commencement day.

     4.   Interest

     (1) Interest in respect of a tax default that occurred before the
     commencement day accrues from that day in accordance with Division 1
     of Part 5 .

     (2) The Commissioner may remit interest in respect of any interest
     that accrued under a taxation law before the commencement day.

     5.   Penalty tax

     (1) Division 2 of Part 5 does not apply to a tax default that
     occurred before the commencement day.

     (2) The Commissioner may remit penalty tax in respect of any penalty
     tax imposed on a taxpayer by a taxation law before the commencement
     day.

     (3) If a tax default occurred under a taxation law before the
     commencement day -

     (a) the Commissioner may make an assessment under this Act of any
     additional tax that would have been payable or assessable under that
     taxation law in relation to the default; and

     (b) this Act applies as if the additional tax were penalty tax.

     (4) In this clause,

     additional tax means an additional amount payable by way of tax,
     penalty tax, fine or duty under a taxation law as in force
     immediately before the commencement day.

     6.   Approval of special tax return arrangements

     Division 2 of Part 6 applies to an approval under a taxation law and
     in force immediately before the commencement day.

     7.   Collection of unpaid tax

     (1) Part 7 applies to tax that is payable but unpaid immediately
     before the commencement day.

     (2) Any proceedings under a taxation law in relation to the recovery
     of unpaid tax not completed before the commencement day may, on or
     after that day, be completed under that law.

     8.   Records

     Sections 61 , 62 , 63 and 64 apply to records kept under a taxation
     law before the commencement day.

     9.   Secrecy

     Division 2 of Part 9 applies to information obtained by a tax
     officer or other person before the commencement day.

     10.   Objections and appeals

     (1) The provisions of Part 10 apply on and after the commencement
     day in relation to -

     (a) any assessment made under a taxation law before that day as if
     it were an assessment under this Act; and

     (b) any decision of the Commissioner that may be the subject of
     objection under a taxation law in force immediately before the
     commencement day as if it were a decision that may be the subject of
     objection under that Part.

     (2) Subclause (1) does not apply to any assessment or decision if an
     objection has been lodged against it under a taxation law before the
     commencement day.

     (3) Appeal proceedings in relation to a decision on an objection
     lodged under a taxation law before the commencement day may be
     commenced or continued under that law.

     (4) Section 80(1A) applies to -

     (a) any refusal by the Commissioner to refund tax paid or
     purportedly paid that was made before the commencement of the
     Taxation Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2002; and

     (b) a failure by the Commissioner to refund the tax within 3 months
     after the application for the refund is lodged that is taken to be a
     refusal to refund the tax.

     (5) Section 94 applies to any assessment or decision made, any
     objection allowed or any review or appeal upheld before the
     commencement of the Taxation Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
     2002.

     11.   Evidence

     Sections 102 and 103 apply on and after the commencement day in
     relation to proceedings relating to a taxation law commenced on or
     after that commencement, whether the proceedings relate to matters
     or things occurring before, on or after that day.

     12.   Refunds where period altered by Taxation and Related
     Legislation (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2016

     The amendments to sections 28 and 29 made by the Taxation and
     Related Legislation (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2016 do not apply
     in relation to a payment, or purported payment, under a taxation law
     if an application for a refund was, before the day on which those
     provisions were so amended, made under section 29 in relation to the
     payment or purported payment.
