Taxation Adminstration Act 2001
Jurisdiction: queensland
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/qld/consol_act/taa2001269/
Register: https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-2001-072
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/qld/consol_act/taa2001269.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-30T03:28:52.359572Z

TAXATION ADMINISTRATION ACT 2001 - As at 28 February 2025 - Act 72 of 2001
 
     1989 is a revenue law—
          (a) chapter 11;
          (b) another provision of that Act to the extent the
          provision is administered by the Minister administering
          this Act.
     (7) Subsection (6) is subject to the Mineral Resources Act 1989,
     chapter 15, part 20.
     (8) Each of the following provisions of the Petroleum and Gas
     (Production and Safety) Act 2004 is a revenue law—
          (a) chapter 6;
          (b) another provision of that Act to the extent the
          provision is administered by the Minister administering
          this Act.
     (9) Subsection (8) is subject to the Petroleum and Gas (Production
     and Safety) Act 2004, chapter 15, part 28.
 
References to tax
*** 6A References to tax ***
     (1) To enable the use of a simpler style in provisions that apply to
     both taxes and royalties, this Act uses the term ‘tax’ which,
     under its definition, includes royalty payable under the Mineral
     Resources Act 1989 and petroleum royalty payable under the Petroleum
     and Gas (Production and Safety) Act 2004.
     (2) That use of the term ‘tax’, and related terms, must not be
     taken to affect the nature of the payments under those Acts as
     royalties.
 
Appointment of commissioner
*** 7 Appointment of commissioner ***
     (1) There is to be a Commissioner of State Revenue.
     (2) The Governor in Council must, by gazette notice, appoint an
     appropriately qualified person to be the commissioner.
     (3) It does not matter whether the appointee is or is not already a
     public service officer.
     (4) The commissioner is to be employed under the Public Sector Act
     2022.
 
Commissioner’s functions
*** 8 Commissioner’s functions ***
     (1) The commissioner is responsible for the administration and
     enforcement of the tax laws.
     (2) Also, the commissioner may perform the functions of a State
     taxation officer under the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cwlth),
     part IIIA.
 
Commissioner’s powers
*** 9 Commissioner’s powers ***
     (1) The commissioner has the powers given under the tax laws.
     (2) In addition, the commissioner has the power to do all things
     necessary or convenient to be done for performing the
     commissioner’s functions.
     (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the commissioner may engage the
     consultants and contractors the commissioner considers necessary for
     the performance of the commissioner’s functions.
 
Delegations
*** 10 Delegations ***
     (1) The commissioner may delegate the commissioner’s powers under a
     tax law to an appropriately qualified public service employee.
     (2) A delegation of a power may permit the subdelegation of the power
     to an appropriately qualified public service employee.
 
When commissioner makes an assessment
*** 11 When commissioner makes an assessment ***
     (1) The commissioner must make an assessment if—
          (a) the commissioner is satisfied a taxpayer has a
          liability for tax; and
          (b) the taxpayer’s liability is not required or
          permitted, under a revenue law, to be made by self
          assessment.
     (2) Also, the commissioner may make an assessment—
          (a) if the taxpayer’s liability for tax is required or
          permitted to be made by self assessment under the revenue
          law; or
          (b) even if the taxpayer’s liability for tax is nil.
     (3) If the commissioner does not make an assessment under subsection
     (2), the commissioner’s decision not to make the assessment is a
     non-reviewable decision.
 
Compromise assessments
*** 12 Compromise assessments ***
     (1) This section applies if, in assessing a taxpayer’s liability
     for tax, it is difficult or impracticable for the commissioner to
     properly determine the amount of the taxpayer’s liability because
     of a complexity or uncertainty or for another reason.
     (2) The commissioner may make an assessment of the taxpayer’s
     liability under a written agreement with the taxpayer (a
     "compromise assessment").
     (3) The compromise assessment is a non-reviewable decision.
     (4) Nothing in this part requires the commissioner to make a
     compromise assessment for a taxpayer.
 
Default assessments
*** 13 Default assessments ***
     (1) This section applies in each of the following circumstances—
          (a) for—
               (i) a self assessment—the assessment is not
               made; or
               (ii) another assessment—the taxpayer does not
               give information required to be given under an
               information requirement or lodge a document
               required to be lodged under a lodgement
               requirement;
          (b) the commissioner is not satisfied about the accuracy or
          completeness of a document lodged, or information given,
          for the assessment of a taxpayer’s liability for tax
          under a tax law;
          (c) the commissioner does not have enough information to
          properly assess a taxpayer’s liability for tax under a
          tax law, including, for example, if the commissioner
          reasonably believes—
               (i) it is necessary to make an immediate
               assessment; and
               (ii) the time for complying with an information
               or lodgement requirement has not ended.
               Example for subsection (1)(c)—
                    The commissioner reasonably believes a
                    taxpayer is going to leave the State
                    before documents that will disclose a
                    liability for tax are required to be
                    lodged.
     (2) The commissioner may make an assessment under this section (a
     "default assessment") for the amount the commissioner reasonably
     believes to be the taxpayer’s liability.
     (3) If this section applies because a lodgement requirement has not
     been complied with (whether or not the time for compliance has
     ended), the commissioner may make the default assessment as if the
     document were in existence and in the commissioner’s possession.
 
Assessment may be made despite related objections, appeals or reviews
*** 13A Assessment may be made despite related objections, appeals or reviews
***
The commissioner may make an assessment under this division even if any of the
following has started but not yet been decided—
     (a) an objection against a related royalty valuation decision;
     (b) an appeal against, or review of, the commissioner’s decision on
     an objection against a related royalty valuation decision.
 
Making self assessment by lodging return
*** 14 Making self assessment by lodging return ***
The following provisions apply if, under a revenue law, a self assessor lodges
a return—
     (a) an assessment (a
     "return self assessment") is taken to have been made for each
     taxpayer stated in the return;
     (b) the assessment under paragraph (a) is taken to have been made by
     the commissioner;
     (c) the liability for tax for each assessment is the amount that, on
     the basis of the information stated in the return, is the amount of
     each taxpayer’s liability for tax;
     (d) despite section 26 (2), the return is taken to be an assessment
     notice for each assessment;
     (e) the assessment notice is taken to have been given under section
     26 to the taxpayers for whom each assessment is made.
 
Making self assessment by lodging transaction statement
*** 14A Making self assessment by lodging transaction statement ***
The following provisions apply if, under a revenue law, a self assessor lodges
a transaction statement—
     (a) an assessment (a
     "standard self assessment") is taken to have been made for the
     taxpayer stated in the statement;
     (b) the assessment under paragraph (a) is taken to have been made by
     the commissioner;
     (c) the liability for tax for the assessment is the amount that, on
     the basis of the information stated in the statement, is the amount
     of the taxpayer’s liability for tax;
     (d) despite section 26 (2), the statement is taken to be an
     assessment notice for the assessment;
     (e) the assessment notice is taken to have been given under section
     26 to the taxpayer for whom the assessment is made.
 
Matters to which self assessor must have regard
*** 15 Matters to which self assessor must have regard ***
For assessing a taxpayer’s liability for tax, a self assessor must have
regard to directions given by the commissioner, whether generally or
specifically for the liability, about the assessment of the liability.
 
Effect of commissioner making an assessment for self assessor
*** 16 Effect of commissioner making an assessment for self assessor ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) under a revenue law, a self assessor is required or
          permitted to make a self assessment of a taxpayer’s
          liability for tax under the law; and
          (b) under section 11 (2) (a), the commissioner decides to
          make an assessment of the liability.
     (2) The assessment must be made as if the liability were not required
     or permitted to be self assessed.
     (3) This section does not apply for a default assessment.
 
Commissioner’s general power to make reassessments
*** 17 Commissioner’s general power to make reassessments ***
     (1) Subject to sections 21 and 22, the commissioner may, at any time,
     make a reassessment of a taxpayer’s liability for tax.
     (2) However, the commissioner may make a reassessment of a
     taxpayer’s liability assessed under a compromise assessment only—
          (a) with the taxpayer’s written agreement; or
          (b) if the commissioner reasonably believes the compromise
          assessment was—
               (i) obtained by fraud; or
               (ii) made on the basis of a false or misleading
               statement or there was a failure to give material
               information.
     (3) The commissioner may make a reassessment under subsection (1)
     even if any of the following has started but not yet been decided—
          (a) an objection against the assessment or a related
          royalty valuation decision;
          (b) an appeal against, or review of, the commissioner’s
          decision on an objection mentioned in paragraph (a).
     (4) The commissioner can not be compelled to make a reassessment
     under subsection (1) decreasing a taxpayer’s liability for tax.
     (5) The commissioner’s decision not to make a reassessment of a
     taxpayer’s liability for tax is a non-reviewable decision.
 
When commissioner must make reassessment—general
*** 18 When commissioner must make reassessment—general ***
Subject to sections 21 and 22, the commissioner must make a reassessment of a
taxpayer’s liability for tax if the circumstances mentioned in—
     (a) section 59 (3) or (4) apply to require the reassessment; or
     (b) a provision of a revenue law applies to require the reassessment.
 
When commissioner must make reassessment—objections, court decisions or QCAT
decisions
*** 19 When commissioner must make reassessment—objections, court decisions
or QCAT decisions ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the commissioner decides to allow an objection to an
          assessment or royalty valuation decision in whole or part;
          or
          (b) a court or QCAT makes a decision about a taxpayer’s
          tax law liability or about a royalty valuation decision.
     (2) The commissioner must make any amendment of the royalty valuation
     decision, and any reassessment of the taxpayer’s liability for tax,
     that is necessary to give effect to the decision.
     (3) However, the commissioner need not act under subsection (2) to
     give effect to a decision of a court or QCAT until—
          (a) the end of the period allowed for an appeal against the
          decision; or
          (b) if an appeal is started against the decision—the
          appeal ends.
 
Legal interpretations and practices applying to particular reassessments
*** 20 Legal interpretations and practices applying to particular reassessments
***
     (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (5), a reassessment of a
     taxpayer’s liability for tax must be made in accordance with the
     legal interpretations and assessment practices applied by the
     commissioner for assessing liability for tax in similar circumstances
     when the original assessment of the taxpayer’s liability for tax
     was made.
     (2) If any legislative change made after an original assessment is
     made affects the legal interpretations and assessment practices to be
     applied under subsection (1), the reassessment must, to the extent
     that the interpretations and practices are changed because of the
     legislative change, be made in accordance with the changed
     interpretations and practices.
     (3) The commissioner’s decision about what constituted the
     commissioner’s legal interpretations and assessment practices is a
     non-reviewable decision.
     (4) Subsection (5) applies if—
          (a) a court or QCAT makes a decision (the
          "original decision") affecting the legal interpretations
          applied by the commissioner for assessing a taxpayer’s
          liability for tax; and
          (b) on appeal, the original decision is changed in whole or
          part.
     (5) For any assessment made after the original decision but before
     the appeal is decided, the commissioner may make a reassessment to
     increase a taxpayer’s liability for tax in accordance with the
     appeal decision.
 
Time for reassessment decreasing liability for tax
*** 21 Time for reassessment decreasing liability for tax ***
     (1) A reassessment decreasing a taxpayer’s liability for tax must
     be made in the limitation period.
     (2) However, if, within the limitation period, the taxpayer asks for
     a reassessment to decrease the taxpayer’s liability, the
     reassessment may be made after the limitation period.
 
Time for reassessment increasing liability for tax
*** 22 Time for reassessment increasing liability for tax ***
     (1) A reassessment increasing a taxpayer’s liability for tax must
     be made in the limitation period.
     (2) Despite subsection (1), a reassessment increasing a taxpayer’s
     liability for tax may be made at any time—
          (a) if the commissioner reasonably believes there has been
          a deliberate tax default; or
          (b) if, within the limitation period, the commissioner has
          given written notice to the taxpayer informing the taxpayer
          an investigation into the taxpayer’s liability for tax
          has started under either or both of the following—
               (i) part 7;
               (ii) a recognised law.
     (3) For subsection (2) (a), a deliberate tax default arises if—
          (a) there has been fraud or evasion of tax; or
          (b) a taxpayer or person acting for a taxpayer knowingly
          misleads the commissioner, or causes the commissioner to be
          misled, about the taxpayer’s liability for tax,
          including, for example, by giving, omitting or changing
          information or documents.
 
Limitation period does not apply to particular reassessments
*** 23 Limitation period does not apply to particular reassessments ***
Despite sections 21 (1) and 22 (1) —
     (a) if an appeal against, or review of, a decision on an objection to
     an assessment is started, the commissioner may, under section 17,
     make a reassessment after the limitation period and before a decision
     is made on the appeal or review if the taxpayer agrees; and
     (b) the limitation period does not apply to a reassessment made—
          (i) under section 18 (a) or 19; or
          (ii) under section 18 (b) if a provision of the revenue law
          for which the reassessment is made declares the limitation
          period does not apply.
 
Reassessment by self assessors
*** 24 Reassessment by self assessors ***
A self assessor may make a reassessment only if required or permitted under a
revenue law.
 
Reassessment does not replace previous assessment
*** 25 Reassessment does not replace previous assessment ***
A reassessment does not replace the previous assessment but merely varies it
by—
     (a) decreasing or increasing the taxpayer’s liability for tax; or
     (b) changing the basis on which the taxpayer’s liability for tax is
     assessed.
 
Assessment notice to be given to taxpayer
*** 26 Assessment notice to be given to taxpayer ***
     (1) The commissioner must give notice of the making of an assessment
     (an
     "assessment notice") to the taxpayer.
     (2) The assessment notice must state—
          (a) the amount of the tax assessed; and
          (b) the date by which the tax must be paid; and
          (c) the taxpayer’s right to object to the assessment; and
          (d) the basis on which unpaid tax interest may accrue; and
          (e) if assessed interest or penalty tax is payable under
          the notice—enough information to enable the taxpayer to
          ascertain the basis for the assessment of the interest or
          penalty tax; and
          (f) for a compromise or default assessment—it is a
          compromise or default assessment; and
          (g) for a reassessment—the amount of the liability for
          tax under the previous assessment.
     (3) For subsection (2) (c), the assessment notice must state—
          (a) that the taxpayer may, within 60 days after the notice
          is given, object to the assessment; and
          (b) how to object.
     (4) The assessment notice may include information that does not form
     part of the assessment, including, for example, information about
     other amounts payable by the taxpayer.
     (5) More than 1 assessment may be included in the assessment notice.
     (6) Despite subsection (1), the commissioner need not give an
     assessment notice for an assessment making a remission under section
     60 or a revenue law if, after the remission and the application of
     payments received by the commissioner for the taxpayer’s assessment
     liability, the taxpayer has no assessment liability.
 
Assessments made on available relevant information
*** 27 Assessments made on available relevant information ***
The commissioner may make an assessment on the available information the
commissioner considers relevant.
 
Taxpayer to advise commissioner if liability for tax under assessed
*** 28 Taxpayer to advise commissioner if liability for tax under assessed ***
     (1) A taxpayer must advise the commissioner if the taxpayer becomes
     aware that—
          (a) an assessment of the taxpayer’s liability for tax was
          not, or is no longer, correct; and
          (b) the correct liability for tax is more than the amount
          stated in the assessment.
     (2) The taxpayer must comply with subsection (1) within 30 days after
     becoming aware of the matters mentioned in the subsection.
 
Assessments of liability for royalty under the Mineral Resources Act 1989
*** 28A Assessments of liability for royalty under the Mineral Resources Act
1989 ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a taxpayer’s liability for
     royalty under the Mineral Resources Act 1989.
     (2) Without limiting section 26, the matters stated in an assessment
     notice must include—
          (a) the amount of royalty payable to the State; and
          (b) if the Mineral Resources Act 1989, section 320 (3) (b)
          applies—the amount of royalty payable to another person.
     (3) A reassessment mentioned in section 25 (b) may change the amount
     of royalty payable to the State or the amount payable to another
     person, whether or not it changes the taxpayer’s total liability
     for royalty.
     (4) Section 28 (1) applies as if a reference to a taxpayer’s
     liability for tax were a reference to the amount of the taxpayer’s
     liability for royalty that is payable to the State.
 
Methods of payment
*** 29 Methods of payment ***
     (1) An amount payable to the commissioner under a tax law must be
     paid—
          (a) by cash or cheque; or
          (b) as prescribed under a regulation.
     (2) This section applies subject to section 29A.
 
Requirement for electronic payment
*** 29A Requirement for electronic payment ***
     (1) The commissioner may give a written notice (an
     "electronic payment notice") to a person requiring the person to pay
     any amount, or a stated type of amount, payable by the person under a
     tax law to the commissioner by—
          (a) any prescribed electronic way; or
          (b) a stated prescribed electronic way.
     (2) Subject to subsection (3) and section 29B, a person given an
     electronic payment notice must, when paying an amount payable by the
     person under a tax law to the commissioner, comply with the notice
     from the day that is 30 days after being given the notice.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the person on a particular
     occasion is unable to comply with the notice due to circumstances
     beyond the person’s control.
     (4) In this section—

     "prescribed electronic way" means an electronic way prescribed under
     a regulation.
 
Application to withdraw electronic payment notice
*** 29B Application to withdraw electronic payment notice ***
     (1) A person given an electronic payment notice may apply to the
     commissioner to withdraw the notice.
     (2) The application must—
          (a) be made within 30 days after the person is given the
          notice; and
          (b) be in the approved form.
     (3) The application may be made on any of the following grounds—
          (a) the standard of the technological infrastructure
          servicing the area in which the person would ordinarily
          comply with the notice makes it impracticable for the
          person to comply with the notice;
          (b) the number of payments the notice is likely to apply to
          in a year is so small as not to justify the costs the
          person would have to incur to install, or modify, an
          information system to enable compliance with the notice;
          (c) a ground prescribed under a regulation.
     (4) The commissioner must consider the application and either grant,
     or refuse to grant, the application.
     (5) The person is not required to comply with the notice pending the
     person being notified of the commissioner’s decision on the
     application under subsection (6) or (8).
     (6) If the commissioner decides to grant the application, the
     commissioner must immediately give the person written notice of the
     decision.
     (7) Subsections (8) to (11) apply if the commissioner decides to
     refuse to grant the application.
     (8) The commissioner must immediately give the person a written
     notice stating the following—
          (a) the decision;
          (b) the reasons for the decision;
          (c) that the person may apply, as provided under the QCAT
          Act, to the tribunal for a review of the decision within 14
          days after being given the notice (the
          "review period");
          (d) how the person may apply for the review.
     (9) The person may apply to the tribunal for a review of the decision
     during the review period.
     (10) The person is not required to comply with the notice—
          (a) during the review period; and
          (b) if the person applies for a review of the decision—
               (i) pending the review being decided; and
               (ii) if the person is unsuccessful on the
               review—during 14 days immediately after the
               review is decided.
     (11) If the person applies for a review of the decision—
          (a) a party to a proceeding of the tribunal for the review
          may be represented by a lawyer; and
          (b) the grounds for the review are limited to the grounds
          stated in subsection (3).
 
Time for payment of tax
*** 30 Time for payment of tax ***
     (1) Tax payable under a tax law must be paid—
          (a) for a return self assessment—on the date the return
          for the self assessment is required to be lodged; or
          (b) for a standard self assessment—by the date that is 14
          days after the date the transaction statement for the self
          assessment is lodged; or
          (c) for a default assessment made because of a failure to
          make a self assessment—on the date the assessment notice
          for the default assessment is given to the taxpayer; or
          (d) for an amount of tax, payable under a royalty law, for
          which the royalty law provides a time for payment—by that
          time; or
          (e) otherwise—by the date stated in the assessment notice
          as the date by which the tax must be paid.
     (2) For subsection (1) (e), the stated date must be at least 30 days
     after the assessment notice for the tax is given to the taxpayer.
     (3) For a return self-assessment, assessed interest is payable on the
     day the assessment is made.
 
Time for payment of late payment interest
*** 31 Time for payment of late payment interest ***
Late payment interest is payable on the date it accrues.
 
Time for payment of other amounts
*** 32 Time for payment of other amounts ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an amount, other than tax or late payment interest is
          payable under a tax law; and
          (b) no time for payment is otherwise stated in the tax law.
     (2) The amount must be paid—
          (a) if the amount relates to tax payable under a default
          assessment mentioned in section 30 (1) (c) —immediately
          after the assessment notice for the default assessment is
          given to the taxpayer; or
          (b) otherwise—by the date stated in a written notice
          given by the commissioner to the taxpayer for the amount.
     (3) For subsection (2) (b), the stated date must be at least 30 days
     after the notice is given.
 
Earlier time for payment of tax and other amounts
*** 33 Earlier time for payment of tax and other amounts ***
     (1) This section applies despite sections 30 and 32.
     (2) The commissioner may, in an assessment notice or notice given
     under this section, state an earlier date than the date stated in
     section 30 or 32 as the date the tax or amount is payable if the
     commissioner reasonably believes the tax or amount may not be
     recoverable if the date for payment under the section otherwise were
     to apply.
     (3) The date stated in the notice mentioned in subsection (2) must
     not be a date before the notice is given.
 
Payment arrangements
*** 34 Payment arrangements ***
     (1) If the commissioner is satisfied payment of a taxpayer’s tax
     law liability would cause the taxpayer significant financial
     hardship, the commissioner may, on the taxpayer’s written
     application, approve an arrangement (a
     "payment arrangement") extending the time for paying an amount under
     a tax law.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the payment arrangement may be
     for payment of the amount by way of instalments.
     (3) The payment arrangement must be in writing and state the
     conditions applying to it.
     (4) The commissioner may, at any time, by written notice given to the
     taxpayer, terminate the arrangement.
     (5) If the commissioner terminates the arrangement, amounts
     outstanding under the arrangement are immediately payable by the
     taxpayer to the commissioner.
     (6) The commissioner’s decision about extending the time for paying
     a tax law liability or to terminate a payment arrangement is a non-
     reviewable decision.
 
Payments by tax agents
*** 35 Payments by tax agents ***
If a tax agent receives an amount to pay a tax law liability for a taxpayer,
the tax agent must pay the amount to the commissioner—
     (a) for a return self assessment—
          (i) when lodging the return for the liability; or
          (ii) if the amount is received after the return for the
          self assessment is lodged—immediately after receiving the
          amount; or
     (b) for a standard self assessment—
          (i) by the due date for the self assessment; or
          (ii) if the amount is received after the due date for the
          self assessment—immediately after receiving the amount.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
 
Refunds made only under this division
*** 36 Refunds made only under this division ***
     (1) A person is not entitled to a refund of any amount paid, or
     purportedly paid, under a tax law other than under this division.
     (2) No cause of action, right or remedy is available at common law
     for the refund or recovery of any amount paid or purportedly paid
     under a tax law.
     (3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that subsection (2) does not
     affect a person’s right to seek judicial review under the Judicial
     Review Act 1991 to the extent permitted under this Act.
 
Commissioner to refund tax and other amounts
*** 37 Commissioner to refund tax and other amounts ***
     (1) An entitlement to a refund of an amount paid under a tax law
     arises if—
          (a) under a reassessment, a taxpayer’s liability for tax
          is decreased; or
          (b) the amount paid by a person is more than the amount
          stated in any notice as payable by the person under the tax
          law.
     (2) Subject to sections 38 and 39, the commissioner must refund the
     overpaid amount.
     (3) However, the commissioner must not make a refund under subsection
     (1) (b) more than 5 years after the payment of the amount.
 
Applying amounts to current and future tax liabilities
*** 38 Applying amounts to current and future tax liabilities ***
     (1) This section applies if a taxpayer is entitled to a refund of an
     amount (the
     "refund amount") under section 37.
     (2) The commissioner may apply the whole or part of the refund
     amount, and any section 61A interest payable on the refund amount, as
     payment for any of the following—
          (a) any tax law liability of the taxpayer;
          (b) any tax law liability of the taxpayer that the
          commissioner reasonably believes will become payable within
          60 days after the entitlement to the refund arises;
          (c) for a refund amount that is a royalty amount, and any
          section 61A interest payable on that amount—any liability
          of the taxpayer for a royalty amount that the commissioner
          reasonably believes will become payable on or before the
          later of the following days—
               (i) the day that is 6 months after the
               entitlement to the refund arises;
               (ii) the day an assessment is made for the
               taxpayer for the next royalty return period to
               end after the entitlement to the refund arises.
     (3) Immediately after the end of the period within which the
     commissioner may apply the refund amount under subsection (2), the
     commissioner must refund or pay to the taxpayer any part of the
     refund amount and section 61A interest that has not been applied.
     (4) However subsections (2) and (3) do not prevent the commissioner
     from holding the refund amount or section 61A interest for any
     period, or applying it for any purpose, at the taxpayer’s request
     or with the taxpayer’s consent.
     (5) This section has effect subject to section 39.
     (6) In this section—

     "royalty amount" means—
          (a) an amount payable by a taxpayer under a royalty law; or
          (b) an amount payable by a taxpayer, under this Act, that
          relates to an amount mentioned in paragraph (a).

     "royalty return period", for a taxpayer, means a period for which,
     under a royalty law, the taxpayer must lodge a return.

     "section 61A interest" means interest payable on a refund amount by
     the commissioner to a taxpayer under section 61A.
 
General provision about refunds and payments of section 61A interest
*** 39 General provision about refunds and payments of section 61A interest ***
     (1) The commissioner may refund an amount and pay any section 61A
     interest for the amount to a taxpayer or, under section 38, apply an
     amount and any section 61A interest for the amount as a payment for a
     taxpayer only if the commissioner is satisfied—
          (a) the taxpayer has not received, and will not receive, an
          amount as tax from another person for all or part of the
          tax paid; or
          (b) if the taxpayer has received an amount as tax (the
          "amount received") from another person for all or part of
          the tax paid, the taxpayer will—
               (i) reimburse the other person for the amount
               received; and
               (ii) if section 61A interest is payable to the
               taxpayer for the amount—pay the other person
               the section 61A interest for the amount received.
     (2) A court or QCAT must not make an order relating to the refund
     that is inconsistent with subsection (1).
     (3) If subsection (1) (b) applies, the taxpayer must—
          (a) within 90 days after receiving the refund (the
          "relevant period"), reimburse the other person for the
          amount received and pay the person any section 61A interest
          for the amount; and
          (b) within 7 days after the relevant period, give the
          commissioner written notice that the other person has been
          reimbursed for the amount received and paid any section 61A
          interest for the amount.
     (4) Also, if subsection (1) (b) applies and the taxpayer does not,
     within the relevant period, reimburse the other person for the amount
     received or pay the person any section 61A interest for the amount,
     the taxpayer must, within 7 days after the relevant period—
          (a) give the commissioner written notice that the other
          person was not reimbursed for the amount received or paid
          the interest; and
          (b) pay the commissioner—
               (i) the amount received and any section 61A
               interest paid by the commissioner to the taxpayer
               for the amount received; and
               (ii) interest on the balance payable under
               subparagraph (i) calculated on a daily basis at
               the prescribed rate, from the date the refund or
               section 61A interest was paid by the commissioner
               to the taxpayer, to the date the amount payable
               under subparagraph (i) is paid to the
               commissioner in full.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (5) In this section—

     "section 61A interest" see section 38 (6).

     "tax" means tax paid, or purportedly paid, under a tax law, whether
     or not under a mistake of law or fact.

     "taxpayer" includes a person who, under section 37 (1) (b), is
     entitled to a refund.
 
When payments are received
*** 40 When payments are received ***
     (1) A payment is taken to be received by the commissioner—
          (a) if the payment is made by cash or cheque—when the
          payment is made to the commissioner by or for a taxpayer
          for the taxpayer’s tax law liability; or
          (b) if the payment is made as prescribed under a regulation
          under section 29 (1) (b) —at the time prescribed under
          the regulation; or
          (c) if an amount becomes available for application by the
          commissioner under section 38 for a taxpayer’s tax law
          liability—when the amount becomes available.
     (2) However, if an amount is tendered to the commissioner on a day
     that is not a business day, or after 5p.m. on a business day, the
     payment of the amount is taken to have been made on the following
     business day.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not apply to an amount if—
          (a) a regulation made under section 29 (1) (b) allows the
          amount to be paid electronically; and
          (b) payment of the amount is made electronically.
 
Allocating payments if more than 1 assessment liability
*** 41 Allocating payments if more than 1 assessment liability ***
     (1) If a taxpayer has an assessment liability under more than 1
     assessment, the commissioner must decide the assessment liabilities
     to which a payment received by the commissioner is to be applied
     under section 42.
     (2) In making the decision, the commissioner may, but is not required
     to, have regard to a request by the taxpayer for the allocation of
     the payment.
 
Application of payments to assessment liability
*** 42 Application of payments to assessment liability ***
A payment received by the commissioner for an assessment liability must be
applied in the following order—
     (a) first, an amount payable under a tax law, other than late payment
     interest or tax;
     (b) second, another amount payable under a tax law, other than
     primary tax;
     (c) last, primary tax.
 
Waiver of tax law liability
*** 43 Waiver of tax law liability ***
     (1) The commissioner may waive payment of a taxpayer’s tax law
     liability up to the amount prescribed under a regulation.
     (2) The liability to pay the amount waived is extinguished.
 
Effect of writing off tax law liability
*** 44 Effect of writing off tax law liability ***
If all or part of a taxpayer’s tax law liability is written off under the
Financial Accountability Act 2009, section 21, the writing off does not
extinguish the taxpayer’s liability or prevent a later proceeding against the
taxpayer to recover the amount of the liability.
 
Unpaid amount under tax law is debt
*** 45 Unpaid amount under tax law is debt ***
     (1) An amount payable under a tax law must be paid to the
     commissioner.
     (2) If the whole or part of an amount payable under a tax law is not
     paid as required—
          (a) the unpaid amount is a debt payable to the State; and
          (b) the commissioner may recover the unpaid amount for the
          State in a court of competent jurisdiction.
     (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to an amount of royalty
     payable under the Mineral Resources Act 1989 to a person other than
     the State.
 
Recovery proceedings not affected by reassessment
*** 46 Recovery proceedings not affected by reassessment ***
A reassessment does not affect a proceeding for the recovery of an amount
payable under a tax law but an appropriate adjustment must be made to the
amount sought to be recovered in the proceeding to accord with the
reassessment.
 
Joint and several liability
*** 47 Joint and several liability ***
     (1) If 2 or more taxpayers are liable under a tax law to pay an
     amount, the commissioner may recover the whole or part of the amount
     from any 1 or more of them.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not affect the right of a taxpayer who pays
     an amount to recover a contribution from another person jointly or
     severally liable for the whole or part of the amount.
 
Definition for sdiv 1A
*** 47A Definition for sdiv 1A ***
In this subdivision—

"registrar" means the registrar of titles under the Land Title Act 1994 or
another person responsible for keeping a register of dealings in land.
 
Registration of charge over land
*** 47B Registration of charge over land ***
     (1) This section applies if, under a revenue law, the commissioner
     may lodge a request to register a charge over land under this
     division.
     (2) The commissioner may lodge the request, in the approved form,
     with the registrar.
     (3) The registrar must register the charge over the land on lodgement
     of—
          (a) the request; and
          (b) a certificate of the commissioner stating there is,
          under a stated revenue law, a charge over the land for a
          stated outstanding amount of tax.
     (4) The fee for registration of the charge is payable by the owner of
     the land.
 
Release of charge over land
*** 47C Release of charge over land ***
     (1) This section applies if, in relation to a registered charge—
          (a) the outstanding amount of tax is paid; or
          (b) under a reassessment, no tax is payable.
     (2) The commissioner must, as soon as practicable after payment of
     the outstanding amount of tax or the reassessment, lodge with the
     registrar a request in the approved form to register the release of
     the charge.
     (3) The registrar must register the release of the charge on
     lodgement of the request.
     (4) This section does not prevent the commissioner requesting
     registration of the release of the charge in other circumstances.
     (5) The fee for registration of the release of the charge is payable
     by the owner of the land.
     (6) In this section—

     "registered charge" means a charge registered—
          (a) before the commencement of this section—under a
          revenue law; or
          (b) on or after the commencement of this section—under
          section 47B.
 
Recovery of fees paid by commissioner
*** 47D Recovery of fees paid by commissioner ***
     (1) This section applies if the commissioner pays, to the registrar,
     a fee mentioned in section 47B (4) or 47C (5).
     (2) The commissioner may recover the amount of the fee from the
     person or persons liable for payment of the fee.
 
Particular administrators to notify commissioner of appointment
*** 48 Particular administrators to notify commissioner of appointment ***
     (1) A person who is appointed as administrator for the property of a
     taxpayer who has a tax law liability must, before the required date,
     give written notice to the commissioner of the appointment.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
     (2) For subsection (1), the required date is—
          (a) 14 days after the administrator becomes aware, or
          should reasonably have become aware, the taxpayer has a tax
          law liability even if the extent of the liability is not
          then ascertainable; or
          (b) the later date allowed by the commissioner.
     (3) However, notice is not required in the circumstances prescribed
     under a regulation.
 
Administrator’s liability for payment of tax
*** 49 Administrator’s liability for payment of tax ***
     (1) The commissioner has the same powers and remedies in relation to
     the administrator for the property of a taxpayer as the commissioner
     would have in relation to the taxpayer.
     (2) However, an administrator is liable for payment of a tax law
     liability of a taxpayer only to the extent of the realised value of
     all property that—
          (a) the administrator has taken possession as
          administrator; and
          (b) was, at any time, available to the administrator for
          the payment of the tax.
 
Collection of amounts from a garnishee
*** 50 Collection of amounts from a garnishee ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) under a tax law, a debt is payable by a taxpayer; and
          (b) the commissioner reasonably believes a person (the
          "garnishee")—
               (i) holds or may receive an amount for or on
               account of the taxpayer; or
               (ii) is liable or may become liable to pay an
               amount to the taxpayer; or
               (iii) has authority to pay an amount to the
               taxpayer.
     (2) Subsection (1) (b) applies even though the taxpayer’s
     entitlement to the amount may be subject to unfulfilled conditions.
     (3) The commissioner may, by written notice given to the garnishee
     (the
     "garnishee notice"), require the garnishee to pay to the commissioner
     by a stated date a stated amount (the
     "garnishee amount").
     (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the garnishee notice may require
     the garnishee to pay to the commissioner an amount out of each
     payment the garnishee is or becomes liable, from time to time, to
     make to the taxpayer.
     (5) However, if, on the date for payment under the garnishee notice,
     the garnishee amount is not held for, or is not liable to be paid to,
     the taxpayer by the garnishee, the notice has effect as if the date
     for payment were immediately after the date the amount is held for,
     or is liable to be paid to, the taxpayer by the garnishee.
     (6) The garnishee amount must not be more than the taxpayer’s debt.
     (7) The garnishee must comply with the garnishee notice unless the
     garnishee has a reasonable excuse.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
     (8) The commissioner must give to the taxpayer—
          (a) a copy of the garnishee notice; and
          (b) details in writing of the taxpayer’s debt to which
          the notice relates.
 
Duration of garnishee notice
*** 51 Duration of garnishee notice ***
The garnishee notice has effect until the garnishee amount is paid or the
commissioner, by written notice given to the garnishee, withdraws the notice.
 
Effect of discharge of debt on garnishee notice
*** 52 Effect of discharge of debt on garnishee notice ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the taxpayer’s debt to which the garnishee notice
          relates is discharged, whether completely or partly, before
          the date for payment of the garnishee amount; and
          (b) the discharge affects the amount to be recovered from
          the garnishee.
     (2) The commissioner must give written notice to the garnishee and
     the taxpayer—
          (a) informing them of the extent of the discharge of the
          debt; and
          (b) stating the amount payable under the garnishee notice
          is reduced accordingly; and
          (c) if the taxpayer’s debt is fully
          discharged—withdrawing the garnishee notice.
 
Effect of payment by garnishee
*** 53 Effect of payment by garnishee ***
If the garnishee pays an amount to the commissioner under a garnishee notice,
the garnishee—
     (a) is taken to have acted under the authority of the taxpayer and
     all other persons concerned; and
     (b) if the garnishee is under an obligation to pay an amount to the
     taxpayer—is to be taken to have satisfied the obligation to the
     extent of the payment.
 
Unpaid tax interest
*** 54 Unpaid tax interest ***
     (1) A taxpayer must pay interest (
     "unpaid tax interest") on the amount of primary tax payable by the
     taxpayer and unpaid from time to time (
     "unpaid primary tax").
     (2) Unpaid tax interest, other than late payment interest, accrues
     daily at the prescribed rate on the unpaid primary tax for the period
     starting on the start date and ending on the date the primary tax is
     paid in full, both dates inclusive.
     (3) Late payment interest accrues at the prescribed rate on the
     unpaid primary tax as follows—
          (a) for unpaid primary tax under a royalty law, late
          payment interest accrues daily from and including the start
          date;
          (b) for unpaid primary tax under a revenue law other than a
          royalty law, late payment interest accrues—
               (i) on the day of the week prescribed by
               regulation first happening after the start date;
               and
               (ii) weekly after the first accrual under
               subparagraph (i).
     (4) Any unpaid tax interest that has accrued when an assessment is
     made (
     "assessed interest") must be included in the assessment.
     (5) For subsections (2) and (3), the start date is the day after—
          (a) for a return self assessment—the date the return is
          required to be lodged under the revenue law for the self
          assessment; or
          (aa) for a standard self assessment—
               (i) the due date for the self assessment; or
               (ii) if the self assessor has not complied with
               one or more lodgement requirements for the self
               assessment—the date that is the same number of
               days before the due date for the self assessment
               as the number of days in the periods of
               noncompliance with the lodgement requirements; or
               (iii) if the liable party has not complied with
               the Duties Act 2001, section 471E —the date
               that is the same number of days before the due
               date for the self assessment as the number of
               days in the period of noncompliance with the
               Duties Act 2001, section 471E; or
               (iv) if subparagraphs (ii) and (iii) both
               apply—the date that is the same number of days
               before the due date for the self assessment as
               the total number of days of noncompliance; or
          (b) for a default assessment of a taxpayer’s liability
          for tax required or permitted to be made by a self
          assessment—the date the return or transaction statement
          is required to be lodged under the revenue law for the self
          assessment; or
          (c) for another original assessment—
               (i) the due date for the assessment; or
               (ii) if the taxpayer has not complied with 1 or
               more information or lodgement requirements for
               the assessment—the date that is the same number
               of days before the due date for the assessment as
               the number of days in the periods of
               noncompliance with the information or lodgement
               requirements; or
          (d) for a reassessment of a self assessment—the date
          mentioned in paragraph (a) or (aa) for the assessment; or
          (e) for a reassessment of another original assessment—the
          date mentioned in paragraph (b) or (c) for the assessment.
          Example for subsection (5)(c)(ii)—
               If a taxpayer who is required to comply with a
               lodgement requirement by 10 March does not comply
               with the requirement until 15 March, the period
               of noncompliance under subsection (6) is 5 days.
               If the due date for the assessment made is 17
               April, the start date is 13 April.
     (6) For subsection (5) (aa) (ii), (iii) and (iv) or (c)(ii)—
          (a) a period of noncompliance ends on the date the
          commissioner issues a default assessment for the
          noncompliance; and
          (b) the date on which the requirement is complied with is
          included in calculating a period of noncompliance.
     (7) For a reassessment—
          (a) the unpaid primary tax is the amount of the reassessed
          primary tax that is unpaid; and
          (b) any assessed interest included in the reassessment
          replaces any previously accrued unpaid tax interest.
          Example for subsection (7)—
               The assessment for the example for subsection (5)
               (c) (ii) is issued for $10,000 primary tax and
               before any payment under the original assessment
               is made. A reassessment is issued on 24 April for
               $12,000 primary tax.
               If the prescribed rate for late payment interest
               is 10% per year, the late payment interest that
               has accrued on the $10,000 when the reassessment
               is made (namely on and from 13 April to and
               including 24 April) is $32.87. When the
               reassessment is made, assessed interest is
               calculated on the $12,000 unpaid reassessed
               primary tax on and from 13 April to and including
               24 April. This replaces the $32.87 interest
               previously accrued.
               If a payment of $10,000 is made on 12 April, the
               assessed interest for the reassessment would be
               calculated on the unpaid reassessed primary tax
               of $2,000 on and from 13 April to and including
               24 April.
     (8) A reference in this section to an amount of primary tax payable
     by a taxpayer does not include a reference to an amount of royalty
     payable under the Mineral Resources Act 1989 to a person other than
     the State.
     (9) Despite subsections (2) and (3) (a), a regulation under a royalty
     law may prescribe how unpaid tax interest is worked out in particular
     cases or classes of cases, including, for example, how the interest
     is worked out if royalty is, under a regulation under a royalty law,
     payable in instalments.
     (10) In this section—

     "liable party" see the Duties Act 2001, section 471A.

     "total number of days of noncompliance" means the total number of
     days worked out by adding the number of days in the period of
     noncompliance in subsection (5) (aa) (ii) to the number of days in
     the period of noncompliance in subsection (5) (aa) (iii).
 
When particular taxpayers liable for unpaid tax interest
*** 55 When particular taxpayers liable for unpaid tax interest ***
A taxpayer to whom a regulation under section 147 (2) applies is liable for
unpaid tax interest in relation to an assessment only from the due date in the
assessment notice given to the taxpayer.
 
Unpaid tax interest unaffected by extensions of time
*** 56 Unpaid tax interest unaffected by extensions of time ***
     (1) The making of a payment arrangement must be disregarded for
     determining late payment interest accruing under section 54.
     (2) Any extension of time allowed by the commissioner for complying
     with an information or lodgement requirement must be disregarded in
     determining the start date under section 54 (4).
 
Application of payments for unpaid tax interest
*** 57 Application of payments for unpaid tax interest ***
     (1) The order of application of a payment under section 42 applies to
     determine the amount of unpaid primary tax on which unpaid tax
     interest accrues.
     (2) For a reassessment, subsection (1) applies as if there had been
     no previous application of payments.
 
Liability for penalty tax
*** 58 Liability for penalty tax ***
     (1) A taxpayer is liable for an amount (
     "penalty tax") if—
          (a) the commissioner makes a default assessment under
          section 13 (1) (a) or (b); or
          (b) the commissioner makes a reassessment and the original
          assessment was a default assessment under section 13 (1)
          (a) or (b); or
          (c) the primary tax assessed on a reassessment, other than
          under a reassessment mentioned in paragraph (b), is more
          than the primary tax assessed on the original assessment or
          an earlier reassessment.
     (2) Penalty tax must be assessed as follows—
          (a) if subsection (1) (a) applies—an amount equal to 75%
          of the primary tax assessed;
          (b) if subsection (1) (b) applies—an amount equal to 75%
          of the reassessed primary tax;
          (c) if subsection (1) (c) applies and the primary tax
          assessed on the last reassessment is more than the primary
          tax assessed on the original assessment—an amount equal
          to 75% of the difference between the 2 amounts;
          (d) if subsection (1) (c) applies and the primary tax
          assessed on the last reassessment is less than the primary
          tax assessed on the original assessment but more than the
          primary tax assessed on an earlier reassessment—an amount
          equal to 75% of the difference between the primary tax
          assessed on the last reassessment and the lowest primary
          tax assessed on an earlier reassessment.
     (3) The commissioner may increase the amount of the penalty tax by
     not more than 20% of the penalty tax under subsection (2) if the
     commissioner is satisfied the taxpayer—
          (a) has not complied with section 28; or
          (b) has hindered or prevented the commissioner from
          becoming aware of the nature and extent of the taxpayer’s
          liability for tax.
     (4) A reference in this section to an amount of primary tax does not
     include a reference to an amount of royalty payable under the Mineral
     Resources Act 1989 to a person other than the State.
 
Penalty tax not payable if proceeding for offence started
*** 59 Penalty tax not payable if proceeding for offence started ***
     (1) This section applies if a taxpayer is liable to pay penalty tax
     because of an act or omission of the person.
     (2) If a proceeding is started against the taxpayer for an offence
     against a tax law that is constituted by the act or omission and the
     penalty tax has not been paid to the commissioner, the penalty tax is
     payable only if the commissioner withdraws the proceeding.
     (3) If the penalty tax has been paid to the commissioner, but a
     proceeding is started against the person for an offence against a tax
     law that is constituted by the act or omission, the commissioner must
     make a reassessment remitting the amount of penalty tax to nil.
          Note—
               See section 18 (When commissioner must make
               reassessment—general).
     (4) Despite subsection (3), if the commissioner withdraws the
     proceeding for the offence, the commissioner must make a reassessment
     to reinstate the penalty tax remitted under the subsection.
     (5) In this section—

     "penalty tax" includes an amount declared under a revenue law to be a
     penalty tax for this section.
 
When commissioner may remit unpaid tax interest and penalty tax
*** 60 When commissioner may remit unpaid tax interest and penalty tax ***
     (1) The commissioner may remit the whole or part of unpaid tax
     interest or penalty tax.
     (2) The remission of assessed interest or penalty tax must be made by
     assessment.
 
Interest on particular overpayments following court’s or QCAT’s decision
*** 61 Interest on particular overpayments following court’s or QCAT’s
decision ***
     (1) This section applies if a taxpayer is entitled to a refund of tax
     or late payment interest (the
     "overpaid amount") because of—
          (a) a reassessment giving effect to a decision of the
          Supreme Court under section 70C on an appeal by the
          taxpayer; or
          (b) an order of the Supreme Court on an application, under
          the Judicial Review Act 1991, by the taxpayer for a
          decision under a tax law; or
          (c) a reassessment giving effect to a decision of QCAT on
          an application for review made by the taxpayer under
          section 69.
     (2) The court or QCAT may order the commissioner to pay interest on
     the overpaid amount.
     (3) The interest must be calculated on a daily basis at the
     prescribed rate from the date the overpaid amount was paid to the
     commissioner to the date the refund is made by the commissioner.
 
Interest on particular overpayments following commissioner’s decision
*** 61A Interest on particular overpayments following commissioner’s decision
***
     (1) This section applies if a taxpayer is entitled to a refund of tax
     or late payment interest (the
     "overpaid amount") because of a reassessment giving effect to a
     decision of the commissioner under section 67 (1).
     (2) The commissioner must pay interest on the overpaid amount.
     (3) The interest must be calculated on a daily basis at the
     prescribed rate from the date the overpaid amount was paid to the
     commissioner to the date the refund is made by the commissioner.
 
Interest only payable under this division
*** 62 Interest only payable under this division ***
A person is not entitled to interest on any amount the commissioner is required
to refund to the person other than under this division.
     Note—
          See section 36 (Refunds made only under this division).
 
Royalty under Mineral Resources Act 1989
*** 62A Royalty under Mineral Resources Act 1989 ***
A person is not entitled to interest under this division on an amount of
royalty paid under the Mineral Resources Act 1989 to a person other than the
State.
 
Right to object—assessments
*** 63 Right to object—assessments ***
     (1) A taxpayer who is dissatisfied with an original assessment, other
     than a compromise assessment, may object to the assessment.
     (2) Also, a taxpayer who is dissatisfied with any of the following
     reassessments may object to it—
          (a) a reassessment increasing the taxpayer’s liability
          for tax;
          (b) a reassessment under section 18 (b) decreasing a
          taxpayer’s liability for tax;
          (c) a reassessment of the taxpayer’s liability for
          royalty payable under the Mineral Resources Act 1989
          that—
               (i) varies the amount payable to the State and
               the amount payable to another person; and
               (ii) does not change the taxpayer’s total
               liability for royalty.
     (3) However, the right of objection to the reassessment is limited to
     the changes for the particular matters for which the reassessment is
     made.
     (4) A decision or conduct leading up to or forming part of the
     process of making an assessment is subject to objection only as part
     of an objection to the assessment.
 
Right to object—royalty valuation decisions
*** 63A Right to object—royalty valuation decisions ***
     (1) A taxpayer who is dissatisfied with an original royalty valuation
     decision may object to the decision.
     (2) A taxpayer who is dissatisfied with an amended royalty valuation
     decision may object to the decision.
     (3) However, the right of objection to an amended royalty valuation
     decision is limited to the changes for the particular matters for
     which the amended royalty valuation decision is made.
     (4) A decision or conduct leading up to or forming part of the
     process of making a royalty valuation decision is subject to
     objection only as part of an objection to the royalty valuation
     decision.
 
Grounds of objection
*** 64 Grounds of objection ***
     (1) An objection against an assessment or royalty valuation decision
     may be made on any grounds.
     (2) However, for an objection to a decision to which this part is
     declared to apply under a provision of a revenue law, the grounds of
     objection are limited to whether the particular circumstances apply
     for the instrument or transaction to which the decision relates.
          Note—
               See the Duties Act 2001, section 500 (Application
               of Administration Act, pt 6, to particular
               decisions).
     (3) Also, if a royalty valuation decision relates to an assessment, a
     matter relating to the decision may only be raised in an objection to
     the decision under section 63A and may not be raised in an objection
     to the assessment under section 63.
 
Making objection
*** 65 Making objection ***
     (1) An objection must—
          (a) be in writing; and
          (b) state in detail the grounds on which the objection is
          made; and
          (c) be accompanied by copies of all material relevant to
          decide the objection; and
          (d) be lodged within 60 days after the following notice is
          given to the taxpayer—
               (i) for an objection under section 63 —the
               assessment notice for the assessment to which the
               objection relates;
               (ii) for an objection under section 63A —the
               notice for the royalty valuation decision to
               which the objection relates.
     (2) The commissioner may extend the time for lodging an objection if
     the commissioner is satisfied it would be unreasonable in particular
     circumstances for the objection to be lodged within the 60 days.
     (3) The commissioner’s decision to refuse to extend the time for
     lodging an objection is a non-reviewable decision.
 
Onus of proof on objection
*** 66 Onus of proof on objection ***
The objector has the onus of proving the objector’s case.
 
Deciding objection
*** 67 Deciding objection ***
     (1) The commissioner must allow the objection completely or partly or
     disallow it.
     (2) If the objection relates to an assessment or royalty valuation
     decision made by a delegate of the commissioner, the delegate must
     not decide the objection.
 
Notice of decision
*** 68 Notice of decision ***
     (1) The commissioner must give written notice to the objector of the
     commissioner’s decision on the objection.
     (2) If the objection is allowed in part or disallowed, the notice
     must state the following—
          (a) the decision;
          (b) the reasons for the decision;
          (c) that the taxpayer has a right to—
               (i) appeal to the Supreme Court; or
               (ii) apply, as provided under the QCAT Act, to
               QCAT for a review of the commissioner’s
               decision;
          (d) how, and the period within which, the taxpayer may
          appeal or apply for the review.
 
Right of appeal or review
*** 69 Right of appeal or review ***
     (1) This section applies to a taxpayer if—
          (a) the taxpayer is dissatisfied with the commissioner’s
          decision on the taxpayer’s objection; and
          (b) for an objection under section 63 —the taxpayer has
          paid the whole of the amount of the tax and late payment
          interest payable under the assessment to which the decision
          relates.
     (2) The taxpayer may, within 60 days after notice is given to the
     taxpayer of the commissioner’s decision on the objection—
          (a) appeal to the Supreme Court; or
          (b) apply, as provided under the QCAT Act, to QCAT for a
          review of the commissioner’s decision.
     (3) QCAT may not, under the QCAT Act, section 61 (1) (a), extend the
     period under subsection (2) within which the taxpayer may apply to
     QCAT for the review.
     (4) To remove any doubt, it is declared that subsection (1) (b)
     applies to an objection to an assessment whether or not the taxpayer
     also makes an objection under section 63A to a royalty valuation
     decision relating to the assessment.
     (5) For royalty payable under the Mineral Resources Act 1989, the
     reference in subsection (1) (b) to payment of the whole of the amount
     of the tax is a reference to payment of the whole of the amount of
     the royalty assessed as payable to the State.
 
Effect of reassessment or amendment of decision after appeal or review started
*** 69A Effect of reassessment or amendment of decision after appeal or review
started ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a taxpayer appeals to the Supreme Court against, or
          applies to QCAT for a review of, the commissioner’s
          decision on the taxpayer’s objection; and
          (b) after the appeal or review has started but before it
          has been decided, the taxpayer receives—
               (i) for an objection under section 63 —an
               assessment notice for a reassessment of the
               taxpayer’s liability for tax; or
               (ii) for an objection under section 63A —a
               notice under the royalty law of an amended
               royalty valuation decision.
     (2) The taxpayer may—
          (a) continue or withdraw—
               (i) the existing appeal; or
               (ii) the taxpayer’s application for review; or
          (b) instead of objecting to the reassessment or amended
          royalty valuation decision, change the grounds of the
          appeal or review, by filing notice of the change with—
               (i) for an appeal—the registrar of the Supreme
               Court; or
               (ii) for a review—the registrar of QCAT.
     (3) However, the taxpayer may change the grounds of the appeal or
     review only to the extent that the taxpayer would have a right of
     objection to the reassessment or amended royalty valuation decision.
 
How to start appeal to the Supreme Court
*** 70 How to start appeal to the Supreme Court ***
     (1) An appeal to the Supreme Court is started by giving written
     notice of the appeal to the commissioner within 7 days after the
     notice of appeal is filed.
     (2) The notice of appeal must be filed within 60 days after notice is
     given to the taxpayer of the commissioner’s decision on the
     objection.
     (3) The Supreme Court must not extend the time for filing the notice.
     (4) The notice of appeal must state fully the grounds of the appeal
     and the facts relied on.
     (5) The grounds of an appeal to the Supreme Court are limited to the
     grounds of objection unless the court otherwise orders.
 
Onus on appeal
*** 70A Onus on appeal ***
On the appeal, the appellant has the onus of proving the appellant’s case.
 
Admissibility of new evidence
*** 70B Admissibility of new evidence ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) the Supreme Court is satisfied evidence material to the
          objection was not before the commissioner when the
          objection was decided; and
          (b) subject to section 70 (5), the court admits the
          evidence.
     (2) The court must—
          (a) adjourn the hearing of the appeal; and
          (b) direct the commissioner to reconsider the objection
          having regard to the evidence and any other evidence
          obtained by the commissioner.
     (3) However, subsection (2) does not apply if the commissioner asks
     the court to continue the hearing without the commissioner
     reconsidering the objection.
     (4) For reconsidering the objection, the commissioner has all the
     powers conferred under this Act.
 
Deciding appeal
*** 70C Deciding appeal ***
The Supreme Court must allow the appeal completely or partly or disallow it.
 
QCAT to decide review on evidence before the commissioner
*** 71 QCAT to decide review on evidence before the commissioner ***
     (1) This section applies to a proceeding for a review by QCAT of a
     decision of the commissioner on an objection.
     (2) The grounds on which the application for review is made are
     limited to the grounds of the relevant objection, unless QCAT
     otherwise orders.
     (3) QCAT must—
          (a) hear and decide the review of the decision by way of a
          reconsideration of the evidence before the commissioner
          when the decision was made, unless QCAT considers it
          necessary in the interests of justice to allow new
          evidence; and
          (b) decide the review of the decision in accordance with
          the same law that applied to the making of the original
          decision.
     (4) If QCAT decides, under the QCAT Act, section 139, that the
     proceeding should be reopened, the issues in the proceeding that are
     reheard must be—
          (a) heard and decided by way of a reconsideration of the
          evidence given in the proceeding for the review of the
          decision; and
          (b) decided in accordance with the same law that applied to
          the making of the original decision.
     (5) In this section—

     "new evidence" means evidence that was not before the commissioner
     when the decision on the objection was made.

     "original decision" means the assessment, reassessment, royalty
     valuation decision or amended royalty valuation decision that was the
     subject of the relevant objection.

     "relevant objection" means the objection to which the decision of the
     commissioner relates.
 
Representation of parties before QCAT
*** 72 Representation of parties before QCAT ***
     (1) This section applies to a party in a proceeding before QCAT
     relating to an application under section 69 (2) (b).
     (2) The party may be represented by a lawyer.
 
Onus on review
*** 73 Onus on review ***
On the review, the applicant has the onus of proving the applicant’s case.
 
What is a non-reviewable decision
*** 75 What is a non-reviewable decision ***
     (1) A
     "non-reviewable decision" is a decision or determination that, under
     a provision of a tax law, is declared to be a non-reviewable
     decision.
     (2) In this section—

     "decision" includes a decision or conduct leading up to or forming
     part of the process of making a decision or determination.
 
Effect of non-reviewable decisions
*** 76 Effect of non-reviewable decisions ***
A non-reviewable decision—
     (a) is final and conclusive; and
     (b) is not subject to objection, appeal or review under this part;
     and
     (c) can not be challenged, appealed against, reviewed, quashed, set
     aside, or called in question in another way, under the Judicial
     Review Act 1991 or otherwise (whether by the Supreme Court, another
     court, a tribunal or another entity); and
     (d) is not subject to any writ or order of the Supreme Court, another
     court, a tribunal or another entity on any ground.
 
Application of Judicial Review Act
*** 77 Application of Judicial Review Act ***
The Judicial Review Act 1991, parts 3 and 5, does not apply to—
     (a) an assessment or royalty valuation decision; or
     (b) a decision or conduct leading up to or forming part of the
     process of making an assessment or royalty valuation decision; or
     (c) a decision disallowing, in whole or in part, an objection against
     an assessment or royalty valuation decision; or
     (d) the giving of an electronic payment notice under section 29A (1);
     or
     (e) the giving of an electronic communication notice under section
     143A (1); or
     (f) a decision, under section 29B, to refuse to grant an application
     for the withdrawal of an electronic payment notice; or
     (g) a decision, under section 143B, to refuse to grant an application
     for the withdrawal of an electronic communication notice.
 
Declaration of recognised law and corresponding commissioner
*** 78 Declaration of recognised law and corresponding commissioner ***
     (1) A regulation may declare a law of the Commonwealth or another
     State that provides for any of the following to be a recognised law
     for this Act—
          (a) the levying or collection of—
               (i) a tax, fee, duty or other impost; or
               (ii) a royalty;
          (b) the payment of a subsidy for goods.
     (2) However, a law may be declared to be a recognised law only if the
     law or another law of the relevant jurisdiction provides or will
     provide for the conduct of investigations for a tax law or another
     law administered by the commissioner that corresponds to a recognised
     law.
     (3) The regulation must declare a person to be the corresponding
     commissioner for the recognised law.
 
Exercise of powers only for tax law or recognised law
*** 79 Exercise of powers only for tax law or recognised law ***
A power conferred under this part may be exercised only for the administration
or enforcement of a tax law or recognised law.
     Note—
          For reciprocal investigations, see section 110 (Application
          of Act to reciprocal investigations).
 
Appointment
*** 80 Appointment ***
     (1) The commissioner may appoint a public service employee as an
     investigator.
     (2) The commissioner may appoint a person as an investigator only if
     the commissioner is satisfied the person is qualified for appointment
     because the person has the necessary expertise or experience.
 
Appointment conditions and limit on powers
*** 81 Appointment conditions and limit on powers ***
     (1) An investigator holds office on any conditions stated in—
          (a) the investigator’s instrument of appointment; or
          (b) a signed notice given to the investigator; or
          (c) a regulation.
     (2) The instrument of appointment, a signed notice given to the
     investigator or a regulation may limit the investigator’s powers
     under this Act.
     (3) In this section—

     "signed notice" means a notice signed by the commissioner.
 
Issue of identity card
*** 82 Issue of identity card ***
     (1) The commissioner must issue an identity card to each
     investigator.
     (2) The identity card must—
          (a) contain a recent photo of the investigator; and
          (b) contain a copy of the investigator’s signature; and
          (c) identify the person as an investigator under this Act;
          and
          (d) state an expiry date for the card.
     (3) This section does not prevent the issue of a single identity card
     to a person for this Act and other purposes.
 
Production of identity card
*** 83 Production of identity card ***
     (1) In exercising a power under subdivision 3 or 4 in relation to a
     person, an investigator must—
          (a) first produce his or her identity card for the
          person’s inspection before exercising the power; or
          (b) have the identity card displayed so it is clearly
          visible to the person when exercising the power.
     (2) However, if it is not practicable to comply with subsection (1),
     the investigator must produce the identity card for the person’s
     inspection at the first reasonable opportunity.
     (3) For subsection (1), an investigator does not exercise a power in
     relation to a person only because the investigator has entered a
     place as mentioned in section 90 (1) (b) or (2).
 
When investigator ceases to hold office
*** 84 When investigator ceases to hold office ***
     (1) An investigator ceases to hold office if any of the following
     happens—
          (a) the term of office stated in a condition of office
          ends;
          (b) under another condition of office, the investigator
          ceases to hold office;
          (c) the investigator’s resignation under section 85 takes
          effect.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not limit the ways an investigator may cease
     to hold office.
     (3) In this section—

     "condition of office" means a condition on which the investigator
     holds office.
 
Resignation
*** 85 Resignation ***
     (1) An investigator may resign by signed notice given to the
     commissioner.
     (2) However, if holding office as an investigator is a condition of
     the investigator holding another office, the investigator may not
     resign as an investigator without resigning from the other office.
 
Return of identity card
*** 86 Return of identity card ***
A person who ceases to be an investigator must return the person’s identity
card to the commissioner within 21 days after ceasing to be an investigator
unless the person has a reasonable excuse.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
 
Power to require information or documents
*** 87 Power to require information or documents ***
The commissioner or an investigator may, by written notice given to a person,
require the person to—
     (a) give to the commissioner or an investigator, either orally or in
     writing, information in the person’s knowledge about a stated
     matter within a stated reasonable time and in a stated reasonable
     way; or
     (b) give to the commissioner or an investigator a document about a
     stated matter in the person’s possession or control within a stated
     reasonable time and in a stated reasonable way.
     Note—
          For the offence of failing to comply with an information or
          lodgement requirement, see section 121.
 
Power to require attendance
*** 88 Power to require attendance ***
     (1) The commissioner or an investigator may, by written notice given
     to a person, require the person to attend before the commissioner or
     an investigator to do either or both of the following—
          (a) give to the commissioner or investigator, either orally
          or in writing, information in the person’s knowledge
          about a stated matter; or
          (b) give to the commissioner or investigator, a document
          about a stated matter in the person’s possession or
          control.
     (2) The notice must state a reasonable time and place for the
     person’s attendance.
     (3) The commissioner or an investigator may require—
          (a) information to be given on oath; or
          (b) information or a document given to be verified by
          statutory declaration.
     (4) When making a requirement under this section, the commissioner or
     investigator must warn the person it is an offence to fail to comply
     with the requirement, unless the person has a reasonable excuse.
     (5) For subsection (3) (a), the commissioner or investigator may
     administer an oath.
     (6) The person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to—
          (a) attend as required by the notice; or
          (b) give information the person is required to give by the
          commissioner or an investigator in the way required; or
          (c) give a document the person is required to give by the
          notice; or
          (d) comply with a requirement under subsection (3).
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (7) A person, other than a taxpayer or the taxpayer’s
     representative, who is required under a notice under this section to
     attend a place is entitled to be paid the expenses prescribed under a
     regulation.
 
Power to record giving of information
*** 89 Power to record giving of information ***
     (1) This section applies if a person is giving information to the
     commissioner or an investigator under a requirement under section 88.
     (2) With the person’s knowledge, a recording may be made, in the
     way the commissioner or investigator considers appropriate, of
     questions asked by the commissioner or investigator and information
     given by the person.
     (3) If asked to do so by the person, the commissioner or investigator
     must give the person a copy of the recording.
 
Investigator’s power to enter places for investigations
*** 90 Investigator’s power to enter places for investigations ***
     (1) An investigator may enter a place if—
          (a) its occupier consents to the entry; or
          (b) it is a public place and the entry is made when it is
          open to the public; or
          (c) it is a place used for conducting an enterprise and the
          entry is made when—
               (i) the enterprise is being conducted; or
               (ii) the place is otherwise open for entry; or
          (d) the entry is authorised by warrant.
     (2) For the purpose of asking the occupier of a place for consent to
     enter, an investigator may, without the occupier’s consent or a
     warrant—
          (a) enter land around premises at the place to an extent
          that is reasonable to contact the occupier; or
          (b) enter part of the place the investigator reasonably
          considers members of the public ordinarily are allowed to
          enter when they wish to contact the occupier.
     (3) For subsection (1) (c), a place used for conducting an enterprise
     does not include a part of the place where a person resides.
 
Entry with consent
*** 91 Entry with consent ***
     (1) This section applies if an investigator intends to ask an
     occupier of a place to consent to the investigator or another
     investigator entering the place under section 90 (1) (a).
     (2) Before asking for the consent, the investigator must tell the
     occupier—
          (a) the purpose of the entry; and
          (b) that the occupier is not required to consent.
     (3) If the consent is given, the investigator may ask the occupier to
     sign an acknowledgement of the consent.
     (4) The acknowledgement must state—
          (a) the occupier has been told—
               (i) the purpose of the entry; and
               (ii) that the occupier is not required to
               consent; and
          (b) the purpose of the entry; and
          (c) the occupier gives the investigator consent to enter
          the place and exercise powers under this division; and
          (d) the time and date the consent was given.
     (5) If the occupier signs the acknowledgement, the investigator must
     immediately give a copy to the occupier.
     (6) If—
          (a) an issue arises in a proceeding about whether the
          occupier consented to the entry; and
          (b) an acknowledgement complying with subsection (4) for
          the entry is not produced in evidence;
     the onus of proof is on the person relying on the lawfulness of the
     entry to prove the occupier consented.
 
Application for warrant
*** 92 Application for warrant ***
     (1) An investigator may apply to a magistrate for a warrant for a
     place.
     (2) The application must be sworn and state the grounds on which the
     warrant is sought.
     (3) The magistrate may refuse to consider the application until the
     investigator gives the magistrate all the information the magistrate
     requires about the application in the way the magistrate requires.
          Example for subsection (3)—
               The magistrate may require additional information
               supporting the application to be given by
               statutory declaration.
 
Issue of warrant
*** 93 Issue of warrant ***
     (1) The magistrate may issue a warrant only if the magistrate is
     satisfied—
          (a) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting—
               (i) there is a particular thing or activity (the
               "evidence") that may provide evidence of a
               contravention of a tax law; and
               (ii) the evidence is at the place, or within the
               next 7 days, may be at the place; or
          (b) the warrant is needed to allow an investigator to enter
          the place for monitoring or enforcing compliance with a tax
          law.
     (2) The warrant must state the following—
          (a) that an investigator may, with necessary and reasonable
          help and force—
               (i) enter the place and any other place necessary
               for entry; and
               (ii) exercise the investigator’s powers under
               this part;
          (b) the hours of the day or night when the place may be
          entered;
          (c) the date, within 14 days after the warrant’s issue,
          the warrant ends;
          (d) the purpose for which the warrant is issued.
 
Special warrants
*** 94 Special warrants ***
     (1) An investigator may apply for a warrant (a
     "special warrant") by phone, fax, radio or another form of
     communication if the investigator considers it necessary because
     of—
          (a) urgent circumstances; or
          (b) other special circumstances, including, for example,
          the investigator’s remote location.
     (2) Before applying for the special warrant, the investigator must
     prepare an application stating the grounds on which the warrant is
     sought.
     (3) The investigator may apply for the warrant before the application
     is sworn.
     (4) After issuing the special warrant, the magistrate must
     immediately fax a copy to the investigator if it is reasonably
     practicable to fax the copy.
     (5) If it is not reasonably practicable to fax a copy to the
     investigator—
          (a) the magistrate must tell the investigator—
               (i) what the terms of the warrant are; and
               (ii) the date and time the warrant is issued; and
          (b) the investigator must complete a form of warrant (a
          "warrant form") and write on it—
               (i) the magistrate’s name; and
               (ii) the date and time the magistrate issued the
               warrant; and
               (iii) the terms of the special warrant.
     (6) The facsimile warrant, or the warrant form properly completed by
     the investigator, authorises the entry and the exercise of the other
     powers stated in the warrant issued by the magistrate.
     (7) The investigator must, at the first reasonable opportunity, send
     to the magistrate—
          (a) the sworn application; and
          (b) if the investigator completed a warrant form—the
          completed warrant form.
     (8) On receiving the documents, the magistrate must attach them to
     the warrant.
     (9) If—
          (a) an issue arises in a proceeding about whether an
          exercise of a power was authorised by a special warrant;
          and
          (b) the warrant is not produced in evidence;
     the onus of proof is on the person relying on the lawfulness of the
     exercise of the power to prove a special warrant authorised the
     exercise of the power.
 
Warrants—procedure before entry
*** 95 Warrants—procedure before entry ***
     (1) This section applies if an investigator named in a warrant issued
     under this subdivision for a place is intending to enter the place
     under the warrant.
     (2) Before entering the place, the investigator must do or make a
     reasonable attempt to do the following things—
          (a) identify himself or herself, and anyone else helping
          the investigator, to a person present at the place who is
          an occupier of the place by producing the investigator’s
          identity card;
          (b) give the person a copy of the warrant or, if the entry
          is authorised by a facsimile warrant or warrant form
          mentioned in section 94 (6), a copy of the facsimile
          warrant or warrant form;
          (c) tell the person the investigator is permitted by the
          warrant to enter the place;
          (d) give the person an opportunity to allow the
          investigator immediate entry to the place without using
          force.
     (3) However, the investigator need not comply with subsection (2) if
     the investigator believes on reasonable grounds that immediate entry
     to the place is required to ensure the effective execution of the
     warrant is not frustrated.
 
General powers for places
*** 96 General powers for places ***
     (1) An investigator who enters a place under subdivision 3 may
     exercise any of the following powers—
          (a) search any part of the place;
          (b) inspect, examine, photograph or film anything in the
          place;
          (c) take extracts from, and make copies of, any document in
          the place;
          (d) secure a thing, or require the occupier of the place to
          secure a thing, for a reasonable time, at the place to
          prevent its concealment, interference, loss or destruction;
          (e) access, electronically or in another way, a system used
          at the place;
          (f) take into the place any persons, equipment and
          materials the investigator reasonably requires for
          exercising a power under this division or for performing a
          function under a tax law;
          (g) require a person in the place to give the investigator
          reasonable information or help and provide reasonable
          facilities to exercise the powers mentioned in paragraphs
          (a) to (f).
               Examples for paragraph (g)—
                         1 giving information about
                         how to access electronic
                         systems at the place
                         2 provision of a photocopier
                         for copying a document
     (2) If an investigator secures a thing, a person must not tamper, or
     attempt to tamper, with the thing, or something restricting access to
     the thing, without the investigator’s approval.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (3) When making a requirement mentioned in subsection (1) (g), the
     investigator must warn the person it is an offence to fail to comply
     with the requirement, unless the person has a reasonable excuse.
     (4) The person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply
     with the requirement.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (4) —100 penalty
               units.
 
Power to seize and retain things
*** 97 Power to seize and retain things ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) under section 87 (b) or 88 (1) (b), a document is given
          to the commissioner or an investigator; or
          (b) under subdivision 3, an investigator enters a place.
     (2) The commissioner or investigator may retain the document or the
     investigator may seize and retain a thing—
          (a) with the consent of the person who gave the document,
          or the owner, or person who appears to be in possession or
          control, of the thing; or
          (b) to inspect or copy the document or thing if the
          commissioner or the investigator reasonably believes it is
          not reasonably practicable to inspect or copy the document
          or thing when or where it is given or seized; or
          (c) if the commissioner or investigator reasonably
          believes—
               (i) the document or thing is evidence of a
               contravention of a tax law; or
               (ii) it is necessary to prevent the document or
               thing being concealed, interfered with, lost or
               destroyed; or
          (d) if the commissioner or investigator reasonably believes
          it is necessary to produce a written document in the
          English language stating the information or content of the
          document or thing.
     (3) Nothing in this section affects a lien or other security over the
     retained document or thing (the
     "retained thing").
 
Receipt for retained thing
*** 98 Receipt for retained thing ***
     (1) The commissioner or investigator must, as soon as practicable,
     give a receipt for the retained thing to the person from whom it was
     received or seized.
     (2) However, if, under section 97 (2), the retained thing is seized
     by the investigator and for any reason it is not practicable for the
     investigator to comply with subsection (1), the investigator must
     leave the receipt at the place of seizure in a conspicuous position
     and in a reasonably secure way.
     (3) A receipt must—
          (a) state the date the thing is given to, or seized by, the
          commissioner or investigator; and
          (b) describe generally the thing given or seized and its
          condition.
     (4) This section does not apply to a retained thing if it is
     impracticable or would be unreasonable to give the receipt because of
     the thing’s nature, condition or value.
 
Return of retained thing
*** 99 Return of retained thing ***
     (1) The commissioner must ensure the retained thing is returned to
     its owner—
          (a) at the end of 6 months after the date mentioned in
          section 98 (3) (a); or
          (b) if a proceeding under a tax law involving the thing is
          started within the 6 months—at the end of the proceeding
          and any appeal from the proceeding.
     (2) However, the commissioner may retain a document for which tax is
     payable under a tax law until the tax is paid in full.
 
Testing of seized thing for royalty law
*** 99A Testing of seized thing for royalty law ***
     (1) This section applies only for the administration or enforcement
     of—
          (a) a royalty law; or
          (b) a law declared to be a recognised law under section 78
          (1) (a) (ii).
     (2) If an investigator considers a thing seized under section 97 is a
     mineral or petroleum, the investigator may carry out, or arrange to
     have carried out, a scientific or other test on a sample of the
     thing.
     (3) The testing may have the effect of destroying the thing.
     (4) Section 99 (1) does not apply in relation to a thing seized and
     tested under this section.
 
Access to retained thing
*** 100 Access to retained thing ***
     (1) Until the retained thing is forfeited or returned, the
     commissioner must allow the owner of the retained thing, or a person
     who would be entitled to inspect it if it were not in the
     commissioner’s possession, at any reasonable time to inspect it
     and, if it is a document, to copy it.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if it is impracticable or would be
     unreasonable to allow the inspection or copying.
 
Forfeiture of retained thing
*** 101 Forfeiture of retained thing ***
     (1) A retained thing is forfeited to the State if the commissioner—
          (a) can not find its owner, after making reasonable
          inquiries; or
          (b) can not return it to its owner, after making reasonable
          efforts.
     (2) In applying subsection (1) —
          (a) subsection (1) (a) does not require the commissioner to
          make inquiries if it would be unreasonable to make
          inquiries to find the owner; and
          (b) subsection (1) (b) does not require the commissioner to
          make efforts if it would be unreasonable to make efforts to
          return the thing to its owner.
               Example for paragraph (b)—
                    The owner of the thing has migrated to
                    a foreign country.
     (3) Regard must be had to a thing’s nature, condition and value in
     deciding—
          (a) whether it is reasonable to make inquiries or efforts;
          and
          (b) if making inquiries or efforts—what inquiries or
          efforts, including the period over which they are made, are
          reasonable.
 
Dealing with forfeited thing
*** 102 Dealing with forfeited thing ***
     (1) On the forfeiture of a retained thing to the State, it becomes
     the State’s property and may be dealt with by the commissioner as
     the commissioner considers appropriate.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the commissioner may destroy or
     dispose of the thing.
 
Investigators may use help and force in exercise of powers
*** 103 Investigators may use help and force in exercise of powers ***
     (1) An investigator may exercise a power under this division with the
     help that is reasonable in the circumstances.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1), a person engaged by the
     commissioner may help the investigator exercise powers under this
     division.
          Examples of persons who may help an investigator—
                    1 locksmith
                    2 computer technician
     (3) Also, an investigator may exercise a power under this division
     using the force that is reasonable in the circumstances.
 
Access to public records without fee
*** 104 Access to public records without fee ***
The commissioner or an investigator is not required to pay any fee for
inspecting or taking copies of a record that ordinarily is open to inspection
by members of the public.
 
Notice of damage
*** 105 Notice of damage ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an investigator damages property when exercising or
          purporting to exercise a power under this division; or
          (b) a person (the
          "other person") acting under the direction of an
          investigator damages property.
     (2) The investigator must promptly give written notice of particulars
     of the damage to the person who appears to the investigator to be the
     owner of the property.
     (3) If the investigator believes the damage was caused by a latent
     defect in the property or circumstances beyond the control of the
     investigator or other person, the investigator may state it in the
     notice.
     (4) If, for any reason, it is impracticable to give the notice to the
     person mentioned in subsection (2), the investigator must leave the
     notice in a conspicuous position and in a reasonably secure way where
     the damage happened.
     (5) This section does not apply to damage the investigator reasonably
     believes is trivial.
     (6) In this section—

     "owner", of property, includes the person in possession or control of
     it.
 
Compensation
*** 106 Compensation ***
     (1) A person may claim from the commissioner the cost of repairing or
     replacing property damaged because of the exercise or purported
     exercise of a power under this division.
     (2) The cost may be claimed and ordered to be paid in a proceeding—
          (a) brought in a court with jurisdiction for the recovery
          of the amount claimed; or
          (b) for an offence against this Act brought against the
          person claiming the amount.
     (3) A court may order an amount be paid only if it is satisfied it is
     just to make the order in the circumstances of the particular case.
     (4) A regulation may prescribe matters that may, or must, be taken
     into account by the court when considering whether it is just to make
     the order.
 
Commissioner may make reciprocal investigation arrangement
*** 107 Commissioner may make reciprocal investigation arrangement ***
     (1) The commissioner may make an arrangement with a corresponding
     commissioner for a recognised law to conduct an investigation under
     this part into any matter connected with the administration or
     enforcement of the recognised law.
     (2) The commissioner may make the arrangement only on the written
     application of the corresponding commissioner.
     (3) The application must state the reasons for the investigation.
     (4) The arrangement must—
          (a) be in writing; and
          (b) state the conditions applying to the conduct of the
          investigation and the application of this part to it; and
          (c) state whether the investigation is to be conducted by
          an investigator, reciprocal investigator or an investigator
          and reciprocal investigator; and
          (d) if the investigation is to be conducted by a reciprocal
          investigator—identify the reciprocal investigator.
 
Conduct of particular reciprocal investigations subject to commissioner
*** 108 Conduct of particular reciprocal investigations subject to commissioner
***
If a reciprocal investigation is to be conducted by a reciprocal
investigator—
     (a) the investigation is subject to the supervision and direction of
     the commissioner; and
     (b) the reciprocal investigator must report to the commissioner on
     the investigation—
          (i) when required by the commissioner during the
          investigation; and
          (ii) at the end of the investigation.
 
Identity certificates for reciprocal investigators
*** 109 Identity certificates for reciprocal investigators ***
If a reciprocal investigation is to be conducted by a reciprocal investigator,
the commissioner must issue to the investigator a certificate stating the
investigator is a reciprocal investigator authorised to exercise powers under
this part for conducting the investigation.
 
Application of Act to reciprocal investigations
*** 110 Application of Act to reciprocal investigations ***
     (1) This section prescribes changes for the application of this Act,
     other than this division, for conducting a reciprocal investigation.
     (2) For a reciprocal investigator conducting a reciprocal
     investigation—
          (a) a reference to an investigator is taken to be a
          reference to the reciprocal investigator; and
          (b) a reference to an investigator’s identity card is
          taken to be a reference to the identity card issued under
          the relevant recognised law identifying the investigator as
          a reciprocal investigator, and includes the identification
          certificate issued to the investigator by the commissioner.
     (3) However, subsection (2) (a) does not apply to sections 80 to 82,
     84 to 86 and 150.
     (4) A reference to a tax law, or a tax law liability, is taken to be
     a reference to the relevant recognised law or a liability under the
     relevant recognised law.
 
Disclosure of confidential information
*** 111 Disclosure of confidential information ***
     (1) An official must not disclose confidential information acquired
     by the official in the official’s capacity to anyone else other
     than under this part.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (2) The commissioner may disclose personal confidential
     information—
          (a) to the person to whom the information relates or, if
          either of the following apply, to someone else—
               (i) with the consent, express or implied, of the
               person to whom the information relates;
               (ii) the commissioner reasonably believes is
               acting for the person to whom the information
               relates; or
          (b) if the disclosure is expressly permitted or required
          under another Act; or
          (c) to the extent necessary to perform the commissioner’s
          functions under or in relation to the administration or
          enforcement of a tax law or another law administered by the
          commissioner; or
          (d) to a person for the administration or enforcement of—
               (i) a recognised law or another law about public
               revenue; or
               (ii) a resources law; or
          (e) in relation to any legal proceeding under a tax law; or
          (f) to the Treasurer or an officer of the department, if
          the disclosure is—
               (i) for developing or monitoring public revenue
               policies; or
               (ii) for administering the Financial
               Accountability Act 2009, section 21; or
               (iii) permitted under a law; or
          (g) to the chief executive of a department or a local
          government for keeping a record relating to the ownership,
          sale or value of interests in property; or
          (h) to the registrar of the State Penalties Enforcement
          Registry, appointed under the State Penalties Enforcement
          Act 1999, for the administration or enforcement of that
          Act.
     (3) Also, if the commissioner becomes aware, from information
     obtained or held by the commissioner in the course of administering
     this Act, of a particular offence or suspected offence (whether
     against this Act or another law), the commissioner may disclose
     confidential information about the offence or suspected offence to a
     member of the Queensland Police Service or the Australian Federal
     Police for an investigation or proceeding (including for starting an
     investigation or proceeding).
     (4) Also, the commissioner may disclose other confidential
     information to any person, or for any purpose, the commissioner is
     satisfied is appropriate in the circumstances.
     (5) The commissioner’s decision not to disclose confidential
     information is a non-reviewable decision.
     (6) This section does not create a right in any person to be given
     confidential information.
     (7) In this section—

     "resources law" includes the Mineral and Energy Resources (Common
     Provisions) Act 2014.
 
Other obligations about disclosure and use of confidential information
*** 112 Other obligations about disclosure and use of confidential information
***
     (1) If—
          (a) a person knowingly acquires confidential information
          without lawful authority; or
          (b) a person receives confidential information that the
          person knows, or ought reasonably to know, is confidential
          information;
     the person must not disclose the information to anyone else unless
     the disclosure is permitted under this part.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     Example for subsection (1)(a)—
          A person employed by a contractor engaged by the State to
          clean the department’s offices reads a document in the
          commissioner’s office containing confidential
          information.
     Examples for subsection (1)(b)—
               1 A person, other than the addressee of a fax,
               receives the fax that states the information in
               it is confidential and is intended for the
               addressee’s purposes only.
               2 Under section 111 a reciprocal investigator is
               given confidential information for conducting a
               reciprocal investigation.
     Note—
          This provision is an executive liability provision—see
          section 140.
     (2) If, under section 111, the commissioner discloses confidential
     information to a person, the person may disclose the information—
          (a) to the extent necessary to enable the person to
          exercise a power or perform a function conferred on the
          person under a law for the administration or enforcement of
          the law; or
          (b) for the purpose for which it was disclosed under the
          section; or
          (c) to anyone else or for any purpose if the information
          relates to the person.
 
Refusal of disclosure of particular information
*** 113 Refusal of disclosure of particular information ***
     (1) A person engaged in the administration or enforcement of a tax
     law can not be compelled to disclose to a court or QCAT in a
     proceeding, or to a party to the proceeding—
          (a) confidential information; or
          (b) whether or not the person has received particular
          confidential information; or
          (c) the identity of the source of particular confidential
          information.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a proceeding for the
     administration or enforcement of a tax law.
 
Definitions for division
*** 113A Definitions for division ***
In this division—

"commissioner of taxation" means the commissioner of taxation under the
Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cwlth), section 4.

"reportable information" means information about the transfer of a freehold or
leasehold interest in real property situated in Queensland that is reportable
by the State to the commissioner of taxation under the Taxation Administration
Act 1953 (Cwlth), schedule 1, chapter 5, part 5 -25, division 396, subdivision
396 -B.
 
Relationship with other laws
*** 113B Relationship with other laws ***
     (1) This division applies despite any other provision of this Act or
     another Act or law.
     (2) This division does not limit the extent to which reportable
     information may be collected or disclosed under another provision of
     this Act or another Act or law.
     (3) Information may be collected and disclosed under this division
     even if—
          (a) the information is collected only for the purpose of
          disclosure to the commissioner of taxation and not
          collected under or in relation to the administration of any
          law of the State (other than this division); and
          (b) the information is not disclosed in connection with the
          administration or execution of any law of the State (other
          than this division).
 
Commissioner may collect and disclose reportable information
*** 113C Commissioner may collect and disclose reportable information ***
The commissioner may collect reportable information and disclose it to the
commissioner of taxation.
 
How reportable information may be collected
*** 113D How reportable information may be collected ***
     (1) The commissioner may require a person who is providing
     information under a tax law to give the commissioner reportable
     information.
          Note—
               The requirement under this section is an
               information requirement for which a failure to
               comply is an offence under section 121.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the commissioner may require
     reportable information to be given with an instrument or ELN
     transaction document lodged, or an application made, under a tax law.
     (3) This section does not limit the circumstances in which the
     commissioner may collect reportable information.
 
Requirement to keep proper records
*** 114 Requirement to keep proper records ***
     (1) A person must keep the records necessary to enable the person’s
     tax law liability to be ascertained.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (2) For subsection (1), the commissioner may, by written notice given
     to a person, require the person to keep a particular record stated in
     the notice for a stated revenue law.
     (3) The person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply
     with the notice.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (4) A person who, under a notice given under a revenue law, is
     required to keep a stated record must comply with the requirement.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
 
Accessibility of records
*** 115 Accessibility of records ***
A person who is required under a tax law to keep a record must keep the record
in a way that it is able to be readily produced to the commissioner if required
by the commissioner.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
 
Form of records
*** 116 Form of records ***
A person who is required under a tax law to keep a record must keep the
record—
     (a) in the form of a document written in English with information
     about amounts expressed in Australian currency; or
     (b) in a form that can be readily converted or translated into the
     form mentioned in paragraph (a).
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
 
Commissioner may require translation or conversion of document or information
*** 117 Commissioner may require translation or conversion of document or
information ***
     (1) The commissioner may, by written notice given to a person,
     require the person to translate or convert into a written document in
     the English language and Australian currency any document or
     information the commissioner reasonably believes is relevant to the
     administration or enforcement of a tax law.
     (2) The notice must state the reasonable time for compliance with the
     requirement.
     (3) The person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply
     with the requirement.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (4) If the person does not comply with the requirement, the
     commissioner may have the document or information translated or
     converted.
     (5) The costs and expenses incurred under subsection (4) are a debt
     payable to the State by the person and may be recovered by the
     commissioner by action in a court of competent jurisdiction.
 
Period for keeping records
*** 118 Period for keeping records ***
A person who is required under a tax law to keep a record must keep it until
the later of the following—
     (a) 5 years has elapsed after it was made or obtained;
     (b) 5 years has elapsed after the completion of the transaction or
     matter to which it relates;
     (c) if the person’s liability under a revenue law depends on the
     continued satisfaction of conditions for a period stated in the
     revenue law after the making of an assessment to which the record
     relates—2 years has elapsed after the end of the period.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
 
Wilfully damaging records
*** 119 Wilfully damaging records ***
     (1) A person must not wilfully damage a record that is required to be
     kept under a tax law.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     Note—
          This provision is an executive liability provision—see
          section 140.
     (2) In this section—

     "damage" includes destroy.
 
Failure to give notice
*** 120 Failure to give notice ***
If, under a tax law, a person is required to give to the commissioner a notice
about a matter, the person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply
with the requirement.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
 
Failure to comply with information or lodgement requirement
*** 121 Failure to comply with information or lodgement requirement ***
A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with an
information or lodgement requirement.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
 
False or misleading documents
*** 122 False or misleading documents ***
     (1) A person must not give to the commissioner or an investigator a
     document containing information that the person knows, or should
     reasonably know, is false or misleading in a material particular.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     Note—
          This provision is an executive liability provision—see
          section 140.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who, when giving the
     document—
          (a) tells the commissioner or investigator of the extent to
          which the document is false or misleading; and
          (b) to the extent the person has, or can reasonably get,
          the correct information—gives the correct information to
          the commissioner or investigator.
     (3) It is enough for a complaint against a person for an offence
     against subsection (1) to state the document was, without specifying
     which, ‘false or misleading’.
 
False or misleading information
*** 123 False or misleading information ***
     (1) A person must not state anything to the commissioner or an
     investigator that the person knows is false or misleading in a
     material particular.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     Note—
          This provision is an executive liability provision—see
          section 140.
     (2) It is enough for a complaint for an offence against subsection
     (1), to state the statement made was ‘false or misleading’ to the
     person’s knowledge, without specifying which.
 
Self-incrimination not a reasonable excuse for failure to comply with
particular information or lodgement requirement
*** 124 Self-incrimination not a reasonable excuse for failure to comply with
particular information or lodgement requirement ***
     (1) This section applies if, under a tax law, a person is required by
     written notice given to the person to—
          (a) give information or a document to the commissioner or
          an investigator; or
          (b) lodge a document.
     (2) It is not a reasonable excuse for the person to fail to comply
     with the requirement because complying with the requirement might
     tend to incriminate the person.
     (3) However, evidence of, or evidence directly or indirectly derived
     from, information or a document given or lodged in compliance with
     the requirement, by the person that might tend to incriminate the
     person is not admissible in evidence against the person in a criminal
     proceeding, other than a proceeding in which the falsity or
     misleading nature of the information or document is relevant.
 
Use in legal proceedings of document or information obtained under a recognised
law
*** 125 Use in legal proceedings of document or information obtained under a
recognised law ***
     (1) This section applies if, under a recognised law—
          (a) a person is required to give information or a document
          in relation to a matter under a tax law; and
          (b) the information or document given in compliance with
          the requirement might tend to incriminate the person.
     (2) Evidence of, or evidence directly or indirectly derived from, the
     information or document that might tend to incriminate the person is
     not admissible in evidence against the person in a criminal
     proceeding, other than a proceeding in which the falsity or
     misleading nature of the information or document is relevant.
 
Obstruction of person exercising power under tax law
*** 126 Obstruction of person exercising power under tax law ***
A person must not, without reasonable excuse, obstruct—
     (a) the commissioner or an investigator exercising a power under a
     tax law; or
     (b) a person properly helping the commissioner or an investigator
     exercising a power under a tax law.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
 
Impersonation of investigator
*** 127 Impersonation of investigator ***
A person must not pretend to be an investigator.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
 
Application of div 2
*** 128 Application of div 2 ***
This division applies to a proceeding under or in relation to a tax law.
 
Commissioner’s office and signature
*** 129 Commissioner’s office and signature ***
     (1) Judicial notice must be taken of the name and signature of a
     person who is or was the commissioner.
     (2) A document is taken to be signed by the commissioner if it bears
     the written, printed or stamped signature or name of the commissioner
     instead of the commissioner’s signature.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the name of the commissioner was
     written, printed or stamped on the document without the
     commissioner’s authority.
     (4) A document bearing the written, printed or stamped name of the
     commissioner is presumed to have been made with the commissioner’s
     authority unless the contrary is proved.
 
Statement in complaint
*** 130 Statement in complaint ***
A statement made by or for the commissioner in a complaint starting a
proceeding is evidence of the matter stated.
 
Evidentiary certificates
*** 131 Evidentiary certificates ***
A certificate purporting to be signed by the commissioner stating any of the
following matters is evidence of the matter—
     (a) on a stated date—
          (i) a stated person was liable to pay, or paid, a stated
          amount; or
          (ii) a stated notice was published in a stated way; or
          (iii) a stated person made, gave or executed a stated
          document; or
          (iv) an assessment was made and the details of the
          assessment; or
          (v) a stated document was given to a stated person in a
          stated way; or
          (vi) a stated document or information was not received by a
          stated person; or
          (vii) a stated person had or had not done a stated thing
          required to be done under a tax law; or
          (viii) a stated person was or was not registered or
          approved under a tax law; or
          (ix) a stated person was an investigator;
     (b) a stated person is authorised to conduct a stated proceeding for
     the commissioner;
     (c) a stated document is a copy of, or part of, another document.
 
Evidentiary provisions for assessments
*** 132 Evidentiary provisions for assessments ***
     (1) Production of a document signed by the commissioner purporting to
     be a copy of an assessment notice—
          (a) is conclusive evidence of the proper making of the
          assessment; and
          (b) for—
               (i) a proceeding on an appeal against, or review
               of, a decision on an objection—is evidence that
               the amount and all particulars of the assessment
               are correct; or
               (ii) another proceeding—is conclusive evidence
               that the amount and all particulars of the
               assessment are correct.
     (2) The validity of an assessment is not affected merely because a
     provision of a tax law has not been complied with.
 
Production of copies of documents
*** 133 Production of copies of documents ***
A copy of a document made or issued by the commissioner or in the
commissioner’s possession—
     (a) is admissible in the same way as the original document; and
     (b) has the same evidentiary value as the original document.
 
Conducting proceeding for commissioner
*** 134 Conducting proceeding for commissioner ***
     (1) The commissioner may, by signed writing, authorise a person to
     conduct—
          (a) a proceeding in the commissioner’s name for—
               (i) the recovery of tax or another amount payable
               under a tax law; or
               (ii) an offence against a tax law; or
          (b) another proceeding under a tax law to which the
          commissioner is a party.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the person—
          (a) may appear for the commissioner before any court or
          tribunal in which the proceeding is conducted; and
          (b) represents the commissioner in the proceeding; and
          (c) is entitled to give evidence in the proceeding.
 
Summary proceedings for offences
*** 135 Summary proceedings for offences ***
A proceeding for an offence against a tax law must be taken in a summary way
under the Justices Act 1886.
 
When proceeding must start
*** 136 When proceeding must start ***
A proceeding for an offence against a tax law must start within 5 years after
the commission of the offence.
 
Court may order compliance or payment
*** 137 Court may order compliance or payment ***
     (1) If a person is convicted of an offence against a provision of a
     tax law, the court may order the person to comply with the provision.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies even if the time for complying with the
     provision has passed.
     (3) If a court makes an order under subsection (1), the order must
     state a place where and a time or period by or within which the order
     is to be complied with.
     (4) The person must comply with the order.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—200 penalty units.
     (5) Also, if a person is convicted of an offence against a provision
     of a tax law, the court may order the person pay the commissioner the
     amounts payable by the person under the tax law that are outstanding
     on the conviction.
     (6) In addition, if the court is satisfied the purpose of the act or
     omission constituting the offence was to avoid a tax law liability,
     the court may order the person pay twice the amount of the liability.
     (7) This section does not limit the court’s powers under the
     Penalties and Sentences Act 1992 or any other law.
 
Second or subsequent offence
*** 138 Second or subsequent offence ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a person is convicted of an offence against a provision
          of a tax law; and
          (b) within 5 years after the conviction, the person is
          convicted of a further offence against the provision.
     (2) The maximum penalty for the further offence is twice the maximum
     penalty fixed in the tax law for the offence.
 
Responsibility for acts or omissions of representative
*** 139 Responsibility for acts or omissions of representative ***
     (1) This section applies in a proceeding for an offence against a tax
     law.
     (2) If it is relevant to prove a person’s state of mind about a
     particular act or omission, it is enough to show—
          (a) the act was done or omitted to be done by a
          representative of the person within the scope of the
          representative’s actual or apparent authority; and
          (b) the representative had the state of mind.
     (3) An act done or omitted to be done for a person by a
     representative of the person within the scope of the
     representative’s actual or apparent authority is taken to have been
     done or omitted to be done also by the person, unless the person
     proves the person could not, by the exercise of reasonable diligence,
     have prevented the act or omission.
     (4) In this section—

     "representative" means—
          (a) of a corporation—an executive officer, employee or
          agent of the corporation; or
          (b) of a partnership—a partner, employee or agent of the
          partnership; or
          (c) of an unincorporated body—a member of the body, or an
          employee or agent of the body; or
          (d) of an individual—an employee or agent of the
          individual.

     "state of mind" of a person includes—
          (a) the person’s knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or
          purpose; and
          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion,
          belief or purpose.
 
Liability of executive officer—particular offences committed by corporation
*** 140 Liability of executive officer—particular offences committed by
corporation ***
     (1) An executive officer of a corporation commits an offence if—
          (a) the corporation commits an offence against an executive
          liability provision; and
          (b) the officer did not take all reasonable steps to ensure
          the corporation did not engage in the conduct constituting
          the offence.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—the penalty for a contravention
               of the executive liability provision by an
               individual.
     (2) In deciding whether things done or omitted to be done by the
     executive officer constitute reasonable steps for subsection (1) (b),
     a court must have regard to—
          (a) whether the officer knew, or ought reasonably to have
          known, of the corporation’s conduct constituting the
          offence against the executive liability provision; and
          (b) whether the officer was in a position to influence the
          corporation’s conduct in relation to the offence against
          the executive liability provision; and
          (c) any other relevant matter.
     (3) The executive officer may be proceeded against for, and convicted
     of, an offence against subsection (1) whether or not the corporation
     has been proceeded against for, or convicted of, the offence against
     the executive liability provision.
     (4) This section does not affect either—
          (a) the liability of the corporation for the offence
          against the executive liability provision; or
          (b) the liability, under the Criminal Code, chapter 2, of
          any person, whether or not the person is an executive
          officer of the corporation, for the offence against the
          executive liability provision.
     (5) In this section—

     "executive liability provision" means any of the following
     provisions—
          • section 112 (1)
          • section 119 (1)
          • section 122 (1)
          • section 123 (1)
          • the Duties Act 2001, section 471G (1)
          • the Duties Act 2001, section 471H (1)
          • the Duties Act 2001, section 480 (1)
          • the Duties Act 2001, section 480 (2)
          • the Duties Act 2001, section 480A (1)
          • the Duties Act 2001, section 480A (2)
          • the Duties Act 2001, section 481
          • the Duties Act 2001, section 481A (2)
          • the Payroll Tax Act 1971, section 93.
 
Treatment of partnerships and unincorporated bodies
*** 141 Treatment of partnerships and unincorporated bodies ***
     (1) Subject to this section, the tax laws apply to a partnership or
     unincorporated body as if the partnership or unincorporated body were
     a person.
     (2) An obligation or liability that, apart from this subsection,
     would be imposed by a tax law on a person that is a partnership or
     unincorporated body, is imposed on each partner or management member
     of the body, but may be discharged by any of the partners or
     management members.
     (3) An amount that, apart from this subsection, would be payable
     under a tax law by a person that is a partnership or unincorporated
     body is jointly and severally payable by the partners or management
     members of the body.
     (4) If, because of the operation of subsection (1), an offence
     against a provision of a tax law is taken to have been committed by a
     partnership or unincorporated body, the offence is taken to have been
     committed by each of the partners or management members of the body.
     (5) However, it is a defence for a partner or management member to
     prove—
          (a) if the partner or management member was in a position
          to influence the conduct of the partnership or body in
          relation to the offence—the partner or management member
          exercised reasonable diligence to ensure the partnership or
          body complied with the provision; or
          (b) the partner or management member was not in a position
          to influence the conduct of the partnership or body in
          relation to the offence.
 
Application of pt 11
*** 142 Application of pt 11 ***
This part applies if a tax law requires or permits a document to be given to a
person, whether the expression ‘deliver’, ‘give’, ‘lodge’,
‘notify’, ‘send’ or ‘serve’ or another expression having a similar
meaning is used.
 
Ways of giving document to commissioner
*** 143 Ways of giving document to commissioner ***
     (1) A document is given to the commissioner only if—
          (a) it is left at the commissioner’s office with the
          commissioner or a public service employee engaged in the
          administration of the tax laws; or
          (b) it is sent by post or facsimile to the commissioner at
          the commissioner’s office; or
          (c) it is given to the commissioner under the Electronic
          Transactions (Queensland) Act 2001, including by using an
          approved information system; or
          (d) it is given to the commissioner in another way
          prescribed under a regulation.
     (2) This section applies subject to section 143A.
 
Requirement for electronic communication
*** 143A Requirement for electronic communication ***
     (1) The commissioner may give a written notice (an
     "electronic communication notice") to a person requiring the person,
     in complying with a stated lodgement requirement, to give any
     document or a stated type of document to the commissioner by an
     electronic communication using an approved information system.
     (2) Subject to subsection (3) and section 143B, a person given an
     electronic communication notice must, in complying with a lodgement
     requirement to which the notice relates, comply with the notice from
     the day that is 30 days after being given the notice.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the person on a particular
     occasion is unable to comply with the notice due to circumstances
     beyond the person’s control.
 
Application to withdraw electronic communication notice
*** 143B Application to withdraw electronic communication notice ***
     (1) A person given an electronic communication notice may apply to
     the commissioner to withdraw the notice.
     (2) The application must—
          (a) be made within 30 days after the person is given the
          notice; and
          (b) be in the approved form.
     (3) The application may be made on any of the following grounds—
          (a) the standard of the technological infrastructure
          servicing the area in which the person would ordinarily
          comply with the notice makes it impracticable for the
          person to comply with the notice;
          (b) the number of times the person is likely to have to
          comply with the lodgement requirement to which the notice
          relates during a year is so small as not to justify the
          costs the person would have to incur to install, or modify,
          an information system to enable compliance with the notice;
          (c) a ground prescribed under a regulation.
     (4) The commissioner must consider the application and either grant,
     or refuse to grant, the application.
     (5) The person is not required to comply with the notice pending the
     person being notified of the commissioner’s decision on the
     application under subsection (6) or (8).
     (6) If the commissioner decides to grant the application, the
     commissioner must immediately give the person written notice of the
     decision.
     (7) Subsections (8) to (11) apply if the commissioner decides to
     refuse to grant the application.
     (8) The commissioner must immediately give the person a written
     notice stating the following—
          (a) the decision;
          (b) the reasons for the decision;
          (c) that the person may apply, as provided under the QCAT
          Act, to the tribunal for a review of the decision within 14
          days after being given the notice (the
          "review period");
          (d) how the person may apply for the review.
     (9) The person may apply to the tribunal for a review of the decision
     during the review period.
     (10) The person is not required to comply with the notice—
          (a) during the review period; and
          (b) if the person applies for a review of the decision—
               (i) pending the review being decided; and
               (ii) if the person is unsuccessful on the
               review—during 14 days immediately after the
               review is decided.
     (11) If the person applies for a review of the decision—
          (a) a party to a proceeding of the tribunal for the review
          may be represented by a lawyer; and
          (b) the grounds for the review are limited to the grounds
          stated in subsection (3).
 
When document given to commissioner
*** 144 When document given to commissioner ***
     (1) A document is taken to be given to the commissioner—
          (a) if it is given to the commissioner in the way mentioned
          in section 143 (a) —when it is actually received by the
          commissioner or employee with whom it is left; or
          (b) if it is sent by fax—the date the fax is sent; or
          (c) if it is given to the commissioner under the Electronic
          Transactions (Queensland) Act 2001 —
               (i) using an approved information system—at the
               time the communication enters the approved
               information system; or
               (ii) otherwise—at the time of receipt
               determined under that Act; or
          (d) if it is given to the commissioner in the way mentioned
          in section 143 (d) —at the time prescribed under a
          regulation; or
          (e) if it is given by an electronic communication to the
          commissioner in compliance with an electronic communication
          notice—at the time the communication enters an approved
          information system.
          Note—
               For the time of giving a document by post, see
               the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 39A (1)
               (b).
     (2) However, if the document is given to the commissioner on a day
     that is not a business day, or after 5p.m. on a business day, the
     document is taken to be given to the commissioner on the following
     business day.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not apply to a document given to the
     commissioner using an approved information system.
 
When lodgement requirement complied with
*** 145 When lodgement requirement complied with ***
A lodgement requirement is complied with only if—
     (a) all documents required to be lodged or given under the
     requirement have been lodged or given by the date for complying with
     the requirement; and
     (b) if, under the requirement, a document required to be lodged or
     given is an approved form—the form contains enough information for
     the purpose for which it is lodged or given.
 
Giving document to agents of taxpayers, members of partnerships and
unincorporated bodies
*** 146 Giving document to agents of taxpayers, members of partnerships and
unincorporated bodies ***
     (1) A document is taken to be given by the commissioner to a taxpayer
     if it is given to an agent of the taxpayer with apparent authority to
     be given the document.
     (2) A document to be given by the commissioner to a partnership is
     taken to have been given to all members of the partnership if it is
     given to any member of the partnership.
     (3) A document to be given by the commissioner to an unincorporated
     body is taken to have been given to all members of the body if it is
     given to any member of the committee of management of the body.
 
Giving document if more than 1 taxpayer liable
*** 147 Giving document if more than 1 taxpayer liable ***
     (1) A document is taken to be given to all taxpayers who are liable
     to pay tax for an instrument, transaction or matter, if it is given
     to 1 of the taxpayers who is liable to pay the tax.
     (2) However, a regulation may declare that subsection (1) does not
     apply to a taxpayer in stated circumstances.
     (3) A regulation may be made only if—
          (a) under a tax law, more than 1 taxpayer is liable to pay
          tax for an instrument, transaction or matter; and
          (b) in particular circumstances, it is not reasonable or
          practicable for the document to be taken to be given to a
          taxpayer.
     (4) Subsections (2) and (3) do not prevent the commissioner from
     giving the document to the taxpayer to whom the regulation applies.
     (5) A reference in this section to a liability to pay tax for an
     instrument, transaction or matter includes a reference to a liability
     to pay tax for a matter for a particular period.
 
Ways document given by commissioner
*** 148 Ways document given by commissioner ***
     (1) A document to be given under a tax law to a person by the
     commissioner is properly given if it is—
          (a) given as provided under the Acts Interpretation Act
          1954, part 10; or
          (b) left for collection by the person in a collection box
          kept at the commissioner’s office for the person; or
          (c) addressed to the person and left in the person’s
          exchange box at a document exchange; or
          (d) sent by email to the person’s email address as given
          to the commissioner by the person; or
          (e) made available to the person using an approved
          information system in the circumstances prescribed by
          regulation; or
          (f) given in another way prescribed under a regulation.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1) (a), a document to be given to a
     person by the commissioner is properly given if it is left at, or
     sent to—
          (a) an address notified to the commissioner by—
               (i) the person; or
               (ii) an agent of the person with apparent
               authority to notify the person’s address; or
          (b) for a document to be given under a royalty law—the
          address for the person recorded in the register.
     (3) In this section—

     "register" means the register kept under the Mineral and Energy
     Resources (Common Provisions) Act 2014.
 
When document given by commissioner
*** 149 When document given by commissioner ***
     (1) A document is taken to be given by the commissioner to a
     person—
          (a) if it is sent by fax—the date the fax is sent; or
          (b) if it is left in a collection or exchange box—the
          date it is left in the box; or
          (c) if it is sent by email—the date the email is sent; or
          (d) if it is made available using an approved information
          system or given in a way prescribed under a
          regulation—the date prescribed under the regulation.
          Note—
               For the time of giving a document by post, see
               the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 39A (1)
               (b).
     (2) However, if under subsection (1), the document is given after
     5p.m. on a particular day, the document is taken to be given to the
     person on the following business day.
 
Application for registration
*** 149A Application for registration ***
     (1) A person authorised by an institution may apply to the
     commissioner for registration of the institution under this part.
     (2) The application must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) be supported by enough information to enable the
          commissioner to decide the application, including the
          following—
               (i) a copy of its constitution, however
               described;
               (ii) a certificate of its incorporation, if
               applicable;
               (iii) details of its current or proposed
               activities;
               (iv) details of fees charged for its activities.
     (3) In this section—

     "constitution" see section 149C (6).
 
Decision on application
*** 149B Decision on application ***
The commissioner must approve or refuse the application.
 
Restrictions on registration
*** 149C Restrictions on registration ***
     (1) The commissioner may register the institution only if it is an
     institution mentioned in subsections (2) to (4).
     (2) Each of the following may be registered—
          (a) a religious body or a body—
               (i) that is controlled by, or associated with, a
               religious body; and
               (ii) whose principal object and pursuit is the
               conduct of activities of a religious nature;
          (b) a public benevolent institution;
          (c) a university or university college;
          (d) a primary or secondary school;
          (e) a kindergarten;
          (f) an institution whose principal object or pursuit is the
          care of the sick, aged, infirm, afflicted or incorrigible
          persons;
          (g) an institution whose principal object or pursuit is the
          relief of poverty;
          (h) an institution whose principal object or pursuit is the
          care of children by—
               (i) being responsible for them on a full-time
               basis; and
               (ii) providing them with all necessary food,
               clothing and shelter; and
               (iii) providing for their general wellbeing and
               protection.
     (3) Also, an institution may be registered if its principal object or
     pursuit—
          (a) is fulfilling a charitable object or promoting the
          public good; and
          (b) is not a leisure, recreational, social or sporting
          object or pursuit.
     (4) In addition, the trustees of an institution mentioned in
     subsection (2) or (3), other than a university or university college,
     may be registered.
     (5) However, an institution, other than an institution or trustee of
     an institution mentioned in subsection (2) (a) or (c), must not be
     registered unless its constitution, however described, expressly
     provides that—
          (a) its income and property are used solely for promoting
          its objects; and
          (b) no part of its income or property is to be distributed,
          paid or transferred by way of bonus, dividend or other
          similar payment to its members; and
          (c) on its dissolution, the assets remaining after
          satisfying all debts and liabilities must be transferred—
               (i) to an institution that, under this section,
               may be registered; or
               (ii) to an institution the commissioner is
               satisfied has a principal object or pursuit
               mentioned in subsection (3) (a); or
               (iii) for a purpose the commissioner is satisfied
               is charitable or for the promotion of the public
               good.
     (6) In this section—

     "constitution", of an institution, includes a law, deed or other
     instrument that constitutes the institution and governs the
     activities of the institution or its members.
 
Approval of application
*** 149D Approval of application ***
If the commissioner approves the application, the commissioner must register
the institution.
 
Refusal of application
*** 149E Refusal of application ***
If the commissioner refuses the application, the commissioner must give notice
of the decision to the institution.
     Note—
          If, because of the decision, the commissioner makes an
          assessment on the basis that the institution is not an
          exempt institution, the institution may object to the
          decision as part of an objection to the assessment. See
          part 6 for provisions about objections and appeals against,
          and reviews of, assessments.
 
Later registration
*** 149F Later registration ***
     (1) If the commissioner refuses the application, the commissioner may
     state in the notice of the decision a later date when the
     commissioner will reconsider the application on the facts and
     circumstances known at the later date.
     (2) If at the later date the commissioner is satisfied the
     institution is entitled to be registered, the commissioner must
     approve the application and register the institution.
     (3) The date of registration must be the date that the institution
     would have been registered had the commissioner approved the
     application in the first instance.
 
Notice of registration
*** 149G Notice of registration ***
     (1) On registration of an institution, the commissioner must give
     notice to the institution of its registration.
     (2) The notice—
          (a) must state the date of registration; and
          (b) may include any other information about the
          registration.
     (3) The date of registration may be before the date of the
     application or notice.
 
Notice of ceasing to be entitled to be registered
*** 149H Notice of ceasing to be entitled to be registered ***
Within 28 days after a charitable institution stops being entitled to be
registered under section 149C, it must give written notice to the commissioner.
     Note—
          Failure to give the notice is an offence under the
          Administration Act, section 120.
 
Cancellation of registration
*** 149I Cancellation of registration ***
     (1) The commissioner may cancel a charitable institution’s
     registration if the commissioner is satisfied the institution—
          (a) has ceased to exist; or
          (b) is no longer entitled to be registered under this part;
          or
          (c) was registered because of a materially false or
          misleading representation or declaration.
     (2) If the commissioner cancels the institution’s registration
     under subsection (1) (b) or (c), the commissioner must give notice to
     the institution that its registration is cancelled effective from the
     date stated in the notice.
     (3) The stated date may be before the date of the notice.
          Note—
               If the commissioner makes an assessment on the
               basis of the decision to cancel the
               institution’s registration, the institution may
               object to the decision as part of an objection to
               the assessment. For objections and appeals
               against assessments, see part 6.
 
Definitions for part
*** 149J Definitions for part ***
In this part—

"authority holder", for a royalty operation, means a holder of any of the
authorities under which the royalty operation is carried on.

"royalty operation" means a mining operation within the meaning given by the
Mineral Resources Act 1989 for chapter 11 of that Act.
 
References to assessment
*** 149K References to assessment ***
A reference in this Act to an assessment of a taxpayer’s liability for tax
includes a reference to an assessment of the liability for tax, for a royalty
operation, of all the authority holders.
 
Refunds
*** 149L Refunds ***
     (1) This section applies if the authority holders for a royalty
     operation are entitled to a refund of an amount under section 37 in
     relation to the liability for tax for the royalty operation.
     (2) Section 38 applies as if a reference to a tax law liability of
     the taxpayer were a reference to a tax law liability, for the royalty
     operation, of the authority holders.
     (3) A reference in section 39 to a taxpayer receiving an amount from
     another person includes a reference to an authority holder for the
     royalty operation receiving an amount from a person other than
     another authority holder for the royalty operation.
 
Protection from liability
*** 150 Protection from liability ***
     (1) An official is not civilly liable for an act done, or omission
     made, honestly and without negligence under a tax law.
     (2) If subsection (1) prevents a civil liability attaching to an
     official, the liability attaches instead to the State.
     (3) In this section—

     "official" means—
          (a) the commissioner; or
          (b) an investigator; or
          (c) a public service employee to whom the commissioner has
          delegated a power under a tax law; or
          (d) a person acting under the direction of the commissioner
          or an investigator.
 
When information requirement complied with
*** 150A When information requirement complied with ***
An information requirement is complied with only if the information required to
be given under the requirement has been given by the date for complying with
the requirement.
 
Extension of date for complying with information or lodgement requirement
*** 151 Extension of date for complying with information or lodgement
requirement ***
If, in particular circumstances, the commissioner considers it would be
unreasonable to require compliance with an information or lodgement requirement
by the date for complying with the requirement, the commissioner may extend the
date for compliance.
 
Rounding down
*** 152 Rounding down ***
The commissioner may round down an amount required to be paid under a tax law
to the nearest 5c.
 
Approved forms
*** 153 Approved forms ***
     (1) The commissioner may approve forms for use under this Act.
     (2) A form may be approved for use under this Act that is combined
     with, or is to be used together with, an approved form under another
     Act.
 
Approved information system
*** 153A Approved information system ***
The commissioner may approve an information system for a tax law.
 
Commissioner may arrange for use of an approved information system to make
particular decisions
*** 153B Commissioner may arrange for use of an approved information system to
make particular decisions ***
     (1) The commissioner may arrange for the use of an approved
     information system for any purposes for which the commissioner may
     make a relevant decision under a tax law.
     (2) A relevant decision made by the operation of an approved
     information system under an arrangement made under subsection (1) is
     taken to be a decision made by the commissioner.
     (3) In this section—

     "relevant decision" means a decision that does not involve the
     exercise of the commissioner’s discretion.
 
Commissioner may require payment of penalty
*** 153C Commissioner may require payment of penalty ***
     (1) This section applies if a person—
          (a) does not comply with an electronic payment notice under
          section 29A (2); or
          (b) does not comply with an electronic communication notice
          under section 143A (2).
     (2) The commissioner may, by written notice given to the person,
     require the person to pay a penalty (the
     "penalty amount") of $100.
     (3) The notice must state the following—
          (a) the date for payment of the penalty amount, being a day
          that is at least 30 days after the person receives the
          notice;
          (b) the reasons for the decision to require payment of the
          penalty amount;
          (c) that the person may apply, as provided under the QCAT
          Act, to the tribunal for a review of the decision within 14
          days after being given the notice (the
          "review period");
          (d) how the person may apply for the review.
     (4) To remove doubt, it is declared that a notice may be given under
     subsection (2) each time a person does not comply with an electronic
     payment notice or electronic communication notice.
     (5) The commissioner may remit the whole or part of the penalty
     amount.
     (6) The person may apply to the tribunal for a review of the decision
     during the review period.
     (7) If the person applies for a review of the decision—
          (a) the person is not required to pay the penalty amount
          pending the review being decided; and
          (b) a party to a proceeding of the tribunal for the review
          may be represented by a lawyer.
 
Regulation-making power
*** 154 Regulation-making power ***
     (1) The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
     (2) A regulation may provide for a maximum penalty of not more than
     20 penalty units for a contravention of a regulation.
 
Act repealed
*** 155 Act repealed ***
The Revenue Laws (Reciprocal Powers) Act 1988 is repealed.
 
Definitions for div 2
*** 156 Definitions for div 2 ***
In this division—

"commencement day" means the day section 155 commences.

"repealed Stamp Act" means the repealed Stamp Act 1894 as in force immediately
before its repeal.
 
Repealed Stamp Act is revenue law for particular provisions
*** 157 Repealed Stamp Act is revenue law for particular provisions ***
     (1) Despite its repeal, the repealed Stamp Act is taken to be a
     revenue law under section 6.
          Note—
               Also, see the Duties Act 2001, section 512.
     (2) However, the following provisions do not apply to the repealed
     Stamp Act as a revenue law—
          • part 3 (Assessments of tax)
          • part 4 (Payments and refunds of tax and other amounts),
          other than sections 29, 34 and 40 and part 4, divisions 4
          and 5
          • part 5 (Interest and penalty tax)
          • part 9 (Record keeping), other than sections 117 and
          119
          • part 10 (Enforcement and legal proceedings), other than
          sections 122, 123, 126 and 134 to 138 and part 10, division
          2.
     (3) For applying a provision of this Act to the repealed Stamp Act,
     the provision applies with all necessary changes to ensure the
     repealed Stamp Act can be read together with this Act as if they
     together formed a single Act.
          Example for subsection (3)—
               A reference to a reassessment is taken to be a
               reference to an assessment amended under the
               repealed Stamp Act.
                    Note—
                         See the repealed Stamp Act,
                         section 80 (Amendment of
                         assessments).
     (4) If, under this section, a provision of this Act relating to a
     particular matter applies to the repealed Stamp Act and the repealed
     Stamp Act contains a provision about the same matter, the provision
     in the repealed Stamp Act does not apply to the matter.
     (5) This section has effect subject to sections 159 and 160.
 
Confidential information
*** 158 Confidential information ***
To remove any doubt, it is declared that part 8 applies to—
     (a) confidential information acquired by an official performing
     functions under or in relation to the administration or enforcement
     of the repealed Stamp Act; and
     (b) confidential information acquired or received by another person
     before the commencement day.
 
Application of s 48 to particular administrators
*** 159 Application of s 48 to particular administrators ***
Section 48 applies to an administrator appointed before the commencement day as
if the required date under the section were the later of the following—
     (a) 14 days after the commencement day; or
     (b) the required date under the section.
 
Second or subsequent offences
*** 160 Second or subsequent offences ***
     (1) For applying section 138 to the repealed Stamp Act, the reference
     in subsection (1)(b) of that section to a further offence is a
     reference to an offence committed on or after the commencement day.
     (2) If section 138(1)(a) applies for an offence against a provision
     of the repealed Stamp Act, the reference in subsection (1)(b) of that
     section to a further offence against the provision includes a
     reference to an offence against a provision of a tax law that
     corresponds to the provision of the repealed Stamp Act.
 
Office of commissioner
*** 161 Office of commissioner ***
The person who, immediately before the commencement day, held the office of
commissioner of stamp duties under the repealed Stamp Act, becomes the
commissioner on that day.
 
Reference in Act or document to particular officers
*** 162 Reference in Act or document to particular officers ***
In an Act or document—
     (a) a reference to the commissioner of stamp duties under the
     repealed Stamp Act is, if the context permits, taken to be a
     reference to the commissioner; and
     (b) a reference to an investigating officer under the repealed Stamp
     Act is, if the context permits, taken to be a reference to an
     investigator.
 
Section 163
*** 163 ***
 
Section 164
*** 164 ***
 
Transfer of appeals from Supreme Court only with consent
*** 165 Transfer of appeals from Supreme Court only with consent ***
     (1) Despite the QCAT Act, section 268(4) the court may not transfer a
     proceeding to QCAT without the consent of the applicant for the
     proceeding.
     (2) The QCAT Act, section 268(7) does not apply to a final decision
     of the court in a proceeding relating to an appeal against a decision
     of the commissioner on an objection.
 
Definition for div 4
*** 166 Definition for div 4 ***
In this division—

"repealed Land Tax Act" means the repealed Land Tax Act 1915.
 
Repealed Land Tax Act is revenue law
*** 167 Repealed Land Tax Act is revenue law ***
     (1) Despite its repeal, the repealed Land Tax Act is taken to be a
     revenue law under section 6.
          Note—
               Also, see the Land Tax Act 2010, section 89.
     (2) Despite their repeal, sections 72 to 75 of the repealed Land Tax
     Act continue to apply in relation to how this Act applies to the
     repealed Land Tax Act.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not limit the Acts Interpretation Act 1954,
     section 20A.
 
Existing exempt institutions taken to be registered
*** 168 Existing exempt institutions taken to be registered ***
     (1) This section applies to an institution that—
          (a) was, immediately before 30 June 2010, an exempt
          institution under the Duties Act 2001; or
          (b) before 30 June 2010—
               (i) received an exemption from payroll tax under
               the Payroll Tax Act 1971 because it was an exempt
               charitable institution under that Act; or
               (ii) received an exemption from land tax under
               the repealed Land Tax Act because it was an
               exempt charitable institution under section 13A
               of that Act.
     (2) The institution is taken to be registered under part 11A.
     (3) The institution’s date of registration is taken to be 30 June
     2010.
     (4) The commissioner is not required to give a notice of registration
     to the institution under section 149G.
 
Continuation of Tobacco Products Act, s 43
*** 169 Continuation of Tobacco Products Act, s 43 ***
     (1) Despite its repeal, section 43 of the Tobacco Products Act
     continues to apply for information and records obtained in connection
     with the administration of that Act before it was repealed by the
     Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2011, section 121.
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a proceeding may be
     started against a person for a contravention of section 43(1) or (3)
     of the Tobacco Products Act as if that Act had not been repealed.
     (3) Words used in section 43 of the Tobacco Products Act, as
     continued under this section, have the same meanings as they had
     under that Act before it was repealed.
     (4) In this section—

     "Tobacco Products Act" means the repealed Tobacco Products
     (Licensing) Act 1988.
 
Definitions for div 6
*** 170 Definitions for div 6 ***
In this division—

"repealed Act" means the repealed Community Ambulance Cover Act 2003.
 
Repealed Act continues as revenue law
*** 171 Repealed Act continues as revenue law ***
     (1) Despite its repeal, the repealed Act is taken to continue to be a
     revenue law under section 6.
          Note—
               See also the Community Ambulance Cover Levy
               Repeal Act 2011, section 6 and part 2, division
               2, subdivision 2.
     (2) Despite its repeal, section 141 of the repealed Act continues to
     apply in relation to how this Act applies to the repealed Act.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not limit the Acts Interpretation Act 1954,
     section 20A.
 
Community Ambulance Cover Levy Repeal Act is revenue law
*** 172 Community Ambulance Cover Levy Repeal Act is revenue law ***
The Community Ambulance Cover Levy Repeal Act 2011 is taken to be a revenue law
under section 6.
 
Delegations
*** 173 Delegations ***
     (1) This section applies if, immediately before 1 July 2011, a
     delegation of any of the commissioner’s powers under the repealed
     Act was in force.
     (2) The delegation continues for the purpose of the administration of
     the repealed Act as continued under the Community Ambulance Cover
     Levy Repeal Act 2011 part 2, divisions 1 and 2 until the delegation
     is ended under this Act.
     (3) If the delegation had permitted the subdelegation of the power
     and a subdelegation of the power was in force immediately before 1
     July 2011, the subdelegation also continues under subsection (2)
     until it is ended under this Act.
 
Confidential information
*** 174 Confidential information ***
To remove any doubt, it is declared that part 8 applies to—
     (a) confidential information acquired by an official performing
     functions under or in relation to the administration or enforcement
     of the repealed Act; and
     (b) confidential information acquired or received by another person
     under the repealed Act.
 
Application of s 22 for existing reassessments
*** 175 Application of s 22 for existing reassessments ***
Section 22(2)(b) applies in relation to an investigation into a taxpayer’s
liability for tax under a recognised law started before the commencement of
this section as if the investigation had started after the commencement.
 
Application of s 7
*** 176 Application of s 7 ***
Section 7, as in force on the day this section commences, is taken to have had
effect on and from 19 February 2014.
 
Application of s 61A
*** 177 Application of s 61A ***
Section 61A applies in relation to a reassessment giving effect to a decision
by the commissioner under section 67(1) if the decision is made on or after the
commencement.
 
Application of s 149C to currently registered entities
*** 178 Application of s 149C to currently registered entities ***
     (1) This section applies to an institution that, immediately before
     the commencement, was registered under part 11A.
     (2) Despite the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2018, the
     unamended section continues to apply in relation to the institution
     until the day that is 2 years after the commencement.
     (3) In this section—

     "unamended section" means section 149C as in force immediately before
     the commencement.
 
Definitions for division
*** 179 Definitions for division ***
In this division—

"former", for a provision of this Act, the Mineral Resources Act 1989 or the
Petroleum and Gas (Production and Safety) Act 2004, means the provision as in
force from time to time before the commencement.

"post-commencement liability" means a liability for tax other than a pre-
commencement liability.

"pre-commencement liability" means a liability for a royalty-related amount
under the Mineral Resources Act 1989 or the Petroleum and Gas (Production and
Safety) Act 2004 arising before the commencement.
 
Application of ss 13A and 19
*** 180 Application of ss 13A and 19 ***
     (1) Sections 13A and 19 apply to the commissioner in relation to an
     assessment, amendment or reassessment even if it relates to a pre-
     commencement liability.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies despite the Mineral Resources Act 1989,
     section 887(2)(a) and the Petroleum and Gas (Production and Safety)
     Act 2004, section 1020(2)(a).
 
Assessment for mineral royalty for financial year ending 30 June 2021
*** 181 Assessment for mineral royalty for financial year ending 30 June 2021
***
     (1) Part 3 applies to an assessment of liability for royalty or a
     royalty-related amount under the Mineral Resources Act 1989 for the
     financial year ending 30 June 2021.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies despite the Mineral Resources Act 1989,
     section 887(2)(a).
 
Application of s 61 (Interest on particular overpayments following court’s or
QCAT’s decision)
*** 182 Application of s 61 (Interest on particular overpayments following
court’s or QCAT’s decision) ***
     (1) A reference in section 61(1)(a) to a decision of the Supreme
     Court under section 70C includes a decision, made after the
     commencement, relating to a pre-commencement liability.
     (2) A reference in section 61(1)(b) to an application by a taxpayer
     does not include an application relating to a pre-commencement
     liability.
     (3) A reference in section 61(1)(c) to a decision of QCAT includes a
     decision, made after the commencement, relating to a pre-commencement
     liability.
 
Application of s 61A (Interest on particular overpayments following
commissioner’s decision)
*** 183 Application of s 61A (Interest on particular overpayments following
commissioner’s decision) ***
A reference in section 61A(1) to a decision of the commissioner under section
67(1) includes a decision, made after the commencement, relating to a pre-
commencement liability.
 
Application of pt 6 (Objections, reviews and appeals)
*** 184 Application of pt 6 (Objections, reviews and appeals) ***
     (1) Part 6 applies in relation to an assessment, reassessment,
     royalty valuation decision or amended royalty valuation decision made
     on or after the commencement.
     (2) For subsection (1), it does not matter whether an assessment,
     reassessment, royalty valuation decision or amended royalty valuation
     decision—
          (a) relates to a pre-commencement liability or a post-
          commencement liability; or
          (b) was made under this Act or the Mineral Resources Act
          1989 or the Petroleum and Gas (Production and Safety) Act
          2004.
 
Application of pt 8 (Confidentiality and collection of information)
*** 185 Application of pt 8 (Confidentiality and collection of information) ***
Part 8 applies to—
     (a) confidential information acquired, before the commencement, by an
     official performing functions under or in relation to the
     administration or enforcement of a former provision of the Mineral
     Resources Act 1989 or the Petroleum and Gas (Production and Safety)
     Act 2004; and
     (b) confidential information acquired or received by another person
     before the commencement.
 
References to royalty valuation decision
*** 186 References to royalty valuation decision ***
A reference in this Act to a royalty valuation decision includes—
     (a) a decision under a former provision of the Petroleum and Gas
     (Production and Safety) Act 2004 about 1 or more components of the
     wellhead value of petroleum; and
     (b) a decision amending a decision mentioned in paragraph (a).
 
Section 187
*** 187 ***
 
Existing proceedings
*** 187 Existing proceedings ***
     (1) This section applies if, immediately before the commencement, a
     proceeding involving a cause of action, right or remedy at common law
     for the refund or recovery of an amount paid or purportedly paid
     under a tax law has been started but not completed.
     (2) The proceeding may be continued and decided as if the Revenue
     Legislation Amendment Act 2023, part 6, had not been enacted.
 
Proceedings not yet started
*** 188 Proceedings not yet started ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) immediately before the commencement, a person could
          have started a proceeding involving a cause of action,
          right or remedy at common law for the refund or recovery of
          an amount paid or purportedly paid under a tax law; and
          (b) on the commencement, the person has not started the
          proceeding.
     (2) Section 36(2) extinguishes the cause of action, right or remedy
     and the proceeding may not be started.
     (3) This section applies despite the Acts Interpretation Act 1954,
     section 20.
 
Assessments related to Duties Act 2001, s 688 and Land Tax Act 2010, ss 104 and
105
*** 189 Assessments related to Duties Act 2001, s 688 and Land Tax Act 2010, ss
104 and 105 ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) any of the following applies—
               (i) the Duties Act 2001, section 688;
               (ii) the Land Tax Act 2010, section 104 or 105;
               and
          (b) an assessment of a taxpayer’s liability was made or
          purportedly made under this Act in relation to purported
          duty under the Duties Act 2001, section 688 or purported
          land tax under the Land Tax Act 2010, section 104 or 105.
     (2) The assessment has, and is taken to have always had, the same
     force and effect as if it were made in relation to—
          (a) if subsection (1)(a)(i) applies—AFAD imposed under
          the Duties Act 2001, section 688 (2); or
          (b) if subsection (1)(a)(ii) applies—land tax imposed
          under the Land Tax Act 2010, section 104 (2) or 105 (2).
     (3) The rights and liabilities of a person in relation to the
     assessment are taken to be, and to have always been, the same as if
     the assessment were made in relation to—
          (a) if subsection (1)(a)(i) applies—AFAD imposed under
          the Duties Act 2001, section 688 (2); or
          (b) if subsection (1)(a)(ii) applies—land tax imposed
          under the Land Tax Act 2010, section 104 (2) or 105 (2).
     (4) Anything done or omitted to be done by a person in relation to
     the assessment has, and is taken to have always had, the same force
     and effect as if it were done or omitted to be done in relation to—
          (a) if subsection (1)(a)(i) applies—AFAD imposed under
          the Duties Act 2001, section 688 (2); or
          (b) if subsection (1)(a)(ii) applies—land tax imposed
          under the Land Tax Act 2010, section 104 (2) or 105 (2).
     (5) Any amount paid by a person in relation to the assessment is
     taken to be, and to have always been, paid in relation to—
          (a) either—
               (i) if subsection (1)(a)(i) applies—AFAD
               imposed under the Duties Act 2001, section 688
               (2); or
               (ii) if subsection (1)(a)(ii) applies—land tax
               imposed under the Land Tax Act 2010, section 104
               (2) or 105 (2); and
          (b) any interest and penalty tax payable under part 5 in
          relation to a liability mentioned in paragraph (a); and
          (c) any other amount paid or payable by a taxpayer to the
          commissioner in relation to a liability mentioned in
          paragraph (a).
 
- SCHEDULE 2
*** SCHEDULE 2 - Dictionary ***

"administrator", for a taxpayer’s property, means a person who is—
     (a) a receiver or receiver and manager of the whole or part of the
     taxpayer’s property; or
     (b) for a taxpayer that is a corporation—a liquidator; or
     (c) for a taxpayer who is an individual—
          (i) the taxpayer’s trustee in bankruptcy; or
          (ii) the taxpayer’s personal representative.

"amended royalty valuation decision" means a royalty valuation decision as
amended under the Mineral Resources Act 1989.

"appropriately qualified", for a public service employee to whom a power under
a tax law may be delegated, includes having the qualifications, experience or
standing appropriate to exercise the power.
     Example of standing—
          an employee’s classification level in the public service

"approved form" means—
     (a) for a request under part 4, division 5 —the form approved by
     the registrar for the request; or
     (b) otherwise—
          (i) a form approved under section 153; or
          (ii) a form approved by the commissioner under a revenue
          law.

"approved information system" means an information system approved by the
commissioner under section 153A.

"assessed interest" see section 54 (3).

"assessment" means a determination, under part 3, of a taxpayer’s liability
for tax for which an assessment notice is given, and includes a reassessment.

"assessment liability" means all amounts payable under an assessment, and
includes amounts that have not been assessed but are payable in relation to the
assessment.

"assessment notice" see section 26 (1).

"authority holder", for a royalty operation, for part 11B, see section 149J.

"commissioner" means the Commissioner of State Revenue appointed under section
7 (2).

"commissioner of taxation", for part 8, division 2, see section 113A.

"compromise assessment" see section 12 (2).

"confidential information" means information disclosed to, obtained by, or
otherwise held by, an official under or in relation to a tax law.

"conviction" includes a finding of guilt, and the acceptance of a plea of
guilty, by a court, whether or not a conviction is recorded.

"corresponding commissioner", for a recognised law, means a person declared
under section 78 (3) to be the corresponding commissioner for the recognised
law.

"default assessment" see section 13.

"document" includes an ELN transaction document.

"due date", for an assessment, means the date by which tax under the assessment
must be paid.

"due date", for a standard self assessment, means the date by which tax under
the self assessment must be paid under section 30 (1) (b).

"electronic communication" means—
     (a) a communication of information in the form of data, text or
     images by guided or unguided electromagnetic energy; or
     (b) a communication of information in the form of sound by guided or
     unguided electromagnetic energy, if the sound is processed at its
     destination by an automated voice recognition system.

"electronic communication notice" see section 143A (1).

"electronic payment notice" see section 29A (1).

"ELN transaction document" see the Duties Act 2001, section 156D.

"executive officer", of a corporation, means a person who is concerned in, or
takes part in, the management of the corporation, regardless of the person’s
designation and whether or not the person is a director of the corporation.

"false or misleading" includes false or misleading because of the omission of a
statement.

"garnishee" see section 50 (1) (b).

"garnishee amount" see section 50 (3).

"garnishee notice" see section 50 (3).

"information requirement" means a requirement under a tax law to give
information to the commissioner or an investigator.

"information system" means a system for generating, sending, receiving, storing
or otherwise processing electronic communications.

"investigator" means a person appointed as an investigator under section 80.

"late payment interest" means the part of unpaid tax interest that is not
assessed interest.

"limitation period", for a reassessment, means 5 years after the assessment
notice for the original assessment was given.

"lodge" means lodge with the commissioner.

"lodgement requirement" means a requirement under a tax law to—
     (a) lodge a document; or
     (b) give a document to the commissioner or an investigator.

"management member", of an unincorporated body, means—
     (a) if the body has a management committee—each member of the
     management committee; or
     (b) otherwise—each member who is concerned with, or takes part in,
     the body’s management, whatever name is given to the member’s
     position in the body.

"mineral" see the Mineral Resources Act 1989, section 6.

"non-reviewable decision" see section 75 (1).

"objection" means an objection under part 6.

"obstruct" includes hinder, resist and attempt to obstruct.

"occupier", of a place, includes the person apparently in charge of the place.

"official" means a person who is, or has been, a public service employee or
other person, performing functions under or in relation to the administration
or enforcement of a tax law.

"original assessment" —
     (a) generally, means the first assessment of a taxpayer’s liability
     for tax for an instrument, transaction or other matter; and
     (b) in relation to a taxpayer’s liability for tax for a matter in
     relation to a particular period, means the first assessment of the
     taxpayer’s liability for tax for that period.

"owner", of a retained thing, includes a person who would be entitled to
possession of the thing had it not been retained under section 97 (2).

"payment arrangement" see section 34 (1).

"penalty tax" see section 58 (1).

"personal confidential information", for a person, means confidential
information that—
     (a) identifies, or is likely to identify, the person; or
     (b) discloses matters about the person’s affairs.

"petroleum" see the Petroleum and Gas (Production and Safety) Act 2004, section
10.

"place" includes the following—
     (a) land;
     (b) premises.

"premises" includes the following—
     (a) a building or structure, or part of a building or structure, of
     any kind;
     (b) an aircraft;
     (c) a boat;
     (d) a caravan;
     (e) a vehicle.

"prescribed rate", for interest, means the rate prescribed under a regulation.

"primary tax" means a tax, royalty, levy or duty imposed under a revenue law.

"public place" means a place the public is entitled to use or is open to, or
used by, the public (whether or not on payment of an admission fee).

"reasonably believes" means believes on grounds that are reasonable in the
circumstances.

"reassessment" means a determination, under part 3, of a variation of a
taxpayer’s liability for tax for which an assessment notice is given.

"reciprocal investigation" means an investigation into a matter connected with
the administration or enforcement of a recognised law that is conducted under a
reciprocal investigation arrangement.

"reciprocal investigation arrangement" means an arrangement made under section
107 for an investigation into a matter connected with the administration or
enforcement of a recognised law.

"reciprocal investigator" means the corresponding commissioner or other person
engaged in the administration or enforcement of a recognised law.

"recognised law" means a law declared under section 78 (1) to be a recognised
law.

"registrar", for part 4, division 5, subdivision 1A, see section 47A.

"repealed Land Tax Act", for part 15, see section 166.

"reportable information", for part 8, division 2, see section 113A.

"resources law" means an Act, that includes a royalty law, to the extent the
Act is not a royalty law.

"retained thing" see section 97 (3).

"return" means a form of return approved under a revenue law for a lodgement
requirement.

"return self assessment" see section 14 (a).

"revenue law" means a law declared under section 6 to be a revenue law.

"royalty" means—
     (a) royalty under the Mineral Resources Act 1989; or
     (b) petroleum royalty under the Petroleum and Gas (Production and
     Safety) Act 2004.

"royalty civil penalty" means—
     (a) a civil penalty imposed by a regulation under the Mineral
     Resources Act 1989, section 321A; or
     (b) a civil penalty imposed by a regulation under the Petroleum and
     Gas (Production and Safety) Act 2004, section 594.

"royalty fee" means a fee payable under a royalty law if a return is not lodged
by the day required under the royalty law.

"royalty law" means—
     (a) a provision of the Mineral Resources Act 1989 that is a revenue
     law under this Act; or
     (b) a provision of the Petroleum and Gas (Production and Safety) Act
     2004 that is a revenue law under this Act.

"royalty operation", for part 11B, see section 149J.

"royalty valuation decision" —
     (a) means a decision under the Mineral Resources Act 1989 about the
     gross value of a mineral; and
     (b) includes an amended royalty valuation decision.

"self assessment" means a return self assessment or standard self assessment.

"self assessor" means a taxpayer or tax agent required or permitted under a
revenue law to lodge a return or transaction statement.

"senior executive"...

"standard self assessment" see section 14A (a).

"tax" means primary tax, assessed interest, penalty tax, royalty civil penalty
or royalty fee.

"tax agent" means a person who, as agent for a taxpayer, is required or
permitted under a revenue law to lodge a return or transaction statement.
     Example of tax agent—
          a self assessor registered under the Duties Act 2001,
          chapter 12, part 3

"tax law" means a revenue law or this Act.

"tax law liability" means a liability under a tax law for tax or another
amount, and for sections 34, 38, 40, 43 and 44, includes a liability to pay
costs ordered by a court or QCAT.
     Note—
          For provision about assessed costs, see the Uniform Civil
          Procedure Rules 1999, chapter 17A.

"taxpayer" means a person who, under a tax law—
     (a) has or had a tax law liability; or
     (b) may have a tax law liability.

"thing" includes a document.

"transaction statement" means a form of transaction statement approved under a
revenue law for a lodgement requirement.

"tribunal" means QCAT.

"unpaid primary tax" see section 54 (1).

"unpaid tax interest" see section 54 (1).
