Trustee Act 1958
Jurisdiction: victoria
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/vic/consol_act/ta1958122/
Register: https://www.legislation.vic.gov.au/in-force/acts/trustee-act-1958/
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/vic/consol_act/ta1958122.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-30T04:24:17.804170Z

TRUSTEE ACT 1958 

Section 1
Short title and commencement

This Act may be cited as the Trustee Act
1958, and shall come into operation on a day to be fixed by proclamation of
the Governor in Council published in the Government Gazette.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 2
Repeals, savings and application of Act

     (1)     The Acts mentioned in the First Schedule
to this Act to the extent thereby expressed to be repealed are hereby repealed
accordingly.

     (2)     Except as in this Act expressly or by necessary implication
provided&#8212;

         (a)     all persons things and circumstances appointed or created by or under
any of the repealed Acts or existing or continuing under any of the repealed
Acts immediately before the commencement of this Act shall under and subject to
this Act continue to have the same status operation and effect as they
respectively would have had under the repealed Acts if they had not been so
repealed; and

         (b)     in particular and without affecting the generality of the last
preceding paragraph, such repeal shall not affect any debenture or stock issued
or any vesting order or appointment made or other thing done under any of such
Acts and any order or appointment so made may be revoked or varied in like
manner as if it had been made under this Act, and such repeal shall not affect
any limitation imposed in respect of instruments executed before the passing of
the Statute of Trusts 1864 if such limitation is operative at the
commencement of this Act, and the provisions of the Trustee Act 1931 in
relation to converted securities and the discretions authorities immunities
protections rights powers and obligations of trustees shall continue in
operation as though the said Act had not been repealed.

S. 2(3) amended by Nos 55/1987
s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 57), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch.
item 12.1).

     (3)     This Act, except where otherwise expressly provided shall apply to
trusts including, so far as this Act applies thereto, executorships and
administratorships constituted or created either before or after the
commencement of this Act.

The powers and discretions conferred and the duties imposed on, and the
directions given and indemnities immunities and protection allowed to, trustees
and other persons by this Act shall be in addition to the powers discretions
duties directions indemnities immunities and protection set out in the
instrument (if any) creating the trust, but the powers discretions duties and
directions provided for in this Act, unless otherwise stated, shall apply if and
so far only as a contrary intention is not expressed in the instrument
(if any) creating the trust, and shall have effect subject to the terms of
that instrument.

This Act shall not affect the legality or validity of anything done before
the commencement of this Act, except as otherwise hereinafter expressly
provided.

Nothing in this Act shall affect the operation of section 8 of the State
Trustee (State Owned Company) Act 1994.

No. 5770 s. 3.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 3
Definitions

     (1)     In this Act unless inconsistent with the
context or subject-matter&#8212;

S. 3(1) def. of authorised deposit-taking
institution inserted by No. 11/2001 s. 3(Sch.
item 81.1(a)).

"authorised deposit-taking institution" has the same meaning as
in the Banking Act 1959 of the Commonwealth;

S. 3(1) def. of authorized dealer in the
short term money market inserted by No. 9204 s. 2(a)(i), substituted by
No. 9699 s. 23, repealed by No. 44/2001 s. 3(Sch.
item 117).

     *     *     *     *     *

S. 3(1) def. of authorized
investments repealed by No. 104/1995 s. 3.

     *     *     *     *     *

S. 3(1) def. of bank inserted by
No. 9204 s. 2(a)(ii), amended by Nos 29/1988 s. 57(18)(a), 94/1990
s. 40(14)(a), repealed by No. 11/2001 s. 3(Sch.
item 81.1(b)).

     *     *     *     *     *

"bankrupt" includes insolvent;

S. 3(1) def. of building society
inserted by No. 9653 s. 2(2), substituted by No. 8/1986 s. 139(5),
repealed by No. 60/2001 s. 5(1).

     *     *     *     *     *

"contingent right" as applied to land includes a contingent or
executory interest, a possibility coupled with an interest, whether the object
of the gift or limitation of the interest or possibility is or is not
ascertained, also a right of entry, whether immediate or future, and whether
vested or contingent;

convey and conveyance, applied to any person,
include the execution or doing by that person of every necessary or suitable
assurance act and thing for conveying, assigning, appointing, surrendering or
otherwise transferring or disposing of property;

S. 3(1) def. of Court amended by Nos
16/1986 s. 24, 110/1986 s. 140(2).

"Court" means the Supreme Court and, in relation to property or
an estate or interest in property the value of which property does not exceed
the jurisdictional limit of the County Court, the Supreme Court or the County
Court;

"execute" includes the doing of all acts and things necessary
for a conveyance, and with reference to an instrument not under seal means sign,
and derivatives of execute have corresponding meanings;
S. 3(1) def. of guaranteed
certificate inserted by No. 10143 s. 5(1)(a), repealed by No. 60/2001
s. 5(2).

     *     *     *     *     *

income includes rents and profits;

"instrument" includes Act of Parliament;

S. 3(1) def. of land amended by
No. 92/1990 s. 128(Sch. 1 item 30(a)(b)).

"land" includes land of any tenure buildings or parts of
buildings, whether the division is horizontal, vertical or made in any other
way, and other corporeal hereditaments; also a rent and other incorporeal
hereditaments, and an easement, right, privilege or benefit in, over or derived
from land, and also an undivided share in land; and hereditaments
means real property which under an intestacy might formerly have devolved on
an heir;

S. 3(1) def. of legal practitioner
inserted by No. 18/2005 s. 18(Sch. 1 item 109.1), amended by No.
17/2014 s. 160(Sch. 2 item 99).

"legal practitioner" means an Australian legal
practitioner;

mortgage and mortgagee include and relate to
every estate and interest regarded in equity as merely a security for money, and
every person deriving title under the original mortgagee;

S. 3(1) def. of mortgage-backed
certificate inserted by No. 10143 s. 5(1)(b), substituted as
mortgage-backed security by No. 17/1988 s. 4, repealed by No.
60/2001 s. 4.

     *     *     *     *     *

S. 3(1) def. of mortgage investment
certificate inserted by No. 112/1986 s. 4(2), repealed by No. 60/2001
s. 4.

     *     *     *     *     *

pay and payment as applied in relation to
stocks and securities and in connexion with the expression into
court include the deposit or transfer of the same in or into
court;

"personal representative" means the executor, original or by
representation, or administrator for the time being of a deceased
person;

possession includes receipt of rents and profits or the right
to receive the same (if any); and possessed applies to receipt of
income of and to any vested estate less than a life estate, legal or equitable,
in possession or in expectancy in any land;

property includes real and personal property, and any estate
share and interest in any property, real or personal, and any debt, and any
thing in action, and any other right or interest, whether in possession or
not;

S. 3(1) def. of recognized
institution inserted by No. 10143 s. 5(1)(c), repealed by No. 60/2001
s. 5(2).

     *     *     *     *     *

rights includes estates and interests;

"sale" includes an exchange;

S. 3(1) def. of securities
substituted by No. 9204 s. 2(a)(iii).

"securities" includes&#8212;

         (a)     stocks and shares;

         (b)     any debenture, debenture stock, bond, note or other
security;

S. 3(1) def. of securities payable to
bearer inserted by No. 9204 s. 2(a)(iii), repealed by No. 60/2001
s. 5(1).

     *     *     *     *     *

"stock" includes fully paid up shares, and so far as relates to
vesting orders made by the Court under this Act, includes any fund, annuity, or
security transferable in books kept by any company or society, or by instrument
of transfer either alone or accompanied by other formalities, and any share or
interest therein;

tenant for life statutory owner settled land settlement trustees of
the settlement and term of years absolute have the
same meanings as in the Settled Land Act 1958;

"transfer" in relation to stock or securities includes the
performance and execution of every deed, power of attorney, act, and thing on
the part of the transferor to effect and complete the title in the
transferee;

trust does not include the duties incident to an estate
conveyed by way of mortgage, but with this exception the expressions
trust and trustee extend to implied and constructive
trusts and to cases where the trustee has a beneficial interest in the trust
property, and to the duties incident to the office of a personal representative,
and "trustee" where the context admits, includes a personal
representative, and "new trustee" includes an additional
trustee;

"trust for sale" in relation to land means an immediate binding
trust for sale, whether or not exercisable at the request or with the consent of
any person, and with or without power at discretion to postpone the sale;
trustees for sale means the persons (including a personal
representative) holding land on trust for sale;

S. 3(1) def. of trustee company
amended by No. 10168 s. 3.

"trustee company" means a trustee company under the Trustee
Companies Act 1984.

     (2)     Any reference to the investment loan or advance of trust money by a
trustee on the security of property shall be construed to include a reference to
such investment loan or advance on the transfer of an existing security as well
as on a new security.

Pt 1B (Heading) inserted by No. 17/1988
s. 5(1)(b), repealed by No. 17/1988 s. 6.

     *     *     *     *     *

S. 3A inserted by No. 10143
s. 5(2), amended by Nos 10230 s. 4(a)&#8211;(i), 91/1994
s. 36(11)(a)(b), 104/1995 s. 5, 46/1998 s. 7(Sch. 1), 12/1999
s. 4(Sch. 2 item 19.1), 11/2001 s. 3(Sch. item 81.2),
repealed by No. 17/1988 s. 6.

     *     *     *     *     *

Pt 1C (Heading and ss 3AC&#8211;3AE)
inserted by No. 17/1988 s. 7, amended by Nos 46/1998 s. 7(Sch.
1), 74/2000 s. 3(Sch. 1 item 132.1), repealed by No. 60/2001
s. 3.

     *     *     *     *     *

Pt 1D (Heading) inserted by No. 17/1988
s. 5(1)(c), repealed by No. 60/2001 s. 3.

     *     *     *     *     *

S. 3B inserted by No. 112/1986
s. 4(1), amended by Nos 17/1988 s. 5(2)(a)&#8211;(c) (as amended by
No. 17/1993 s. 13(2)), 84/1991 s. 21(3), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch. item
12.2), repealed by No. 60/2001 s. 3.

     *     *     *     *     *

No. 5770
ss 5&#8211;12.

Pt 1 (Heading and
ss 4&#8211;12).[1]

Part
I&#8212;Investments

S. 4 substituted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 4
Application of Part

This Part applies to trusts created before or
after the commencement of section 4 of the Trustee and Trustee Companies
(Amendment) Act 1995.

S. 5 substituted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 5
Investments of trust funds

A trustee may, unless expressly prohibited by
the instrument creating the trust&#8212;

         (a)     invest trust funds in any form of investment; and

         (b)     at any time, vary an investment.

S. 6 substituted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 6
Duties of trustee in respect of power of investment

     (1)     Subject to the instrument creating the
trust, a trustee must, in exercising a power of investment&#8212;

         (a)     if the trustee's profession, business or employment is or includes
acting as a trustee or investing money on behalf of other persons, exercise the
care, diligence and skill that a prudent person engaged in that profession,
business or employment would exercise in managing the affairs of other persons;
or

         (b)     if the trustee is not engaged in such a profession, business or
employment, exercise the care, diligence and skill that a prudent person would
exercise in managing the affairs of other persons.

     (2)     A trustee must exercise a power of investment in accordance with any
provision of the instrument creating the trust that is binding on the trustee
and requires the obtaining of any consent or approval with respect to trust
investments.

     (3)     Subject to the instrument creating the trust, a trustee must, at least
once in each year, review the performance (individually and as a whole) of trust
investments.

S. 7 substituted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 7
Law and equity preserved

     (1)     Any rules and principles of law or equity
that impose a duty on a trustee exercising a power of investment continue to
apply except to the extent that they are inconsistent with this or any other Act
or the instrument creating the trust.

     (2)     Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), a duty imposed by
any rules and principles of law or equity includes&#8212;

         (a)     a duty to exercise the powers of a trustee in the best interests of
all present and future beneficiaries of the trust;

         (b)     a duty to invest trust funds in investments that are not
speculative;

         (c)     a duty to act impartially towards beneficiaries and between different
classes of beneficiaries;

         (d)     a duty to take advice.

     (3)     Any rules and principles of law or equity that relate to a provision
in an instrument creating a trust that purports to exempt, limit the liability
of, or indemnify a trustee in respect of a breach of trust, continue to
apply.

     (4)     If a trustee is under a duty to take advice, the reasonable costs of
obtaining the advice are payable out of trust funds.

S. 8 substituted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 8
Matters to which trustee must have regard in exercising power of investment

     (1)     Without limiting the matters that a
trustee may take into account when exercising a power of investment, a trustee
must, so far as they are appropriate to the circumstances of the trust, have
regard to&#8212;

         (a)     the purposes of the trust and the needs and circumstances of the
beneficiaries; and

         (b)     the desirability of diversifying trust investments; and

         (c)     the nature of and risk associated with existing trust investments and
other trust property; and

         (d)     the need to maintain the real value of the capital or income of the
trust; and

         (e)     the risk of capital or income loss or depreciation; and

         (f)     the potential for capital appreciation; and

         (g)     the likely income return and the timing of income return;
and

         (h)     the length of the term of the proposed investment; and

               (i)     the probable duration of the trust; and

         (j)     the liquidity and marketability of the proposed investment during, and
on the determination of, the term of the proposed investment; and

         (k)     the aggregate value of the trust estate; and

         (l)     the effect of the proposed investment in relation to the tax liability
of the trust; and

         (m)     the likelihood of inflation affecting the value of the proposed
investment or other trust property; and

         (n)     the costs (including commissions, fees, charges and duties payable) of
making the proposed investment; and

         (o)     the results of a review of existing trust investments.

     (2)     A trustee may&#8212;

         (a)     obtain and consider independent and impartial advice reasonably
required for the investment of trust funds or the management of the investment
from a person whom the trustee reasonably believes to be competent to give the
advice; and

         (b)     pay out of trust funds the reasonable costs of obtaining the
advice.

S. 9 substituted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 9
Powers of trustee in relation to securities

     (1)     If securities of a body corporate are
subject to a trust, the trustee may concur in any scheme or
arrangement&#8212;

         (a)     for or arising out of the reconstruction, reduction of capital or
liquidation of, or the issue of shares by, the body corporate; or

         (b)     for the sale of all or any part of the property and undertaking of the
body corporate to another body corporate; or

         (c)     for the acquisition of securities of the body corporate, or of control
of the body corporate, by another body corporate; or

         (d)     for the amalgamation of the body corporate with another body
corporate; or

         (e)     for the release, modification or variation of rights, privileges or
liabilities attached to the securities, or any of them&#8212;

in the same manner as if the trustee were beneficially entitled to the
securities.

     (2)     The trustee may accept instead of, or in exchange for, or in addition
to, the securities subject to the trust any securities of any denomination or
description of another body corporate party to the scheme or
arrangement.

     (3)     If a conditional or preferential right to subscribe for securities in
a body corporate is offered to a trustee in respect of a holding in that body
corporate or another body corporate, the trustee may, as to all or any of the
securities&#8212;

         (a)     exercise the right and apply capital money subject to the trust in
payment of the consideration; or

         (b)     assign the benefit of the right, or the title to the right, to a
person, including a beneficiary under the trust, for the best consideration that
can be reasonably obtained; or

         (c)     renounce the right.

     (4)     A trustee accepting or subscribing for securities under this section
is, for the purposes of any provision of this Part, exercising a power of
investment.

     (5)     A trustee may retain securities accepted or subscribed for under this
section for any period for which the trustee could properly have retained the
original securities.

     (6)     The consideration for an assignment made under subsection (3)(b) must
be held as capital of the trust.

     (7)     This section applies in relation to securities acquired before or
after the commencement of section 4 of the Trustee and Trustee Companies
(Amendment) Act 1995 but subject to the instrument creating the
trust.

S. 9A inserted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 9A
Investment in securities under RITS system

     (1)     A chose in action arising under the RITS
system and which entitles its holder to a security of a particular description
(the underlying security) is, for the purposes of this Act and the
instrument creating a trust, taken to be the same in all respects as the
underlying security.

     (2)     The holding or acquisition by a trustee of a chose in action referred
to in subsection (1) is to be regarded as an investment by the trustee in the
underlying security.

     (3)     It does not matter that the right conferred by the chose in action
referred to in subsection (1) is a right in respect of securities of a
particular description and not in respect of particular securities.

     (4)     This section applies to a trust created before or after the
commencement of section 4 of the Trustee and Trustee Companies (Amendment)
Act 1995 but applies only to the extent that the trust instrument creating
the trust does not expressly prohibit its application.

     (5)     In this section&#8212;

"RITS system" means the Reserve Bank Information and Transfer
System operated by the Reserve Bank of Australia, as operating from time to
time.

S. 10 substituted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 10
Power of trustee as to calls on shares

Subject to the instrument creating the
trust&#8212;

         (a)     a trustee may apply capital money subject to a trust in payment of
calls on shares subject to the same trust; and

         (b)     if the trustee is a trustee company, it may exercise the powers
conferred by this section despite the shares on which the calls are made being
shares in the trustee company.

S. 11 substituted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 11
Power to purchase dwelling house as residence for beneficiary

     (1)     Subject to the instrument creating the
trust, a trustee may&#8212;

         (a)     invest any trust funds in the purchase of a dwelling house for a
beneficiary to use as a residence; or

         (b)     enter into any other agreement or arrangement to secure for a
beneficiary a right to use a dwelling house as a residence.

     (2)     Despite the terms of the instrument creating the trust, a trustee may,
if to do so would not unfairly prejudice the interests of the other
beneficiaries, retain as part of the trust property a dwelling house for a
beneficiary to use as a residence.

     (3)     A dwelling house purchased, retained or otherwise secured for use by
the beneficiary as a residence may be made available to the beneficiary for that
purpose on such terms and conditions consistent with the trust and the extent of
the interest of the beneficiary as the trustee thinks fit.

     (4)     The trustee may retain a dwelling house or any interest or rights in
respect of a dwelling house acquired under this section after the use of the
dwelling house of the beneficiary has ceased.

     (5)     In this section&#8212;

"dwelling house" includes&#8212;

         (a)     any building or part of a building designed, or converted or capable
of being converted, for use as a residence; and

         (b)     any amenities or facilities for use in connection with the use of a
dwelling house.

S. 12 substituted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 12
Power of trustee to retain investments

A trustee is not liable for breach of trust by
reason only of retaining an investment that has ceased to be&#8212;

         (a)     an investment authorised by the instrument creating the trust;
or

         (b)     an investment properly made by the trustee exercising a power of
investment; or

         (c)     an investment made under this Act or a corresponding previous
enactment; or

         (d)     an investment authorised by any other Act or the general
law.

S. 12A substituted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 12A
Loans and investments by trustees not breaches of trust in certain circumstances

     (1)     If a trustee lends money on the security
of property, the trustee is not liable for breach of trust by reason only of the
proportion borne by the amount of the loan to the value of the property at the
time when the loan was made if it appears to the Court&#8212;

         (a)     that, in making the loan, the trustee was acting on a report as to the
value of the property made by a person whom the trustee reasonably believed to
be competent to give such a report and whom the trustee instructed and employed
independently of any owner of the property; and

         (b)     that the amount of the loan did not exceed two-thirds of the value of
the property as stated in the report; and

         (c)     that the loan was made in reliance on the report.

     (2)     This section applies to transfers of existing securities as well as to
new securities and to investments made before or after the commencement of
section 4 of the Trustee and Trustee Companies (Amendment) Act
1995.

S. 12B substituted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 12B
Limitation of liability of trustee for loss on improper investments

     (1)     If a trustee improperly advances trust
money on a security that would at the time of the investment have been a proper
investment if the sum advanced had been smaller than the actual sum advanced,
the security is to be taken to be a proper investment in respect of the smaller
sum, and the trustee is only liable to make good the difference between the sum
advanced and the smaller sum, with interest.

     (2)     This section applies to investments made before or after the
commencement of section 4 of the Trustee and Trustee Companies (Amendment)
Act 1995.

S. 12C inserted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 12C
Factors Court may take into account in action for breach of trust

In proceedings against a trustee for breach of
trust in respect of a duty under this Part relating to the trustee's power of
investment, the Court may, when considering the question of the trustee's
liability, take into account&#8212;

         (a)     the nature and purpose of the trust; and

         (b)     whether the trustee had regard to the matters set out in section 8 so
far as is appropriate to the circumstances of the trust; and

         (c)     whether the trust investments have been made pursuant to an investment
strategy formulated in accordance with the duty of a trustee under this Part;
and

         (d)     the extent the trustee acted on the independent and impartial advice
of a person competent (or apparently competent) to give the advice.

S. 12D inserted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 12D
Power of Court to set off gains and losses arising from investment

     (1)     The Court may, when considering an action
for breach of trust arising out of or in respect of an investment by a trustee
where a loss has been, or is expected to be, sustained by the trust, set off all
or part of the loss resulting from that investment against all or part of the
gain resulting from any other investment whether in breach of trust or
not.

     (2)     The power of set off conferred by subsection (1) is in addition to any
other power or entitlement to set off all or part of any loss against any
property.

S. 12E inserted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 12E
Housing loans by trustees

     (1)     If a trustee lends money on a real
security in accordance with the provisions of this Act, or had made such a loan
in accordance with the provisions of this Act as in force immediately before the
commencement of section 4 of the Trustee and Trustee Companies (Amendment)
Act 1995, the trustee is not chargeable with breach of trust by reason only
of the proportion borne by the amount of the loan to the value of the property
on which the loan is secured if&#8212;

         (a)     the trustee was not expressly forbidden by the instrument (if any)
creating the trust to lend money on a real security; and

         (b)     the loan was a housing loan; and

         (c)     the loan is secured by a contract of insurance in the prescribed form
entered into with an authorised insurer.

     (2)     The Minister may by notice published in the Government
Gazette&#8212;

         (a)     declare a corporation that is lawfully carrying on the business of
insuring mortgages in Victoria to be an authorised insurer for the purposes of
this section;

         (b)     revoke a declaration made under paragraph (a).

     (3)     The Minister may by notice published in the Government
Gazette&#8212;

         (a)     specify terms and conditions to which an authorised insurer is
authorised to enter into contracts of insurance for the purpose of this section;
or

         (b)     vary or revoke any such terms and conditions.

     (4)     An authorised insurer who fails to comply with any terms or conditions
subject to which it is authorised to enter into contracts of insurance for the
purpose of this section shall be guilty of an offence against this
Act.

Penalty:     50 penalty units.

     (5)     For the purposes of this section&#8212;

         (a)     a declaration in force under section 8A(2) of this Act as in force
immediately before the commencement of section 4 of the Trustee and Trustee
Companies (Amendment) Act 1995 is deemed to be a declaration under
subsection (2) of this section; and

         (b)     terms and conditions applying under section 8A(3) of this Act as
so in force are deemed to be terms and conditions applying under subsection (3)
of this section&#8212;

and may be revoked or varied under this section.

     (6)     In this section&#8212;

authorised insurer means a corporation that has been declared
to be an authorised insurer under subsection (2);

"dwelling-house" includes&#8212;

         (a)     any building that consists, or any buildings that consist, in whole or
in substantial part, of residential accommodation, whether constituting a single
unit of accommodation or two or more such units; and

         (b)     any residential accommodation of a kind commonly known as a flat or
home unit;

         (c)     appurtenances, outbuildings, fences and permanent provision for
lighting, water supply, drainage and sewerage provided in connection with the
dwelling-house;

"housing loan" means a loan&#8212;

         (a)     made for any one or more of the following purposes, that is to say, of
enabling the borrower&#8212;

               (i)     To acquire a prescribed interest in land and construct, or complete
the construction of, a dwelling-house on the land;

               (ii)     To construct a dwelling-house, or complete the construction of a
dwelling-house, on land in which the borrower has a prescribed
interest;

               (iii)     To acquire a prescribed interest in land on which there is a
dwelling-house;

               (iv)     To alter, improve or extend a dwelling-house constructed on land in
which the borrower has a prescribed interest;

               (v)     To meet expenses or in respect of the provision or improvement of
roads, kerbing, guttering or footpaths in connection with land in which the
borrower has a prescribed interest; or

               (vi)     To discharge a mortgage, charge or other encumbrance over land in
which the borrower has a prescribed interest, being land on which a
dwelling-house is being constructed; and

         (b)     the repayment of which is secured by security over the interest of the
borrower in the land&#8212;

and, where the lender requires the borrower to meet the cost of the premium
in respect of a contract of insurance entered into in respect of the loan,
includes moneys advanced by the lender to enable the borrower to meet that cost,
being moneys the repayment of which is secured by a security over the interest
of the borrower in the land;

"prescribed interest in land" means&#8212;

         (a)     an estate in fee simple;

         (b)     an interest as lessee under a lease in perpetuity from the Crown in
right of the Commonwealth or the State of Victoria; or

         (c)     an interest as lessee under a lease for a term of years from the Crown
in right of the Commonwealth or the State of Victoria or from the owner of an
estate in fee simple if the authorised insurer is satisfied that the term,
covenants and conditions of the lease give reasonable security of tenure to the
lessee for a substantial period.

S. 12F inserted by No. 104/1995
s. 4.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 12F
Transitional provision

Any provision in an Act or any other instrument
(whether or not creating a trust) that empowers or requires a person to invest
money in investments authorised by the Trustee Act 1958 is to be read as
if it empowered or required that person to invest that money according to the
provisions of Part I of that Act relating to the investment of trust
funds.

Part
II&#8212;General powers of trustees and personal
representatives

Division
1&#8212;General powers

No. 5770 s. 13.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 13
Power of trustees to sell by auction etc.

     (1)     Where a trust for sale or a power of sale
of property is vested in a trustee, he may sell or concur with any other person
in selling all or any part of the property, either subject to prior charges or
not, and either together or in lots, by public auction or by private contract,
subject to any conditions respecting title or evidence of title or other matter
as the trustee thinks fit, with power to vary any contract for sale, and to buy
in at any auction, or to rescind any contract for sale and to re-sell, without
being answerable for any loss.

     (2)     A trust or power to sell or dispose of land shall include a trust or
power to sell or dispose of part thereof, whether the division is horizontal,
vertical, or made in any other way.

     (3)     Where the power is not vested in the tenant for life or statutory
owner this section shall not enable an express power to sell settled land to be
exercised without his
consent[2].

     (4)     If a trustee joins with any other person in selling trust property and
other property, the purchase money shall be apportioned in or before the
contract of sale, and a separate receipt shall be given by the trustee for the
apportioned share; but a contravention of this subsection shall not invalidate
or be deemed to have invalidated any instrument intended to affect or evidence
the title to the trust property, and no person being a purchaser, lessee,
mortgagee, or other person who, in good faith and for valuable consideration,
acquires the trust property or an interest in it or charge over it, and neither
the Registrar of Titles nor any other person certifying title shall be affected
by notice of, or be concerned to inquire whether there has been, a contravention
of this subsection.

     (5)     A power to postpone sale shall be implied in the case of every trust
for sale of property.

     (6)     Where there is a power to postpone sale, the trustee shall not be
liable in any way for postponing the sale, in the exercise of his discretion,
for any indefinite period; nor shall a purchaser of a legal estate be concerned
in any case with any directions respecting the postponement of a
sale[3].

S. 13(7) amended by No. 6505
s. 2.

     (7)     Trustees shall be deemed always to have had the powers and protection
given by this section.

No. 5770 s. 14.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 14
Duration of trust or power to sell

     (1)     Where the instrument creating a power to
sell property does not expressly limit the duration of the power, then,
notwithstanding any lapse of time or that all the beneficiaries are absolutely
entitled to the property in fee-simple or full ownership in possession and are
free of any incapacity, the trustee may, if so requested in writing by any
beneficiary, sell the property, and shall be deemed to be a trustee for sale
accordingly; but in all other respects the authority conferred by this section
shall be subject to any restrictions to which the power created by the
instrument is subject.

     (2)     A purchaser of the property or the Registrar of Titles or other person
registering or certifying title shall not be concerned to inquire whether the
property was sold under the authority conferred by this section.

     (3)     Nothing in this section shall affect any trust or power to sell which
is for the time being in existence under the instrument creating the
power.

No. 5770 s. 15.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 15
Power to sell subject to depreciatory conditions

     (1)     No sale made by a trustee shall be
impeached by any beneficiary upon the ground that any of the conditions subject
to which the sale was made may have been unnecessarily depreciatory unless it
also appears that the consideration for the sale was thereby rendered
inadequate.

     (2)     No sale made by a trustee shall, after the execution of the
conveyance, be impeached as against the purchaser upon the ground that any of
the conditions subject to which the sale was made may have been unnecessarily
depreciatory, unless it appears that the purchaser was acting in collusion with
the trustee at the time when the contract of sale was made.

     (3)     No purchaser, upon any sale made by a trustee, shall be at liberty to
make any objection against the title upon any of the grounds
aforesaid.

No. 5770 s. 16.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 16
Mortgage on sale of land

     (1)     On a sale of land for an estate in
fee-simple by trustees or by a tenant for life, or statutory owner with the
consent of the trustees of the settlement or order of the Court, the trustees,
or the tenant for life or statutory owner may, where the proceeds are liable to
be invested, contract that the payment of any part, not exceeding three-fifths,
of the purchase money shall be secured by a mortgage of the land sold, with or
without the security of any other property, and such mortgage shall, if any
buildings or other improvements are comprised in the mortgage, contain a
covenant by the mortgagor to keep them insured against loss or damage by fire to
the full insurable value thereof.

     (2)     The trustees shall not be bound to obtain any report as to the value
of the land or other property to be comprised in such mortgage, or any advice as
to the making of the loan, and shall not be liable for any loss which may be
incurred by reason only of the security being insufficient at the date of the
mortgage.

     (3)     Where the sale referred to in subsection (1) of this section is made
under the order of the Court, the powers conferred by that subsection shall
apply only if and so far as the Court may by order direct.

No. 5770 s. 17.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 17
Deferred payment on sale of land

     (1)     A trustee for sale or a trustee having a
power of sale may sell land on terms of deferred payment.

     (2)     The terms of deferred payment may provide that the purchase money
shall be paid by instalments.

     (3)     The terms upon which land is sold shall, in addition to such other
provisions as the trustee may deem proper, include provisions for giving effect
to the following&#8212;

         (a)     that the part of the purchase money to be paid by way of deposit shall
not be less than the sum which a person acting with prudence would, if the land
were his own, have accepted in the circumstances in order to sell the land to
the best advantage, and in any case shall not be less than one-tenth of the
purchase money;

         (b)     that the balance of the purchase money shall be payable by such
instalments and shall bear interest payable half-yearly or oftener on the amount
from time to time unpaid at such rate as a person acting with prudence would, if
the land were his own, have accepted in the circumstances in order to sell the
land to the best advantage, and in any case the whole purchase-money shall be
payable within a period not exceeding ten years from the date of sale;

         (c)     that if any instalment or interest or part thereof is in arrear and
unpaid for six months, or for such less period as may be specified, the whole of
the purchase money shall become due and payable;

         (d)     that the purchaser shall maintain and protect the property, and keep
all buildings (if any) thereon insured against loss or damage by fire to the
full insurable value thereof.

     (4)    (a)     Notwithstanding that the land has been sold on terms of
deferred payment, the trustee may at any time after two-fifths of the purchase
money has been paid convey the land and take a mortgage back to secure payment
of the balance of the purchase money and interest with or without the security
of any other property, and such mortgage shall include provisions to the like
effect as those set out in subsection (2) of section eleven of this
Act.

         (b)     The trustees shall not be bound to obtain any report as to the value
of the land or other property to be comprised in such mortgage, or any advice as
to the making of the loan, and shall not be liable for any loss which may be
incurred by reason only of the security being insufficient at the date of the
mortgage.

     (5)     Where the sale is made under order of the Court, the provisions of
this section shall apply unless the Court otherwise directs.

No. 5770 s. 18.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 18
Power to trustees to give receipts

     (1)     The receipt in writing of a trustee for
any money, securities or other personal property or effects payable,
transferable or deliverable to him under any trust or power shall be a
sufficient discharge to the person paying, transferring or delivering the same
and shall effectually exonerate him from seeing to the application or being
answerable for any loss or misapplication thereof.

S. 18(2) amended by Nos 55/1987
s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 60), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch.
item 12.4).

     (2)     This section shall not, except where the trustee is a trustee company,
or except so far as is otherwise enacted, enable a sole trustee to give a valid
receipt for capital money arising under the Settled Land Act
1958.

     (3)     This section shall apply notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
the instrument (if any) creating the trust.

No. 5770 s. 19.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 19
Power to compound liabilities

S. 19(1) amended
by Nos 55/1987 s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 61), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch.
item 12.5).

     (1)     A personal representative, or two or more trustees acting together,
or, subject to the restrictions imposed in regard to receipts by a sole trustee,
not being a trustee company, a sole acting trustee where by the instrument (if
any) creating the trust, or by statute a sole trustee is authorized to execute
the trusts and powers reposed in him, may, if and as he or they think
fit&#8212;

         (a)     accept any property, real or personal, before the time at which it is
made transferable or payable; or

         (b)     sever and apportion any blended trust funds or property; or

         (c)     pay or allow any debt or claim on any evidence that he or they think
sufficient; or

         (d)     accept any composition or any security, real or personal, for any debt
or for any property, real or personal, claimed; or

         (e)     allow any time for payment of any debt; or

         (f)     compromise, compound, abandon, submit to arbitration, or otherwise
settle any debt, account, claim, or thing whatever relating to the testator's or
intestate's estate or to the trust; or

         (g)     by writing waive or vary any right exercisable by him or them which
arises from a failure to comply at or within the proper time with any term of
any agreement for sale mortgage lease or other contract; or

         (h)     without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers, where a
leasehold is vested in him, or them, and the property is subject to onerous
covenants of such a nature that it would not be in the interests of the
beneficiaries to retain the property, may surrender or concur in surrendering
the lease&#8212;

and for any of those purposes may enter into, give, execute, and do such
agreements, instruments of composition or arrangement, releases, and other
things as to him or them seem expedient, without being responsible for any loss
occasioned by any act or thing so done by him or them in good faith.

     (2)     The powers conferred by this section shall apply both to property of
whatever description that belonged to or was vested in a deceased person in
succession to whom the property is held by a personal representative or trustee
or trustees, and also to property of whatever description that becomes vested in
a personal representative or trustee or trustees in the course of the
administration of an estate or trust.

No. 5770 s. 20.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 20
Power to raise money by sale, mortgage etc.

     (1)     Where trustees are authorized by the
instrument (if any) creating the trust or by law to pay or apply capital money
subject to the trust for any purpose or in any manner, they shall have and shall
be deemed always to have had power to raise the money required by sale,
conversion, calling in, or mortgage of all or any part of the trust property for
the time being in possession.

     (2)     This section applies notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in the instrument (if any) creating the trust, but does not apply to
trustees of property held for charitable purposes, or to trustees of a
settlement for the purposes of the Settled Land Act 1958, not being also
the statutory owners.

No. 5770 s. 21.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 21
Protection to purchasers and mortgagees dealing with trustees

No purchaser or mortgagee, paying or advancing
money on a sale or mortgage purporting to be made under any trust or power
vested in trustees, shall be concerned to see that such money is wanted, or that
no more than is wanted is raised, or otherwise as to the application
thereof.

No. 5770 s. 22.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 22
Devolution of powers or trusts

     (1)     Where a power or trust is given to or
imposed on two or more trustees jointly, the same may be exercised or performed
by the survivors or survivor of them for the time being.

     (2)     Until the appointment of new trustees, the personal representatives or
representative for the time being of a sole trustee, or, where there were two or
more trustees then of the last surviving or continuing trustee, shall be capable
of exercising or performing any power or trust which was given to, or capable of
being exercised by, the sole or last surviving or continuing trustee, or other
the trustees or trustee for the time being of the trust.

S. 22(3) amended by Nos 55/1987
s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 62), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch. item 12.6).

     (3)     This section shall take effect subject to the restrictions imposed in
regard to receipts by a sole trustee, not being a trustee company.

     (4)     In this section personal representative does not include
an executor who has renounced or has not proved.

No. 5770 s. 23.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 23
Power to insure

     (1)     A trustee may insure against loss or
damage, whether by fire or otherwise, any insurable property, and against any
risk or liability against which it would be prudent for a person to insure if he
were acting for himself.

     (2)     The insurance may be for any amount:

Provided that together with the amount of any insurance already on foot the
total shall not exceed the insurable value or liability.

     (3)     The premiums may be paid by the trustees out of any moneys subject to
the trust but in the accounts of the trustee shall be charged first against the
income of the property concerned and secondly against the income of any other
property subject to the same trusts, to the extent of the income available
without obtaining the consent of any person who may be entitled wholly or partly
to the income.

No. 5770 s. 24.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 24
Application of insurance money where policy kept up under any trust power or obligation

     (1)     Money receivable by trustees or any
beneficiary under a policy of insurance against the loss or damage of any
property subject to a trust or to a settlement within the meaning of the
Settled Land Act 1958, whether by fire or otherwise, shall, where the
policy has been kept up under any trust in that behalf or under any power
statutory or otherwise, or in performance of any covenant or of any obligation
statutory or otherwise, or by a tenant for life impeachable for waste, be
capital money for the purposes of the trust or settlement, as the case may
be.

S. 24(2) amended by No. 7332 s. 2(Sch.
1 item 114).

     (2)     If any such money is receivable by any person, other than the trustees
of the trust or settlement, that person shall use his best endeavours to recover
and receive the money, and shall pay the net residue thereof, after discharging
any costs of recovering and receiving it, to the trustees of the trust or
settlement, or, if there are no trustees capable of giving a discharge therefor,
into court.

     (3)     Any such money&#8212;

         (a)     if it was receivable in respect of settled land within the meaning of
the Settled Land Act 1958, or any building or works thereon, shall be
deemed to be capital money arising under that Act from the settled land, and
shall be invested or applied by the trustees, or, if in court, under the
direction of the Court, accordingly;

         (b)     if it was receivable in respect of personal chattels settled so as to
devolve with or as nearly as may be with settled
land[4] shall be deemed to be capital money arising under the Settled Land Act 1958 and shall be applicable by 
the trustees, or, if in court, under the direction of the Court, in like manner
as provided by that Act with respect to money arising by a sale of chattels
settled as aforesaid;

         (c)     if it was receivable in respect of property held upon trust for sale,
shall be held upon the trusts and subject to the powers and provisions
applicable to money arising by sale under such trust;

         (d)     in any other case, shall be held upon trusts corresponding as nearly
as may be with the trusts affecting the property in respect of which it was
payable.

     (4)     Such money, or any part thereof, may also be applied by the trustees,
or, if in court, under the direction of the Court, in rebuilding, reinstating,
replacing, or repairing the property lost or damaged, but any such application
by the trustees shall be subject to the consent of any person whose consent is
required by the instrument (if any) creating the trust to the investment of
money subject to the trust, and, in the case of money which is deemed to be
capital arising under the Settled Land Act 1958, be subject to the
provisions of that Act with respect to the application of capital money by the
trustees of the settlement.

     (5)     Nothing contained in this section shall prejudice or affect the right
of any person to require any such money or any part thereof to be applied in
rebuilding, reinstating, or repairing the property lost or damaged, or the
rights of any mortgagee, lessor, or lessee, whether under any statute or
otherwise.

No. 5770 s. 25.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 25
Deposit of documents with bankers for safe custody

     (1)     Trustees may deposit any documents held by
them relating to the trust, or to the trust property, with any banker or banking
company or any other company whose business includes the undertaking of the safe
custody of documents, and any sum payable in respect of such deposit shall be
charged against the income of the trust property.

     (2)     Where there are two or more trustees of a trust and the trustees by
writing under their hands authorize a banker&#8212;

         (a)     to pay bills of exchange drawn upon the banking account of the
trustees by the trustee or trustees named in that behalf in the authority;
or

         (b)     to recognize as a valid indorsement upon any bill of exchange payable
to the order of the trustees the indorsement thereon by the trustee or trustees
named in that behalf in the authority&#8212;

the banker acting in pursuance of such an authority shall not be deemed
privy to a breach of trust in the ground only of notice that the persons giving
such authority were trustees, or that the instrument (if any) by which the trust
was created did not contain any express power to give such an
authority.

This subsection shall not affect any question of the liability of any
trustee for breach of trust in so authorizing a banker as aforesaid; and in this
subsection bill of exchange has the like meaning as in the
Commonwealth Act known as the Bills of Exchange Act 1909&#8211;1936 or any
amendment thereof.

     (3)     Whenever any payment received by a trustee in respect of a sale of
trust property being securities bearing interest at a fixed rate is or includes
payment for the right to receive any interest accrued from such securities at
the time of such sale though such interest may not then be due the amount of
such accrued interest shall for the purposes of the trust be deemed to have been
received by the trustee as interest in respect of the period during which such
interest so accrued.

     (4)     Whenever any payment made by a trustee out of trust money in respect
of a purchase of any securities bearing interest at a fixed rate is or includes
payment for the right to receive any interest accrued from such securities at
the time of such purchase though such interest may not then be due, the amount
of such accrued interest when received on account of the trust shall for the
purposes of the trust be deemed to have been so received as purchase money
repaid.

No. 5770 s. 26.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 26
Reversionary interests and valuations

     (1)     Where trust property includes any share or
interest in property not vested in the trustees, or the proceeds of the sale of
any such property, or any other thing in action, the trustees on the same
falling into possession, or becoming payable or transferable
may&#8212;

         (a)     agree or ascertain the amount or value thereof or any part thereof in
such manner as they think fit;

         (b)     accept in or towards satisfaction thereof, at the market or current
value, or upon any valuation or estimate of value which they think fit, any
authorized investments;

         (c)     allow any deductions for duties, costs, charges and expenses which
they think proper or reasonable;

         (d)     execute any release in respect of the premises so as effectually to
discharge all accountable parties from all liability in respect of any matters
coming within the scope of such release&#8212;

without being responsible in any such case for any loss occasioned by any
act or thing so done by them in good faith.

     (2)     The trustees shall not be under any obligation and shall not be
chargeable with any breach of trust by reason of any omission&#8212;

         (a)     to place any notice in the nature of a distringas notice or apply for
any stop or other like order upon any securities or other property out of or on
which such share or interest or other thing in action as aforesaid is derived,
payable or charged; or

         (b)     to take any proceedings on account of any act, default, or neglect on
the part of the persons in whom such securities or other property or any of them
or any part thereof are for the time being, or had at any time been,
vested&#8212;

unless and until required in writing so to do by some person, or the
guardian of some person, beneficially interested under the trust, and unless
also due provision is made to their satisfaction for payment of the costs of any
proceedings required to be taken:

Provided that nothing in this subsection shall relieve the trustees of the
obligation to get in and obtain payment or transfer of such share or interest or
other thing in action on the same falling into possession.

     (3)     Trustees may, for the purpose of giving effect to the trust, or any of
the provisions of the instrument (if any) creating the trust or of any statute,
from time to time (by persons reasonably believed by the trustees to be
competent valuers) ascertain and fix the value of any trust property in such
manner as they think proper, and any valuation so made in good faith shall be
binding upon all persons interested under the trust.

No. 5770 s. 27.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 27
Audit

     (1)     A trustee may, in his absolute discretion,
from time to time, cause the accounts of the trust property to be examined or
audited by a person who publicly carries on the business of an accountant, and
shall for that purpose produce such vouchers and give such information to that
person as he may require.

     (2)     The costs of the examination or audit, including the fee of the person
making the examination or audit, shall be charged against the capital or income
of the trust property, or partly in one way and partly in the other, as the
trustee may in his absolute discretion think fit.

     (3)     In default of any direction, in any special case, by the trustee to
the contrary, costs attributable to capital shall be borne by capital and those
attributable to income by income.

S. 27(4) amended by Nos 55/1987
s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 63), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch. item
12.7).

     (4)     Where the trustee or one of the trustees is an incorporated company,
nothing in this section shall, except in the case of a business forming part of
the trust property, authorize any costs or fee to be paid out of or borne by the
capital or income of the trust property unless the Court approves of such costs
or fee being paid out of or borne by such capital or income.

No. 5770 s. 28.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 28
Power to employ agents

S. 28(1) amended
by Nos 9/2002 s. 3(Sch. item 14.1), 18/2005 s. 18(Sch. 1
item 109.2).

     (1)     Trustees or personal representatives may, instead of acting
personally, employ and pay an agent, whether a legal practitioner, banker,
financial services licensee, regulated principal, or other person, to transact
any business or to do any act required to be transacted or done in the execution
of the trust, or the administration of the testator's or intestate's estate,
including the receipt and payment of money, and shall be entitled to be allowed
and paid all charges and expenses so incurred, and shall not be responsible for
the default of any such agent if employed in good faith.

     (2)     Trustees or personal representatives may appoint any person to act as
their agent or attorney for the purpose of selling, converting, collecting,
getting in, and executing and perfecting assurances of, or managing or
cultivating, or otherwise administering any property, real or personal, moveable
or immoveable, subject to the trust or forming part of the testator's or
intestate's estate, in any place outside Victoria or executing or exercising any
discretion or trust or power vested in them in relation to any such property,
with such ancillary powers, and with and subject to such provisions and
restrictions as they think fit, including a power to appoint substitutes, and
shall not, by reason only of their having made such appointment, be responsible
for any loss arising thereby.

S. 28(3) amended by No. 11/2001
s. 3(Sch. item 81.3).

     (3)     Without prejudice to such general power of appointing agents as
aforesaid&#8212;

S. 28(3)(a) amended by No. 18/2005
s. 18(Sch. 1 item 109.2).

         (a)     a trustee may appoint a legal practitioner or a banker to be his agent
to receive and give a discharge for any money or valuable consideration or
property receivable by the trustee under the trust, by permitting the legal
practitioner or banker to have the custody of, and to produce, a deed or
instrument under the Transfer of Land Act 1958, having in the body
thereof or endorsed thereon a receipt for such money or valuable consideration
or property, the deed or instrument being executed, or the endorsed receipt
being signed, by the person entitled to give a receipt for that
consideration[5];

S. 28(3)(b) amended by No. 18/2005
s. 18(Sch. 1 item 109.2).

         (b)     a trustee shall not be chargeable with breach of trust by reason only
of his having made or concurred in making any such appointment; and the
production of any such deed or instrument by the legal practitioner or banker
shall have the same statutory validity and effect as if the person appointing
the legal practitioner or banker had not been a trustee;

S. 28(3)(c) amended by No. 18/2005
s. 18(Sch. 1 item 109.2).

         (c)     a trustee may appoint a legal practitioner or a banker to be his agent
to receive and give a discharge for any money payable to the trustee under or by
virtue of a policy of insurance, by permitting the legal practitioner or banker
to have the custody of and to produce the policy of insurance with a receipt
signed by the trustee, and a trustee shall not be chargeable with a breach of
trust by reason only of his having made or concurred in making any such
appointment.

In this subsection "instrument" includes a discharge of
mortgage and "banker" means a person acting in his official capacity
as general manager or manager of any company solely or chiefly engaged in the
ordinary business of banking or as the manager conducting for such company the
business of any branch of an authorised deposit-taking institution.

S. 28(4) amended by No. 18/2005
s. 18(Sch. 1 item 109.2).

     (4)     Nothing in the last preceding subsection shall exempt a trustee from
any liability which he would have incurred if this Act or any corresponding
previous enactment had not been passed, in case he permits any such money,
valuable consideration or property to remain in the hands or under the control
of the legal practitioner or banker for a period longer than is reasonably
necessary to enable the legal practitioner or banker (as the case may be) to pay
or transfer the same to the trustee.

S. 28(5) inserted by No. 9/2002
s. 3(Sch. item 14.2).

     (5)     In subsection (1)&#8212;

financial services licensee means a financial services
licensee (as defined in section 761A of the Corporations Act) whose licence
covers dealing in, or providing advice about, securities;

regulated principal means a regulated principal (as defined
in section 1430 of the Corporations Act) who is authorised by Subdivision D
of Division 1 of Part 10.2 of that Act to deal in, or provide advice about,
securities.

No. 5770 s. 29.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 29
Power to concur with others

Where an undivided share in the proceeds of
sale of land directed to be sold, or in any other property, is subject to a
trust, or forms part of the estate of a testator or intestate, the trustees or
personal representatives may (without prejudice to the trust for sale affecting
the entirety of the land and the powers of the trustees for sale in reference
thereto) execute or exercise any trust or power vested in them in relation to
such share in conjunction with the persons entitled to or having power in that
behalf over the other share or shares, and notwithstanding that any one or more
of the trustees or personal representatives may be entitled to or interested in
any such other share, either in his or their own right or in a fiduciary
capacity.

No. 5770 s. 30.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 30
Power to delegate trusts during absence abroad[6]

S. 30(1) amended by Nos 55/1987
s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 64), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch. item
12.8).

     (1)     Where a trustee has never resided in Victoria, or is absent from
Victoria, or is about to depart from Victoria, he may, notwithstanding any rule
of law or equity to the contrary, by power of attorney delegate to any person
(including a trustee company) the execution or exercise while he is out of
Victoria of all or any trusts, powers and discretions vested in him as trustee,
either alone or jointly with any other person or persons:

S. 30(1) Proviso amended by Nos 55/1987
s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 65), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch.
item 12.8).

Provided that a person being the only other co&#8209;trustee and not being
a trustee company shall not be appointed to be an attorney under this
subsection.

     (2)     The donor of a power of attorney given under this section shall be
liable for the acts and defaults of the donee in the same manner as if they were
the acts or defaults of the donor; and the donee shall be subject to the
jurisdiction and powers of any court so far as respects the execution of the
trusts powers and discretions delegated to him in the same manner as if he were
the trustee.

     (3)     A power of attorney given pursuant to this section&#8212;

         (a)     if the donor is out of Victoria when he executes it&#8212;shall,
subject to this section, come into operation forthwith after its receipt in
Victoria;

         (b)     if the donor is in Victoria when he executes it&#8212;shall, subject
to this section, come into operation when the donor leaves Victoria;
and

         (c)     if the donor comes into Victoria after it has come into
operation&#8212;shall cease to operate while the donor remains in Victoria, but
from time to time shall, unless the instrument otherwise provides, come into
operation again whenever the donor is out of Victoria.

S. 30(4)&#8211;(7) repealed by No. 9421
s. 5(3).

     *     *     *     *     *

     (8)     For the purpose of executing or exercising the trusts or powers
delegated to him, the donee may exercise any of the powers conferred on the
donor as trustee by statute or by the instrument creating the trust, including
power, for the purpose of the transfer of any inscribed stock, himself to
delegate to an attorney power to transfer but not including the power of
delegation conferred by this section.

     (9)     The fact that it appears from any power of attorney given under this
section, or from any evidence required for the purposes of any such power of
attorney or otherwise, that in dealing with any stock the donee of the power is
acting in the execution of a trust shall not be deemed for any purpose to affect
any person in whose books the stock is inscribed or registered with any notice
of the trust.

     (10)     In this section "trustee" includes a tenant for life and
a statutory owner.

No. 5770 s. 31.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 31
Trustee's power of appropriation[7]

     (1)     A trustee may appropriate any part of the property subject to the
trust, or any part of the estate of a testator or intestate, in its actual
condition or state of investment, in or towards satisfaction of any legacy,
share, or interest in the property or estate, whether settled or not, as to the
trustee may seem just and reasonable, according to the respective rights of the
persons interested in the property or estate:

Provided that&#8212;

         (a)     the appropriation shall not be made so as to affect prejudicially any
specific gift;

         (b)     if any consent is required by this section the appropriation shall be
made with such consent;

         (c)     in making the appropriation the trustee shall have regard to the
rights of any person who may thereafter come into existence or who cannot be
found or ascertained at the time of the appropriation, or as to whom it is
uncertain at that time whether he is living or dead, and to the rights of any
other person whose consent is not required by this section.

     (2)     The power of appropriation conferred by this section shall extend and
apply to&#8212;

         (a)     property over which a testator exercises a general power of
appointment;

         (b)     setting apart a fund to answer an annuity by means of the income of
the fund or otherwise;

         (c)     setting apart a sum of money in or towards the satisfaction of a
legacy share or interest.

     (3)     For the purpose of an appropriation under this section the
trustee&#8212;

         (a)     may ascertain and fix the value of the respective parts of the
property or estate subject to the trust and the liabilities to which the
property or estate is subject, as the trustee may think fit; and

         (b)     shall for that purpose employ a person reasonably believed by the
trustee to be a competent valuer in any case where such employment may be
necessary.

     (4)     When an appropriation is made pursuant to this
section&#8212;

         (a)     the appropriation shall bind all persons who are or may become
interested in the property or estate, including persons whose consent is not
required, persons who are not sui juris, and persons who are not yet
ascertained; and

         (b)     to the extent to which the appropriation is made in or towards
satisfaction of any legacy share or interest, the rights to which any person is
entitled in virtue of the legacy share or interest&#8212;

               (i)     shall be restricted to the part of the property or estate so
appropriated; and

               (ii)     shall not extend to any other parts thereof.

     (5)     Except as is otherwise provided by this section an appropriation of
property, whether it is or is not an investment authorized by law or by the
instrument (if any) creating the trust for the investment of money, shall not be
made under this section for the benefit of a person absolutely and beneficially
entitled in possession unless, if that person is of full age and capacity he
consents in writing, or if he is not of full age and capacity, or if he is a
person whom the trustee at the time of the appropriation has been unable to find
or who cannot be ascertained, or as to whom it is uncertain whether he is living
or dead, consent is given as provided by subsection (7) hereof.

     (6)     Except as is otherwise provided in this section, an appropriation
shall not be made thereunder in respect of any settled legacy share or interest,
unless consent in writing thereto is given&#8212;

         (a)     by the trustee thereof (if any) not being also the trustee making the
appropriation; or

         (b)     by the person for the time being entitled to the income provided he is
of full age and capacity; or

         (c)     in the manner provided in subsection (7) hereof.

     (7)     If the person absolutely and beneficially entitled in possession or in
the case of any settled legacy share or interest the person for the time being
entitled to the income&#8212;

S. 31(7)(a) amended by Nos 9075
s. 5(1), 9427 s. 5(Sch. 4 item 12).

         (a)     is a minor&#8212;the consent may be given by his parents or parent
with whom he resides or in whose custody he is (as the case may be) or by his
testamentary or other guardian, or by the Court;

         (b)     is incompetent to manage his own affairs or incapable of managing his
own affairs&#8212;the consent may be given by any person having power by
law to give the consent, or by the Court;

         (c)     is a person whom the trustee has been unable at the time of the
appropriation to find or who cannot be ascertained, or as to whom it is
uncertain at that time whether he is living or dead&#8212;the consent may be
given by the Court.

S. 31(8) amended by Nos 9075 s. 5(1),
9427 s. 5(Sch. 4 item 12).

     (8)     If the appropriation is of an investment authorized by law, or by the
instrument (if any) creating the trust for the investment of money subject
thereto, no consent shall be required&#8212;

         (a)     on behalf of a minor, where there is no parent or guardian;

         (b)     on behalf of a person who is incompetent to manage his own affairs or
incapable of managing his own affairs, where there is no person having power by
the law to give the consent; or

         (c)     on behalf of a person whom the trustee has been unable at the time of
the appropriation to find or who cannot be ascertained, or as to whom it is
uncertain at that time whether he is living or dead&#8212;

save that if there is a trustee of the legacy share or interest his consent
shall be required.

     (9)     Notwithstanding anything contained in any other subsection of this
section, where a fund is set apart to answer an annuity (not being an annuity in
respect of which the trustee is liable to pay or provide, in addition to the
annuity, any moneys by way of tax or otherwise) by means of the income of the
fund or otherwise, the consent of the annuitant shall not be necessary
if&#8212;

         (a)     the fund at the time of appropriation would be sufficient, if it were
invested in securities of the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia at
par, to provide an income exceeding the annuity by at least twenty per centum
thereof; and

         (b)     the fund is actually invested in such securities.

     (10)     Where an appropriation is made under this section in respect of a
settled legacy share or interest, the property appropriated shall be subject to
all trusts for sale and powers of leasing disposition management and varying
investments which would have been applicable thereto or to the legacy share or
interest in respect of which the appropriation is made, if no such appropriation
had been made:

Provided that nothing in this section shall relieve the trustee of the
settled legacy share or interest, where he is not the trustee making the
appropriation, from the obligation to obtain payment or transfer of the property
appropriated, if or when the same is so payable or transferable.

     (11)     The trustee may make any conveyance or assent which may be necessary
for giving effect to an appropriation under this section.

     (12)     Any appropriation or disposition of property&#8212;

         (a)     made in purported exercise of the powers conferred by this section;
or

         (b)     in respect of which the trustee making the appropriation or
disposition states in writing that the appropriation or disposition has been
made in exercise of those powers&#8212;

shall, in favour of a person who in good faith and for valuable
consideration purchases, or takes a lease or mortgage of, or otherwise takes or
deals for, the property or any interest in it, be deemed to have been made in
accordance with the requirements of this section, and after all requisite
consents (if any) have been given.

The protection afforded by this subsection shall extend to the Registrar of
Titles when registering titles and to every other person registering or
certifying title.

     (13)     In this section "settled legacy share or interest"
means&#8212;

         (a)     a legacy share or interest settled by the trust instrument (if any) or
by any other instrument;

         (b)     an annuity, whether or not at the time of appropriation any person is
absolutely and beneficially entitled to the income; and

         (c)     any legacy share or interest to which at the time of appropriation no
person is absolutely and beneficially entitled in possession.

     (14)     This section shall not prejudice any other power of appropriation
conferred by law or by the instrument (if any) creating the trust, and shall
take effect with any extended powers conferred by that instrument; and the
powers conferred by this section shall be in addition to any other
power.

Division
2&#8212;Indemnities

No. 5770 s. 32.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 32
Protection against liability in respect of rents and covenants

     (1)     Where a personal representative or trustee
liable as such for&#8212;

         (a)     any rent, covenant or agreement reserved by or contained in any lease;
or

         (b)     any rent, covenant or agreement payable under or contained in any
grant made in consideration of a rentcharge; or

         (c)     any indemnity given in respect of any rent, covenant or agreement
referred to in either of the foregoing paragraphs&#8212;

satisfies all liabilities under the lease or grant which may have accrued,
and been claimed up to the date of the conveyance hereinafter mentioned, and
where necessary, sets apart a sufficient fund to answer any future claim that
may be made in respect of any fixed and ascertained sum which the lessee or
grantee agreed to lay out on the property demised or granted, although the
period for laying out the same may not have arrived, then and in any such case
the personal representative or trustee may convey the property demised or
granted to a purchaser, legatee, devisee or other person entitled to call for a
conveyance thereof and thereafter&#8212;

               (i)     he may distribute the residuary real and personal estate of the
deceased testator or intestate, or as the case may be, the trust estate other
than the fund (if any) set apart as aforesaid to or amongst the persons entitled
thereto without appropriating any part, or any further part (as the case may be)
of the estate of the deceased or of the trust estate to meet any future
liability under the said lease or grant;

               (ii)     notwithstanding such distribution he shall not be personally liable
in respect of any subsequent claim under the said lease or grant.

     (2)     This section shall operate without prejudice to the right of the
lessor or grantor or the persons deriving title under the lessor or grantor, to
follow the assets of the deceased or the trust property into the hands of the
persons amongst whom the same may have been respectively distributed, and shall
apply notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the will or other instrument
(if any) creating the trust.

     (3)     In this section lease includes an under-lease and an
agreement for a lease or under-lease and any instrument giving any such
indemnity as aforesaid or varying the liabilities under the lease;
grant applies to a grant whether the rent is created by limitation,
grant, reservation or otherwise, and includes an agreement for a grant and any
instrument giving any such indemnity as aforesaid or varying the liabilities
under the grant; lessee and grantee include persons
respectively deriving title under them.

Nos 5770 s. 33, 5896
s. 2.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 33
Protection by means of advertisements

S. 33(1)(a)
amended by S.R. No. 380/1973 reg. 2(a).

     (1)    (a)     With a view to the conveyance to or distribution among the
persons entitled to any real or personal property, the trustees of a settlement
or of a disposition on trust for sale or personal representatives, or persons
who have made application to the registrar of probates for a grant of
representation may give notice by advertisement in the Government Gazette, and
in a daily newspaper, published in Melbourne and also if the property includes
land not situated within 80 kilometres of the City of Melbourne in a newspaper
published at least once a week in the district in which the land is situated,
and such other like notices, including notices elsewhere than in Victoria, as
would in any special case have been directed by the Court in an action for
administration, of their intention to make such conveyance or distribution as
aforesaid, and requiring any person interested to send to the trustees or
personal representatives or persons who have made application to the registrar
of probates for a grant of representation within the time not being less than
two months, fixed in the notice or where more than one notice is given, in the
last of the notices, particulars of his claim in respect of the property or any
part thereof to which the notice
relates[8].

         (b)     Notice by advertisement for the purposes of this subsection given by
any personal representative or by any trustee or by any person who has made an
application for a grant of representation as aforesaid shall so far as regards
Section 34
Personal representatives relieved from personal liability in respect of calls made after transfer of shares

A personal representative of a deceased person
who was registered as the holder of shares not fully paid up in any incorporated
company may distribute the assets of the estate of such deceased person as soon
as such personal representative has procured the registration of some other
person as the holder of the shares without reserving any portion of the estate
for the payment of any calls made after the date of such registration whether
made by the company or its directors or by its liquidators in a winding up, but
nothing herein contained shall affect any right which the company or its
liquidator may have to follow the assets of such deceased person into the hands
of any persons to or amongst whom the same have been transferred or
distributed.

No. 5770 s. 35.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 35
Protection in regard to notice when a person is trustee etc. of more than one estate or trust

     (1)     A trustee or personal representative
acting for the purposes of more than one trust or estate shall not, in the
absence of fraud be affected by notice of any instrument, matter, fact or thing
in relation to any particular trust or estate if he has obtained notice thereof
merely by reason of his acting or having acted for the purposes of another trust
or estate.

     (2)     A trustee acting or paying money in good faith under or in pursuance
of any power of attorney shall not be liable for any such act or payment by
reason of the fact that at the time of the act or payment the person who gave
the power of attorney was subject to any disability or bankrupt or dead, or had
done or suffered some act or thing to avoid the power if this fact was not known
to the trustee at the time of his so acting or paying:

Provided that&#8212;

         (a)     nothing in this section shall affect the right of any person entitled
to the money against the person to whom the payment is made;

         (b)     the person so entitled shall have the same remedy against the person
to whom the payment is made as he would have had against the trustee;

S. 35(2) Proviso (c)
amended by No. 57/2014 s. 163(1).

         (c)     nothing in this section shall repeal or prejudice the provisions of
any Act now or hereafter to be in force relating to powers of attorney
and in particular where the power of attorney was filed under the
Instruments Act 1958 (as in force before the commencement of the
Instruments (Powers of Attorney) Act 1980) nothing in this section
shall apply to any act done or payment made by a trustee after revocation of the
power has been registered under that Act.

S. 35(3) inserted by
No. 57/2014 s. 163(2) (as amended by No. 20/2015
s. 53).

     (3)     For the purpose of subsection (2)&#8212;

"power of attorney" means a power of attorney
that was made and registered under the Instruments Act 1958
as in force before the commencement of the Instruments (Powers of
Attorney) Act 1980.

No. 5770 s. 36.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 36
Implied indemnity of trustees

     (1)     A trustee shall be chargeable only for
money and securities actually received by him notwithstanding his
signing any receipt for the sake of conformity, and shall be answerable and
accountable only for his own acts, receipts, neglects or defaults, and not for
those of any other trustee, nor for any banker, broker or other person with whom
any trust money or securities may be deposited, nor for the insufficiency or
deficiency of any securities, nor for any other loss unless the same happens
through his own wilful default.

     (2)     A trustee may reimburse himself or pay or discharge out of the trust
premises all expenses incurred in or about the execution of the trusts or
powers.

Division
3&#8212;Maintenance advancement and protective trusts

No. 5770 s. 37.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 37
Power to apply income for maintenance etc. and to accumulate surplus income during a minority

S. 37(1) amended
by No. 9075 s. 5(1)(2).

     (1)     Where any property is held by trustees in trust for any person for any
interest whatsoever, whether vested or contingent, then, subject to any prior
interests or charges affecting that property&#8212;

         (a)     during the minority of any such person, if his interest so long
continues, the trustees may, at their sole discretion, pay to his parent or
guardian (if any) or otherwise apply for or towards his maintenance, education,
advancement, or benefit, the whole or such part (if any) of the income of that
property as may in all the circumstances be reasonable, whether or not there
is&#8212;

               (i)     any other fund applicable to the same purpose; or

               (ii)     any person bound by law to provide for his maintenance or education;
and

S. 37(1)(b) amended by No. 9075
s. 5(2).

         (b)     if such person on attaining the age of eighteen years has not a vested
interest in such income, the trustees shall thenceforth pay the income of that
property and of any accretion thereto under subsection (2) of this section to
him, until he either attains a vested interest therein or dies, or until failure
of his interest:

Provided that, in deciding whether the whole or any part of the income of
the property is during a minority to be paid or applied for the purposes
aforesaid, the trustees shall have regard to the age of the minor and his
requirements and generally to the circumstances of the case, and in particular
to what other income (if any) is applicable for the same purposes; and where
trustees have notice that the income of more than one fund is applicable for
those purposes, then, so far as practicable, unless the entire income of the
funds is paid or applied as aforesaid or the Court otherwise directs, a
proportionate part only of the income of each fund shall be so paid or
applied.

S. 37(2) amended by No. 9075
s. 5(2).

     (2)     During the minority of any such person, if his interest so long
continues, the trustees shall accumulate all the residue of that income in the
way of compound interest by investing the same and the resulting income thereof
from time to time in authorized investments, and shall hold those accumulations
as follows:

S. 37(2)(a) amended by Nos 9075
s. 5(1), 9427 s. 5(Sch. 4 item 12).

         (a)     If any such person&#8212;

               (i)     attains the age of eighteen years, or marries under that age, and his
interest in such income during his minority or until his marriage is a vested
interest; or

               (ii)     on attaining the age of eighteen years or on marriage under that age
becomes entitled to the property from which such income arose in fee-simple,
absolute or determinable, or absolutely, or for an entailed
interest&#8212;

the trustees shall hold the accumulations in trust for such person
absolutely, but without prejudice to any provision with respect thereto
contained in any settlement by him made under any statutory powers during his
minority, and so that the receipt of such person after marriage, and though
still a minor, shall be a good discharge; and

         (b)     In any other case the trustees shall, notwithstanding that such person
had a vested interest in such income, hold the accumulations as an accretion to
the capital of the property from which such accumulations arose, and as one fund
with such capital for all purposes, and so that if such property is settled
land, such accumulations shall be held upon the same trusts as if the same were
capital money arising therefrom&#8212;

but the trustees may, at any time during the minority of such person if his
interest so long continues, apply those accumulations, or any part thereof, as
if they were income arising in the then current year.

     (3)     This section shall apply in the case of a contingent interest only if
the limitation or trust carries the intermediate income of the property, but it
applies to a future or contingent legacy by the parent of, or a person standing
in loco parentis to, the legatee, if and for such period as, under the general
law, the legacy carries interest for the maintenance of the legatee, and in any
such case as last aforesaid the rate of interest shall (if the income available
is sufficient, and subject to any rules of court to the contrary) be Five per
centum per annum. Where in the case of a contingent interest the limitation or
trust would, but for the operation of a protective trust (whether created or
statutory) carry the intermediate income of the property, that limitation or
trust shall for the purposes of this subsection be deemed notwithstanding the
protective trust to carry the intermediate
income[9].

S. 37(4) amended by No. 10087
s. 3(1)(Sch. 1 item 305).

     (4)     This section shall apply to a vested annuity in like manner as if the
annuity were the income of property held by trustees in trust to pay the income
thereof to the annuitant for the same period for which the annuity is payable,
save that in any case accumulations made during the minority of the annuitant
shall be held in trust for the annuitant or his personal representatives
absolutely.

     (5)     This section shall not apply where the instrument (if any) under which
the interest arises came into operation before the commencement of this Act, but
in cases of instruments coming into operation before such commencement section
thirty-four of the Trusts Act 1915 (as amended by section nine of the
Real Property Act 1918) and section thirty-five of the Trusts Act
1915 or section thirty-one of the Trustee Act 1928 or section
thirty-seven of the Trustee Act 1953 (as the case requires) shall
notwithstanding the repeal of those Acts continue to apply to such
instruments.

No. 5770 s. 38.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 38
Use of capital for maintenance education advancement and benefit of beneficiaries

     (1)     Where under a trust a person is entitled
to the capital of the trust property or any share thereof, the trustees, in such
manner as they in their absolute discretion think fit, may from time to time out
of that capital pay or apply for the maintenance education advancement or
benefit of that person, an amount not exceeding in all $2000 or half that
capital (whichever is the greater) or with the consent of the Court an amount
greater than that amount.

     (2)     The power conferred by this section may be exercised whether the
person is entitled absolutely or contingently on his attaining any specified age
or on the occurrence of any other event, or subject to a gift over on his death
under any specified age or on the occurrence of any other event, and
notwithstanding that the interest of the person so entitled is liable to be
defeated by the exercise of a power of appointment or revocation, or to be
diminished by the increase of the class to which he belongs.

     (3)     The power conferred by this section may be exercised whether the
person is so entitled in possession or in remainder or reversion.

     (4)     If the person is or becomes absolutely and indefeasibly entitled to a
share in the trust property, the money so paid or applied shall be brought into
account as part of that share.

     (5)     No payment or application pursuant to this section shall be made so as
to prejudice any person entitled to any prior life or other prior interest,
whether vested or contingent, in the money paid or applied unless that person is
in existence and of full age and consents in writing to the payment or
application.

     (6)     For the purposes of this section the trustees may raise money by sale,
mortgage or exchange of the trust property.

No. 5770 s. 39.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 39
Protective trusts

     (1)     Where any income, including an annuity or
other periodical income payment, is directed to be held on protective trusts for
the benefit of any person (in this section called the principal
beneficiary) for the period of his life or for any less period, then,
during that period (in this section called the trust period) the
said income shall, without prejudice to any prior interest, be held on the
following trusts, namely&#8212;

         (a)     upon trust for the principal beneficiary during the trust period or
until he, whether before or after the termination of any prior interest, does or
attempts to do or suffers any act or thing, or until any event happens, other
than an advance under any statutory or express power, whereby if the said income
were payable during the trust period to the principal beneficiary absolutely
during that period, he would be deprived of the right to receive the same or any
part thereof, in any of which cases, as well as on the termination of the trust
period, whichever first happens, this trust of the said income shall fail or
determine;

S. 39(1)(b) amended by No. 10087
s. 3(1)(Sch. 1 item 306).

         (b)     if the trust aforesaid fails or determines during the subsistence of
the trust period, then, during the residue of that period, the said income shall
be held upon trust for the application thereof for the maintenance education
advancement or benefit of all or of any one or more exclusively of the other or
others of the following persons (that is to say)&#8212;

               (i)     the principal beneficiary and his or her wife or husband (if any), and
his or her children or more remote issue (if any); or

               (ii)     if there is no wife or husband or issue of the principal beneficiary
in existence, the principal beneficiary and the persons who would, if he were
actually dead, be entitled to the trust property or the income thereof or to the
annuity fund (if any), or arrears of the annuity, as the case may
be&#8212;

as the trustees in their absolute discretion, without being liable to
account for the exercise of such discretion, think fit.

     (2)     Nothing in this section operates to validate any trust which would, if
contained in the instrument creating the trust, be liable to be set
aside.

Part
III&#8212;Appointment and discharge of trustees

No. 5770 s. 40.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 40
Limitation of the number of trustees

     (1)     Where, at the commencement of this Act,
there are more than four trustees of a settlement of land, or more than four
trustees holding land on trust for sale, no new trustees shall (except where on
the appointment the number is four or less) be capable of being appointed until
the number is reduced to less than four, and thereafter the number shall not be
increased beyond four.

     (2)     In the case of settlements and dispositions on trust for sale of
land&#8212;

         (a)     the number of trustees thereof shall not in any case exceed four and
where more than four persons are named as such trustees, the four first named
(who are able and willing to act) shall alone be the trustees, and the other
persons named shall not be trustees unless appointed on the occurrence of a
vacancy;

         (b)     the number of the trustees shall not be increased beyond
four.

     (3)     This section applies only to settlements and dispositions of land, and
the restrictions imposed on the number of trustees do not apply&#8212;

         (a)     in the case of land vested in trustees for charitable, religious, or
public purposes; or

         (b)     where the net proceeds of the sale of the land are held for like
purposes; or

         (c)     to the trustees of a term of years absolute limited by a settlement on
trusts for raising money, or of a like term created under the statutory remedies
relating to annual sums charged on
land[10].

No. 5770 s. 41.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 41
Power of appointing new or additional trustees

S. 41(1) amended
by Nos 6867 s. 2(Sch. 1), 9075 s. 5(1), 9427 s. 5(Sch. 4
item 12).

     (1)     Where a trustee is dead, or remains out of Victoria for more than one
year without having properly delegated the execution of the trust, or desires to
be discharged from all or any of the trusts or powers reposed in or conferred on
him or refuses or is unfit to act therein, or is incapable of acting therein, or
is a minor, then, subject to the restrictions imposed by this Act on the number
of trustees&#8212;

         (a)     the person or persons nominated for the purpose of appointing new
trustees by the instrument (if any) creating the trust; or

         (b)     if there is no such person or no such person able and willing to act,
then the surviving or continuing trustees or trustee for the time being, or the
personal representatives of the last surviving or continuing
trustee&#8212;

may, by writing, appoint one or more other persons (whether or not being
the persons exercising the power) to be a trustee or trustees in the place of
the trustee so deceased, remaining out of Victoria, desiring to be discharged,
refusing, or being unfit, or being incapable, or being a minor as
aforesaid.

     (2)     Where a trustee has been removed under a power contained in the
instrument creating the trust, then a new trustee or new trustees may be
appointed in the place of the trustee who is removed as if he were dead, or in
the case of a corporation, as if the corporation desired to be discharged from
the trust, and the provisions of this section shall apply accordingly, but
subject to the restrictions imposed by this Act on the number of
trustees.

     (3)     Where a corporation being a trustee is or has been dissolved,
either before or after the commencement of this Act, then, for the purposes of
this section and of any corresponding previous enactment, the corporation shall
be deemed to be and to have been from the date of the dissolution incapable of
acting in the trusts or powers reposed in or conferred on the
corporation.

     (4)     The power of appointment given by subsection (1) of this section or
any corresponding previous enactment to the personal representatives of a last
surviving or continuing trustee shall be and shall be deemed always to have been
exercisable by the executors for the time being (whether original or by
representation) of such surviving or continuing trustee who have proved the will
of their testator or by the administrators for the time being of such trustee
without the concurrence of any executor who has renounced or has not
proved.

     (5)     But a sole or last surviving executor intending to renounce, or all
the executors where they all intend to renounce, shall have and shall be deemed
always to have had power, at any time before renouncing probate, to exercise the
power of appointment given by this section, or by any corresponding previous
enactment, if willing to act for that purpose and without thereby accepting the
office of executor.

S. 41(6) amended by Nos 55/1987
s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 67), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch. item
12.9).

     (6)     Where in the case of any trust, there are not more than three trustees
(none of them being a trustee company)&#8212;

         (a)     the person or persons nominated for the purpose of appointing new
trustees by the instrument (if any) creating the trust; or

         (b)     if there is no such person, or no such person able and willing to act,
the trustee or trustees for the time being&#8212;

may, by writing, appoint another person or other persons to be an
additional trustee or additional trustees, but it shall not be obligatory to
appoint any additional trustee, unless the instrument (if any) creating the
trust, or any statutory enactment provides to the contrary, nor shall the number
of trustees be increased beyond four by virtue of any such
appointment.

     (7)     Every new trustee appointed under this section as well before as after
all the trust property becomes by law, or by assurance, or otherwise, vested in
him, shall have the same powers, authorities and discretions, and may in all
respects act as if he had been originally appointed a trustee by the instrument
(if any) creating the trust.

     (8)     The provisions of this section relative to a trustee who is dead
include the case of a person nominated trustee in a will but dying before the
testator, and those relative to a continuing trustee include a refusing or
retiring trustee, if willing to act in the execution of the provisions of this
section.

S. 41(9) substituted by Nos 7332
s. 2(Sch. 1 item 115), 59/1986 s. 143(2), amended by
Nos 26/2014 s. 455(Sch. item 32), 39/2022
s. 875.

     (9)     If a person who is a patient within the meaning of the Mental
Health and Wellbeing Act 2022 is a trustee of property and is entitled
in possession to some beneficial interest in the property no appointment of a
new trustee in his or her place can be made by the continuing trustee or
trustees under this section unless leave has been given&#8212;

S. 41(9)(a) amended by Nos 52/1998
s. 311(Sch. 1 item 98), 13/2019 s. 221(Sch. 1 item
55).

         (a)     in the case of a represented person within the meaning of the
Guardianship and Administration Act 2019, by the guardian or
administrator; or

         (b)     in any other case, by the Court.

     (10)     The provisions of this section relative to a person nominated for the
purpose of appointing new trustees apply, whether the appointment is to be made
in a case specified in this section or in a case specified in the instrument (if
any) creating the trust, but where a new trustee is appointed under this section
in a case specified in that instrument, the appointment shall be subject to the
terms applicable to an appointment in that case under the provisions of that
instrument.

No. 5770 s. 42.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 42
Supplemental provisions as to appointment of trustees

     (1)     On the appointment of a trustee for the
whole or any part of trust property&#8212;

         (a)     the number of trustees may, subject to the restrictions imposed by
this Act on the number of trustees, be increased; and

         (b)     a separate set of trustees, not exceeding four, may be appointed for
any part of the trust property held on trusts distinct from those relating to
any other part or parts of the trust property, notwithstanding that no new
trustees or trustee are or is to be appointed for other parts of the trust
property, and any existing trustee may be appointed or remain one of such
separate set of trustees, or, if only one trustee was originally appointed,
then, save as hereinafter provided, one separate trustee may be so appointed;
and

S. 42(1)(c) amended by Nos 55/1987
s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 68), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch.
item 12.10).

         (c)     it shall not be obligatory, save as hereinafter provided, to appoint
more than one new trustee where only one trustee was originally appointed, or to
fill up the original number of trustees where more than two trustees were
originally appointed, but, except where only one trustee was originally
appointed, and a sole trustee when appointed will be able to give valid receipts
for all capital money[11], a trustee shall not be discharged from his trust unless there will be either a trustee 
company or at least two individuals to act as trustees to perform the trust;
and

         (d)     any assurance or thing requisite for vesting the trust property, or
any part thereof, in a sole trustee, or jointly in the persons who are the
trustees, shall be executed or done.

S. 42(2) amended by Nos 55/1987
s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 69), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch.
item 12.11).

     (2)     Nothing in this Act shall authorize the appointment of a sole trustee,
not being a trustee company, where the trustee when appointed would not be able
to give valid receipts for all capital money arising under the
trust[12].

No. 5770 s. 43.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 43
Evidence as to vacancy in a trust

     (1)     A statement contained in any instrument by
which a new trustee is appointed, to the effect that a trustee&#8212;

         (a)     is dead; or

         (b)     has remained out of Victoria for more than one year without having
properly delegated the execution of the trust; or

         (c)     desires to be discharged from all or any of the trusts or powers
reposed in or conferred upon him; or

         (d)     refuses or is unfit to act, or is incapable of acting in all or any of
the trusts or powers reposed in or conferred on him; or

S. 43(1)(e) amended by No. 9427
s. 6(1)(Sch. 5 item 185).

         (e)     is a minor; or

         (f)     is not entitled to a beneficial interest in the trust property in
possession&#8212;

shall, in favour of a subsequent purchaser in good faith, be conclusive
evidence of the matter stated.

     (2)     In favour of any subsequent purchaser in good faith any appointment of
a new trustee depending on that statement, and any vesting declaration, express
or implied, depending on the appointment, shall be valid.

     (3)     The protection afforded to a purchaser by this section shall extend to
the Registrar-General, Registrar of Titles, or other person registering or
certifying title.

     (4)     This section applies to instruments of appointment signed either
before or after the commencement of this Act.

No. 5770 s. 44.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 44
Retirement of trustee without a new appointment

S. 44(1) amended
by Nos 55/1987 s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 70), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch. item
12.12).

     (1)     This section applies where a trustee declares by writing that he is
desirous of being discharged from all or any of the trusts reposed in him, and
after his discharge there will be either a trustee company or at least two
individuals to act as trustees to perform the trusts from which that trustee
desires to be discharged.

     (2)     In any case to which this section applies if the co&#8209;trustees and
such other person (if any) as is empowered to appoint trustees consent by
writing to the discharge of the trustee, and to the vesting in the co-trustees
alone of the trust property, the trustee desirous of being
discharged&#8212;

         (a)     shall be deemed to have retired from the trusts from which he has
declared he desires to be discharged; and

         (b)     subject to subsection (3) of this section, shall, by the writing by
which consent is given to his discharge, be discharged from the trusts under
this Act&#8212;

without any new trustee being appointed in his place.

     (3)     Any conveyance requisite for vesting in the continuing trustees alone
the property subject to the trusts from which the retiring trustee is to be
discharged shall be executed or done; and in respect of any part of the trust
property for the vesting of which in the continuing trustees a conveyance is
necessary, the retiring trustee shall not be discharged until that part is duly
conveyed.

No. 5770 s. 45.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 45
Vesting of trust property in new trustee or continuing trustees

     (1)     Where a new trustee is appointed the
execution of the instrument of appointment shall, subject to this section
without any conveyance vest in the persons who become and are the trustees, as
joint tenants and for the purposes of the trust, the trust property for which
the new trustee is appointed.

     (2)     In any case to which the last preceding section applies the execution
of the instrument of discharge shall, subject to this section, without any
conveyance vest in the continuing trustees alone, as joint tenants and for the
purposes of the trust, all the property subject to the trusts from which the
retiring trustee has declared that he is desirous of being discharged.

     (3)     Subsections (1) and (2) of this section shall not
apply&#8212;

         (a)     to land conveyed by way of mortgage for securing money subject to the
trust, except land conveyed on trust for securing debentures or debenture
stock;

         (b)     to land held under a lease which contains any covenant condition or
agreement against assignment or disposing of the land without licence or consent
unless&#8212;

S. 45(3)(b)(i) amended by No. 10087
s. 3(1)(Sch. 1 item 307).

               (i)     before the execution of the instrument of appointment or instrument of
discharge (as the case may be) the requisite licence or consent has been
obtained; or

               (ii)     by virtue of any statute or rule of law such application would not
operate as a breach of covenant or give rise to a forfeiture;

         (c)     to any property (including property subject to the operation of the
Transfer of Land Act 1958) which is only transferable in books kept by a
company or other body or in manner directed by or under an Act of
Parliament.

In this subsection lease includes an under-lease and an
agreement for a lease or under-lease.

     (4)     In the case of any property referred to in the last preceding
subsection the execution of the instrument of appointment of a new trustee or of
the instrument of discharge (as the case may be) shall for the purposes of the
trust vest in the persons who become and are the trustees or in the continuing
trustees (as the case may be) the right to call for a conveyance of the property
and to sue for and recover the property.

S. 45(5) repealed by No. 85/1998
s. 24(Sch. item 61).

     *     *     *     *     *

     (6)     In this section&#8212;

"instrument of discharge" means an instrument containing the
consent or consents referred to in subsection (2) of section forty-four of this
Act and executed in a case to which section forty-four applies; and

continuing trustees and retiring trustee have
the same meaning as in subsection (3) of section forty-four of this
Act.

No. 5770 s. 46.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 46
Disclaimer of trusts on renunciation of probate

     (1)     If a person who is appointed by will both
executor and trustee thereof renounces probate, or after being duly cited or
summoned fails to apply for probate, the renunciation or failure shall be deemed
to be disclaimer of the trust contained in the will.

     (2)     Where any person who is appointed by will both executor and trustee
thereof renounces probate, or after being duly cited or summoned fails to apply
for probate, or dies before probate is granted to him, and letters of
administration with the will annexed are granted to any other person, the person
who obtains the grant shall, by virtue of the grant and without further
appointment, be deemed to be appointed trustee of the will in the place of the
person who was appointed by the will.

No. 5770 s. 47.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 47
Trustee company obtaining grant to become trustee

S. 47(1) amended
by Nos 55/1987 s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 71), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch. item
12.13(a)(b)).

     (1)     Where a trustee company has pursuant to the provisions of any Act
obtained a grant of probate of a will or letters of administration with the will
annexed (as the case may be) upon the authority of any person who has been
appointed by the will of a deceased person to be both executor and trustee
thereof then by virtue of the grant and without further appointment the trustee
company shall be deemed to be appointed trustee of the will in the place of the
person by whose authority the trustee company applied for the grant.

S. 47(2) amended by Nos 10168 s. 3,
55/1987 s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 items 72, 73), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch. item
12.14(a)&#8211;(d)).

     (2)     Where any person who is appointed by will both executor and trustee
thereof, and who has obtained a grant of probate, appoints by power of attorney
pursuant to section 16 of the Trustee Companies Act 1984 a trustee
company to act as executor in his stead, the trustee company while so acting
shall, by virtue of this section and without further appointment, be deemed in
the place of that person to have all the powers and discretions of that person
as a trustee of the will; and section 16 of the Trustee Companies Act
1984 shall apply with respect to every act of the trustee company acting as
trustee of the will within the powers conferred by this subsection in like
manner as they apply with respect to every act of the trustee company acting as
executor of the will.

S. 47(3) amended by Nos 10168 s. 3,
55/1987 s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 items 74, 75), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch. item
12.15(a)&#8211;(d)).

     (3)     Where any person who is appointed by will to be both executor and
trustee thereof, and who has obtained a grant of probate, appoints pursuant to
section 17 of the Trustee Companies Act 1984 a trustee company to perform
and discharge all the acts and duties of that person as executor, the trustee
company shall by virtue of this section and without further appointment be
deemed to be appointed trustee of the will in the place of that person; and
section 17 of the Trustee Companies Act 1984 shall apply with respect to
every act of the trustee company acting as trustee of the will in like manner as
they apply with respect to every act of the trustee company acting as executor
of the will.

S. 47(4) amended by Nos 55/1987
s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 76), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch. item
12.16).

     (4)     This section shall apply only if and so far as a contrary intention is
not expressed in the will or instrument of appointment or power of attorney
pursuant to which the trustee company obtains authority to act.

Part
IV&#8212;Powers of the Court

Division
1&#8212;Appointment of new trustees

No. 5770 s. 48.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 48
Power of Court to appoint new trustees

S. 48(1) amended
by Nos 9576 s. 11(1), 55/1987 s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 77), 68/2009
s. 97(Sch. item 126), 26/2014 s. 455(Sch. item 32), 39/2022
s. 876.

     (1)     The Court may, whenever it is expedient to appoint a new trustee or
new trustees, and it is found inexpedient difficult or impracticable so to do
without the assistance of the Court, make an order appointing a new trustee or
new trustees either in substitution for or in addition to any existing trustee
or trustees, or although there is no existing trustee.

In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
provision, the Court may make an order appointing a new trustee in substitution
for a trustee who is convicted on indictment of any offence, or is a patient
within the meaning of the Mental Health and Wellbeing Act 2022, or
is a bankrupt, or is a corporation which is in liquidation or has been
dissolved.

     (2)     Nothing in this section gives power to appoint an executor or
administrator.

No. 5770 s. 49.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 49
Effect of order under the preceding section

An order under the last preceding section, and
any consequential vesting order or conveyance, shall not operate further or
otherwise as a discharge to any former or continuing trustee than an appointment
of new trustees under any power for that purpose contained in any instrument
would have operated.

No. 5770 s. 50.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 50
Powers of new trustee appointed by the Court

Every trustee appointed by a court of competent
jurisdiction shall, as well before as after the trust property becomes by law,
or by assurance or otherwise, vested in him, have the same powers, authorities
and discretions, and may in all respects act as if he had been originally
appointed a trustee by the instrument (if any) creating the trust.

Division
2&#8212;Vesting orders

No. 5770 s. 51.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 51
Vesting orders

     (1)     The Court may make an order, in this Act
called a vesting order, which shall have effect as provided in section
fifty-eight of this Act.

     (2)     A vesting order may be made in any of the following cases,
namely&#8212;

         (a)     where the Court appoints or has appointed a new trustee;

         (b)     where a new trustee has been appointed out of court under any
statutory or express power;

         (c)     where a trustee retires or has retired;

S. 51(2)(d) amended by Nos 9075
s. 5(1), 9427 s. 5(Sch. 4 item 12).

         (d)     where a trustee is a minor;

S. 51(2)(e) substituted by No. 59/1986
s. 143(2), amended by Nos 26/2014 s. 455(Sch. item 32), 39/2022
s. 877.

         (e)     where a trustee is a patient within the meaning of the Mental
Health and Wellbeing Act 2022;

         (f)     where a trustee is out of the jurisdiction of the Court;

         (g)     where a trustee cannot be found;

         (h)     where a trustee being a corporation is dissolved;

               (i)     where a trustee neglects or refuses to convey any property, or to
receive the dividends or income of any property, or to sue for or recover any
property according to the direction of the person absolutely entitled to the
same for twenty-eight days next after a request in writing has been made to him
by the person so entitled;

         (j)     where it is uncertain who was the survivor of two or more trustees
jointly entitled to or possessed of any property;

         (k)     where, as to the last trustee known to have been entitled to or
possessed of any property, it is uncertain whether he is living or
dead;

         (l)     where there is no personal representative of the last trustee who was
entitled to or possessed of any property or where it is uncertain who is the
personal representative of such trustee or where the personal representative of
such a trustee cannot be found;

         (m)     where any person neglects or refuses to convey any property, or to
receive the dividends or income of any property, or to sue for or recover any
property in accordance with the terms of an order of the Court;

         (n)     where the Court might have made a vesting order if this Act had not
been passed;

         (o)     where property is vested in a trustee and it appears to the Court to
be expedient to make a vesting order.

     (3)     The provisions of subsection (2) of this section where applicable
extend to a trustee entitled to or possessed of any property either solely or
jointly with any other person and whether by way of mortgage or
otherwise.

No. 5770 s. 52.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 52
In whom property to be vested etc.

     (1)     Where the making of a vesting order is
consequential on the appointment of a new trustee, the property shall be vested
in the persons who, on the appointment, are the trustees.

     (2)     Where the making of such order is consequential on the retirement of
one or more of a number of trustees, the property may be vested in the
continuing trustees alone.

     (3)     Subject to the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, a vesting
order may vest the property in any such person in any such manner and for any
such estate or interest as the Court may direct, or may release or dispose of
any contingent right to such person as the Court may direct.

     (4)     The fact that a vesting order is founded or purports to be founded on
an allegation of the existence of any of the matters mentioned or referred to in
section fifty-one of this Act shall be conclusive evidence of the matter so
alleged in any Court upon any question as to the validity of the
order.

     (5)     Nothing in this Act shall prevent the Court from directing a
reconveyance or the payment of costs occasioned by any such order if improperly
obtained, or from making a further vesting order.

     (6)     Where by reason of the dissolution of a corporation either before or
after the commencement of this Act a legal estate in any property has
determined, the Court may by order create a corresponding estate and vest the
same in the person who would have been entitled to the estate which determined,
had it remained a subsisting estate.

No. 5770 s. 53.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 53
Orders as to contingent rights of unborn persons

Where any property is subject to a contingent
right in an unborn person or class of unborn persons who, on coming into
existence would, in respect thereof, become entitled to or possessed of the
property on any trust, the Court may make an order releasing the property from
the contingent right or may make an order vesting in any person the estate or
interest to or of which the unborn person or class of unborn persons would, on
coming into existence, be entitled or possessed in the property.

No. 5770 s. 54.

S. 54 (Heading) inserted by
No. 39/2022 s. 878(1).

S. 54 amended by Nos 9075 s. 5(1), 9427
s. 5(Sch. 4 item 12), 59/1986 s. 143(2), 26/2014 s. 455(Sch. item
32), 39/2022 s. 878(2).

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 54
Vesting order in place of conveyance by minor or mortgagee with mental illness

Where any person entitled to or possessed of
any property by way of mortgage is a minor or a patient within the meaning of
the Mental Health and Wellbeing Act 2022 the Court may make an order
vesting or releasing or disposing of the property in like manner as in the case
of a trustee under like disability.

No. 5770 s. 55.

S. 55 amended by Nos 9075 s. 5(1), 9427
s. 5(Sch. 4 item 12).

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 55
Vesting orders in relation to minor's beneficial interests

Where a minor is beneficially entitled to any
property the Court may, with a view to the application of the capital or income
thereof for the maintenance, education, advancement or benefit of the minor,
make an order&#8212;

         (a)     appointing a person to convey such property; or

         (b)     in the case of stock, or a thing in action, vesting in any person the
right to transfer or call for a transfer of such stock, or to receive the
dividends or income thereof, or to sue for and recover such thing in action,
upon such terms as the Court thinks fit.

No. 5770 s. 56.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 56
Vesting order consequential on order for sale or mortgage of land

Where any Court gives a judgment or makes an
order directing the sale or mortgage of any land, every person who is entitled
to or possessed of any interest in the land, or entitled to a contingent right
therein, and is a party to the action or proceeding in which the judgment or
order is given or made or is otherwise bound by the judgment or order, shall be
deemed to be so entitled or possessed (as the case may be) as a trustee for the
purposes of this Act, and the Court may, if it thinks expedient, make an order
vesting the land or any part thereof for such estate or interest as the Court
thinks fit in the purchaser or mortgagee or in any other person.

No. 5770 s. 57.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 57
Vesting order consequential on judgment for specific performance etc.

Where a judgment is given for the specific
performance of a contract concerning any interest in land, or for partition or
sale in lieu of partition or exchange of any interest in land, or generally
where any judgment is given for the conveyance of any interest in land either in
cases arising out of the doctrine of election or otherwise, the Court may
declare&#8212;

         (a)     that any of the parties to the action are trustees of any interest in
the land or any part thereof within the meaning of this Act; or

         (b)     that the interests of unborn persons who might claim under any party
to the action, or under the will or voluntary settlement of any deceased
person who was during his lifetime a party to the contract or transaction
concerning which the judgment is given, are the interests of persons who, on
coming into existence, would be trustees within the meaning of this
Act&#8212;

and thereupon the Court may make a vesting order relating to the rights of
those persons, born and unborn, as if they had been trustees.

No. 5770 s. 58.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 58
Effect of vesting order

     (1)     In the case of a vesting order
consequential on the appointment of a new trustee, or the
retirement of a trustee, the vesting order shall have the same effect
as if the persons who before the appointment or retirement were the trustees
(if any) had duly executed all proper conveyances of the property for such
estate or interest as the Court directs, or if there is no such person, or no
such person of full capacity, then as if such person had existed and been of
full capacity, and had duly executed all proper conveyances of the property for
such estate or interest as the Court directs.

     (2)     In every other case the vesting order shall have the same effect as if
the trustee or other person or description or class of persons to whose rights,
or supposed rights, the provisions of this Part respectively relate, had been an
ascertained and existing person of full capacity, and had executed a conveyance
or release to the effect intended by the order.

S. 58(3) amended by No. 18/1989
s. 13(Sch. 2 item 93).

     (3)     In the case of land subject to the operation of the Transfer of
Land Act 1958 the land shall not vest until the appropriate recordings are
made in accordance with the provisions of that Act.

     (4)     In the following cases the vesting order shall vest in the person
named in the order the right to transfer or call for a transfer of the property
or security, that is to say, in the case of&#8212;

         (a)     any property that does not come within subsection (3), but a transfer
of which is required to be registered by or under any Act, whether of this State
or otherwise;

         (b)     any security that is only transferable in books kept by a corporation
company or other body, or in manner directed by or under any Act, whether of
this State or otherwise.

     (5)     In the case of any security or chose in action the vesting order shall
vest in the person named in the order the right to receive the dividends or
income thereof, and to sue for or recover the chose in action.

     (6)     The person in whom the right to transfer or call for the transfer of
any property or security is so vested may transfer the property or security to
himself or any other person according to the order, and all corporations
companies associations and persons shall obey the order.

     (7)     After notice in writing of the vesting order it shall not be lawful
for any company association or person to transfer any property or security to
which the order relates, or to pay any dividends thereon except in accordance
with the order.

No. 5770 s. 59.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 59
Directions etc. as to manner of transferring stock etc.

The Court may make declarations and give
directions concerning the manner in which the right to transfer any stock or
thing in action vested under the provisions of this Act is to be
exercised.

No. 5770 s. 60.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 60
Power to appoint person to convey

In all cases where a vesting order can be made
under any of the foregoing provisions, the Court may, if it is more convenient,
appoint a person to convey the property or release any right, and a conveyance
or release by that person in conformity with the order shall have the same
effect as an order under the appropriate provision.

No. 5770 s. 61.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 61
Vesting orders of charity property

The powers conferred by this Act as to vesting
orders may be exercised for vesting any property in any trustee of a charity or
society over which the Court would have jurisdiction upon action duly
instituted, whether the appointment of the trustee was made by instrument under
a power or by the Court under its general or statutory jurisdiction.

No. 5770 s. 62

S. 62 amended by No. 24/2008
s. 88(1).

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 62
Commission concerning persons of unsound mind

Upon any application under this Act concerning
a person alleged to be of unsound mind the Court may, if it thinks fit, direct
that an Associate Judge of the Supreme Court shall personally examine such
person and shall take such evidence and call for such information as to such
Associate Judge seems necessary in order to enable him to report to the Court
whether such person is of unsound mind and the Court may postpone making any
order until such report is made.

Division
3&#8212;Jurisdiction to make other orders

No. 5770 s. 63.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 63
Power of Court to authorize dealings with trust property

     (1)     Where in the management or administration
of any property vested in trustees, any sale, lease, mortgage, surrender,
release or other disposition, or any purchase, investment, acquisition,
expenditure or other transaction, is in the opinion of the Court expedient, but
the same cannot be effected by reason of the absence of any power for that
purpose vested in the trustees by the trust instrument (if any) or by law, the
Court may by order confer upon the trustees, either generally or in any
particular instance, the necessary power for the purpose on such terms and
subject to such provisions and conditions (if any) as the Court thinks fit and
may direct in what manner any money authorized to be expended, and the costs of
any transaction are to be paid or borne as between capital and income.

     (2)     The Court may from time to time rescind or vary any order made under
this section, or may make any new or further order.

     (3)     An application to the Court under this section may be made by the
trustees, or by any of them, or by any person beneficially interested under the
trust.

S. 63A inserted by No. 6915
s. 2.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 63A
Power of Court to vary trusts

     (1)     Where property, whether real or personal,
is held on trusts arising, whether before or after the commencement of this Act,
under any will settlement or other disposition, the Court may if it thinks fit
by order approve on behalf of&#8212;

S. 63A(1)(a) amended by No. 9427
s. 6(1)(Sch. 5 item 186).

         (a)     any person having, directly or indirectly, an interest, whether vested
or contingent, under the trusts who by reason of minority or other incapacity is
incapable of assenting; or

         (b)     any person (whether ascertained or not) who may become entitled,
directly or indirectly, to an interest under the trusts as being at a future
date or on the happening of a future event a person of any specified description
or a member of any specified class of persons, so however that this paragraph
shall not include any person who would be of that description, or a member of
that class (as the case may be) if the said date had fallen or the said event
had happened at the date of the application to the Court; or

         (c)     any person unborn; or

         (d)     any person in respect of any discretionary interest of his under
protective trusts where the interest of the principal beneficiary has not failed
or determined&#8212;

any arrangement (by whomsoever proposed and whether or not there is any
other person beneficially interested who is capable of assenting thereto)
varying or revoking all or any of the trusts, or enlarging the powers of the
trustees or managing or administering any of the property subject to the
trusts:

Provided that except by virtue of paragraph (d) of this subsection the
Court shall not approve an arrangement on behalf of any person unless the
carrying out thereof would be for the benefit of that person.

     (2)     In the foregoing subsection "protective trusts" means
trusts specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1) of section
thirty-nine of this Act or any like trusts, the principal
beneficiary has the same meaning as in the said subsection (1) and
"discretionary interest" means an interest arising under the trust
specified in paragraph (b) of the said subsection (1) or any like
trust.

     (3)     Notice of an application to the Court for an order pursuant to
subsection (1) of this section shall be given to such persons as the Court may
direct.

     (4)     Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall apply to
trusts affecting property settled by Act of Parliament.

     (5)     Nothing in this section shall limit the powers conferred by section
sixty-three of this Act section sixty-four of the Settled Land Act 1958
or section one hundred and seventy-one of the Property Law Act
1958.

No. 5770 s. 64.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 64
Persons entitled to apply for orders

     (1)     An order under this Act for the
appointment of a new trustee or concerning any property, subject to a trust, may
be made on the application of any person beneficially interested in the
property, whether under disability or not, or on the application of any person
duly appointed trustee thereof.

     (2)     An order under this Act concerning property subject to a mortgage may
be made on the application of any person beneficially interested in the property
subject to the mortgage, whether under disability or not, or of any person
interested in the money secured by the mortgage.

No. 5770 s. 65.

S. 65 amended by No. 35/1996
s. 453(Sch. 1 item 85).

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 65
Persons entitled to apply for trustee

Where in any action the Court is satisfied that
diligent search has been made for any person who, in the character of trustee,
is made a defendant in any action, to serve him with a process of the Court, and
that he cannot be found, the Court may hear and determine the action and give
judgment therein against that person in his character of a trustee as if he had
been duly served, or had entered an appearance in the action, and had also
appeared by his legal practitioner at the hearing, but without prejudice to any
interest he may have in the matters in question in the action in any other
character.

No. 5770 s. 66.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 66
Power to charge costs or to order payment

The Court may order the costs and expenses of
and incident to any application for an order appointing a trustee, or for a
vesting order, or of and incident to any such order, or any conveyance or
transfer in pursuance thereof, to be raised and paid out of the property in
respect whereof the same is made, or out of the income thereof, or to be borne
and paid in such manner and by such persons as to the Court seems
just.

No. 5770 s. 67.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 67
Power to relieve trustee from personal liability

If it appears to the Court that a trustee,
whether appointed by the Court or otherwise, is or may be personally liable for
any breach of trust, whether the transaction alleged to be a breach of trust
occurred before or after the commencement of this Act, but has acted honestly
and reasonably, and ought fairly to be excused for the breach of trust and for
omitting to obtain the directions of the Court in the matter in which he
committed such breach, then the Court may relieve him either wholly or partly
from personal liability for the same.

No. 5770 s. 68.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 68
Indemnity for breach of trust[13]

Where a trustee commits a breach of trust at the instigation or request or
with the consent in writing of a beneficiary the Court may, if it thinks fit,
and notwithstanding that the beneficiary may be a married woman restrained from
anticipation, make such order as to the Court seems just for impounding all or
any part of the interest of the beneficiary in the trust estate by way of
indemnity to the trustee or persons claiming through him.

This section applies to breaches of trust committed as well before as after
the commencement of this Act.

Division
4&#8212;Payment into Court

No. 5770 s. 69.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 69
Payment into court by trustees

     (1)     Trustees or the majority of trustees
having in their hands or under their control money or securities subject to a
trust may pay the same into court; and the same shall, subject to rules of
court, be dealt with according to the orders of the Court.

     (2)     The receipt or certificate of the proper officer shall be a sufficient
discharge to trustees for the money or securities so paid into court.

     (3)     Where money or securities are vested in any persons as trustees and
the majority are desirous of paying the same into court, but the concurrence of
the other or others cannot be obtained, the Court may order the payment into
court to be made by the majority without the concurrence of the other or
others.

     (4)     Where any such money or securities are deposited with any banker
broker or other depositary, the Court may order payment or delivery of the money
or securities to the majority of the trustees for the purpose of payment into
court.

     (5)     Every transfer payment and delivery made in pursuance of any such
order shall be valid and take effect as if the same had been made on the
authority or by the act of all the persons entitled to the money and securities
so transferred, paid or delivered.

     (6)     Notwithstanding the repeal of the Trusts Act 1915 where moneys
have been paid or securities transferred or deposited under the provisions of
sections sixty-one and sixty-two of the said Act the Court may on application by
any person interested make any such order as is authorized by section
sixty-three or section sixty-four of the said Act and every such order shall
have the same effects and consequences as if formerly made under such sections
or the Court may make such other order as it thinks fit and in particular may
make an order that such moneys or securities shall be paid into court so as to
come under the provisions of the preceding subsections of this section or any of
them.

S. 69(7) inserted by No. 30/2004
s. 10.

     (7)     In this section, "Court" means the Supreme
Court.

Part
V&#8212;General provisions

No. 5770 s. 70.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 70
Application of Act to Settled Land Act trustees

     (1)     All the powers and provisions contained in
this Act with reference to the appointment of new trustees, and the discharge
and retirement of trustees, apply to and include trustees for the purposes of
the Settled Land Act 1958, and trustees for the purpose of the management
of land during a minority, whether such trustees are appointed by the Court or
by the settlement or under provisions contained in any
instrument[14].

     (2)     Where, either before or after the commencement of this Act, trustees
of a settlement have been appointed by the Court for the purposes of the
Settled Land Act 1958, or any corresponding previous enactment, then
after the commencement of this Act&#8212;

         (a)     the person or persons nominated for the purpose of appointing new
trustees by the instrument (if any) creating the settlement, though not trustees
for the purposes of the said Act or enactment where thereby appointed;
or

         (b)     if there is no such person, or no such person able and willing to act,
the surviving or continuing trustees or trustee for the time being for the
purposes of the said Act or enactment or the personal representatives of the
last surviving or continuing trustee for those purposes&#8212;

shall have the powers conferred by this Act to appoint new or additional
trustees of the settlement for the purposes of the said Act or
enactment.

No. 5770 s. 71.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 71
Appointment of certain corporations as custodian trustees

S. 71(1)
repealed by No. 55/1987 s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 78).

     *     *     *     *     *

     (2)     For the purposes of this section "approved corporation"
means any body corporate which&#8212;

         (a)     has been formed for the purpose of&#8212;

               (i)     promoting art science religion education charity or any other useful
object; or

               (ii)     acting as trustee in respect of any trusts for the benefit of any
body which has for or included in its principal objects the promotion of art
science religion education charity or any other useful object; and

         (b)     applies its profits (if any) or other income in promoting all or any
of such purposes; and

         (c)     is approved by Order of the Governor in Council published in the
Government Gazette as a corporation which may be appointed custodian trustee
pursuant to this section.

S. 71(3) inserted by No. 55/1987
s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 79), amended by No. 74/2000 s. 3(Sch. 1 item
132.3).

     (3)     State Trustees or an approved corporation may be appointed custodian
trustee by&#8212;

         (a)     the trust instrument; or

         (b)     any person having power to appoint new trustees; or

         (c)     order of the Court on the application of a beneficiary or of any
person on whose application the Court would have power to appoint a new
trustee.

S. 71(3A) inserted by No. 45/1994
s. 42(Sch. item 12.17).

     (3A)     State Trustees may consent to be appointed custodian trustee whether
or not the number of trustees has been reduced below the original
number.

S. 71(4) inserted by No. 55/1987
s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item 79), amended by No. 74/2000 s. 3(Sch. 1 item
132.4).

     (4)     The following apply if State Trustees or an approved corporation is
appointed custodian trustee&#8212;

         (a)     the trust property is to be transferred to the custodian trustee as
sole trustee;

         (b)     the management of the trust property and the exercise of any power or
discretion exerciseable by the trustees under the trust remain vested in the
trustees other than the custodian trustee as managing trustees;

         (c)     the custodian trustee has custody of all securities and documents of
title relating to the trust property but the managing trustees have free access
to the securities and documents and are entitled to take copies or
extracts;

         (d)     the custodian trustee must concur in and perform all acts necessary to
enable the managing trustees to exercise their powers of management or any other
power or discretion vested in them unless the matter is a breach of trust or
involves a personal liability;

         (e)     if the custodian trustee does not concur the custodian trustee is not
liable for any act or default on the part of a managing trustee;

         (f)     any sum payable to or out of the income or capital of the trust
property is to be paid to or by the custodian trustee;

         (g)     the custodian trustee may allow the dividends and other income derived
from the trust property to be paid to the managing trustees or as they
direct;

         (h)     if paragraph (g) applies the custodian trustee is not answerable for
any loss or misapplication of that income;

               (i)     the power of appointing a new trustee when exercisable by any
continuing trustee is to be exercised by the managing trustees alone;

S. 71(4)(j) amended by No. 74/2000
s. 3(Sch. 1 item 132.4).

         (j)     State Trustees or an approved corporation has the same power to apply
to the Court for the appointment of a new trustee as any other
trustee;

         (k)     if the custodian trustee acts in good faith the custodian trustee is
not liable for accepting as correct and acting upon any written statements by
the managing trustees as to any matter of fact upon which the title to any trust
property may depend or acting upon any legal advice obtained by the managing
trustees independently of the custodian trustee;

         (l)     any matter in dispute between the custodian trustee and any managing
trustee may be submitted in a summary manner to the Court whose decision is
final and binding;

         (m)     the custodian trustee, a managing trustee or any beneficiary may apply
to the Court to terminate the custodian trusteeship;

         (n)     if the Court is satisfied that the custodian trusteeship should be
terminated the court may make any orders and give any directions it considers
appropriate.

No. 5770 s. 72.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 72
Trust estates not affected by trustee becoming a convict[15]

Property vested in any person on any trust or by way of mortgage shall not,
in case of that person becoming a convict within the meaning of the Crimes
Act 1958 vest in any such curator as may be appointed under that Act, but
shall remain vested in the trustee or mortgagee, and shall on his death pass to
his co-trustee in right or survivorship or devolve on his personal
representative as if he had not become a convict:

Provided that this enactment shall not affect the title to the property so
far as it relates to any beneficial interest therein of any such trustee or
mortgagee.

S. 73 repealed by No. 7750
s. 20(1).

     *     *     *     *     *

No. 5770 s. 74.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 74
Application of income of settled residuary estate

     (1)     Where, under the provisions of the will of
a person, in this section called "the deceased", who dies on or
after the first day of January One thousand nine hundred and fifty-four, any
real or personal estate included (either by specific or general description) in
a residuary gift is settled by way of succession, no part of the income of that
property shall be applicable in or towards the payment of the debts and
liabilities which have accrued at the date of death or in payment of the
funeral, testamentary and administration expenses, or of any legacies bequeathed
by the will.

     (2)     The income of the settled property shall be applicable in priority to
any other assets in payment of the interest (if any) accruing due on the debts,
liabilities, funeral, testamentary and administration expenses, and legacies
after the date of the death of the deceased and up to the payment thereof, and
the balance of the income shall be payable to the person for the time being
entitled to the income of the property.

     (3)     Where, after the death of the deceased, income of assets which are
ultimately applied in or towards payment of the debts, liabilities, funeral,
testamentary and administration expenses, and legacies, arises pending such
application, that income shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed
income of the residuary estate of the deceased.

     (4)     In this section "administration expenses" includes duty
payable under the Administration and Probate Act 1958 and estate duty
payable under any Commonwealth Act and any other duty payable in any State or
country outside Victoria on or consequent on or arising out of the death of the
deceased to the extent to which such duties are payable out of
residue.

     (5)     This section shall only affect the rights of beneficiaries under the
will as between themselves, and shall not affect the rights of creditors of the
deceased.

     (6)     This section shall have effect subject to the provisions (if any) to
the contrary contained in the will and to the provisions of any Act as to
charges on property of the deceased.

No. 5770 s. 75.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 75
Certain periodical payments to be applied as income

     (1)     Unless a contrary intention appears in the
will, this section shall apply to&#8212;

         (a)     every payment of an annuity contributed for or purchased by for
or on behalf of a deceased person who dies on or after the first day of January
One thousand nine hundred and fifty-four; and

         (b)     every periodical payment howsoever described paid in terms of or
pursuant to a policy of insurance on the life of a deceased person who dies on
or after the first day of January One thousand nine hundred and fifty-four and
providing for payments to be made thereunder for a period of years or until a
specified date or on the occurrence of a specified event or for the life of any
person&#8212;

which is received as part of the estate of the deceased person by the
executor or administrator with the will annexed of the deceased person or by the
trustee of his estate.

     (2)     Every payment to which this section applies shall be paid or applied
as if it were income of the estate of the deceased person received on the date
on which that payment is received, and so that the dispositions trusts and
powers applicable in the administration of the estate with respect to income
received on that date shall apply with respect to that payment.

No. 5770 s. 76.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 76
Payment to representative official on behalf of residents or subjects of countries outside Australia

With respect to moneys and personal chattels
payable or deliverable by any trustee to a resident or subject of any country
outside Australia the Governor in Council may, if in his opinion it is difficult
or impracticable for the trustee to pay or deliver such moneys or chattels to
the person entitled thereto, by notice published in the Government Gazette,
notify that such moneys or chattels may be paid or delivered to a specified
representative official of such country in Victoria on behalf of such resident
or subject; and the receipt in writing of such specified representative official
shall be a good discharge to the trustee therefor.

No. 5770 s. 77

S. 77 amended by No. 24/2008
s. 88(2).

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 77
Commission allowable to trustee of a settlement

It shall be lawful for the Court or an
Associate Judge of the Court to allow out of the trust funds to the trustee of a
settlement such commission or percentage not exceeding five per centum for his
pains and trouble as is just and reasonable.

No. 5770 s. 78.

S. 78 amended by Nos 10087 s. 3(1)(Sch.
1 item 308), 29/1988
s. 57(18)(c)(i) (ii), 94/1990
s. 40(14)(b) (i)(ii).

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
Section 78
Indemnity to banks etc.

The foregoing provisions of this Act, and every
order purporting to be made by the court under the said provisions shall be a
complete indemnity to all chartered and incorporated banking companies and all
other companies and associations whatsoever, and all persons for any acts done
pursuant thereto, and it shall not be necessary for any company association or
person to inquire concerning the propriety of the order, or whether the Court
had jurisdiction to make it.

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
- FIRST SCHEDULE
First Schedule 

      
      
      

Number of Act

Title of Act

Extent of Repeal

5770

Trustee Act 1953

So much as is not already repealed

5896

Statute Law Revision Act 1955

Item in Schedule referring to Trustee Act 1953

5914

Limitation of Actions Act 1955

Clause 43 of Schedule

5967

Home Finance Act 1956

Section 4(4)

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
- SECOND SCHEDULE
Second Schedule 

A.B., late of                                                [set out
the usual residence and addition or other description of the deceased].
Creditors, next of kin, and others having claims in respect of the estate of the
deceased, who died [set out the date of death with such accuracy as the
information of the trustee, personal representative, or applicant for grant of
representation permits] are required by the trustee [or personal
representative or applicant for grant of administration], of

[set out name and address of trustee or personal representative or
applicant * A date not less than two
months from date of advertise-ment.for grant of
administration] to send particulars to him by the *               day of    
19          after which date the trustee [or personal representative or
applicant for grant of administration] may convey or distribute the assets,
having regard only to the claims of which he then has notice.

&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
- NOTES

Version No.
127

No. 6401 of 1958Version incorporating amendments as at1 September 2023 

&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;

Version No. 127 
Trustee Act 1958 
No. 6401 of 1958Version incorporating amendments as at1 September 2023 

TRUSTEE ACT 1958
- NOTES Endnotes

Endnotes

     1     General information

See www.legislation.vic.gov.au for Victorian Bills, Acts and current
Versions of legislation and up-to-date legislative information.

The Trustee Act 1958 was assented to on
30 September 1958 and came into operation on 1 April 1959: Government Gazette
18 March 1959 page 893.

INTERPRETATION OF LEGISLATION ACT 1984
(ILA)

Style changes

Section 54A of the ILA authorises the making of the style changes set out
in Schedule 1 to that Act.

References to ILA s. 39B

Sidenotes which cite ILA s. 39B refer to section 39B of the ILA which
provides that where an undivided section or clause of a Schedule is amended by
the insertion of one or more subsections or subclauses, the original section or
clause becomes subsection or subclause (1) and is amended by the insertion of
the expression "(1)" at the beginning of the original section or
clause.

Interpretation

As from 1 January 2001, amendments to section 36 of the ILA have the
following effects:

&#8226;     Headings

All headings included in an Act which is passed on or after 1 January 2001
form part of that Act.  Any heading inserted in an Act which was passed before 1
January 2001, by an Act passed on or after 1 January 2001, forms part of that
Act.  This includes headings to Parts, Divisions or Subdivisions in a Schedule;
sections; clauses; items; tables; columns; examples; diagrams; notes or forms. 
See section 36(1A)(2A).

&#8226;     Examples, diagrams or notes

All examples, diagrams or notes included in an Act which is passed on or
after 1 January 2001 form part of that Act.  Any examples, diagrams or notes
inserted in an Act which was passed before 1 January 2001, by an Act passed on
or after 1 January 2001, form part of that Act.  See section 36(3A).

&#8226;     Punctuation

All punctuation included in an Act which is passed on or after 1 January
2001 forms part of that Act.  Any punctuation inserted in an Act which was
passed before 1 January 2001, by an Act passed on or after 1 January 2001, forms
part of that Act.  See section 36(3B).

&#8226;     Provision numbers

All provision numbers included in an Act form part of that Act, whether
inserted in the Act before, on or after 1 January 2001.  Provision numbers
include section numbers, subsection numbers, paragraphs and subparagraphs.  See
section 36(3C).

&#8226;     Location of "legislative items"

A "legislative item" is a penalty, an example or a note.  As from 13
October 2004, a legislative item relating to a provision of an Act is taken to
be at the foot of that provision even if it is preceded or followed by another
legislative item that relates to that provision.  For example, if a penalty at
the foot of a provision is followed by a note, both of these legislative items
will be regarded as being at the foot of that provision.  See section
36B.

&#8226;     Other material

     2     Table of Amendments

This publication incorporates amendments made to
the Trustee Act 1958 by Acts and subordinate instruments.

&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;

Statute Law Revision Act 1959, No.
6505/1959

      
      

Assent Date:

5.5.59

Commencement Date:

1.4.59: s. 1(2)

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Trustee (Amendment) Act 1959, No.
6511/1959

      
      

Assent Date:

12.5.59

Commencement Date:

12.5.59

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Local Government (Amendment) Act 1959, No.
6535/1959

      
      

Assent Date:

19.5.59

Commencement Date:

10.6.59: Government Gazette 10.6.59 p. 1668

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Trustee (Mortgages) Act 1959, No.
6580/1959

      
      

Assent Date:

8.12.59

Commencement Date:

8.12.59

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Statute Law Revision Act 1962, No.
6867/1962

      
      

Assent Date:

16.4.62

Commencement Date:

16.4.62

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Trustee (Variation of Trusts) Act 1962, No.
6915/1962

      
      

Assent Date:

20.11.62

Commencement Date:

20.11.62

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Trustee (Mortgages) Act 1962, No.
6963/1962

      
      

Assent Date:

18.12.62

Commencement Date:

18.12.62

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Statute Law Revision Act 1965, No.
7332/1965

      
      

Assent Date:

14.12.65

Commencement Date:

14.12.65: s. 3

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Strata Titles Act 1967, No.
7551/1967

      
      

Assent Date:

17.3.67

Commencement Date:

S. 50 on 1.7.67: Government Gazette 24.5.67 p.
1754

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Perpetuities and Accumulations Act 1968, No.
7750/1968

      
      

Assent Date:

10.12.68

Commencement Date:

10.12.68

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Trustee (Amendment) Act 1969, No.
7791/1969

      
      

Assent Date:

15.4.69

Commencement Date:

15.4.69

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Trustee (Authorized Investments) Act 1969, No.
7833/1969

      
      

Assent Date:

20.5.69

Commencement Date:

20.5.69

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Victorian Development Corporation Act 1973, No.
8428/1973

      
      

Assent Date:

17.4.73

Commencement Date:

8.5.73: Government Gazette 8.5.73 p. 1009

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Age of Majority Act 1977, No.
9075/1977

      
      

Assent Date:

6.12.77

Commencement Date:

1.2.78: Government Gazette 11.1.78 p. 97

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Port of Melbourne Authority Act 1978, No.
9178/1978

      
      

Assent Date:

8.11.78

Commencement Date:

8.11.78

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Trustee (Authorized Investments) Act 1978, No.
9204/1978

      
      

Assent Date:

5.12.78

Commencement Date:

5.12.78

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Instruments (Powers of Attorney) Act 1980, No.
9421/1980

      
      

Assent Date:

20.5.80

Commencement Date:

1.7.80: Government Gazette 25.6.80 p. 2123

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Statute Law Revision Act 1980, No.
9427/1980

      
      

Assent Date:

27.5.80

Commencement Date:

27.5.80: s. 6(2)

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Victorian Economic Development Corporation Act 1981, No.
9574/1981

      
      

Assent Date:

26.5.81

Commencement Date:

1.7.81: Government Gazette 3.6.81 p. 1778

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Crimes (Classification of Offences) Act 1981, No.
9576/1981

      
      

Assent Date:

26.5.81

Commencement Date:

1.9.81: Government Gazette 26.8.81 p. 2799

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Trustee (Authorized Investments) Act 1981, No.
9653/1981

      
      

Assent Date:

15.12.81

Commencement Date:

15.12.81

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Companies (Consequential Amendments) Act 1981, No.
9699/1981

      
      

Assent Date:

5.1.82

Commencement Date:

S. 23 on 1.7.82: s. 2(1)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Trustee (Authorized Investments) Act 1982, No.
9816/1982

      
      

Assent Date:

14.12.82

Commencement Date:

7.12.83: Government Gazette 7.12.83 p. 3886

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Water and Sewerage Authorities (Restructuring) Act 1983,
No. 9895/1983

      
      

Assent Date:

7.6.83

Commencement Date:

7.6.83

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Statute Law Revision Act 1983, No.
9902/1983

      
      

Assent Date:

15.6.83

Commencement Date:

15.6.83: s. 2(2)

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Water and Sewerage Authorities (Further Restructuring)
Act 1984, No. 10048/1984

      
      

Assent Date:

8.5.84

Commencement Date:

Ss 5(2), 12(1), 14(4) on 1.7.84: Government Gazette 27.6.84
pp 2068, 2076, 2086

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Statute Law Revision Act 1984, No.
10087/1984

      
      

Assent Date:

22.5.84

Commencement Date:

22.5.84: s. 3(2)

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Trustee (Amendment) Act 1984, No.
10143/1984

      
      

Assent Date:

13.11.84

Commencement Date:

1.12.84: Government Gazette 21.11.84 p.
4143

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Trustee Companies Act 1984, No.
10168/1984

      
      

Assent Date:

20.11.84

Commencement Date:

5.12.84: Government Gazette 5.12.84 p. 4329

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Trustee (Secondary Mortgage Market Amendment) Act 1985,
No. 10230/1985

      
      

Assent Date:

10.12.85

Commencement Date:

10.12.85

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Building Societies Act 1986, No.
8/1986

      
      

Assent Date:

8.4.86

Commencement Date:

1.5.86: Government Gazette 30.4.86 p. 1114

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Courts Amendment Act 1986, No.
16/1986

      
      

Assent Date:

22.4.86

Commencement Date:

S. 24 on 1.7.86: Government Gazette 25.6.86 p.
2180

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Mental Health Act 1986, No. 59/1986

      
      

Assent Date:

3.6.86

Commencement Date:

S. 143(2) on 1.10.87: Government Gazette 30.9.87
p. 2585

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Supreme Court Act 1986, No. 110/1986

      
      

Assent Date:

16.12.86

Commencement Date:

1.1.87: s. 2

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Trustee (Amendment) Act 1986, No. 112/1986 (as
amended by No. 65/1988)

      
      

Assent Date:

16.12.86

Commencement Date:

Ss 1&#8211;3, 5 (except subsections (1)(b) and (2))
on 1.11.87: Government Gazette 28.10.87 p. 2880; ss 4, 5(1)(b)(2), 6 on 7.6.88:
s. 2(2)

Current State:

All of Act in operation

State Trust Corporation of Victoria Act 1987, No.
55/1987

      
      

Assent Date:

20.10.87

Commencement Date:

2.11.87: Government Gazette 28.10.87 p.
2925

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Stamps (Secondary Mortgage Market) Act 1988, No.
17/1988 (as amended by No. 17/1993)

      
      

Assent Date:

11.5.88

Commencement Date:

Ss 4, 5, 7&#8211;9 on 7.6.88: Special Gazette (No. 48)
7.6.88 p. 1; s. 6 on 31.5.02: Government Gazette 30.5.02
p. 1118

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

State Bank Act 1988, No. 29/1988

      
      

Assent Date:

17.5.88

Commencement Date:

9.6.88: Government Gazette 8.6.88 p. 1582

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Subdivision Act 1988, No. 53/1988 (as amended by No.
47/1989)

      
      

Assent Date:

31.5.88

Commencement Date:

30.10.89: Government Gazette 4.10.89 p.
2532

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Transfer of Land (Computer Register) Act 1989, No.
18/1989

      
      

Assent Date:

16.5.89

Commencement Date:

3.2.92: Government Gazette 18.12.91 p. 3488

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Trustee (Amendment) Act 1989, No.
45/1989

      
      

Assent Date:

6.6.89

Commencement Date:

30.8.89: Government Gazette 30.8.89 p. 2211

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Water (Consequential Amendments) Act 1989, No.
81/1989

      
      

Assent Date:

5.12.89

Commencement Date:

1.11.90: Government Gazette 15.8.90 p. 2473

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Mineral Resources Development Act 1990, No.
92/1990

      
      

Assent Date:

18.12.90

Commencement Date:

S. 128(Sch. 1 item 30) on 6.11.91: Government Gazette
30.10.91 p. 2970

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

State Bank (Succession of Commonwealth Bank) Act 1990,
No. 94/1990

      
      

Assent Date:

18.12.90

Commencement Date:

S. 40(14) on 1.1.91: Special Gazette (No. 73) 31.12.90 p.
1

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

State Trust Corporation of Victoria (Amendment) Act 1991,
No. 84/1991

      
      

Assent Date:

10.12.91

Commencement Date:

1.1.92: Government Gazette 18.12.91 p. 3488

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Rural Finance (VEDC Abolition) Act 1993, No.
115/1993

      
      

Assent Date:

7.12.93

Commencement Date:

7.12.93

Current State:

All of Act in operation

State Trustees (State Owned Company) Act 1994, No.
45/1994

      
      

Assent Date:

7.6.94

Commencement Date:

Pt 1 (ss 1&#8211;3), s. 27 on 7.6.94: s. 2(2); rest of Act
on 1.7.94: Special Gazette (No. 36) 23.6.94 p. 1

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Valuation of Land (Amendment) Act 1994, No.
91/1994

      
      

Assent Date:

6.12.94

Commencement Date:

S. 36(11) on 1.1.95: s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Trustee and Trustee Companies (Amendment) Act 1995, No.
104/1995

      
      

Assent Date:

5.12.95

Commencement Date:

1.1.96: s. 2

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Legal Practice Act 1996, No. 35/1996

      
      

Assent Date:

6.11.96

Commencement Date:

S. 453(Sch. 1 item 85) on 1.1.97: s. 2(3)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Public Sector Reform (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1998,
No. 46/1998

      
      

Assent Date:

26.5.98

Commencement Date:

S. 7(Sch. 1) on 1.7.98: s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Tribunals and Licensing Authorities (Miscellaneous
Amendments) Act 1998,
No. 52/1998

      
      

Assent Date:

2.6.98

Commencement Date:

S. 311(Sch. 1 item 98) on 1.7.98: Government Gazette 18.6.98
p. 1512

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Transfer of Land (Single Register) Act 1998, No
85/1998

      
      

Assent Date:

17.11.98

Commencement Date:

S. 24(Sch. item 61) on 1.1.99: s. 2(3)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Public Sector Reform (Further Amendments) Act 1999, No.
12/1999

      
      

Assent Date:

11.5.99

Commencement Date:

S. 4(Sch. 2 item 19) on 11.5.99: s. 2(1)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Statute Law Revision Act 2000, No.
74/2000

      
      

Assent Date:

21.11.00

Commencement Date:

S. 3(Sch. 1 item 132) on 22.11.00: s. 2(1)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Statute Law Amendment (Authorised Deposit-taking
Institutions) Act 2001, No. 11/2001

      
      

Assent Date:

8.5.01

Commencement Date:

S. 3(Sch. item 81) on 1.6.01: s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Corporations (Consequential Amendments) Act 2001,
No. 44/2001

      
      

Assent Date:

27.6.01

Commencement Date:

S. 3(Sch. item 117) on 15.7.01: s. 2

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Trustee (Amendment) Act 2001, No.
60/2001

      
      

Assent Date:

16.10.01

Commencement Date:

Ss 1, 2 on 17.10.01: s. 2(1); ss 3&#8211;5 on 31.5.02:
Government Gazette 30.5.02 p. 1118

Current State:

All of Act in operation

Corporations (Financial Services Reform Amendments) Act
2002, No. 9/2002

      
      

Assent Date:

23.4.02

Commencement Date:

S. 3(Sch. item 14) on 23.4.02: s. 2

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Courts Legislation (Funds in Court) Act 2004,
No. 30/2004

      
      

Assent Date:

1.6.04

Commencement Date:

S. 10 on 1.7.04: s. 2

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Legal Profession (Consequential Amendments) Act 2005, No.
18/2005

      
      

Assent Date:

24.5.05

Commencement Date:

S. 18(Sch. 1 item 109) on 12.12.05: Government Gazette
1.12.05 p. 2781

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Courts Legislation Amendment (Associate Judges) Act 2008,
No. 24/2008

      
      

Assent Date:

3.6.08

Commencement Date:

S. 88 on 17.12.08: Special Gazette (No. 377) 16.12.08 p.
1

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Criminal Procedure Amendment (Consequential and
Transitional Provisions) Act 2009, No. 68/2009

      
      

Assent Date:

24.11.09

Commencement Date:

S. 97(Sch. item 126) on 1.1.10: Government Gazette 10.12.09
p. 3215

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Legal Profession Uniform Law Application Act 2014, No.
17/2014

      
      

Assent Date:

25.3.14

Commencement Date:

S. 160(Sch. 2 item 99) on 1.7.15: Special Gazette
(No. 151) 16.6.15 p. 1

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Mental Health Act 2014, No. 26/2014

      
      

Assent Date:

8.4.14

Commencement Date:

S. 455(Sch. item 32) on 1.7.14: s. 2(1)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Powers of Attorney Act 2014, No. 57/2014 (as
amended by No. 20/2015)

      
      

Assent Date:

26.8.14

Commencement Date:

S. 163 on 1.9.15: s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Oaths and Affirmations Act 2018, No.
6/2018

      
      

Assent Date:

27.2.18

Commencement Date:

S. 68(Sch. 2 item 127) on 1.3.19:
s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Guardianship and Administration Act 2019, No.
13/2019

      
      

Assent Date:

4.6.19

Commencement Date:

S. 221(Sch. 1 item 55) on 1.3.20:
s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

Mental
Health and Wellbeing Act 2022, No. 39/2022

      
      

Assent Date:

6.9.22

Commencement Date:

Ss 875&#8722;878 on 1.9.23: s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Trustee Act 1958

&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;

Metric Conversion (Trustee Act) Regulations 1973, S.R. No.
380/1973

      
      

Date of Making:

18.12.73

Date of Commencement:

18.12.73

&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;

     3     Explanatory details

[1] Pt 1 (Heading and
ss 4&#8211;12):

Pt 1 (Heading and ss 4&#8211;12) amended by Nos 6511 s. 2, 6535
s. 7(21), 6580 s. 2, 6963 s. 2, 7551 s. 50, 7791
ss 2(a)(b), 3, 7833 s. 2, 8428 s. 37, 9178 s. 7, 9204
s. 2(b)(d)(e), 9574 s. 4, 9653 s. 2(1)(a)(b), 9816
ss 2(1)(2), 3, 9895 s. 2(1)(Sch. 1 item 12), 9902 s. 2(1)(Sch.
item 255), 10048 ss 5(2), 12(2), 14(4), 10143 ss 4, 6, 10168
s. 3, 112/1986 ss 5(1)(a)(b)(2), 6, 55/1987 s. 57(3)(Sch. 5 item
59), 17/1988 ss 8, 9(1)(2), 29/1988 s. 57(18)(b), 53/1988
s. 45(Sch. 3 items 80, 81) (as amended by No. 47/1989 s. 23(2)),
45/1989 s. 4(1)(2)(a)&#8211;(c) (3)(4)(a)(b)(5), 81/1989 s. 3(Sch.
item 54), 84/1991 s. 20, 115/1993 s. 32(3), 45/1994 s. 42(Sch.
item 12.3), 91/1994 s. 36(11)(c)&#8211;(e), substituted as Pt 1 (Heading
and ss 4&#8211;12F) by No. 104/1995 s. 4.

[2] S. 13(3): Section 108(2) of
the Settled Land Act 1958, No. 6367/1958 reads as follows:

          108     Saving for and exercise of other powers

     (2)     In case of conflict between the provisions of a settlement and the
provisions of this Act, relative to any matter in respect whereof the tenant for
life or statutory owner exercises or contracts or intends to exercise any power
under this Act, the provisions of this Act shall prevail; and accordingly,
notwithstanding anything in the settlement, the consent of the tenant for life
or statutory owner shall by virtue of this Part be necessary to the exercise by
the trustees of the settlement or other persons of any power conferred by the
settlement exercisable for any purpose provided for in this Act: Provided that
where two or more persons constitute the tenant for life or statutory owner the
consent of one only of such persons is to be deemed necessary for the exercise
of any such power.

[3] S. 13(6): Section 32(1) of
the Property Law Act 1958, No. 6344/1958 reads as follows:

          32     Power to postpone sale

     (1)     A power to postpone sale shall, in the case of every trust for sale of
land, be implied unless a contrary intention appears.

[4] S. 24(3)(b): Section 67 of
the Settled Land Act 1958, No. 6367/1958 reads as follows:

          67     Sale and purchase of heirlooms under order of court

     (1)     Where personal chattels are settled so as to devolve with settled
land, or to devolve therewith as nearly as may be in accordance with the law in
force at the date of settlement, or are settled upon trusts declared by
reference to the trusts affecting land, a tenant for life of the land with the
consent of the trustees of the settlement or the order of the Court may sell the
chattels or any of them.

     (2)     The money arising by the sale shall be capital money arising under
this Act, and shall be paid, invested, or applied and otherwise dealt with in
like manner in all respects as by this Act directed with respect to other
capital money arising under this Act, or may be invested in the purchase of
other chattels of the same or any other nature, which, when purchased, shall be
settled and held on the same trusts, and shall devolve in the same manner as the
chattels sold.

     (3)     A sale or purchase of chattels under this section shall not be made
without the consent of the trustees of the settlement or an order of the
Court.

[5] S. 28(3)(a): Section 69 of
the Property Law Act 1958, No. 6344/1958 (as amended by
No. 23/1998) reads as follows:

          69     Receipt in deed or indorsed authority for payment to legal
practitioner

S. 69(1) amended by Nos 23/1998
s. 8(2), 75/2006 s. 192(Sch. 2 item 4.1).

     (1)     Where a banker, legal practitioner or conveyancer produces a deed,
having in the body thereof or indorsed thereon a receipt for consideration money
or other consideration, the deed being executed, or the indorsed receipt being
signed, by the person entitled to give a receipt for that consideration, or
produces a duly executed instrument under the Transfer of Land Act 1958
the deed or instrument (as the case may be) shall be a sufficient authority to
the person liable to pay or give the same for his paying or giving the same to
the banker, legal practitioner or conveyancer, without the banker, legal
practitioner or conveyancer producing any separate or other direction or
authority in that behalf from the person who executed or signed the deed or
receipt or instrument.

     (2)     This section shall apply whether the consideration was paid or given
before or after the commencement of this Act.

S. 69(3) amended by No. 11/2001
s. 3(Sch. item 59.1(a)(b)).

     (3)     In this section instrument includes a discharge of
mortgage and "banker" means a person acting in his or her official
capacity as general manager or manager of any company solely or chiefly engaged
in the ordinary business of banking or as the manager conducting for such
company the business of any branch of an authorised deposit-taking institution
within the meaning of the Banking Act 1959 of the Commonwealth.

S. 69(4) inserted by No. 75/2006
s. 192(Sch. 2 item 4.2).

     (4)     In this section, "conveyancer" means a licensee under the
Conveyancers Act 2006.

[6] S. 30: Compare section 36 of
the Property Law Act 1958, No. 6344/1958 which reads as
follows:

          36     Delegation of powers of management by trustees for
sale

     (1)     The powers of and incidental to leasing, accepting surrenders of
leases and management, conferred on trustees for sale whether by this
Part or otherwise, may, until sale of the land, be revocably delegated
from time to time, by writing, signed by them, to any person of full age (not
being merely an annuitant) for the time being beneficially entitled in
possession to the net rents and profits of the land during his life or for any
less period; and in favour of a lessee such writing shall, unless the contrary
appears, be sufficient evidence that the person named therein is a person to
whom the powers may be delegated, and the production of such writing shall,
unless the contrary appears, be sufficient evidence that the delegation has not
been revoked.

     (2)     Any power so delegated shall be exercised only in the names and on
behalf of the trustees delegating the power.

     (3)     The persons delegating any power under this section shall not, in
relation to the exercise or purported exercise of the power, be liable for the
acts or defaults of the person to whom the power is delegated, but that person
shall, in relation to the exercise of the power by him, be deemed to be in the
position and to have the duties and liabilities of a trustee.

     (4)     Where, at the commencement of this Act, an order made under section
one hundred and thirty-six of the Settled Estates and Settled Land Act
1915 or any corresponding previous enactment, is in force, the person on
whom any power is thereby conferred shall, while the order remains in force,
exercise such power in the names and on behalf of the trustees for sale in like
manner as if the power had been delegated to him under this section.

[7] S. 31: See section 46 of the
Administration and Probate Act 1958, No. 6191/1958 which has not been
reproduced here because of its length.

[8] S. 33(1)(a): Section 30 of
the Administration and Probate Act 1958, No. 6191/1958 reads as
follows:

          30     Executors or administrators may serve notice on
claimant

     (1)     A personal representative, having notice, whether under the provisions
of section thirty-three of the Trustee Act 1958 or otherwise, that any
claim has been or may be made against the estate of which he is the personal
representative, may serve upon any person making or possibly entitled to make
such claim a notice requiring such person to take within a period of three
months from the date of receiving such notice all proceedings proper to enforce
or to establish such claim and to duly prosecute the same.

S. 30(2) amended by No. 110/1986 s.
140(2).

     (2)     After the expiration of the said period of three months such personal
representative may apply to the Court for an order to some such effect as
hereinafter in this section mentioned.

S. 30(3) amended by No. 110/1986 s.
140(2).

     (3)     Upon the hearing of such application the Court, if not satisfied that
such proceedings as aforesaid have been taken and are being duly prosecuted,
may&#8212;

         (a)     order that the said period be extended; or

         (b)     order that the claim of any person so served with notice of the
application be for all purposes barred; or

         (c)     make any further or other order enabling the estate to be distributed
or dealt with without regard to the claim; and

S. 30(3)(d) amended by No. 110/1986 s.
140(2).

         (d)     in any case impose such conditions and give such directions including
a direction as to the payment of the costs of or incidental to the application
as to the Court seems just.

[9] S. 37(3): Section 38 of the
Wills Act 1997, No. 88/1997 reads as follows:

          38     Income on contingent and future dispositions

A contingent, future or deferred disposition of property, whether specific
or residuary, includes any intermediate income of the property which has not
been disposed of by the will.

[10] S. 40(3)(c): See section
125 of the Property Law Act 1958, No. 6344/1958, which has not been
reproduced here because of its length.

[11] S. 42(1)(c): See section
18(2) where certain moneys for which a sole trustee cannot give a valid receipt
are stated.

[12] S. 42(2): See note
11.

[13] S. 68: See Pt VIII of the
Marriage Act 1958, No. 6306/1958 which has not been reproduced here
because of its length.

[14] S. 70(1): See section 102
of the Settled Land Act 1958, No. 6367/1958 which has not been reproduced
here because of its length.

[15] S. 72: See sections 545,
547, 548, 562&#8211;565 of the Crimes Act 1958,
No. 6231/1958.
