Trustee Companies Act 1968
Jurisdiction: queensland
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/qld/consol_act/tca1968208/
Register: https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-1968-056
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/qld/consol_act/tca1968208.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-30T04:28:18.144990Z

TRUSTEE COMPANIES ACT 1968 - As at 22 November 2012 - Act 56 of 1968
TABLE OF PROVISIONS
**** TABLE OF PROVISIONS ****
PART 1 - PRELIMINARY
      1.  Short title
      2.  (Repealed)
      3.  (Repealed)
      4.  Definitions
    4AA.  Powers conferred on trustee companies are additional powers
     4A.  (Repealed)
PART 2 - DUTIES, FUNCTIONS, OFFICES
      5.  Trustee company may act as executor and obtain probate
      6.  Persons entitled to obtain probate of the will or administration with
the will annexed may authorise trustee company to apply for administration with
will annexed
      7.  Person entitled to obtain administration on intestacy may authorise
trustee company to obtain administration
      8.  Saving rights of other persons to administration
      9.  Person entitled to probate may join with trustee company in applying
for letters of administration to the trustee company
     10.  Trustee company may act as administrator notwithstanding its
incorporation
     11.  Reseal of probate and letters of administration
     12.  Power of trustee companies to elect to administer small estates
without grant of administration
     13.  Elections in respect of unadministered balance of an estate
     14.  Notice of filing of election
     15.  Operation of election to administer as regards property out of State
     16.  Revocation of elections filed in error
     17.  Effect of joint grant on application under s 6
     18.  Effect of disclaimer of trustee on authorisation under s 6
     19.  Effect of disclaimer of trustee on joint application under s 9
     20.  Executor or administrator may appoint trustee company in his or her
place
     21.  Trustee company may be appointed trustee receiver etc.
     22.  Trustee company may act under power of attorney by an officer of the
company etc.
     23.  A holder of certain offices and positions may appoint a trustee
company to discharge duties
     24.  Trustee may appoint a trustee company a trustee
     25.  Property vested in trustee company and another as trustees to be held
jointly
     26.  Payment of legacies of infants to trustee company
     27.  Appointment of trustee company where person whose consent is required
refuses or is unable to consent
PART 3 - POWERS
     28.  General powers of trustee company
     29.  Administrator carrying on intestate’s business
     30.  Power of company in certain cases of devises of realty
     31.  Power to apply income, or capital, for maintenance etc.
     32.  Power to distribute assets of estate after notice on failure of
action by claimant creditor
     33.  Power to distribute estate where possible claimants have not claimed
     34.  When trustee company may pay claims without legal proof
     35.  Shares of infants during infancy
     36.  (Repealed)
    36A.  (Repealed)
     37.  Contributory investments
     38.  Co-administrator may exercise powers of trustee company
     39.  Certificate by trustee company as to its legal status in any matter
     40.  Application of part 3
     41.  (Repealed)
     42.  (Repealed)
     44.  (Repealed)
     45.  (Repealed)
    45A.  (Repealed)
PART 4 - SUPERVISION BY COURT
     46.  Court to act upon affidavit of officer of trustee company
     47.  Application for consent to be by motion
     48.  An officer may attend on behalf of a trustee company, and be
personally responsible
     49.  Removal from office
     50.  (Repealed)
     51.  (Repealed)
     52.  (Repealed)
     53.  (Repealed)
     54.  (Repealed)
     55.  (Repealed)
     56.  (Repealed)
     57.  (Repealed)
     58.  (Repealed)
     59.  (Repealed)
     60.  (Repealed)
     61.  (Repealed)
     63.  (Repealed)
     64.  (Repealed)
    64A.  (Repealed)
     65.  (Repealed)
     66.  (Repealed)
    66A.  (Repealed)
    66B.  (Repealed)
    66C.  (Repealed)
    66D.  (Repealed)
    66E.  (Repealed)
    66F.  (Repealed)
    66G.  (Repealed)
PART 5 - MISCELLANEOUS
     67.  Penalty provisions
     68.  Settlors or testators may appoint own solicitors
    68A.  When legatee to bear commission on legacy
    68B.  Appointment of attorney by trustee company
    68C.  Transfer determinations
     69.  (Repealed)
     70.  Evidence of failure to give notice to a trustee company
     71.  Delegations
     72.  (Repealed)
     73.  (Repealed)
    73A.  Regulation-making power
PART 6 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR FAIR WORK (COMMONWEALTH POWERS) AND OTHER
PROVISIONS ACT 2009
     74.  Definitions for pt 6
     75.  Court may review rate of commission
     76.  Court may review fee
     77.  Filing and passing accounts
     78.  Court may order account
     79.  Investment of capital in name of Treasurer
     80.  Offences
     81.  (Repealed)
PART 7 - (Repealed)
Schedule 1  (Repealed)
Schedule 2  (Repealed)
Schedule 3  (Repealed)
Schedule 4  (Repealed)
- LONG TITLE
An Act to consolidate the law relating to trustee companies and for purposes
connected therewith
Short title
*** 1 Short title ***
This Act may be cited as the Trustee Companies Act 1968.
Definitions
*** 4 Definitions ***
In this Act—
"administration with the will annexed" includes administration with
exemplification of probate or letters of administration with the will annexed
or duplicate or copy probate of the will annexed.
"bank"...
"bankers’ books"...
"books" includes any register or other record of information and any accounts
or accounting records, however compiled, recorded or stored, and also includes
any document.
"corporation"...
"Court" means the Supreme Court of Queensland.
"director"...
"estate" includes all real and personal property of whatever nature or kind
committed to the administration or management of a trustee company.
"financial institution"...
"financial institution’s books"...
"foreign company"...
"insurance company"...
"Judge" means a Judge of the Supreme Court.
"new trustee company"...
"officer of the trustee company" means the managing director, general manager,
State manager, manager, acting manager, assistant manager or secretary of the
trustee company and includes in relation to any purpose or purposes of this Act
any other officer of the trustee company designated as such by the board of
directors for that purpose or those purposes.
"probate" includes ancillary probate.
"recognised company"...
"registrar" means the chief executive of the department.
"related corporation"...
"trustee company" means a licensed trustee company under the Corporations Act, Section 601RAA.
"unincorporated association"...
"will"...
Powers conferred on trustee companies are additional powers
*** 4AA Powers conferred on trustee companies are additional powers ***
The powers conferred on trustee companies by this Act shall be in addition to
and not in derogation of any powers conferred on trustee companies or on
executors, administrators, trustees, receivers, committees, guardians,
liquidators, official liquidators, guarantors or sureties or attorneys under
any other Act or the Corporations Act.
Trustee company may act as executor and obtain probate
*** 5 Trustee company may act as executor and obtain probate ***
     (1) Whenever a trustee company is named expressly or by implication
     either alone or jointly with any other person as executor of the last
     will of any testator (whether the will was made before or after the
     commencement of this Act) the trustee company may act as executor and
     may apply to the Court for probate of the will of the testator.
     (2) The Court may grant probate to the trustee company on an
     application pursuant to subsection (1).
     (3) Where a grant of probate is made to a trustee company pursuant to
     this section, the trustee company may perform and discharge all the
     acts and duties of an executor as fully and effectually as a private
     individual may do when appointed executor.
Persons entitled to obtain probate of the will or administration with the will
annexed may authorise trustee company to apply for administration with will
annexed
*** 6 Persons entitled to obtain probate of the will or administration with the
will annexed may authorise trustee company to apply for administration with
will annexed ***
     (1) In all cases in which a private individual may apply for and
     obtain—
          (a) probate of the will without reserving leave to any
          other person to apply for probate; or
          (b) letters of administration with the will annexed of the
          estate;
     of a deceased person, that individual may—
          (c) join with a trustee company in an application for—
               (i) in a case where the individual may apply for
               and obtain probate—a joint grant of probate to
               himself or herself and letters of administration
               with the will annexed to the trustee company; or
               (ii) a grant of letters of administration with
               the will annexed to himself or herself and the
               trustee company jointly; or
          (d) instead of himself or herself applying, authorise a
          trustee company to apply for and obtain letters of
          administration with the will annexed unless the testator by
          will has expressed the desire that the office of executor
          should not be delegated or that the trustee company should
          not act in the trusts of the will.
     (2) Where—
          (a) a person joins with a trustee company in an application
          pursuant to subsection (1); or
          (b) a trustee company makes an application that it has,
          pursuant to that subsection been authorised to make;
     the Court may make a joint grant of probate and letters of
     administration with the will annexed or a grant of letters of
     administration with the will annexed, as the case may be, in
     accordance with the application.
     (3) This section applies to wills whether made before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
Person entitled to obtain administration on intestacy may authorise trustee
company to obtain administration
*** 7 Person entitled to obtain administration on intestacy may authorise
trustee company to obtain administration ***
     (1) Any person entitled to obtain administration of the estate of any
     intestate may—
          (a) join with a trustee company in an application for the
          grant of letters of administration of the estate to himself
          or herself and the trustee company jointly; or
          (b) instead of himself or herself applying—authorise a
          trustee company to apply for and obtain letters of
          administration of the estate.
     (2) Where—
          (a) a person joins with a trustee company in an application
          pursuant to subsection (1); or
          (b) a trustee company makes an application that it has,
          pursuant to that subsection been authorised to make;
     the Court may grant letters of administration of the estate in
     accordance with the application.
     (3) This section applies whether the intestate died before or after
     the commencement of this Act.
Saving rights of other persons to administration
*** 8 Saving rights of other persons to administration ***
Nothing in sections 6 and 7 shall be taken to prejudice or affect the right of
any person interested in the estate of any deceased person (other than a person
who has joined with a trustee company in, or has authorised a trustee company
to make, an application under those sections) to apply for and obtain letters
of administration, with or without the will annexed or other appropriate grant.
Person entitled to probate may join with trustee company in applying for
letters of administration to the trustee company
*** 9 Person entitled to probate may join with trustee company in applying for
letters of administration to the trustee company ***
     (1) Any person named expressly or by implication as executor who
     would be entitled to obtain probate of the will of any testator may,
     instead of himself or herself applying for probate join with a
     trustee company in an application for letters of administration with
     the will annexed to be granted to the trustee company.
     (2) Where a person joins with a trustee company in an application
     pursuant to subsection (1), the Court may grant administration with
     the will annexed to the trustee company unless the testator by will
     has expressed the desire that the office of executor should not be
     delegated or that the trustee company should not act in the trusts of
     the will.
     (3) An application for a grant of letters of administration with the
     will annexed pursuant to this section may be made in the first
     instance to the Registrar of the Supreme Court who—
          (a) shall have power to make the grant; or
          (b) may refer any question arising upon the application to
          a Judge; or
          (c) may require the application to be made to the Court.
     (4) A grant of letters of administration with the will annexed under
     this section may be made to a trustee company notwithstanding that a
     person named expressly or by implication in the will as executor
     (other than the person joining with the trustee company in the
     application for the grant) has applied for and has been granted
     probate.
     (5) Where a grant of probate has been made to a person and a grant of
     letters of administration with the will annexed has been made to a
     trustee company under this section, that person and the trustee
     company shall administer the estate jointly.
     (6) A grant of letters of administration with the will annexed to a
     trustee company under this section may reserve leave for any person
     named expressly or by implication in the will as executor (other than
     the person joining with the trustee company in the application for
     the grant) to come in and apply for probate at any time subsequent to
     the grant.
     (7) This section applies to wills whether made before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
     (8) A person beneficially interested under the will is entitled to be
     heard in opposition to a grant being made under this section to a
     trustee company, and the Court after considering any objection by
     such a person may—
          (a) make a grant to the trustee company; or
          (b) upon the same application, grant probate to the person
          joining with the trustee company in the application.
Trustee company may act as administrator notwithstanding its incorporation
*** 10 Trustee company may act as administrator notwithstanding its
incorporation ***
Where the administration of any estate, with or without the will annexed, is
granted to a trustee company, pursuant to this Act, the trustee company may
perform and discharge all acts and duties which belong to the office of
administrator or administrator with the will annexed, as the case may be, as
fully and effectually as a private individual may do when granted such letters
of administration.
Reseal of probate and letters of administration
*** 11 Reseal of probate and letters of administration ***
A trustee company as attorney lawfully authorised for that purpose by the
executor or administrator under any probate or letters of administration within
the meaning of the British Probates Act 1898 granted by a court of probate in a
part of Her Majesty’s Dominions to which that Act applies or by a British
court in a foreign country within the meaning of that Act, may make application
to a Registrar of the Court to seal the probate or letters of administration or
an exemplification, duplicate or copy thereof under the said Act and the
Registrar shall have authority to seal the grant in question or an
exemplification, duplicate or copy thereof.
Power of trustee companies to elect to administer small estates without grant
of administration
*** 12 Power of trustee companies to elect to administer small estates without
grant of administration ***
     (1) Where any person has died intestate or testate, whether in or out
     of Queensland and whether before or after the commencement of this
     Act, leaving property situated in Queensland, the gross value of
     which as estimated by any trustee company does not at the time of the
     election hereinafter mentioned exceed $100000, and no person has
     taken out administration in Queensland, the trustee company, in any
     case where it would be entitled to obtain such a grant, may, in
     accordance with this section, instead of obtaining such a grant, file
     in the Court an election in writing, under the seal of the company,
     to administer the estate of the deceased person.
     (2) On any such election being filed, the trustee company shall be
     deemed to be the executor of the will or the administrator of the
     estate, as the case may be, in like manner and to the same extent in
     all respects as if administration had been duly granted to it.
     (3) Every such election shall set forth the name, residence, and
     occupation of the deceased so far as they are then known to the
     trustee company, and the date of the death of the deceased and the
     property situated in Queensland of the deceased as then known.
     (4) The election shall contain in every case where the deceased died
     intestate a statement to that effect, and in every case where the
     deceased died testate a statement that after due inquiries the
     trustee company believes that the document annexed to the election is
     the testator’s last will (or an exemplification thereof where
     administration has been granted out of Queensland) and that the will
     has been validly executed according to the law governing the
     execution of wills.
     (5) No such election may be filed under this section unless there is
     endorsed thereon a certificate by a solicitor (whether in the
     employment of the trustee company or not) that (as the case may
     require) the solicitor is satisfied that the Court would, on
     application duly made, grant to the trustee company—
          (a) probate of the will to which the election relates; or
          (b) letters of administration with the will to which the
          election relates annexed; or
          (c) letters of administration of the estate of the deceased
          person without a will annexed.
     (6) Any such election to administer shall be filed in any registry of
     the Court in which an application for a grant of administration of
     the will or estate of the deceased person may be filed.
     (7) If after filing any such election as aforesaid the gross value of
     the property situated in Queensland to be administered is found to
     exceed the sum of $120000, the trustee company shall as soon as
     practicable thereafter file in the registry of the Court in which the
     election to administer was filed a memorandum under the seal of the
     trustee company stating the fact, and shall thereupon proceed in the
     ordinary manner to obtain a grant of administration in Queensland,
     and for that purpose may uplift from the Court any will or
     exemplification filed with the election.
     (8) Notice of an election under this section shall be advertised once
     in the gazette in a form approved by the person who for the time
     being holds the office of the registrar.
Elections in respect of unadministered balance of an estate
*** 13 Elections in respect of unadministered balance of an estate ***
     (1) Where a grant of administration (
     "the original grant") has been made in Queensland in respect of the
     estate of any deceased person (the
     "original estate") and the persons to whom the original grant or any
     substituted grant of administration was made have died, whether
     before or after the commencement of this Act, leaving part of the
     original estate unadministered, and the gross value of the property
     situated in Queensland so left unadministered, as estimated by the
     trustee company at the time of the election hereinafter mentioned,
     does not exceed the sum of $100000, and no person has since the death
     of the last administrator taken out letters of administration de
     bonis non in Queensland in respect of the original estate, the
     trustee company may, in accordance with this section, instead of
     applying for letters of administration de bonis non in Queensland,
     file in the registry of the Court out of which the original grant was
     issued an election in writing under the seal of the company setting
     forth the fact of the original grant, the death of the executors or
     other administrators, and the particulars of the property situated in
     Queensland so left unadministered, and electing to administer the
     part of the original estate so left unadministered.
     (2) On the election being filed, the trustee company shall be deemed
     to be administrator of the original estate left unadministered in
     like manner and to the same extent in all respects as if letters of
     administration de bonis non had been duly granted to it.
     (3) No such election may be filed under this section unless there is
     endorsed thereon a certificate by a solicitor (whether in the
     employment of the trustee company or not) that the solicitor is
     satisfied that the Court would, on application duly made, grant to
     the trustee company letters of administration de bonis non in respect
     of the part of the original estate so left unadministered.
     (4) If after the filing of any such election the gross value of the
     property situated in Queensland to be administered by the trustee
     company is found to exceed the sum of $120000, the trustee company
     shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, file in the said registry
     of the Court a memorandum under the seal of the trustee company
     stating the fact, and shall thereupon proceed in the ordinary manner
     to obtain in Queensland letters of administration de bonis non
     (either with or without the will annexed, as the case may be) in
     respect of the said estate, and for that purpose may uplift from the
     Court any will or exemplification filed with the election.
     (5) Notice of an election under this section shall be advertised once
     in the gazette in a form approved by the person who for the time
     being holds the office of the registrar.
Notice of filing of election
*** 14 Notice of filing of election ***
     (1) If a trustee company files an election under section 12 or 13, it
     must give notice of the election to the commissioner of state revenue
     appointed under the Taxation Administration Act 2001.
     (2) The notice must be in the form approved by the commissioner.
Operation of election to administer as regards property out of State
*** 15 Operation of election to administer as regards property out of State ***
In determining the value of the property of any person that is situated in
Queensland for the purposes of sections 12 and 13, that property shall not
include or be deemed to include property situated out of Queensland at the time
of the filing of any election to administer, whether or not the property may
afterwards be transferred to Queensland (whether to the trustee company or to
any other person) in due course of administration, whether for the purposes of
distribution to the persons beneficially entitled thereto or otherwise
howsoever, but in all other respects every election referred to in sections 12
and 13 shall extend and apply to and include the property situated out of
Queensland in the same manner and to the same extent in all respects as a grant
of administration obtained by the trustee company would in the circumstances of
each particular case extend or apply to or include that property.
Revocation of elections filed in error
*** 16 Revocation of elections filed in error ***
     (1) Where any trustee company has, pursuant to any of the provisions
     of sections 12 and 13, filed an election to administer the estate of
     a deceased person, and the trustee company subsequently discovers
     that the election is invalid or ineffective by reason of the
     discovery of a will or a later will, or of the revocation or
     invalidity of a will, or for any other reason, then and in any such
     case the trustee company shall file in the registry of the Court in
     which the election to administer was filed a memorandum under the
     seal of the trustee company setting out the facts and certifying that
     the election already filed is invalid or ineffective.
     (2) Upon any such memorandum being filed, the election to administer
     previously filed shall cease to be of any effect whatsoever, and
     thereafter an application for administration may be made or a fresh
     election may be filed in all respects as if the election to
     administer previously filed had not been filed.
Effect of joint grant on application under s 6
*** 17 Effect of joint grant on application under s 6 ***
     (1) Where a person—
          (a) is named in a will, whether made before or after the
          commencement of this Act, as the only trustee of the lands
          of the testator in Queensland subject to the trusts of the
          will; and
          (b) pursuant to section 6, joins with a trustee company in
          an application for—
               (i) a joint grant of probate to himself or
               herself and letters of administration with the
               will annexed to the trustee company; or
               (ii) a grant of letters of administration with
               the will annexed to himself or herself and the
               trustee company jointly;
     a joint grant on such an application of—
          (c) probate to the person and letters of administration
          with the will annexed to the trustee company; or
          (d) letters of administration with the will annexed to the
          person and the trustee company;
     as the case may be, has, for all purposes (including the right to be
     registered under the Land Title Act 1994 as personal representative),
     the force and effect of a vesting order made by the Court vesting the
     lands in respect of which the person joining with the trustee company
     in the application is named in the will as the only trustee, in that
     person and the trustee company as trustees on the trusts of the will
     for all the right, title and interest therein of the testator.
     (2) Where a person—
          (a) is named in a will, whether made before or after the
          commencement of this Act, as a trustee jointly with any
          other person or persons of lands of the testator in
          Queensland subject to the trusts of the will; and
          (b) pursuant to section 6, joins with a trustee company in
          an application for—
               (i) a joint grant of probate to himself or
               herself and letters of administration with the
               will annexed to the trustee company; or
               (ii) a grant of letters of administration with
               the will annexed to himself or herself and the
               trustee company jointly;
     a joint grant on such an application of—
          (c) probate to the person and letters of administration
          with the will annexed to the trustee company; or
          (d) letters of administration with the will annexed to the
          person and the trustee company;
     as the case may be, has, for all purposes (including the right to be
     registered under the Land Title Act 1994 as personal representative),
     the force and effect of a vesting order made by the Court vesting the
     lands in respect of which the person joining with the trustee company
     in the application is named in the will as a trustee, in that person,
     the trustee company and the other person or persons so named in the
     will or such of them as are living at the date of the grant and have
     not disclaimed the trust before that date, as trustees on the trusts
     of the will for all the right, title and interest therein of the
     testator.
Effect of disclaimer of trustee on authorisation under s 6
*** 18 Effect of disclaimer of trustee on authorisation under s 6 ***
     (1) Where any person—
          (a) who is named in a will, whether made before or after
          the commencement of this Act, as the only trustee of lands
          of the testator in Queensland subject to the trusts of the
          will; and
          (b) who pursuant to section 6 authorises a trustee company
          to apply for and obtain letters of administration with the
          will annexed;
     disclaims the trust in the authorisation, a grant of letters of
     administration with the will annexed made to the trustee company on
     an application made pursuant to the authorisation has, for all
     purposes (including the right to be registered under the Land Title
     Act 1994 as personal representative), the force and effect of a
     vesting order made by the Court vesting the lands in respect of which
     the person giving the authorisation is named in the will as the only
     trustee, in the trustee company as trustee on the trusts of the will
     for all the right, title and interest therein of the testator.
     (2) Where any person—
          (a) who is named in a will, whether made before or after
          the commencement of this Act, as a trustee jointly with any
          other person or persons of lands of the testator in
          Queensland subject to the trusts of the will; and
          (b) who pursuant to section 6 authorises a trustee company
          to apply for and obtain letters of administration with the
          will annexed;
     disclaims the trust in the authorisation, a grant of letters of
     administration with the will annexed made to the trustee company on
     an application made pursuant to the authorisation has, for all
     purposes (including the right to be registered under the Land Title
     Act 1994 as personal representative), the force and effect of a
     vesting order made by the Court vesting the lands in respect of which
     the person giving the authorisation is named in the will as a
     trustee, in the trustee company and the other person or persons so
     named in the will or such of them as are living at the date of the
     grant and have not disclaimed the trust before that date, as trustees
     on the trusts of the will for all the right, title and interest
     therein of the testator.
     (3) This section does not apply in any case in which the testator has
     by will expressed the desire that the trustee company should not act
     in the trusts of the will.
Effect of disclaimer of trustee on joint application under s 9
*** 19 Effect of disclaimer of trustee on joint application under s 9 ***
     (1) Where any person—
          (a) who is named in a will, whether made before or after
          the commencement of this Act, as the only trustee of lands
          of the testator in Queensland subject to the trusts of the
          will; and
          (b) who, pursuant to section 9, joins with a trustee
          company in an application for the grant of letters of
          administration with the will annexed to the trustee
          company;
     disclaims the trust in the application, a grant of letters of
     administration with the will annexed made to the trustee company on
     the application has, for all purposes (including the right to be
     registered under the Land Title Act 1994 as personal representative),
     the force and effect of a vesting order made by the Court vesting the
     lands in respect of which the person joining in the application is
     named in the will as the only trustee, in the trustee company as
     trustee on the trusts of the will for all the right, title and
     interest therein of the testator.
     (2) Where any person—
          (a) who is named in a will, whether made before or after
          the commencement of this Act, as a trustee jointly with any
          other person or persons of lands of the testator in
          Queensland, subject to the trusts of the will; and
          (b) who pursuant to section 9 joins with a trustee company
          in an application for the grant of letters of
          administration with the will annexed to the trustee
          company;
     disclaims the trust in the application, a grant of letters of
     administration with the will annexed made to the trustee company on
     the application has, for all purposes (including the right to be
     registered under the Land Title Act 1994 as personal representative),
     the force and effect of a vesting order made by the Court vesting the
     lands in respect of which the person joining in the application is
     named in the will as a trustee, in the trustee company and the other
     person or persons so named in the will or such of them as are living
     at the date of the grant and have not disclaimed the trust before
     that date, as trustees on the trusts of the will for all the right,
     title and interest therein of the testator.
     (3) This section does not apply in any case in which the testator has
     by will expressed the desire that the trustee company should not act
     in the trusts of the will.
Executor or administrator may appoint trustee company in his or her place
*** 20 Executor or administrator may appoint trustee company in his or her
place ***
     (1) With the consent of the Court or a Judge, any executor, whether
     appointed before or after the commencement of this Act, may, before
     or after taking out probate, appoint a trustee company as an executor
     in his or her place.
     (2) With the consent of the Court or a Judge, an administrator with
     or without the will annexed, whether appointed before or after the
     commencement of this Act may appoint a trustee company as an
     administrator in his or her place.
     (3) A trustee company shall not be appointed under this section in
     any case in which the testator has by will expressly prohibited the
     appointment of the trustee company to the office in question.
     (4) Upon an appointment under this section, the trustee company shall
     have the same powers authorities functions and duties as if it had
     been the original executor or administrator, as the case may be.
Trustee company may be appointed trustee receiver etc.
*** 21 Trustee company may be appointed trustee receiver etc. ***
     (1) Subject to this section, any court, Judge or person (not being
     himself or herself a trustee) who has power to appoint or approve of
     any person as—
          (a) trustee; or
          (b) receiver; or
          (d) guardian of any person or of his or her estate; or
          (e) liquidator or official liquidator; or
          (f) guarantor or surety for any person appointed as
          administrator whether solely or jointly with any person;
     may appoint or approve of the appointment of, a trustee company
     either solely or jointly with any other person to any of those
     offices or positions in respect of which it or he or she has the said
     power.
     (2) Subject to this section, a trustee company may be appointed, or
     may continue, to act as sole trustee in all cases notwithstanding
     that it is provided by the terms of the instrument (if any) creating
     the trust or of any power or otherwise that there shall be more than
     1 trustee to perform the trust.
     (3) Where a trustee company and 1 or more individuals are co-
     trustees, any 1 or more of such individuals may retire, and the
     trustee company shall for the purposes of any Act now or hereafter in
     force relating to the retirement of trustees and the vesting of trust
     property be deemed to be equivalent to two trustees.
     (4) A trustee company shall not be appointed in any case in which the
     instrument creating the trust or power forbids the appointment of the
     trustee company to the relevant office or position.
     (5) A trustee company shall not be appointed or be entitled to act as
     sole trustee in any case in which the instrument creating the trust
     or power expressly provides that there shall be another trustee in
     addition to a trustee company or that a trustee company shall not be
     appointed or act as sole trustee.
     (6) Where a trustee company is appointed to any of the offices or
     positions referred to in subsection (1) the trustee company may
     perform, exercise and discharge all the powers and duties and shall
     be liable to all the obligations pertaining to the office or position
     to which it is appointed.
     (7) Notwithstanding any Act or rule of law, a trustee, or other
     person having power to appoint a trustee, may appoint a trustee
     company to be a trustee without the consent of the Court in any case
     in which he or she has power to appoint a new trustee.
     (8) Notwithstanding anything contained in or omitted from the
     memorandum or articles of association of a trustee company, the
     trustee company may be appointed and may act—
          (a) as guardian of the person and the estate of any person;
          and
          (b) as liquidator or official liquidator of any company
          under the provisions of the Corporations Act.
Trustee company may act under power of attorney by an officer of the company
etc.
*** 22 Trustee company may act under power of attorney by an officer of the
company etc. ***
     (1) A trustee company may act, either alone or jointly with any other
     person, under any power of attorney by which the trustee company is
     appointed attorney by any person or by any company or other
     corporation (including a power of attorney to apply for and obtain a
     grant of probate, letters of administration with the will annexed,
     letters of administration or other appropriate grant or the sealing
     thereof or an exemplification, duplicate or a copy thereof) as
     attorney for the person company or corporation, as the case may be,
     and all the powers conferred upon the trustee company by the power of
     attorney may be exercised and carried into execution by an officer of
     the trustee company.
     (2) Nothing in this section shall be taken to authorise any person,
     company or other corporation to confer any power upon the trustee
     company which cannot be legally conferred upon a private individual.
A holder of certain offices and positions may appoint a trustee company to
discharge duties
*** 23 A holder of certain offices and positions may appoint a trustee company
to discharge duties ***
     (1) Any executor or administrator acting under any probate or letters
     of administration, whether granted before or after the commencement
     of this Act, and any trustee, receiver, committee, guardian,
     liquidator or official liquidator whether appointed before or after
     that commencement, with the consent of the Court may appoint a
     trustee company to perform and discharge all the acts and duties of
     the executor, administrator, trustee, receiver, committee, guardian,
     liquidator or official liquidator, as the case may be, and the
     trustee company shall have power to perform and discharge all those
     acts and duties accordingly.
     (2) Where a trustee company is appointed under this section to
     perform and discharge the acts and duties of an office or position,
     the executor, administrator, trustee, receiver, committee, guardian,
     liquidator or official liquidator so appointing the trustee company
     shall be released from liability in respect of all acts done by or
     omitted to be done by the trustee company acting under the
     appointment.
Trustee may appoint a trustee company a trustee
*** 24 Trustee may appoint a trustee company a trustee ***
     (1) Subject to subsection (2), any trustee may appoint a trustee
     company to be trustee in his or her place.
     (2) Unless under the instrument creating the power or trust or under
     some other Act the trustee is authorised to appoint another person as
     trustee any appointment under subsection (1) is subject to the
     consent of the Court.
     (3) Section 21 (2) to (5) shall apply to an appointment under this
     section.
     (4) Where a trustee company is appointed a trustee under this
     section, the trustee company may perform and discharge all the acts
     and duties, and shall be liable to all the obligations, pertaining to
     the office of the trustee in whose place it is appointed and the
     person so appointing the trustee company is released from liability
     in respect of all acts done by or omitted to be done by the trustee
     company acting under an appointment pursuant to this section.
Property vested in trustee company and another as trustees to be held jointly
*** 25 Property vested in trustee company and another as trustees to be held
jointly ***
Where any property is vested in a trustee company and a private individual or
in a trustee company and another body corporate to the intent that they should
hold the same jointly in any fiduciary capacity or as mortgagees they shall be
deemed to be joint tenants thereof and not tenants in common unless otherwise
expressly provided.
Payment of legacies of infants to trustee company
*** 26 Payment of legacies of infants to trustee company ***
     (1) With the consent of the trustee company, any trustee may pay to
     any trustee company any money, being the whole amount, or the whole
     remaining amount, of any legacy or share in any estate to which an
     infant is entitled, whether absolutely or contingently, under a will,
     instrument, trust, or intestacy, and by writing in a form approved by
     the trustee company direct the trustee company to account for the
     legacy or share according to the provisions of the will, instrument,
     trust, or intestacy.
     (2) The writing shall declare that the amount therein stated is the
     whole amount or, as the case may be, the whole remaining amount to
     which the infant is so entitled, and how much of the amount is
     capital and how much thereof is income and how much (if any) of the
     capital and income has been expended, whether for the maintenance,
     education, advancement, or benefit of the infant or otherwise, and
     (in the case of money to which the infant is contingently entitled)
     the person or persons who will become entitled to the money or so
     much as remains in the event of the infant failing to become
     absolutely entitled, and the shares and interests of those persons,
     and such other matters as the trustee company may require.
     (3) The writing shall be certified correct by the trustee, and,
     without limiting the effect of the provisions (where applicable) of
     subsection (5), the trustee company shall not be under any obligation
     to inquire into the accuracy of the certificate nor shall the trustee
     company incur any liability through acting upon any statement
     contained in the writing.
     (4) Upon subsections (1) to (3) being complied with in any case, the
     writing shall vest in the trustee company all the powers of the
     trustee in respect of the legacy or share, whether conferred by the
     will or trust instrument or by any enactment or in any other manner
     howsoever.
     (5) The trustee shall, at the time of completing the certificate and
     directions referred to in subsections (1) to (4), furnish to the
     trustee company where applicable a true copy of the will or trust
     instrument affecting the legacy or share, and the trustee company
     shall act in pursuance of the trusts therein contained.
     (6) The provisions of this section shall extend to all wills, trusts,
     trust instruments, intestacies, and transactions, whether they took
     effect before or after the commencement of this Act.
     (7) In this section—
     "trustee" includes an executor or administrator with or without the
     will annexed.
Appointment of trustee company where person whose consent is required refuses
or is unable to consent
*** 27 Appointment of trustee company where person whose consent is required
refuses or is unable to consent ***
Where the consent of any person is requisite to the appointment of an
administrator or trustee and the person refuses to consent to a specified
trustee company being appointed, or where the person to consent is not of full
age or full mental capacity or is under any other disability, an appointment of
the trustee company may be made without that consent if the Court consents
thereto.
General powers of trustee company
*** 28 General powers of trustee company ***
     (1) Notwithstanding anything in any other Act, a trustee company may,
     unless expressly prohibited by or under the terms of the instrument
     (if any) creating the trust exercise the following powers—
          (a) subject to subsection (2), sell property by public
          auction or private contract, altogether or in parts, and
          subject to such conditions as the trustee company deems
          fit;
          (b) purchase land in fee simple in Queensland;
          (c) for the purpose of the sale (including a sale in the
          exercise of a power of sale as mortgagee) of any real or
          leasehold property, subdivide the same into allotments, and
          for that purpose construct and dedicate all such roads,
          footpaths, and streets, and do all such other things as the
          trustee company having regard to all the circumstances of
          the case deems necessary, or as are required by any Act or
          by-law relating to subdivisions;
          (d) exchange property or join in a partition of property;
          (e) where in connection with any estate, the trustee
          company is lawfully holding any shares in, or debentures,
          debenture stock, notes (secured or otherwise), variable
          interest stock or like investment of a company, corporation
          (other than a company), institution or authority and on a
          reconstruction or change in constitution thereof (by
          takeover or otherwise) the shareholders, debenture holders,
          debenture stock holders, notes holders, variable interest
          stock holders or like investment holders are offered an
          option to take up shares, debentures, debenture stock,
          notes (secured or otherwise), variable interest stock or
          like investment in addition thereto or in substitution
          therefor, the trustee company may, on behalf of the estate,
          take up the additional or substitutional shares,
          debentures, debenture stock, notes (secured or otherwise)
          variable interest stock or like investment or any of them,
          and for that purpose may apply funds belonging to the
          estate, or advance on the security of the estate, such sums
          as may be necessary;
          (f) subject to subsection (3), appropriate any part of any
          estate in or towards satisfaction of any legacy or share
          (whether settled, contingent or absolute) to which any
          person entitled, and whether any beneficiaries so entitled
          are minors or not, and for that purpose value the whole or
          any part of the estate in such manner as the trustee
          company in the circumstances of the case may determine;
          (g) consult with and employ such persons as the trustee
          company deems expedient for advising or assisting it in the
          administration or management of any estate, and remunerate
          any such person at such rate and in such manner as the
          trustee company may determine to be proper;
          (h) subject where the sum to be expended exceeds $50000 in
          the aggregate to the consent of the Court or the
          beneficiaries, from time to time expend portion of the
          capital of any estate under its administration on the
          improvement or development of the estate, or in the
          purchase of livestock, machinery, plant, implements and
          other chattels, and for the like purposes advance money on
          the security of the estate;
          (i) subject where the sum of the additional moneys to be
          expended exceeds $50000 in the aggregate to the consent of
          the Court or the beneficiaries, in the case of total or
          partial destruction of buildings or other improvements
          utilise any insurance moneys received in respect thereof
          together with such additional moneys of the estate as may
          be necessary for the construction or restoration of the
          buildings or improvements or any of them;
          (j) from time to time postpone the conversion of any real
          or personal estate for such time as the trustee company
          determines is proper in the circumstances;
          (k) where a power of sale is conferred by this Act or by
          any instrument, give a lease of the property with an
          optional or compulsory purchasing clause;
          (l) lease property for a term not exceeding 21 years and
          renew any such lease or enter into any sharefarming
          agreement and renew any such sharefarming agreement;
          (m) surrender or concur in surrendering any lease, and
          accept a new lease;
          (n) repair any property;
          (o) insure any property against fire or accident or against
          any loss whatsoever in respect of, or arising out of the
          use of, the property;
          (p) pay rates, taxes, assessments, insurance premiums and
          other outgoings;
          (q) subject to the consent of the Court or the
          beneficiaries where the sum borrowed exceeds the sum of
          $50000, borrow money upon the security of property and
          secure the payment of the money and interest thereon by
          mortgage or charge of the property that may include a power
          of sale and such covenants, provisions and agreements as
          may be agreed upon by the trustee company and the mortgagee
          or chargee;
          (r) secure the payment of any debt or liability incurred
          before the date of the trustee company’s appointment or
          authority by a mortgage or charge of property securing
          payment thereof and interest on the amount thereof which
          mortgage or charge may include a power of sale and such
          covenants provisions and agreements as may be agreed upon
          by the trustee company and the mortgagee or chargee, and
          pay the interest secured by the mortgage or charge out of
          income or, if the income is insufficient for that purpose,
          out of capital;
          (s) grant and acquire easements and enter into party wall
          agreements;
          (t) do or omit all acts and things, and execute all
          instruments, necessary to carry into effect any of the
          trustee company’s powers and authorities;
          (u) out of moneys in which any person is beneficially
          interested for a life estate or greater interest or which
          may be applied for the use or benefit of any person,
          purchase land in Queensland held in fee simple for the
          purpose of providing or erecting thereon a home for that
          person.
     (2) No sale of real property under subsection (1) (a) shall be made
     by private contract unless or until after the same has been offered
     for sale by public auction and not sold or unless the beneficiaries
     consent in writing to sale by private contract.
     (3) The following provisions apply to an appropriation under
     subsection (1) (f) —
          (a) before any appropriation is effectual, notice thereof
          must be given to all persons sui juris who are interested
          in the appropriation, and whose whereabouts are known to
          the trustee company;
          (b) the trustee company may alter or amend the
          appropriation and notice within 1 month from the giving of
          notice;
          (c) any such person may within 1 month of the receipt of
          the notice referred to in paragraph (a) or of notice of
          amendment where amendment is notified, apply to the Court
          to vary the appropriation;
          (d) the appropriation shall be conclusive save as otherwise
          directed by the Court;
          (e) where—
               (i) any person interested is out of the
               jurisdiction; or
               (ii) the whereabouts of any person interested are
               unknown to the trustee company;
          the period of 1 month referred to in paragraph (c) may be
          extended by the Court, for such period as the Court thinks
          fit, on the application of the trustee company or of any
          person interested.
     (4) The powers conferred by this section are in addition to and not
     in restriction of any other powers conferred on a trustee company by
     this or any other Act or by the instrument (if any) creating the
     trust.
Administrator carrying on intestate’s business
*** 29 Administrator carrying on intestate’s business ***
     (1) Where—
          (a) administration of the estate of any intestate has been
          granted to a trustee company; and
          (b) the property or any part of the property of the
          deceased intestate was at the time of his or her death
          employed by him or her in any business or undertaking; and
          (c) the persons or 1 or more of the persons beneficially
          entitled to the property so employed are infants or is an
          infant;
     it is lawful for the trustee company with the sanction of the Court
     and with the consent of and after hearing such other person or
     persons (if any) as the Court may direct—
          (d) to postpone the sale and conversion of the property
          into money; and
          (e) to manage and carry on the business or undertaking with
          or in connection with such property and for such period
          during the minority of the infant or infants as the Court
          may think fit for the benefit of the persons entitled to
          that property.
     (2) The sanction of the Court may be obtained on summons to be served
     on such persons as the Court or a Judge may direct, and the Court or
     a Judge may direct the costs of and incidental to the summons to be
     borne and paid by such persons as may be just.
Power of company in certain cases of devises of realty
*** 30 Power of company in certain cases of devises of realty ***
     (1) Where a trustee company is pursuant to this Act administering the
     estate of any deceased testator, who has by will devised land—
          (a) to any person who at the date of the death of the
          testator is under the age of 18 years; or
          (b) when the trustee company is satisfied that the debts
          and liabilities of the testator due at the testator’s
          death or the funeral expenses of the testator or the
          expenses of administration cannot be fully satisfied
          without recourse to the land so devised, to any person;
     the trustee company shall, notwithstanding any law to the contrary,
     be entitled to have transmission of the land so devised entered up to
     it as trustee in the proper registry, and shall have the same powers
     and authority to deal with that land as though the land had by the
     will of the testator been devised to it upon trust for the devisee.
     (2) Without limiting the powers of the trustee company in other
     respects it shall, notwithstanding any provision of the testator’s
     will, have power to raise such sum or sums of money as it deems
     sufficient for the purpose of discharging any debts or liabilities
     charged upon the testator’s estate, or for the payment of which
     that estate may be made available, by—
          (a) mortgage (at such rate of interest and repayable within
          such period as it thinks proper); or
          (b) sale at public auction; or
          (c) subject to offer for sale at public auction, at the
          best price obtainable thereafter (on such terms and
          conditions as it thinks proper); or
          (d) lease (of such duration as it thinks proper) at the
          best rent obtainable;
     of the land devised by the testator as mentioned in subsection (1) or
     any part thereof.
Power to apply income, or capital, for maintenance etc.
*** 31 Power to apply income, or capital, for maintenance etc. ***
     (1) Where an infant is entitled to a share in an estate, whether
     testate or intestate, under administration by a trustee company, the
     trustee company may in its discretion apply for the maintenance,
     education, advancement or otherwise for the benefit of that infant,
     during minority—
          (a) the whole or any part of the income of the share to
          which the infant is entitled in possession; and
          (b) any part or parts of the corpus or capital of the share
          to which the infant is entitled in possession or reversion
          immediately expectant on a prior life interest but no
          application of a reversionary share shall be made without
          the previous consent in writing of the person on whose
          death the prior interest is determinable.
     (2) A trustee company may, instead of itself applying income, corpus
     or capital, under subsection (1), pay the same to any person to be
     applied for the purposes specified in that subsection without seeing
     to the application or being answerable for the misapplication or non-
     application thereof.
     (3) In any case in which there are sufficient moneys available for
     the purpose, the trustee company may for the purposes specified in
     subsection (1), apply the corpus of the share to which any infant is
     entitled in possession in excess of the limit prescribed in that
     subsection.
     (4) Nothing in subsection (1) or (3) shall apply to a case—
          (a) where provision is expressly made for the maintenance,
          education, advancement, or otherwise for the benefit of an
          infant, unless such provision is insufficient, of which
          insufficiency the trustee company is sole judge; or
          (b) where provision is expressly made against any such
          application.
     (5) In addition to and not by way of limitation of the powers
     conferred by subsections (1) and (3) where any property is held by a
     trustee company in trust for an infant, either for life or for any
     greater interest, whether absolutely or contingently upon the infant
     attaining a specified age, or on the occurrence of any event before
     attaining that age, the trustee company may in its discretion—
          (a) apply for the infant’s maintenance, education,
          advancement or otherwise for his or her benefit the income
          of that property or any part thereof, whether there is any
          fund available for the same purpose, or any person is bound
          by law to provide for the infant’s maintenance or
          education, or not; or
          (b) pay that income to any person to be applied for the
          purposes specified in this subsection without seeing to the
          application or being answerable for the misapplication or
          non-application thereof.
     (6) The trustee company shall—
          (a) accumulate all the residue of the income of the
          property referred to in subsection (5) in the way of
          compound interest by investing the same and the resulting
          income thereof; and
          (b) hold the accumulations for the benefit of the persons
          who ultimately become entitled to the property from which
          the same arise, but so that the trustee company may at any
          time at its discretion apply those accumulations or any
          part thereof as if the same were income arising in the then
          current year.
     (7) Subsections (5) and (6) apply only if and so far as a contrary
     intention is not expressed in the instrument under which the interest
     of the infant arises, and shall have effect subject to the terms of
     that instrument and to the provisions therein contained.
     (8) In addition to and not by way of limitation of any of the powers
     conferred by subsections (1) to (7), with the consent of the persons
     having prior estates or interests in property, whether corpus or
     capital or income, held under an instrument, whether the income is
     directed to be accumulated or not, if such corpus, capital, or income
     is made payable to a class of persons, and the members of that class,
     or some of them, would ultimately, on attaining a specified age or on
     the happening of an event, be entitled to a share of such corpus,
     capital, or income and by survivorship or otherwise may become
     entitled to the shares of the other members of the class, the
     contingencies being equal, the Court may authorise the application
     of, or the trustee company may with the like consent apply, the
     presumptive or contingent shares of infants belonging to the class
     towards their maintenance, education, advancement, or benefit,
     notwithstanding that there may be future members of the class who may
     come into existence.
     (9) Where any member of the class referred to in subsection (8) has
     attained the required age or become entitled by age or otherwise,
     then the consent of that person is necessary to any application under
     that subsection.
     (10) Applications under subsection (8) to the Court may be made by a
     trustee company or by an infant, but nothing in this subsection shall
     be taken as limiting a trustee company’s power to act under that
     subsection without an authorisation by the Court.
     (11) In construing and giving effect to the respective provisions of
     this section, the one shall be taken in aid of the other, and so that
     each of the provisions can be exercised independently the one of the
     other.
Power to distribute assets of estate after notice on failure of action by
claimant creditor
*** 32 Power to distribute assets of estate after notice on failure of action
by claimant creditor ***
     (1) Where a trustee company refuses to recognise in whole or in part
     the claim of any person who claims to be a creditor against the
     estate of any deceased person, the trustee company may give notice in
     writing of that refusal to the person so claiming.
     (2) If the person to whom a notice has been given under subsection
     (1) does not within 6 months after the receipt of the notice
     institute any proceeding to enforce the claim, the trustee company
     may distribute the assets of the deceased person without regard to
     the claim or to so much thereof as the trustee company has by the
     notice refused to recognise, and thereupon the right of the person to
     whom such notice was given to recover from the trustee company the
     amount of the claim or the part thereof which the trustee company has
     by the notice refused to recognise shall be absolutely barred.
     (3) For the purposes of this section, a notice may be served on any
     person claiming to be a creditor against the estate by posting it to
     the person in a registered post letter addressed to the address given
     in the claim, and every such notice shall be deemed to have been
     received by that person in the ordinary course of post unless the
     trustee company has notice to the contrary before the distribution of
     the assets.
Power to distribute estate where possible claimants have not claimed
*** 33 Power to distribute estate where possible claimants have not claimed ***
     (1) Where—
          (a) a trustee company has been granted probate of a will or
          administration of an estate; and
          (b) the trustee company has been informed of the existence
          at any time of a person who if the person had survived the
          testator or intestate would have been entitled to a legacy
          under the will or to the whole or a distributive share of
          the estate; and
          (c) the person referred to in paragraph (b) has not nor has
          any person claiming through the person or as one of the
          person’s issue made a claim in respect of such legacy
          estate or share within 3 years after the grant of probate
          or of administration;
     the trustee company after advertising as in this section directed
     may, without being under any liability to the person or to any person
     claiming through the person or to the person’s issue, distribute
     the estate as if such first mentioned person had predeceased the
     testator or intestate without issue.
     (2) The trustee company shall, before making any distribution
     pursuant to subsection (1), make a report to a Judge setting out the
     material facts relating to the matter and obtain a direction from the
     Judge as to the form and number of the advertisements to be inserted
     and the places in which they are to be published and fixing a time
     after the insertion of the last of such advertisements at the
     expiration of which a distribution may be made.
     (3) Nothing in this section shall prejudice the right of any person
     to follow the assets or any part thereof into the hands of the person
     or persons who have received the same.
When trustee company may pay claims without legal proof
*** 34 When trustee company may pay claims without legal proof ***
Where—
     (a) an estate is being administered by a trustee company; and
     (b) advertisements have been published calling upon the creditors of
     the person whose estate is being administered to come in and prove
     their debts by an appointed time;
the trustee company may after the expiration of 6 months from the time so
appointed—
     (c) if no debt is proved; or
     (d) if all creditors who have proved are paid;
pay any sum not exceeding $200 to any person claiming to the satisfaction of
the trustee company to be a party in distribution or to be a legatee under a
will, without legal proof of the right or title of the party so claiming.
Shares of infants during infancy
*** 35 Shares of infants during infancy ***
     (1) Where under any will or estate committed to a trustee company, a
     legacy or share of such estate is payable to an infant, then the
     trustee company shall (subject to the terms of any will or trust
     instrument) hold that legacy or share as trustee for the infant until
     such infancy ceases whereupon it shall account to the infant in terms
     of the will or trust instrument (if any).
     (2) Without prejudice to the liability of the trustee company to
     account as provided in subsection (1) for such legacy or share when
     infancy ceases, a certificate under the hand of an officer of the
     trustee company that such legacy or share is so held in terms of this
     section shall be deemed a proper discharge therefor for all purposes
     and rules of law.
Contributory investments
*** 37 Contributory investments ***
     (1) Where a trustee company holds moneys belonging to more than 1
     estate, trust property or person upon trusts, which require or permit
     the investment thereof, the trustee company may invest such moneys as
     1 fund, and distribute the income arising therefrom rateably among
     the several estates, trusts, properties or persons to which the money
     so invested belongs, and any profit or loss arising from any such
     investment shall likewise be received or borne rateably by the
     several estates, trusts, properties or persons.
     (2) Any such investment shall be made either—
          (a) in investments for the time being authorised by the
          Trusts Act 1973 or any other Act for the investment of
          trust funds; or
          (b) in investments authorised by each of the trust
          instruments.
Co-administrator may exercise powers of trustee company
*** 38 Co-administrator may exercise powers of trustee company ***
The powers conferred by this Act upon a trustee company may also be exercised
by the trustee company and any person holding the office of executor, trustee
or administrator jointly with the trustee company.
Certificate by trustee company as to its legal status in any matter
*** 39 Certificate by trustee company as to its legal status in any matter ***
     (1) Where a trustee company is executor or administrator or is by law
     authorised to administer the estate of any deceased person, or where
     it is acting as trustee, receiver, committee, guardian, liquidator or
     official liquidator or in any other capacity, a certificate by the
     trustee company under the seal of the trustee company—
          (a) stating, in the case of a deceased person, the name,
          residence, and occupation of the deceased person at the
          time of the person’s death, and the date of the
          person’s death, and certifying that the trustee company
          has obtained a grant of probate or letters of
          administration or is otherwise authorised to administer the
          estate and stating the date when the probate or letters of
          administration was granted and the reference number thereof
          or the manner in which and the time at which the trustee
          company became authorised to administer; and
          (b) in any case where the trustee company is acting as
          trustee, receiver, committee, guardian, liquidator or
          official liquidator or in any other capacity—certifying
          that the trustee company is authorised to act as such
          trustee, receiver, committee, guardian, liquidator or
          official liquidator or in such other capacity, and stating
          the manner in which and the time at which it became so
          authorised to act;
     shall, notwithstanding any law or statutory provision to the
     contrary, be accepted by all courts, officers, and persons, whether
     acting under any Act or not, as sufficient evidence—
          (c) in the case of a deceased person, of the death of that
          person, and of the appointment of the trustee company as
          executor or other administrator, and of its right to
          administer; and
          (d) in any of the other cases mentioned, of the trustee
          company’s right to act;
     without any other proof whatsoever.
     (2) Such certificate shall be sufficient for the purpose of bringing
     any land under the Land Title Act 1994, or of recording the trustee
     company as owner or proprietor of land under that Act, or of any
     shares, stock, or property in any company, corporation (other than a
     company), body, or association, and if any land is subject to the
     last mentioned Acts, such certificate may be registered against such
     land as in the case of probate or letters of administration, and
     shall have the same force and effect.
     (3) Such certificate shall be equivalent for registration purposes to
     the probate, letters of administration with or without the will,
     election to administer, trust instrument or other order or document
     of appointment, and without prejudice to the right of the Registrar
     of Titles to require lodgement of the will, or an office copy thereof
     issued out of the Court, it shall not be necessary to register the
     probate, letters of administration with or without the will,
     election, will, trust instrument or other order or document of
     appointment.
     (4) A statement of the purport of any trust instrument, order, power
     of attorney, or other document or authority in any assurance,
     certificate, or instrument by a trustee company under the seal of the
     trustee company shall be sufficient evidence thereof, and no one
     shall be concerned to inquire beyond that statement.
Application of part 3
*** 40 Application of part 3 ***
The powers conferred upon a trustee company under this part may be exercised in
relation to an estate, trust or property whether or not the estate, trust or
property was constituted or created or was committed to the administration or
management of the trustee company before or after the commencement of this Act
and whether or not the instrument (if any) governing the estate, trust or
property was made before or after the commencement of this Act.
Court to act upon affidavit of officer of trustee company
*** 46 Court to act upon affidavit of officer of trustee company ***
In all cases in which a trustee company is empowered by this Act—
     (a) to apply for probate of any will or letters of administration,
     with or without the will annexed, in respect of the estate of any
     deceased person; or
     (b) to apply for sealing of any probate or letters of administration
     granted by a court referred to in section 11 or an exemplification,
     duplicate or copy thereof;
the Court in which, or an order of the Court before whom, an application is
made may receive and act upon an affidavit by an officer of the trustee company
in place of any affidavit required by any Act or rule of court to be made by a
person making a similar application.
Application for consent to be by motion
*** 47 Application for consent to be by motion ***
     (1) Every application for consent under sections 20, 23 and 24 shall
     be by motion.
     (2) Notice of the application shall be advertised once in a daily
     newspaper published in Brisbane not more than 14 nor less than 7 days
     before the making of the application, and in case of an executor or
     administrator of a testator or intestate dying in Queensland,
     elsewhere than in Brisbane, a like notice shall be also advertised
     once within the like period in some local newspaper (if any)
     circulating in the district in which the testator or intestate had
     his or her usual place of residence immediately prior to his or her
     decease.
     (3) The Court may require any person resident in Queensland and
     entitled to the immediate receipt of any part of the income or corpus
     of the estate in respect of which the application is made to be
     served with notice thereof.
     (4) The costs of the application shall be in the discretion of the
     Court and may be ordered to be paid out of the estate.
     (5) Consent shall not be given in any case of a will in which the
     testator has expressed his or her desire that the trusts thereof
     should not be delegated or that the trustee company should not act
     therein.
An officer may attend on behalf of a trustee company, and be personally
responsible
*** 48 An officer may attend on behalf of a trustee company, and be personally
responsible ***
     (1) In all cases in which the personal attendance of an executor,
     administrator, trustee, receiver, committee, guardian, liquidator, or
     official liquidator is required or permitted in a Court or elsewhere,
     a trustee company shall be entitled to make the attendance in the
     person of an officer of the trustee company, and the personal duties
     of executor, administrator, trustee, receiver, committee, guardian,
     liquidator, or official liquidator may be discharged on behalf of the
     trustee company by an officer of the company.
     (2) In every case where—
          (a) a trustee company obtains probate or letters of
          administration with or without the will annexed; or
          (b) a trustee company is appointed trustee, receiver,
          committee, guardian, liquidator, or official liquidator;
     the officers of the trustee company, and the directors of the trustee
     company are individually and collectively in their own proper persons
     responsible—
          (c) to the Court; and
          (d) to any trustee, beneficiary, executor, legatee,
          administrator, next of kin, creditor or infant entitled to
          or interested in any estate that is for the time being
          under the administration or management of the trustee
          company;
     and shall in their own proper persons be liable by process of
     attachment, commitment for contempt, or by other process to all
     courts having jurisdiction in that behalf in case of the improper
     discharge of their duties or disobedience to the rules, orders, and
     decrees of those courts in the same manner and to the same extent as
     if each such officer of the trustee company and each director, had
     personally obtained probate or letters of administration, or been
     appointed trustee, receiver, committee, guardian, liquidator, or
     official liquidator.
Removal from office
*** 49 Removal from office ***
     (1) A trustee company that has been appointed executor,
     administrator, trustee, receiver, committee, guardian, liquidator,
     official liquidator or attorney, whether before or after the
     commencement of this Act, shall be subject in all respects to the
     same control and to removal or restraint from acting and generally to
     the jurisdiction of the courts, in the same manner as any other
     executor, administrator, trustee, receiver, committee, guardian,
     liquidator, official liquidator or attorney is subject.
     (2) All persons who may claim relief against a trustee company for
     any act done or assumed to be done, or in respect of any act omitted
     to be done, by the trustee company, its directors or officers, under
     any of the powers conferred by this Act, may proceed in the Court or
     in any other court of competent jurisdiction, either by action or
     other ordinary proceeding of the court, or in a summary way by motion
     against the trustee company, or against any of the directors or
     officers of the trustee company, and the court in which the
     proceeding is brought may make and enforce such order in the matter
     as to the court seems just.
Penalty provisions
*** 67 Penalty provisions ***
     (1) A person who contravenes or fails to comply with a provision of
     this Act commits an offence against this Act and, in the absence of
     another penalty expressly provided for in this Act, is liable to a
     penalty of 10 penalty units.
     (2) Proceedings with respect to an offence against this Act shall be
     taken in a summary manner under the Justices Act 1886.
Settlors or testators may appoint own solicitors
*** 68 Settlors or testators may appoint own solicitors ***
     (1) Where by any settlement or will (whether made before or after the
     commencement of this Act), a settlor or testator directs that any
     practising solicitor shall conduct the legal business of his or her
     estate, that solicitor is entitled to act therein accordingly, but in
     such case a trustee company concerned shall not be liable for any
     loss occasioned by the negligence, misfeasance, nonfeasance or
     misconduct of the solicitor unless such loss could have been
     prevented or avoided by the exercise of due care on the part of the
     trustee company.
     (2) A solicitor entitled to conduct the legal business of an estate
     under subsection (1) may be removed by the Court or a Judge upon the
     application of the trustee company or of any person interested in
     that estate upon cause shown, and the Court or Judge may appoint a
     solicitor nominated by the trustee company to conduct such legal
     business in the first solicitor’s place.
When legatee to bear commission on legacy
*** 68A When legatee to bear commission on legacy ***
     (1) Subject to subsection (2) unless a testator by will, whether made
     before or after the commencement of this Act, directs that the
     testator’s testamentary expenses (which shall be deemed to include
     the commission payable to a trustee company under this Act) be paid
     out of the testator’s estate, the commission payable to a trustee
     company under this Act on all devises and legacies, whether specific,
     demonstrative, or pecuniary, is payable by the devisee or legatee
     entitled, as the case may be.
     (2) Where a testator by will, whether made before or after the
     commencement of this Act, directs that any devise or legacy be free
     of duty, such commission is payable out of that portion of the estate
     of the testator out of which the duty is, pursuant to the direction,
     payable if that portion is sufficient to enable the payment in full
     of the commission as well as the duty.
Appointment of attorney by trustee company
*** 68B Appointment of attorney by trustee company ***
Any trustee company that on its incorporation was incorporated in a State
(other than Queensland) or a Territory of the Commonwealth may, by instrument
in writing under its common seal, empower any person, either generally or in
respect of specified matters, as its attorney to execute deeds, bonds and other
documents on its behalf in Queensland, and every deed, bond or other document
signed by such attorney on behalf of the trustee company and under the
person’s seal shall be binding on the trustee company, and have the same
effect as if it were under the common seal of the trustee company.
Transfer determinations
*** 68C Transfer determinations ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) ASIC makes a determination under the Corporations Act,
          section 601WBA that there is to be a transfer of estate
          assets and liabilities from a trustee company (the
          "transferring company") to another trustee company (the
          "receiving company"); and
          (b) ASIC issues a certificate of transfer under the
          Corporations Act, section 601WBG for the transfer; and
          (c) either the transferring company or the receiving
          company is registered in Queensland.
     (2) When the certificate of transfer comes into force, the receiving
     company becomes the successor in law of the transferring company in
     relation to estate assets and liabilities of the transferring
     company, to the extent of the transfer.
          Note—
               Under the Corporations Act, section 601WBG (2)
               (d), the certificate of transfer is required to
               state when the certificate comes into force.
     (3) Without limiting subsection (2) —
          (a) if the transfer is a total transfer—all the estate
          assets and liabilities of the transferring company,
          wherever those assets and liabilities are located, become
          assets and liabilities of the receiving company (in the
          same capacity as they were assets and liabilities of the
          transferring company) without any transfer, conveyance or
          assignment; and
          (b) if the transfer is a partial transfer—all the estate
          assets and liabilities included in the list mentioned in
          the Corporations Act, section 601WBG (2) (c), wherever
          those assets and liabilities are located, become assets and
          liabilities of the receiving company (in the same capacity
          as they were assets and liabilities of the transferring
          company) without any transfer, conveyance or assignment;
          and
          (c) to the extent of the transfer, the duties, obligations,
          immunities, rights and privileges applying to the
          transferring company apply to the receiving company.
     (4) If the certificate includes provisions of a kind mentioned in the
     Corporations Act, section 601WBG (3) —
          (a) if the provisions state that particular things are to
          happen or are taken to be the case—those things are, by
          force of this section, taken to happen, or to be the case,
          in accordance with those provisions; and
          (b) if the provisions state a mechanism for determining
          things that are to happen or are taken to be the
          case—things determined in accordance with the mechanism
          are, by force of this section, taken to happen, or to be
          the case, as determined in accordance with that mechanism.
     (5) The registrar of titles or other person required or authorised by
     law to register or record transactions affecting assets or
     liabilities—
          (a) may, without formal application, register or record in
          the appropriate way the transfer of an asset or liability
          under the certificate to the receiving company; and
          (b) must, on written application by the receiving company,
          register or record in the appropriate way the transfer of
          an asset or liability under the certificate to the
          receiving company.
     (6) A transaction related to an asset or liability transferred to a
     receiving company entered into by the receiving company in the
     transferring company’s name or the name of a predecessor in title
     to the transferring company, if effected by an instrument otherwise
     in registrable form, must be registered even though the receiving
     company has not been registered as proprietor of the asset or
     liability.
     (7) If an asset or liability is registered in the name of a receiving
     company, the registrar of titles or other registering authority may
     register a dealing for a transaction about the asset or liability
     without being concerned to enquire whether it is, or is not, an asset
     or liability transferred under a certificate.
     (8) For the purposes of this section, the public trustee is taken to
     be a trustee company.
Evidence of failure to give notice to a trustee company
*** 70 Evidence of failure to give notice to a trustee company ***
Whenever it is necessary to prove that any notice has not been given or that
any disclosure or discovery has not been made to a trustee company, proof that
no such notice has been given or that no such disclosure or discovery has been
made to the manager for the time being of the trustee company shall be prima
facie evidence that no such notice has been given or that no such disclosure or
discovery has been made to the trustee company.
Delegations
*** 71 Delegations ***
The registrar may delegate the registrar’s powers under this Act to an
officer or employee of the department.
Regulation-making power
*** 73A Regulation-making power ***
The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
Definitions for pt 6
*** 74 Definitions for pt 6 ***
In this part—
"amendment Act" means the Fair Work (Commonwealth Powers) and Other Provisions
Act 2009.
"commencement" means the commencement of this section.
"repealed", followed by a provision number, means that provision as it existed
before its repeal by the amendment Act.
"trustee company" means a trustee company under section 4 as in force
immediately before the commencement.
Court may review rate of commission
*** 75 Court may review rate of commission ***
     (1) This section applies if a person made an application to the Court
     or a Judge to review the rate of commission, as mentioned in repealed
     section 41 (4), before the commencement.
     (2) Repealed section 41 continues to apply, despite its repeal, in
     relation to the application.
Court may review fee
*** 76 Court may review fee ***
     (1) This section applies if a person made an application to the Court
     or a Judge to review a fee, as mentioned in repealed section 45 (1),
     before the commencement.
     (2) Repealed section 45 continues to apply, despite its repeal, in
     relation to the application.
Filing and passing accounts
*** 77 Filing and passing accounts ***
     (1) This section applies to an account filed in the office of the
     Registrar of the Supreme Court, as mentioned in repealed section 50
     (3), before the commencement.
     (2) Repealed section 50 (3) continues to apply, despite its repeal,
     in relation to the account.
Court may order account
*** 78 Court may order account ***
     (1) This section applies if a person made an application to an
     officer of a trustee company for an account of the property and
     assets of an estate, as mentioned in repealed section 51 (1), before
     the commencement.
     (2) Repealed sections 51 and 52 continue to apply, despite their
     repeal, in relation to the application.
Investment of capital in name of Treasurer
*** 79 Investment of capital in name of Treasurer ***
     (1) This section applies if a trustee company was required to invest
     part of its paid-up capital in the name of the Treasurer of the State
     of Queensland in trust for the trustee company, as mentioned in
     repealed section 56 (1), before the commencement.
     (2) The securities and investments mentioned in the section in
     existence at the time of the repeal are to be transferred by the
     Treasurer as soon as practicable after the repeal to the trustee
     company or another person nominated by the trustee company.
          Note—
               The timing of the transfer may be affected by the
               nature, and the terms and conditions, of the
               security or investment.
     (3) Repealed section 56 (3) continues to apply, despite its repeal,
     in relation to interest and income mentioned in the subsection,
     whether the interest and income is held by the Treasurer at the time
     of the repeal or received afterwards.
Offences
*** 80 Offences ***
     (1) This section applies if a person is alleged to have committed an
     offence against the Trustee Companies Act 1968 before the
     commencement.
     (2) Proceedings for the offence may be started or continued, and the
     court may hear and decide the proceedings, as if the Fair Work
     (Commonwealth Powers) and Other Provisions Act 2009 had not
     commenced.
     (3) This section applies despite the Criminal Code, section 11.
