Trustee Companies Act 1953
Jurisdiction: tasmania
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/tas/consol_act/tca1953208/
Register: https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-1953-072
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/tas/consol_act/tca1953208.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-30T04:25:18.306541Z

Trustee Companies Act 1953
   An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to trustee companies,
   and to repeal certain enactments
   Be it enacted by His Excellency the Governor of Tasmania, by and with
   the advice and consent of the Legislative Council and House of
   Assembly, in Parliament assembled, as follows:
     PART I - Preliminary
   1.   Short title
     This Act may be cited as the Trustee Companies Act 1953 .
   2.   Repeal
     The Acts that are specified in Schedule 1 are repealed.
   3.   Interpretation
     (1)  In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears -
     administrator means administrator pursuant to letters of
     administration;
     authorised person, in relation to the performance or exercise of a
     power, function or duty by or for a trustee company under this Act,
     means such person or office-holder as the trustee company, either
     specifically or generally and whether personally or by office or
     function, authorises for that purpose;
     control includes control as a result of, or by means of, trusts,
     agreements, related corporations, arrangements, understandings, and
     practices, whether or not having legal or equitable force, and
     whether or not based on legal or equitable rights;
     the Court means the Supreme Court;
     GST has the meaning given to that term by the A New Tax System
     (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 of the Commonwealth;
     letters of administration means letters of administration with or
     without a will annexed;
     Public Trustee means The Public Trustee continued under the Public
     Trustee Act 1930 ;
     regulations means regulations made and in force under this Act;
     related corporation means a corporation that is, by virtue of
     section 50 of the Corporations Act, deemed to be related to another
     corporation;
     secretary, in relation to a trustee company, includes an acting
     secretary, manager, or acting manager of the trustee company;
     trust estate includes all real and personal property of whatever
     kind committed to the administration or management of a trustee
     company;
     trustee company means a licensed trustee company within the meaning
     of Chapter 5D of the Corporations Act;
     will includes codicil.
     (1A)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (1B)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (2)  The powers and functions of the Court under this Act shall, for
     the purposes of the Supreme Court Civil Procedure Act 1932 , be
     deemed to be part of the jurisdiction of the Court that is subject
     to that Act.
   4.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   4A.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     PART II - Trustee Companies
     Division 1 - Administration of estates
   5.   Power of trustee company to act as executor
     Where a trustee company has been (whether before or after the
     commencement of this Act) expressly, or according to the tenor,
     appointed as executor under the will of a testator, the company may
     act as executor, or as executor according to the tenor, as the case
     may be, and may apply for and obtain probate accordingly.
   6.   Power of trustee company to act as administrator
     Where a natural person may apply for and obtain letters of
     administration of the estate of a deceased person, a trustee company
     may, in like circumstances, apply for and obtain letters of
     administration and act as administrator.
   7.   Power of courts, &c., to appoint trustee company as trustee,
   receiver, &c.
     (1)  Where a court, judge, or person has power to appoint -
     (a) a trustee;
     (b) a receiver;
     (c) an administrator of a person's estate under the Guardianship and
     Administration Act 1995 ;
     (d) a guardian of an infant's estate; or
     (e) an attorney or agent -
     that court, judge, or person may appoint a trustee company to be a
     trustee, receiver, committee, or guardian, or an attorney or agent,
     as the case may be.
     (2)  Where a trustee company is so appointed as a trustee, receiver,
     or committee, the trustee company may act as a trustee, receiver, or
     committee, as the case may be, until removed from office and may
     perform and discharge all acts and duties pertaining to the office
     of trustee, receiver, or committee.
     (3)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   8.   Power of person entitled to probate to authorize trustee company
   to obtain probate
     A person who is named expressly or by implication as the executor of
     the will of a deceased person and who would be entitled to obtain in
     Tasmania probate of the will without reserving leave to any other
     person to apply for probate may, instead of himself applying for
     probate, authorize a trustee company to apply to the Court for
     administration with the will annexed; and administration with the
     will annexed may be granted to the trustee company, upon its own
     application, when so authorized, unless the testator has, by his
     will, expressed his desire that the office of executor should not be
     delegated or that a trustee company should not act in the trusts of
     his will.
   9.   Power of person entitled to administration to authorize trustee
   company to obtain administration
     A person who is entitled to obtain letters of administration,
     whether general, special, or limited, of the estate of another
     person, may, instead of himself applying for administration,
     authorize a trustee company to apply for administration of that
     estate, and administration of that estate may be granted to the
     trustee company upon its own application when so authorized.
   10.   Power of trustee company to act jointly with other persons or to
   obtain probate with leave to other persons to come in and prove
     (1)  Subject to subsection (2) , a person who is named expressly or
     by implication as the executor of the will of a deceased person and
     who would be entitled to obtain probate of the will jointly with any
     other person may, notwithstanding any law or custom to the contrary,
     instead of himself applying for probate of the will, authorize a
     trustee company to apply to the Court for probate thereof, either
     alone with leave reserved for any person to come in and prove, or
     jointly with any other person who is entitled to apply for probate,
     in the same manner as if the company had been originally named in
     the will in the place of the person by whom the application is
     authorized.
     (2)  The power conferred by this section shall not be exercised in
     the case of a will in which the testator has expressed his desire
     that the office of executor should not be delegated or that a
     trustee company should not act in the trusts of his will.
   10A.   Election to administer small estates without grant of probate,
   &c.
     (1)  Where -
     (a) a person dies, or has died, domiciled or leaving property in
     Tasmania;
     (b) a trustee company is entitled, or authorized by another person
     entitled, to obtain probate of the will of the deceased person or
     letters of administration of the estate of that deceased person; and
     (c) it appears to that trustee company that the gross amount of that
     estate to be administered in Tasmania does not exceed the prescribed
     amount-
     that trustee company may, instead of applying for probate or letters
     of administration, file in the office of the Registrar of the Court
     an election under its common seal to administer that estate
     specifying -
     (d) the name, residence, occupation, and marital status so far as
     may be known to the trustee company, of the deceased person at the
     date of his death;
     (e) the names and the age, if surviving, or the date of death, if
     deceased, of any issue of the deceased person;
     (f) the property forming the estate of the deceased person so far as
     it is then known to the trustee company; and
     (g) the date of death of the deceased person.
     (2)  Where a trustee company believes that a deceased person
     referred to in subsection (1) has died testate, an election under
     that subsection shall state -
     (a) that, after due inquiries, the trustee company believes that the
     document annexed to the election is the testator's last will or an
     exemplification of that will, if probate of that will or other
     appropriate testamentary grant has been made outside Tasmania; and
     (b) that that will has been validly executed according to law -
     and shall specify with respect to each beneficiary of the will of
     the deceased person -
     (c) his relationship, if any, to that person; and
     (d) particulars of the property of the deceased person to which that
     beneficiary is entitled as such.
     (3)  On the filing of an election under subsection (1) , the trustee
     company filing it shall be deemed to be administrator or executor,
     as the case may be, of the property of the deceased person in all
     respects as if letters of administration or probate had been granted
     to it by the Court.
     (4)  A trustee company shall publish in the Gazette a notice that it
     has made an election under subsection (1) .
     (5)  A notice published in the Gazette under subsection (4) is
     evidence that the trustee company is entitled to administer the
     estate to which the notice relates.
     (6)  If a trustee company -
     (a) after filing an election under subsection (1) , finds that the
     gross value of the property to be administered in Tasmania exceeds
     the prescribed amount, the trustee company shall, as soon as
     practicable after it becomes aware of that fact; or
     (b) at any time considers it desirable for any reason so to do, the
     trustee company may -
     file in the office of the Registrar of the Court a memorandum under
     its common seal stating that fact, and revoking its election, and
     apply for letters of administration or probate, as the case may
     require.
     (7)  If, after filing an election under subsection (1) , a trustee
     company finds -
     (a) that the deceased person who was supposed to have died intestate
     has died testate; or
     (b) that the document annexed to the election as the testator's last
     will has been superseded by a later will, or for any reason is of no
     testamentary validity or effect -
     the trustee company shall, as soon as practicable after it becomes
     aware of that fact, file in the office of the Registrar of the Court
     a memorandum under its common seal stating that fact and revoking
     the election.
     (8)  Where a trustee company files a memorandum under subsection (7)
     -
     (a) the election previously made by the trustee company is revoked;
     (b) the trustee company may file a fresh election under subsection
     (1) ; and
     (c) the provisions of this section apply to, and in relation to, the
     estate previously subject to the election as if no such previous
     election relating to that estate had been made under subsection (1)
     .
     (9)  A copy of an election filed under subsection (1) and certified
     as a correct copy under the seal of the Court has the same legal
     effect as an exemplification of probate.
   11.   Power of Court to act on affidavit of authorised person of
   trustee company
     Where a trustee company is authorized by or under this Act to apply
     for probate or letters of administration, the Court, or, as the case
     may be, the officer to whom an application for probate or letters of
     administration is made by the trustee company, may receive and act
     upon an affidavit by an authorised person of the trustee company in
     lieu of an affidavit required by the Court to be made by a person
     making application for probate or administration.
   12.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   13.   Power of trustee company to act under power of attorney
     (1)  A trustee company may act under a power of attorney by which
     the company is appointed attorney by a person, and all the powers
     conferred upon the company by a power of attorney may be exercised
     and carried into execution by an authorised person, or by any 2 or
     more of the directors, of the company.
     (2)  Where a trustee company is appointed attorney by a person, the
     capital of the company (whether paid or unpaid capital), and all
     other assets of the company, are liable for the due execution of the
     powers so conferred upon the company.
     (3)  This section does not authorize a person to confer a power upon
     a trustee company that cannot legally be conferred upon a natural
     person.
   14.   Power to appoint trustee company as temporary executor, &c.
     An executor or administrator, or a trustee, may appoint a trustee
     company to act as executor, administrator, or trustee in his stead,
     and if a trustee company is so appointed by deed filed in accordance
     with any law in force providing for the filing of powers of attorney
     -
     (a) the company may act within the scope of the authority conferred
     upon it as effectually as the executor, administrator, or trustee
     could have acted;
     (b) the company may exercise all discretionary and other powers that
     are delegated to it by the principal as fully and effectually as the
     principal could have exercised them; and
     (c) after the filing of the power of attorney, every act of the
     company that is within the scope of the authority so conferred
     shall, in favour of any person who deals with the company in good
     faith and without notice of the death of the principal or of his
     revocation of the authority, be valid and effectual notwithstanding
     the revocation by, or death of, the principal.
   15.   Power of executors, &c., to appoint trustee company to discharge
   their duties
     (1)  The executor or administrator, acting under any probate or
     letters of administration, or a receiver, or the administrator of
     the estate of a person under the Guardianship and Administration Act
     1995 , may, with the consent of the Court, appoint a trustee company
     to perform and discharge all the acts and duties of the executor,
     administrator, receiver, or committee, and the trustee company may
     perform and discharge all those acts and duties accordingly, and the
     executor, administrator, receiver, or committee so appointing the
     company is released from liability in respect of all acts done, or
     omitted to be done, by the company acting under that appointment.
     (2)  Notice of an intended application for the consent of the Court
     under this section shall be advertised once in one daily newspaper
     published in Hobart, and in one daily newspaper published elsewhere
     in this State, at least 14 days before the making of the
     application, and the Court may require a person who resides in this
     State and is entitled to the immediate receipt of any of the income
     or corpus of the estate in respect of which the application is made
     to be served with notice thereof.
     (3)  No consent shall be given by the Court under this section in
     the case of a will in which the testator has expressed his desire
     that the trusts thereof should not be delegated or that a trustee
     company should not act therein.
   15A.   Power of trustee company to undertake other services
     (1)  A trustee company may manage properties and businesses held or
     carried on in trust by it or by other trustees, if the trustee
     company directly controls that management.
     (2)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (3)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (4)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   15B.   Loans from estates to related corporations prohibited
     A trustee company shall not make a deposit or loan to a related
     corporation from an estate administered or managed by the trustee
     company under this Act.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 200 penalty units.
   15C.   No trust estate to be liable under guarantee from trustee
   company unless given on behalf of that estate
     (1)  A trust estate administered or managed by a trustee company is
     not liable for the payment of money under a guarantee from the
     trustee company otherwise than under a guarantee lawfully given by
     the trustee company on behalf of that trust estate.
     (2)  Subsection (1) does not authorize a trustee company to give a
     guarantee on behalf of a trust estate to a related corporation.
   16.   Power of trustee company to act as if it were a natural person
     Where a trustee company is appointed to any office or position
     pursuant to any of the provisions of this Act, the trustee company
     may do and perform all acts and duties and exercise all powers and
     discretions that appertain to that office or position as fully and
     effectually as if the company were a natural person.
   17.   Power of authorised person to attend on behalf of trustee company
     (1)  Where the personal attendance of an executor, administrator,
     trustee, receiver, or committee is required in a court or elsewhere,
     a trustee company shall be entitled to make the attendance in the
     person of an authorised person of the company, and the personal
     duties of executor, administrator, trustee, receiver, or committee
     may be discharged, on behalf of a trustee company, by an authorised
     person thereof.
     (2)  Where a trustee company obtains probate or letters of
     administration to be granted to the company, and where a trustee
     company is appointed and acts as a trustee, receiver, or committee,
     the authorised person of the trustee company and the directors of
     the trustee company are individually and collectively in their own
     persons responsible to the Court, and, in their own persons, are
     liable, by process of attachment, commitment for contempt, or by
     other process, to all courts having jurisdiction in that behalf, for
     the proper discharge of their duties and for obedience to the rules,
     orders, and decrees of those courts, in the same manner and to the
     same extent as if the authorised person and the directors had
     personally obtained probate or letters of administration or had
     acted as executor, administrator, trustee, receiver, or committee.
     (3)  Nothing in subsection (2) limits or affects the operation of
     section 31 .
   17A.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   18.   Commission chargeable by trustee company
     (1)  A trustee company may, in addition to any money properly
     expended by it and chargeable against an estate placed under its
     administration or control, charge and receive commission at such
     rate as the board of directors or other governing body of the
     trustee company determines.
     (2)  However, the commission must not in any case exceed the limits
     set or permitted by or under Part 5D.3 of Chapter 5D of the
     Corporations Act.
   18A.   Management charge in respect of charitable trusts, &c.
     (1)  Where a trustee company administers a charitable trust or a
     trust of indefinite duration for a purpose other than the individual
     benefit of persons having an interest under the trust, the company
     is entitled to receive and charge a sum of such amount as the board
     of directors or other governing body of the trustee company
     determines, not exceeding in any case the limits set or permitted by
     or under Part 5D.3 of Chapter 5D of the Corporations Act.
     (2)  For the purpose of recovering in whole or in part any sum that
     a trustee company may receive and charge under subsection (1) in
     respect of a trust, it may, as the board of directors or other
     governing body of the company determines, appropriate to its use any
     of the property the subject of the trust or the proceeds of the
     realization thereof or any of the income received by the company as
     trustee of the trust.
     (3)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     (4)  The rights of a trustee company under this section in respect
     of its administration of a trust are in addition to, and not in
     derogation of, its right to charge, receive, or recover, under this
     Act or otherwise, any commission or other sums in respect of its
     administration of the trust.
     (5)  Where the Court is of opinion that any sums charged by a
     trustee company under this section in respect of its administration
     of a trust are excessive, it may review and reduce the sums so
     charged, and, for that purpose, may make such orders as it thinks
     fit.
     Division 2 - General powers
   18B.   Power of trustee company to undertake other services
     A trustee company may -
     (a) prepare and lodge taxation returns;
     (b) if so authorized by a will or other instrument creating a trust
     or by an instrument signed by all persons beneficially entitled to
     the income of any property or business, manage that property or
     carry on that business in accordance with any terms or conditions
     specified in that will or other instrument; and
     (c) hold property as a custodian trustee unless it is prohibited
     from doing so by virtue of, or it is inconsistent with, any trusts
     to which that property is subject.
   18C.   Investment in common fund, &c.
     (1)  In this section -
     common fund means a common fund within the meaning of Division 3 of
     Part 5D.2 of Chapter 5D of the Corporations Act.
     (2)  A trustee company may invest any money in its hands -
     (a) on the separate account of the trust estate to which the money
     belongs; or
     (b) in a common fund if -
     (i) the trust deed, will or other instrument governing the money
     does not direct that it be invested in a specific manner; and
     (ii) investment in a common fund is not inconsistent with that trust
     deed, will or instrument; and
     (iii) the investment is restricted to classes of investments in
     which the money might lawfully be invested on its separate account.
     (3)  A trustee company is to invest the money comprised in a common
     fund in investments authorised by the Trustee Act 1898 .
     (4)  To the extent that Division 3 of Part 5D.2 of Chapter 5D of the
     Corporations Act or regulations in force under the Corporations Act
     provide for the establishment of common funds, the provisions of
     that Act or those regulations prevail over this section.
   18D.   Power of trustee company to mix funds for investment
     (1)  Where a trustee company holds for investment -
     (a) money belonging to an estate of which it is the sole trustee;
     and
     (b) money belonging to another estate of which it is sole trustee or
     to a person for whom it acts as agent to invest that money -
     the trustee company may -
     (c) invest all that money as one fund in one or several securities;
     (d) distribute the income arising from those securities, after
     deducting all proper charges, rateably among the several estates and
     persons from which or from whom the money so invested was derived;
     and
     (e) in the same manner debit any loss arising from the investment
     rateably to those several estates and persons.
     (2)  Nothing in this section authorizes a trustee company to invest
     money belonging to any estate or person in a security in which that
     money could not lawfully be invested apart from this section.
   18E.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Division 3 - Duties of trustee companies
   18F.   Duty of trustee company not to acquire shares in itself
     (1)  Notwithstanding anything contained in the trust deed, will, or
     other instrument under which a trust is created, a trustee company
     shall not at any time after the administration or management of a
     trust estate is committed to it, acquire any shares in itself or in
     any subsidiary or trustee holding company of the trustee company on
     behalf of that trust estate.
   Penalty:  Fine not exceeding 200 penalty units.
     (2)  Subsection (1) does not prevent a trustee company from
     retaining on behalf of a trust estate any shares in itself or from
     exercising any rights of that trust estate with respect to those
     shares if those shares were included in the trust estate when its
     administration or management was committed to the trustee company.
   18G.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   18H.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   18I.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   18J.   Employment of Australian legal practitioner by trustee company
     (1)  Where-
     (a) by a will, deed, or other instrument in writing, a trustee
     company or any other trustee appointed by the will, deed, or
     instrument, is directed to employ an Australian legal practitioner
     who is named in that will, deed, or instrument to conduct the legal
     or professional business associated with the administration or
     management of the trust estate referred to in that will, deed, or
     instrument; or
     (b) a trustee company, before the administration or management of
     any trust or estate is transferred or committed to it, agrees with
     an Australian legal practitioner to employ him in or about the legal
     or professional business associated with the administration or
     management of that trust estate-
     the trustee company shall employ that Australian legal practitioner
     accordingly.
     (2)  Where an Australian legal practitioner is employed by a trustee
     company pursuant to subsection (1) , he shall be deemed to be the
     Australian legal practitioner of the company in the legal or
     professional business to which that subsection relates, and shall
     not be removed except by order of the Court under subsection (3) .
     (3)  Upon the application of a trustee company or of a person who
     has an interest in a trust estate to which subsection (1) relates,
     the Court, on such cause being shown as the Court may think
     sufficient, may order the removal of an Australian legal
     practitioner who is employed by the company pursuant to that
     subsection, and may appoint another Australian legal practitioner to
     act as the Australian legal practitioner of the company for the
     purposes of that trust estate.
     Division 4 - Control of trustee companies
   19.   Power of Court to remove trustee company from office
     (1)  Where a trustee company is appointed executor, administrator,
     trustee, receiver, committee, agent, or attorney under power, the
     company is, in addition to the liabilities and restrictions imposed
     by this Act, subject in all respects to the same control and
     liability to removal as if it were a natural person.
     (2)  A person who claims relief against a trustee company for or in
     respect of an act done or assumed to be done, or in respect of an
     act omitted to be done, by the company, or by any of its directors
     or officers, under any of the powers conferred by this Act, may take
     appropriate proceedings in the Court or in any other court of
     competent jurisdiction and the court in which the proceedings are
     taken may make and enforce such orders as that court may think just
     in the circumstances.
   20.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   21.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   22.   Power of Court to restrain voluntary winding up of trustee
   company
     (1)  So long as any estate in respect of which a trustee company is
     executor, administrator, or trustee remains in whole or in part
     unadministered, no person shall take any steps or proceedings to
     wind up the company voluntarily, except with the sanction of the
     Court.
     (2)  A person who is interested in an estate to which subsection (1)
     relates, or who may have a claim in respect thereof, may apply to
     the Court, in a summary way, to restrain any director or shareholder
     from disposing of a share that the director or shareholder may hold
     in the company, or to restrain the winding up voluntarily of the
     company, and the Court has power to make such order in the matter as
     the circumstances of each case appear to the Court to require.
   23.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   24.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   25.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Division 5 - Distribution of deceased estates
   26.   Power of trustee company to distribute assets without regard to
   claims of creditors after notice and failure of creditors to take
   proceedings
     (1)  When a trustee company refuses to recognize, in whole or in
     part, the claim of a person who claims to be a creditor against the
     estate of a deceased person, the trustee company may give notice in
     writing of its refusal to the person so claiming.
     (2)  If the person so claiming does not, within 3 months after the
     receipt of a notice under subsection (1) , institute proceedings to
     enforce his claim the trustee company may distribute the assets of
     the deceased person without regard to the claim or to so much
     thereof as the trustee company has, by that notice, refused to
     recognize, and thereupon the right of that person to recover the
     amount of the claim, or the part thereof that the trustee company
     has refused to recognize, is barred.
     (3)  A notice under this section may be served by registered post on
     the person for whom it is intended.
   27.   Power of trustee company to distribute estate where possible
   claimants have not claimed
     (1)  Subject to this section, when -
     (a) a trustee company -
     (i) has been granted probate of the will, or letters of
     administration of the estate, of a deceased person; and
     (ii) has been informed of the existence at any time of a person (in
     this section referred to as "the said person") who, if he had
     survived the deceased person, would have been entitled to a legacy
     under the will, or to the whole or a share of the estate, of the
     deceased person; and
     (b) neither the said person nor any other person claiming through
     him or as his issue or one of his issue has made a claim in respect
     of that legacy, estate, or share within 3 years after the grant of
     probate or letters of administration -
     the trustee company, after advertising as required under this
     section, may, without being under any liability to the said person
     or to any other person claiming through him or as his issue or one
     of his issue, distribute the estate as if the said person had
     predeceased the deceased person without issue.
     (2)  The trustee company shall, before making a distribution
     pursuant to this section, make a report to a judge setting out the
     material facts relating to the matter and obtain a direction from
     the judge as to the form and number of the advertisements to be
     inserted and the places in which they are to be published and fixing
     a time after the insertion of the last of those advertisements at
     the expiration of which the distribution may be made.
     (3)  Nothing in this section prejudices the right of a person to
     follow any assets into the hands of the person or persons who have
     received them.
   28.   Power of trustee company to make advances to beneficiaries
     Where an estate is committed to the administration or management of
     a trustee company, the company may, pending the realization of the
     estate, make out of its own funds such advances, upon and subject to
     such conditions, as it thinks fit, to a person who is entitled,
     whether absolutely or contingently, to the whole or a share of the
     estate.
     PART III - Miscellaneous and Supplemental
     Division 1 - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   29.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Division 2 - Accounts and audit
   30.   Trustee company to keep separate accounts of each estate
     An account of the money paid or received, and of investments made
     and money advanced, by a trustee company on account of each estate
     of which the company has the administration or management in
     pursuance of this Act, shall be kept by the company separate and
     distinct from that of any other estate of which it has the
     administration or management.
   31.   Assets of trustee company liable for proper discharge of
   company's duties
     Subject to this Act, all the capital (whether paid capital or unpaid
     capital) of a trustee company and all the assets of a trustee
     company are liable for the proper discharge of any duties that are
     undertaken by the company pursuant to this Act.
   32.   Trustee company to pay certain unclaimed moneys to Public Trustee
     (1)  Except in a case to which subsection (2) applies, a trustee
     company shall pay to the Public Trustee all moneys that form part of
     an estate of which the company is the executor, administrator, or
     trustee and that remain unclaimed by the person who is entitled
     thereto for a period of 5 years after the time when they become
     payable to that person.
     (2)  Subsection (1) does not apply in a case where payment of any
     moneys is restrained by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
     (3)  Subject to this section, moneys that are paid to the Public
     Trustee pursuant to this section shall be held by the Public Trustee
     as belonging to the particular estate in respect of which they are
     paid and on behalf of the person entitled thereto.
     (4)  Moneys that are paid to the Public Trustee pursuant to this
     section form part of the common fund, within the meaning of the
     Public Trustee Act 1930 , and may be invested by the Public Trustee
     in the manner provided by that Act.
     (5)  The Public Trustee must not pay over to any person money that
     has been paid to the Public Trustee pursuant to this section, nor
     any interest on that money, unless satisfied that the person is
     entitled to that money or interest.
     (6)  The Public Trustee shall credit to the particular estates
     quarterly on the usual quarterly days interest upon all moneys that
     are paid to the Public Trustee pursuant to this section, and the
     interest so credited shall be added to those moneys and accumulated
     by way of compound interest.
     (7)  For the purposes of this section and of sections 35 and 37 ,
     moneys that were paid to the Public Trustee by a trustee company
     before the commencement of this section pursuant to the Unclaimed
     Trust Moneys Act 1921 shall be deemed to have been so paid pursuant
     to this section.
   33.   Transfer of securities to Public Trustee
     (1)  Where any moneys that are required by section 32 to be paid to
     the Public Trustee are invested in securities, those moneys shall,
     notwithstanding the investment, be deemed to be, and to remain,
     moneys within the meaning and for the purposes of that section, and
     a reference in that section to the payment of any moneys shall, in
     the case of moneys that are so invested, be construed as a reference
     to the transfer of the securities for the time being representing
     those moneys.
     (2)  In the case of moneys that are so invested, in lieu of the
     provisions of section 32 relating to interest the interest that is
     actually received by the Public Trustee in respect of any security
     shall, until the maturity thereof, be credited to the particular
     estate in respect of which the security is held, and, on the
     maturity of the security, shall be added to the capital moneys
     arising therefrom and thenceforth those capital moneys and the
     interest thereon shall form part of the common fund, within the
     meaning of the Public Trustee Act 1930 .
   34.   Notice of unclaimed trust moneys
     (1)  A trustee company shall, at the end of each period of 6 months
     after the commencement of this section, deliver to the Public
     Trustee a statement of all unclaimed moneys that, during the
     preceding 6 months, were in its hands.
     (2)  A statement under this section shall distinguish the several
     estates in respect of which the moneys have been received by the
     trustee company and set forth the dates and amounts of the several
     payments thereof to the Public Trustee under section 32 , and, if
     those moneys or any part thereof have not been paid to the Public
     Trustee, shall also set forth the reason for the non-payment
     thereof.
     (3)  In default of compliance with the provisions of this section in
     respect of a trustee company, the company, and the secretary of the
     company, and every member of the board of directors or other
     governing body of the company, are jointly and severally liable to a
     fine not exceeding 0·1 penalty unit for each day during which the
     default continues.
   34A.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     Division 3 - Powers of Supreme Court
   35.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   36.   Power of Court to make order for account on application of Public
   Trustee
     (1)  If the Public Trustee is unable, on application to a trustee
     company, to obtain a sufficient account of the property and assets
     of an estate that is, or in its opinion ought to have been, included
     in a statement under section 34 , the Public Trustee may, after
     notice to the company, apply to the Court for an account.
     (2)  If, on the hearing of an application under this section, the
     Court is of the opinion that no sufficient account has been rendered
     by the trustee company, the Court may order an account to be
     rendered within such time as it may fix in that behalf, or if the
     Court is of the opinion that a sufficient case to require the
     company to furnish an account has not been made out it may dismiss
     the application.
     (3)  On the hearing of an application under this section the Court
     may make such order as to costs as it thinks fit.
     Division 4 - Miscellaneous
   37.   Unclaimed money to be paid to Treasurer, &c.
     (1)  This section applies to money that is paid to the Public
     Trustee pursuant to section 32 .
     (2)  If the money is not claimed within 6 years, the Public Trustee
     must pay it to the Treasurer to the credit of the Public Account.
     (3)  If any person claims the money within 10 years after it is
     credited to the Public Account, the Treasurer, without further
     appropriation than this section, may pay it to the claimant if
     satisfied on the advice of the Public Trustee that the claim is
     valid.
     (4)  In this section, a reference to money is to be read as
     including a reference to securities, to interest on money and to a
     part of an amount of money.
   38.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   39.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   39AA.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   39A.   Certificate of trustee company to be accepted as evidence
     (1)  A certificate sealed by a trustee company certifying the nature
     of the company's appointment in relation to any estate, and any
     facts on the happening of which that appointment was made, shall be
     accepted by all courts, officers, and other persons as sufficient
     evidence of all the facts therein set forth, without the production
     of any other proof whatever.
     (2)  The certificate referred to in subsection (1) shall be
     sufficient for the purpose of registering the trustee company as
     proprietor of any shares, stock, or property in any company, body,
     or association, or of any estate or interest in any land under the
     Land Titles Act 1980 , or of bringing any land under that Act, and
     may be registered against that land as in the case of probate or
     letters of administration, and shall have the same force and effect.
     (3)  The certificate referred to in subsection (1) shall be
     equivalent, for registration purposes under any Act, to probate or
     letters of administration, and it shall not be necessary to register
     the probate or letters of administration.
   40.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   40AA.
   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   40A.   Regulations
     (1)  The Governor may make regulations for the purposes of this Act.
     (2)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
   41.   Rules of Court
     (1)  The judges, or a majority of them, may make Rules of Court for
     the purposes of this Act, except for, or with respect to, any matter
     on which regulations may be made under section 40A .
     (2)  Without limiting the generality of subsection 1 , the Rules of
     Court may make provision for, or with respect to, conferring a right
     to inspect and copy any information specified in an election filed
     in the office of the Registrar of the Court under section 10A (1) .
     SCHEDULE 1 - Acts Repealed Section 2
   Year and number (if any) of Act
   Short title of Act
   51 Vict. (Private)
   "The Perpetual Trustees Company Act"
   51 Vict. (Private)
   "The Tasmanian Trustees Association Act"
   3 Geo. V (Private)
   National Executors Company Act 1912
   19 Geo. V No. 65
   Equity Trustees Company Act 1928
   No. 15 of 1948
   Tasmanian Woolgrowers' Trustees and Executor Company Act 1948
     SCHEDULE 2
     SCHEDULE 2A
     SCHEDULE 3
     SCHEDULE 4
     SCHEDULE 5
