Trusts Act 1973
Jurisdiction: queensland
Source: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/qld/consol_act/ta1973132/
Register: https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-1973-024
Downloaded: https://classic.austlii.edu.au/cgi-bin/download.cgi/cgi-bin/download.cgi/download/au/legis/qld/consol_act/ta1973132.txt
When scraped: 2025-12-30T04:23:57.607595Z

TRUSTS ACT 1973 - As at 24 November 2017 - Act 24 of 1973
TABLE OF PROVISIONS
**** TABLE OF PROVISIONS ****
PART 1 - PRELIMINARY
      1.  Short title
      2.  (Repealed)
      3.  (Repealed)
      4.  Application
      5.  Definitions
     5A.  Meaning of investment etc. on the security of property
      6.  Exercise of powers
      7.  Exercise of powers by statutory trustee
     7A.  Effect of exercise of powers
      8.  Application to court to review acts and decisions
      9.  Effect of conversion of property under statutory power
PART 2 - APPOINTMENT AND DISCHARGE OF TRUSTEES—DEVOLUTION OF TRUSTS
     10.  Application of part
     11.  Limitation of the number of trustees
     12.  Power of appointing new trustees
     13.  Evidence as to a vacancy in a trust
     14.  Retirement of trustee without a new appointment
     15.  Vesting of trust property in new and continuing trustees
     16.  Devolution of trust assets and trust powers upon death
     17.  Devolution of mortgage estates on death
     18.  Disclaimer of trusts on renunciation of probate
     19.  Custodian trustees
PART 3 - INVESTMENTS
     20.  Application of particular provisions
     21.  Power of trustee to invest
     22.  Duties of trustee in relation to power of investment
     23.  Law and equity preserved
     24.  Matters to which trustee must have regard in exercising power of
investment
     25.  Powers of trustee in relation to securities
     26.  Investment in securities under RITS
     27.  Power of trustee as to calls on shares
     28.  Power to purchase dwelling house as residence for beneficiary
     29.  Power of trustee to retain investments
     30.  Loans and investments by trustees not breaches of trust in particular
circumstances
    30A.  Limitation of liability of trustee for loss on improper investments
    30B.  Court may take into account investment strategy etc. in action for
breach of trust
    30C.  Power of court to set off gains and losses arising from investment
PART 4 - GENERAL POWERS OF TRUSTEES
     31.  Application of part
     32.  Powers to sell, exchange, partition, postpone, lease etc.
     33.  Miscellaneous powers in respect of property
     34.  Power of trustee to sell by auction etc.
     35.  Power to sell subject to depreciatory conditions
     36.  Mortgage on sale of land
     37.  Deferred payment on sale of property
     38.  Surrender of onerous leases or property
     39.  Power to renew leases
     40.  Power to purchase equity of redemption in lieu of foreclosure
     41.  Release of equity of redemption in discharge of mortgage debt
     42.  Application of income by trustee-mortgagee in possession
     43.  Power of trustee to give receipts
     44.  Power to compound liabilities
     45.  Power to raise money by sale or mortgage
     46.  Protection to purchasers and mortgagees dealing with trustees
     47.  Insurance
     48.  Application of insurance money
     49.  Deposit of documents for safe custody
     50.  Reversionary interests
     51.  Valuations
     52.  Audit
     53.  Power to concur with others
     54.  Power to employ agents
     55.  Protection of financial institutions
     56.  Power to delegate trusts
     57.  Power to carry on business
     58.  Power to convert business into a company
     59.  Trustee may sue himself or herself in a different capacity
PART 5 - MAINTENANCE, ADVANCEMENT AND PROTECTIVE TRUSTS
     60.  Application of part
     61.  Power to apply income for maintenance etc. and to accumulate surplus
income during a minority
     62.  Power to apply capital for advancement etc.
     63.  Conditional advances for maintenance etc.
     64.  Protective trusts
PART 6 - INDEMNITIES AND PROTECTION OF TRUSTEES ETC.
     65.  Application of part
     66.  Protection against liability in respect of rents and covenants
     67.  Protection of trustees by means of advertisements
     68.  Barring of claims
     69.  Protection in regard to notice when a person is trustee etc. of more
than 1 estate or trust
     70.  Exoneration of trustees in respect of certain powers of attorney
     71.  Implied indemnity of trustees
     72.  Reimbursement of trustee out of trust property
     73.  Delivery of chattels to life tenant
     74.  Delivery of chattels to infant
     75.  Personal representatives relieved from personal liability in respect
of calls made after transfer of shares
     76.  Power of court to relieve trustee from personal liability
     77.  Power of court to make beneficiary indemnify for breach of trust
     78.  Abolition of rule in Allhusen v Whittell
PART 7 - FURTHER POWERS OF THE COURT
Division 1 - Application of part
     79.  Application of part
Division 2 - Appointment of new trustees
     80.  Power of court to appoint new trustees
     81.  Powers of new trustee
Division 3 - Vesting orders
     82.  Vesting orders
     83.  In whom property to be vested etc.
     84.  Orders as to contingent rights of unborn persons
     85.  Vesting order in place of conveyance by mortgagee under disability
     86.  Contracts by guardians on behalf of infants
     87.  Vesting orders etc. in relation to infant’s beneficial interests
     88.  Vesting order consequential on order for sale or mortgage of land
     89.  Vesting order consequential on judgment for specific performance
     90.  Effect of vesting order
     91.  Directions etc. as to transferring stock etc.
     92.  Power to appoint persons to convey
     93.  Vesting orders of charity property
Division 4 - Jurisdiction to make other orders
     94.  Court’s jurisdiction to make other orders
     95.  Power of court to authorise variations of trust
     96.  Right of trustee to apply to court for directions
     97.  Protection of trustees while acting under direction of court
     98.  Persons entitled to apply to court
     99.  Power of court to make orders in absence of parties
    100.  Power of court to charge costs on trust estate
    101.  Remuneration of trustee
    102.  Payment into court by trustee
PART 8 - CHARITIES
    103.  Meaning of charity
    104.  Inclusion of non-charitable purpose not to invalidate trust
    105.  Occasions for applying property cy pres
    106.  Proceedings in case of charitable trust
PART 9 - GIFTS BY PARTICULAR TRUSTS FOR PHILANTHROPIC PURPOSES
    107.  Definitions for pt 9
    108.  Prescribed trust—trust instrument containing express power to give
to eligible recipients
    109.  Prescribed trust—trust instrument not containing express power to
give to eligible recipients
    110.  Ancillary provisions
PART 10 - MISCELLANEOUS
    111.  Application of part
    112.  Indemnity
    113.  Remedies for wrongful distribution of trust property
    114.  Fees and commission deemed a testamentary expense
    115.  Costs of inquiring regarding beneficiaries
    116.  Local governments may be trustee for certain purposes
    117.  Requirement upon certain transfers to local government
    118.  Approval of forms
PART 11 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISION FOR TRUSTS (INVESTMENTS) AMENDMENT ACT 1999
    119.  Transitional provision for Trusts (Investments) Amendment Act 1999
PART 12 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR CRIMINAL PROCEEDS CONFISCATION AND OTHER
ACTS AMENDMENT ACT 2009
    120.  Definitions for pt 12
    121.  Application of pt 9 to existing trusts
    122.  Validation
PART 13 - VALIDATION PROVISION FOR COURT AND CIVIL LEGISLATION AMENDMENT ACT
2017
    123.  Validation of execution of power of attorney for s 56
- LONG TITLE
An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to trusts, trustees, settled
land and charities
Short title
*** 1 Short title ***
This Act may be cited as the Trusts Act 1973.
Application
*** 4 Application ***
     (1) Except where otherwise provided, this Act applies to every trust,
     as defined in section 5, whether constituted or created before or
     after the commencement of this Act.
     (2) Nothing in this Act shall preclude a settlor from conferring on a
     trustee or other person exercising the powers of a trustee under this
     Act any powers additional to or larger than those conferred by this
     Act.
     (3) Any additional or larger powers so conferred shall, as far as may
     be, notwithstanding anything in this Act, and unless a contrary
     intention is expressed in the instrument (if any) creating the trust,
     operate and be exercisable in the like manner and with all the like
     incidents effects and consequences as if conferred by this Act.
     (4) The powers conferred by or under this Act on a trustee are in
     addition to the powers given by any other Act and by the instrument
     (if any) creating the trust; but the powers conferred on the trustee
     by this Act, unless otherwise provided, apply if and so far only as a
     contrary intention is not expressed in the instrument (if any)
     creating the trust, and have effect subject to the terms of that
     instrument.
     (5) Except where otherwise provided by this Act, this Act does not
     affect the legality or validity of anything done before the
     commencement of this Act.
     (6) This Act binds the Crown not only in right of the State but also,
     so far as the legislative power of Parliament permits, the Crown in
     all its other capacities.
Definitions
*** 5 Definitions ***
     In this Act—
     "apart from this Act", when used in relation to land of which there
     is no trustee, does not include the public trustee, or a trustee
     appointed pursuant to section 12 or 80, or in whom the trust property
     is vested pursuant to section 16 or 90.
     "approved form" see section 118.
     "authorised investments" means investments of trust funds that are—
          (a) authorised by the instrument creating the trust; or
          (b) made by the trustee exercising a power of investment
          under part 3 or under an order under section 94; or
          (c) authorised by another Act or the general law.
     "bank"...
     "bank and savings bank"...
     "bankrupt" includes insolvent.
     "benefit", in relation to any person, includes insurance on the life
     of that person.
     "commencement of this Act" means the time when this Act (other than
     sections 94, 95, 98 and 99) came or comes into operation.
     "contingent right", in relation to land, includes a contingent or
     executory interest and a possibility coupled with an interest,
     whether the object of the gift or limitation of the interest or
     possibility is or is not ascertained; and also a right of entry,
     whether immediate or future, and whether vested or contingent.
     "conveyance", as applied to any person, includes the execution or
     doing by that person of every necessary or suitable assurance, act,
     and thing for conveying, transferring, assigning, appointing,
     surrendering or otherwise disposing of property.
     "court" means the Supreme Court or a judge thereof.
     "execute" includes the doing of all acts and things necessary for a
     conveyance, and with reference to an instrument not under seal means
     sign.
     "instrument creating the trust" includes any deed, will, agreement
     for a settlement, Act of Parliament, or other instrument, or any
     number of instruments, whether made or passed before or after, or
     partly before and partly after, the commencement of this Act.
     "land" includes—
          (a) land of any tenure, and any estate or interest, whether
          vested or contingent, in land; and
          (b) mines and minerals, whether or not severed from the
          surface; and
          (c) buildings or parts of buildings, whether the division
          is horizontal, vertical or made in any other way; and
          (d) a unit comprised in a building units plan registered in
          the manner provided by or under the Building Units and
          Group Titles Act 1980; and
          (e) any other corporeal hereditaments; and
          (f) rent and any incorporeal hereditament; and
          (g) an easement, right, privilege, share, interest or
          benefit in, over or derived from land;
     and, in this definition,
     "mines and minerals" includes any strata or seams or minerals or
     substances in or under any land, and powers of working or getting
     them and
     "hereditament" means real property which under an intestacy might at
     common law devolve on an heir.
     "lease" includes a bailment.
     "Local Authority"...
     "Minister"...
     "mortgagee" includes every person having an estate or interest
     regarded at law or in equity as merely a security for money and every
     person deriving title to the mortgage under the original mortgagee;
     and
     "mortgage" has a corresponding meaning.
     "payment", in relation to stocks and securities, includes the deposit
     or transfer of them.
     "person" includes a trustee corporation, a corporation sole and a
     corporation aggregate.
     "personal representative" means the executor, original or by
     representation, or the administrator for the time being of the estate
     of a deceased person.
     "person not under a disability", and any like expression, means a
     person of full age and full mental capacity.
     "possession" includes receipt of income or the right to receive the
     income (if any); and
     "possessed" applies to receipt of income of and to any vested estate
     less than a life interest, at law or in equity, in possession or in
     expectancy in any land.
     "property"...
     "public accountant" means—
          (a) a person registered, or taken to be registered, as an
          auditor under the Corporations Act; or
          (b) a member of the Australian Society of Certified
          Practising Accountants or the Institute of Chartered
          Accountants in Australia; or
          (c) a person who holds a public practising certificate
          issued by the Institute of Public Accountants and has
          completed a tertiary course of study in accounting with an
          auditing component from a university or institute
          prescribed under the Corporations Act, section 1280 (2A);
          or
          (d) a person approved by the chief executive who has
          completed a tertiary course of study in accounting with an
          auditing component from a university or institute
          prescribed under the Corporations Act, section 1280 (2A).
     "Public Curator"...
     "public trustee" means the public trustee constituted by the Public
     Trustee Act 1978.
     "registered valuer" means a valuer registered under the Valuers
     Registration Act 1992.
     "registrar" means the registrar of titles.
     "rent" includes a rent service or a rent charge, or other rent, toll,
     duty, royalty or annual or periodic payment in money or money’s
     worth reserved or issuing out of or charged upon land, but does not
     include mortgage interest.
     "repealed Acts" means the Act s that pursuant to the Trustees and
     Executors Acts Amendment Act 1964 might have been cited as the
     Trustees and Executors Acts 1897 to 1964.
     "sale" includes an exchange.
     "securities" includes debentures, stock and shares; and
     "securities payable to bearer" includes securities transferable by
     delivery or by delivery and endorsement.
     "statutory trustee" means a person—
          (a) who, in respect of land referred to in section 6 may
          exercise the powers by this Act conferred or capable of
          being conferred on a trustee; but
          (b) who, apart from this Act, is not a trustee of such
          land.
     "stock" includes shares, and, so far as relates to vesting orders
     made by the court under this Act, includes any fund, annuity or
     security transferable in books kept by any corporation or society, or
     by instrument of transfer, either alone or accompanied by other
     formalities, and any share or interest therein.
     "to convey"...
     "to pay"...
     "to sell"...
     "transfer", in relation to stock or securities, includes the
     performance and execution of every deed, power of attorney, act, and
     thing on the part of the transferor to effect and complete the title
     in the transferee.
     "trust" does not include the duties incidental to an estate conveyed
     by way of mortgage, but with that exception
     "trust" extends to implied, resulting, bare and constructive trusts,
     and to cases where the trustee has a beneficial interest in the trust
     property, and to the duties incidental to the office of a personal
     representative.
     "trustee" includes—
          (a) a trustee corporation; and
          (b) any other corporation in which property subject to a
          trust is vested; and
          (c) any person who immediately before the commencement of
          this Act was a trustee of the settlement or in any way a
          trustee under the Settled Land Act 1886 and who, if that
          Act had not been repealed, would be such a trustee; and
          (d) a personal representative; and
          (e) a statutory trustee within the meaning of this Act.
     "trustee corporation" means the public trustee or a trustee company
     under the Trustee Companies Act 1968.
     "trust property" includes—
          (a) property settled on any trust, whether express,
          implied, resulting, bare, or constructive; and
          (b) property subject to a trust or direction for sale,
          however arising; and
          (c) land which is lawfully vested in any person for an
          estate for the person’s own or any other life, or for a
          term of years determinable on life not being a mere lease
          at rent, or for any greater estate not being a fee simple
          absolute; and
          (d) land in respect of which any person has, by virtue of
          any will, a personal licence to reside for the person’s
          own life, or for the life of any other person or persons,
          or for any lesser period.
Meaning of investment etc. on the security of property
*** 5A Meaning of investment etc. on the security of property ***
Any reference to the investment, loan or advance of trust money by a trustee on
the security of property shall be construed to include a reference to such
investment, loan or advance on the transfer of an existing security as well as
on a new security.
Exercise of powers
*** 6 Exercise of powers ***
     (1) Subject to section 31 (3), the powers by this Act conferred on a
     trustee may be exercised by, and the powers by this Act capable of
     being conferred by the court on a trustee may be conferred upon and,
     where conferred, may be exercised by, the following persons—
          (a) in respect of land which immediately before the
          commencement of this Act was settled land within the
          meaning of the Settled Land Act 1886 (
          "the repealed Act")—by the person being of full age and
          not a mentally ill person who was, or, if more than 1 by
          the persons being of full age and not mentally ill
          persons—
               (i) who were, in respect of that land, the tenant
               for life within the meaning of the repealed Act,
               or who had the powers of the tenant for life
               under the repealed Act; and
               (ii) who if that Act had not been repealed would
               be the tenant for life or have those powers;
          whether or not such powers were or any of such powers was
          exercisable only with the consent, approval or sanction of
          some other person or persons or of the court; but where,
          under the repealed Act, a power was exercisable by any
          person or persons only upon the written request of the
          tenant for life, then such person or persons shall have,
          and shall and may exercise, the powers conferred by this
          section upon the written request of the person who was
          tenant for life and who if that Act had not been repealed
          would be the tenant for life, but not otherwise;
          (b) in respect of any other land which is trust property—
               (i) if there is, apart from this Act, no trustee
               of the land—by the person or persons, not under
               a disability, for the time being beneficially
               entitled to possession thereof, or to the rents
               and profits therefrom; or
               (ii) if there is, apart from this Act, a trustee
               of the land—by the trustee; but the trustee
               shall, unless otherwise directed by the court,
               exercise the power conferred by section 32 to
               sell the land if so required in writing by the
               person (if not under a disability) or, if more
               than 1, all of the persons (if not under a
               disability) at that time beneficially entitled to
               an interest in possession in the land or under
               the trust of the land;
          (c) in respect of any land or other trust property not
          hereinbefore provided for—by the trustee (if any) of that
          land or other trust property;
          (d) in any case, or where the persons by whom, or at whose
          direction, the powers conferred by this section are
          exercisable do not agree—by such person or persons and in
          such manner as the court may order or direct on application
          thereto of any person who has, directly or indirectly, an
          interest, whether vested or contingent, in that property.
     (2) Where a trustee has, whether before or after the commencement of
     this Act, done any act which might lawfully have been done with the
     prior approval of the court or pursuant to a prior order of the court
     conferring power under this Act to do such act, the court may—
          (a) on the application of any trustee or person interested;
          and
          (b) after notice to such person or persons (if any) as to
          the court may seem requisite; and
          (c) on such terms or conditions as to the court may seem
          appropriate;
     make an order granting approval or conferring power under this Act to
     do such act, and may make such order retrospective to any prior date
     or period as to the court seems fit.
     (3) An order made pursuant to subsection (2) shall, subject to any
     term or condition imposed by the court, have the same force and
     effect as if the approval had been obtained or the power conferred
     before the doing of the act referred to in the order.
Exercise of powers by statutory trustee
*** 7 Exercise of powers by statutory trustee ***
Subject to any order or direction of the court, in exercising any power under
this Act, a statutory trustee—
     (a) shall have regard to the interests of all parties beneficially
     interested in the property;
     (b) shall be in the position of a trustee, and, in relation to the
     exercise of any power, have—
          (i) all the duties and liabilities of a trustee for the
          parties beneficially interested in the property; and
          (ii) all the rights of a trustee and be entitled to all the
          indemnities and protection of a trustee;
     (c) shall, in order to its being invested or otherwise applied in
     accordance with this Act, pay or procure the payment of any capital
     money arising on any sale, mortgage, or other dealing with any
     land—
          (i) into court; or
          (ii) to a trustee appointed by the court under section 80;
          or
          (iii) otherwise as the court may direct;
     (d) shall not, in relation to any such exercise of power, be liable
     to impeachment of waste.
Effect of exercise of powers
*** 7A Effect of exercise of powers ***
     (1) The exercise by a trustee of any power under this Act shall—
          (a) to the extent and in the manner to and in which it is
          expressed or intended to operate and can operate under this
          Act; and
          (b) subject to the requirements of any other Act;
     be effectual to dispose of any property thereby intended to be
     disposed of and to discharge the property from—
          (c) any limitations, restrictions, powers and provisions;
          and
          (d) any estates, interests or charges;
     to which the property, by reason of its character as such trust
     property, is or might otherwise become subject.
     (2) Nothing in this section affects—
          (a) any estate, interest or charge to which the property
          has or may become subject otherwise than by reason of its
          character as such trust property;
          (b) any estate, interest, charge, or right in or in respect
          of the property granted or created—
               (i) before the date of the disposition referred
               to in subsection (1); and
               (ii) by a person referred to in section 6 or by
               any predecessor in title of such person.
     (3) The exercise by a trustee of any power under this Act or of any
     like power conferred by the trust instrument—
          (a) shall not occasion any forfeiture;
          (b) shall not, except as provided by this Act, be capable
          of being restrained, prohibited, prevented or impaired by
          any provision of or limitation in, any contract, covenant,
          settlement, will, assurance or other instrument.
     (4) In this section—
     "dispose of" shall include any sale, exchange, partition, lease,
     mortgage, transfer or charge and the creation or grant of any right
     in or in respect of property.
Application to court to review acts and decisions
*** 8 Application to court to review acts and decisions ***
     (1) Any person who has, directly or indirectly, an interest, whether
     vested or contingent, in any trust property or who has a right of due
     administration in respect of any trust, and who is aggrieved by any
     act, omission or decision of a trustee or other person in the
     exercise of any power conferred by this Act or by law or by the
     instrument (if any) creating the trust, or who has reasonable grounds
     to apprehend any such act, omission or decision by which the person
     will be aggrieved, may apply to the court to review the act, omission
     or decision, or to give directions in respect of the apprehended act,
     omission or decision; and the court may require the trustee or other
     person to appear before it and to substantiate and uphold the grounds
     of the act, omission or decision which is being reviewed and may make
     such order in the premises (including such order as to costs) as the
     circumstances require.
     (2) An order of the court under subsection (1) shall not—
          (a) disturb any distribution of the trust property, made
          without breach of trust, before the trustee became aware of
          the making of the application to the court; or
          (b) affect any right acquired by any person in good faith
          and for valuable consideration.
     (3) Where any application is made under this section, the court
     may—
          (a) if any question of fact is involved—determine that
          question or give directions as to the manner in which that
          question shall be determined; and
          (b) if the court is being asked to make an order which may
          adversely affect the rights of any person who is not a
          party to the proceedings—direct that that person shall be
          made a party to the proceedings.
Effect of conversion of property under statutory power
*** 9 Effect of conversion of property under statutory power ***
Where in consequence of the exercise of any power under this Act realty is
converted into personalty or personalty is converted into realty, such
personalty or realty shall be held—
     (a) upon trusts corresponding as nearly as the law and circumstances
     permit with the trusts (if any) affecting the property prior to
     conversion; or
     (b) if there are no trusts—subject to limitations, conditions,
     powers, or directions corresponding as nearly as the law and
     circumstances permit with those affecting the property prior to
     conversion.
Application of part
*** 10 Application of part ***
Except where otherwise provided in this part, the provisions of this part shall
apply whether or not a contrary intention is expressed in the instrument (if
any) creating the trust.
Limitation of the number of trustees
*** 11 Limitation of the number of trustees ***
     (1) Where, at the commencement of this Act, there are more than 4
     trustees of any property no new trustees shall (except where as a
     result of the appointment the number is reduced to 4 or less) be
     capable of being appointed until the number is reduced to less than
     4, and thereafter the number shall not be increased beyond 4.
     (2) In the case of trusts made or coming into operation after the
     commencement of this Act—
          (a) the number of trustees thereof shall not in any case
          exceed 4, and where more than 4 persons are named as such
          trustees, the 4 first named (who are able and willing to
          act) shall alone be the trustees, and the other persons
          named shall not be trustees unless appointed on the
          occurrence of a vacancy;
          (b) the number of the trustees shall not be increased
          beyond 4.
     (3) Nothing in this section shall apply—
          (a) to property vested or to be vested in trustees for
          charitable purposes; or
          (b) to property vested or to be vested in trustees where
          the Minister has given a certificate in writing that the
          Minister approves of the number of trustees in whom the
          property is or is to be vested.
     (4) A custodian trustee shall not be counted as a trustee for the
     purpose of this section.
Power of appointing new trustees
*** 12 Power of appointing new trustees ***
     (1) Where a trustee, whether original or substituted, and whether
     appointed by the court or otherwise—
          (a) is dead; or
          (b) remains out of the State for more than 1 year without
          having properly delegated the execution of the trust; or
          (c) seeks to be discharged from all or any of the trusts or
          powers reposed in or conferred on the trustee; or
          (d) refuses to act therein; or
          (e) is unfit to act therein; or
          (f) is incapable of acting therein; or
          (g) is an infant; or
          (h) being a corporation, has ceased to carry on business,
          is under official management, is in liquidation or has been
          dissolved;
     then the person nominated for the purpose of appointing new trustees
     by the instrument (if any) creating the trust, or if there is no such
     person or no such person able and willing to act, then the surviving
     or continuing trustee or trustees for the time being, or the personal
     representative of the last surviving or continuing trustee, may by
     writing appoint a person or persons (whether or not being the person
     or persons exercising the power) to be a trustee or trustees in the
     place of the trustee first in this subsection mentioned.
     (2) On the appointment of a trustee or trustees for the whole or any
     part of the trust property—
          (a) the number of trustees may, subject to the restriction
          imposed by this Act on the number of trustees, be
          increased; and
          (b) a separate set of trustees may be appointed for any
          part of the trust property held on trusts distinct from
          those relating to any other part, and whether or not new
          trustees are or are to be appointed for any other part of
          the trust property; and any existing trustee may be
          appointed or remain 1 of the separate set of trustees; or
          if only 1 trustee were originally appointed, then 1
          separate trustee may be so appointed for the part of the
          trust first in this paragraph mentioned; and
          (c) it is not obligatory to fill up the original number of
          trustees where 2 or more trustees were originally
          appointed; but (except where only 1 trustee was originally
          appointed or where the trust instrument otherwise provides)
          a trustee is not discharged under this section unless—
               (i) in the case of any trust (including a trust
               referred to in subparagraph (ii))—there will
               remain either a trustee corporation or at least 2
               individuals to act as trustees of the trust; or
               (ii) in the case of a trust for any charitable or
               public purpose or for any purpose of recreation
               or other leisuretime use or occupation—there
               will remain a local government to act as trustee
               of the trust; and
          (d) any assurance or thing requisite for vesting the trust
          property, or any part thereof, jointly in the persons who
          are the trustees shall be executed or done.
     (3) Where a trustee has been removed under a power contained in the
     instrument creating the trust, a new trustee or new trustees may be
     appointed in the place of the trustee who is removed, as if that
     trustee were dead, or, in the case of a corporation, as if the
     corporation had been dissolved, and the provisions of this section
     shall apply accordingly.
     (4) The power of appointment given by subsection (1), or any similar
     previous enactment, to the personal representative of the last
     surviving or continuing trustee is and shall be deemed always to have
     been exercisable by the administrator for the time being of that
     trustee or the executor for the time being, whether original or by
     representation, of that surviving or continuing trustee who has
     proved the will of his or her testator without the concurrence of any
     executor who has renounced or has not proved.
     (5) Where, in the case of any trust, there are not more than 3
     trustees (none of them being a trustee corporation or a local
     government), then—
          (a) the person or persons nominated for the purpose of
          appointing new trustees by the instrument (if any) creating
          the trust; or
          (b) where there is no person nominated for the purpose of
          appointing new trustees by the instrument creating the
          trust, or no such person able and willing to act, then the
          trustee or trustees for the time being;
     may, by writing, appoint a person or persons (whether or not being
     the person or persons exercising the power) to be an additional
     trustee or additional trustees, but it shall not be obligatory to
     appoint any additional trustee unless the instrument (if any)
     creating the trust, or any statutory enactment, provides to the
     contrary; but (except where the Minister has given a certificate in
     writing that the Minister approves the appointment of the additional
     trustees) on any appointment of additional trustees under this
     subsection the number of trustees shall not be increased beyond 4.
     (6) Every new trustee appointed under this section has the same
     powers, authorities, and discretions and may in every respect act, as
     if the new trustee had originally been appointed a trustee by the
     instrument (if any) creating the trust, both before and after all the
     trust property becomes by law or by assurance or otherwise vested in
     the trustee.
     (7) The provisions of this section which are brought into effect by
     the circumstance that a person nominated trustee (whether sole or
     otherwise) in a will is dead are brought into effect whether the
     death of that person occurred before or after the death of the
     testator; and the provisions relative to a continuing trustee relate
     also to a refusing or retiring trustee, if willing to act in the
     execution of the provisions of this section.
     (8) The provisions of this section relating to a person nominated for
     the purpose of appointing new trustees apply whether the appointment
     is made in a case specified in this section or in a case specified in
     the instrument (if any) creating the trust, but where a new trustee
     is appointed under this section in a case specified in that
     instrument, the appointment shall be subject to the terms applicable
     to an appointment in that case under the provisions of that
     instrument.
     (9) In this section—
     "trustee" does not include a personal representative as such.
     (10) In this section—
     "trustee corporation" —
          (a) includes the public trustee of another State, or a
          person in that State discharging functions similar to the
          public trustee of this State;
          (b) includes a trustee corporation authorised by the laws
          of another State to administer the estate of deceased
          persons and other trust estates.
Evidence as to a vacancy in a trust
*** 13 Evidence as to a vacancy in a trust ***
     (1) Where any instrument appointing a new trustee contains a
     statement as to how a vacancy in the office of trustee occurred, that
     statement is conclusive evidence, in favour of a subsequent purchaser
     in good faith, of the circumstances under which the vacancy occurred.
     (2) Any vesting of trust property consequent upon an appointment of a
     new trustee containing a statement as to how a vacancy in the office
     of trustee occurred is valid in favour of any subsequent purchaser in
     good faith.
     (3) The protection afforded to a purchaser by this section extends to
     the registrar or other person registering or certifying title.
     (4) This section applies to instruments of appointment signed either
     before or after the commencement of this Act.
Retirement of trustee without a new appointment
*** 14 Retirement of trustee without a new appointment ***
     (1) This section applies where a trustee declares by writing that the
     trustee is desirous of being discharged from all or any or any part
     of the trusts reposed in the trustee, and after the trustee’s
     discharge there will be a trustee corporation or at least 2
     individuals to act as trustees to perform the trust or part of the
     trust from which that trustee desires to be discharged.
     (2) In any case to which this section applies, if the co-trustees and
     such other person (if any) as is empowered to appoint trustees
     consent by writing to the discharge of the trustee, and to the
     vesting in the co-trustees alone of the trust property, the trustee
     desirous of being discharged—
          (a) shall be deemed to have retired from the trusts from
          which the trustee has declared the trustee desires to be
          discharged; and
          (b) shall, by the writing by which consent is given to the
          trustee’s discharge, be discharged from the trusts under
          this Act;
     without any new trustee being appointed in his or her place.
Vesting of trust property in new and continuing trustees
*** 15 Vesting of trust property in new and continuing trustees ***
     (1) Where a new trustee is appointed the instrument of appointment
     vests, subject to the provisions of any other Act, the trust property
     in the persons who become and are the trustees as joint tenants
     without any conveyance, transfer or assignment.
     (2) Where a trustee is discharged in accordance with the provisions
     of section 14 the instrument of discharge divests the trust property
     from the discharged trustee and, subject to the provisions of any
     other Act, vests it in the continuing trustees as joint tenants
     without any conveyance, transfer or assignment.
     (3) Where, by reason of the provisions of any other Act or for the
     protection of any trust property, it is requisite that the vesting in
     a new trustee or divesting from a discharged trustee should be
     notified to or registered or recorded by the registrar or other
     person having the duty or function of registering or recording any
     discharge or appointment of trustees or divesting or vesting or other
     dealings under that Act, the trustees shall—
          (a) execute and produce to the registrar or such other
          person such instrument or instruments as may be necessary;
          and
          (b) do such other act or acts as may properly be required
          by the registrar or such other person;
     for the purpose of effecting such notification, registration or
     recording; and an instrument of appointment or discharge shall be
     deemed a conveyance from the persons in whom the trust property was
     previously vested to the persons in whom it vests by virtue of such
     instrument.
     (4) Where trust property has vested in the public trustee pursuant to
     section 16 (2) it shall not be necessary to notify, register or
     record such vesting if the public trustee has not acted in regard to
     the trusts or if the only action taken by the public trustee has been
     the appointment of a new trustee.
     (5) Where the consent of any person is requisite to the conveyance,
     transfer or assignment of any trust property the vesting of that
     property in accordance with the provisions of this section is subject
     to that consent; but the consent may be obtained after the execution
     of the instrument of appointment or discharge by the persons who are
     then trustees.
     (6) An instrument of appointment or discharge shall not operate as a
     breach of covenant or condition or occasion any forfeiture of any
     lease, underlease, agreement for lease, or other property.
Devolution of trust assets and trust powers upon death
*** 16 Devolution of trust assets and trust powers upon death ***
     (1) Where a power or trust is given to or imposed on 2 or more
     trustees jointly, the same may be exercised or performed by the
     survivors or survivor of them for the time being.
     (2) Upon the death of a sole trustee or, where there were 2 or more
     trustees, of the last surviving or continuing trustee, the trust
     property shall devolve to and vest in the public trustee and shall
     remain vested in the public trustee until—
          (a) an appointment of a new trustee is made and (unless the
          appointment is made by the public trustee) notice in
          writing of the appointment is given to the public trustee,
          whereupon the trust property shall devolve to and vest in
          the person so appointed subject to and in accordance with
          the provisions of section 15; or
          (b) if no such appointment is made—a grant of probate or
          letters of administration of the estate of the deceased
          trustee is made and notice in writing of such grant and of
          his or her intention to assume the trust of the trust
          property is given to the public trustee by the person to
          whom the grant was made, whereupon the trust property shall
          devolve to and vest in such person who shall be deemed to
          be the person appointed by the person nominated for the
          purpose of appointing new trustees.
     (3) Trust property vested by virtue of this section in the public
     trustee shall vest in the public trustee, notwithstanding the fact
     that no instrument has been executed appointing the public trustee as
     trustee, in the like manner and subject to the same provisions as
     trust property which vests in a new trustee by virtue of section 15.
     (4) Trust property vested by virtue of this section in a person to
     whom a grant of probate or letters of administration of the estate of
     a deceased trustee has been made shall vest in the person in like
     manner and subject to the same provisions as trust property which
     vests in a new trustee by virtue of section 15.
     (5) While the trust property is vested in the public trustee under
     this section the public trustee shall have the same powers,
     authorities and discretions, and may in every respect act, as if the
     public trustee had originally been appointed a trustee by the
     instrument (if any) creating the trust; but unless the court, in
     special circumstances, otherwise directs it shall not be obligatory
     for the public trustee to exercise any of such powers, authorities or
     discretions.
     (6) Where the trust property vests by virtue of this section in the
     person to whom a grant of probate or letters of administration of the
     estate of the deceased trustee is made that person shall have all the
     powers, authorities and discretions and in every respect act as if
     the person had originally been appointed a trustee by the instrument
     (if any) creating the trust.
     (7) Where by virtue of this section trust property is divested from
     the public trustee in consequence of an appointment of a new trustee
     or a grant of probate or letters of administration of the estate of
     the deceased trustee all liability on the part of the public trustee
     (other than liability for which the public trustee is not entitled to
     be indemnified out of the trust property) in respect of any action
     taken by the public trustee with regard to the trust property shall
     cease; but any person who, but for this provision, would have had a
     remedy against the public trustee shall have the like remedy against
     the person in whom the trust property has vested pursuant to such
     appointment of new trustee or grant of probate or letters of
     administration.
     (8) Nothing in this section shall deprive the public trustee of any
     power which the public trustee has or may exercise under the Public
     Trustee Act 1978, section 62.
     (9) In this section—
     "trustee" does not include a personal representative as such.
     "trust property" includes any property vested in the trustee as
     mortgagee.
Devolution of mortgage estates on death
*** 17 Devolution of mortgage estates on death ***
     (1) An estate or interest in property vested solely in any person
     (not being a trustee) by way of mortgage shall upon the person’s
     death devolve to and vest in the public trustee until a grant of
     probate or letters of administration to the estate of the deceased
     mortgagee is made when the mortgaged property shall devolve to and
     vest in the person to whom the grant is made.
     (2) While the property is vested in the public trustee under this
     section the public trustee shall have the same powers, authorities
     and discretions and may in every respect act, as if the public
     trustee were originally the mortgagee of the property.
     (3) Nothing in this section shall deprive the public trustee of any
     power which the public trustee has or may exercise under the Public
     Trustee Act 1978, section 61.
Disclaimer of trusts on renunciation of probate
*** 18 Disclaimer of trusts on renunciation of probate ***
     (1) Where a person appointed by will both executor and trustee
     thereof renounces probate, or after being duly cited or summoned
     fails to apply for probate, the renunciation or failure shall be
     deemed to be a disclaimer of the trust contained in the will.
     (2) Where any person appointed by will both executor and trustee
     thereof—
          (a) renounces probate; or
          (b) after being duly cited or summoned fails to apply for
          probate; or
          (c) dies before probate is granted to the person;
     and letters of administration with the will annexed are granted to
     any other person, the person who obtains the grant shall, by virtue
     of the grant and without further appointment, be deemed to be
     appointed trustee of the will in the place of the person who was
     appointed by the will.
Custodian trustees
*** 19 Custodian trustees ***
     (1) Subject to the provisions of this section and to the instrument
     (if any) creating the trust, any corporation may be appointed to be
     custodian trustee of any trust in any case where, and in the same
     manner as, it could be appointed to be trustee.
     (2) Subject to the provisions of the instrument (if any) creating the
     trust, where a custodian trustee is appointed of any trust—
          (a) the trust property shall be vested in the custodian
          trustee as if the custodian trustee were the sole trustee,
          and for that purpose vesting orders may, where necessary,
          be made under this Act; and
          (b) the management of the trust property and the exercise
          of all powers and discretions exercisable by the trustee
          under the trust shall be and remain vested in managing
          trustees other than the custodian trustee (
          "the managing trustees") as fully and effectually as if
          there were no custodian trustee; and
          (c) the sole function of the custodian trustee shall be to
          get in and hold the trust property and invest its funds and
          dispose of the assets as the managing trustees in writing
          direct, for which purpose the custodian trustee shall
          execute all such documents and perform all such acts as the
          managing trustees in writing direct; and
          (d) for the purposes of paragraph (c), a direction given by
          the majority of the managing trustees, where there are more
          than 1, shall be deemed to be given by all the managing
          trustees; and
          (e) the custodian trustee shall not be liable for acting on
          any direction to which paragraph (c) refers; but if the
          custodian trustee is of opinion that any such direction
          conflicts with the trusts or the law, or exposes the
          custodian trustee to any liability, or is otherwise
          objectionable, the custodian trustee may apply to the court
          for directions in the matter; and any order giving
          directions shall bind both the custodian trustee and the
          managing trustees; and the court may make such order as to
          costs as it thinks proper; and
          (f) the custodian trustee shall not be liable for any act
          or default on the part of any of the managing trustees; and
          (g) all actions and proceedings touching or concerning the
          trust property shall be brought or defended in the name of
          the custodian trustee at the written direction of the
          managing trustees, and the custodian trustee shall not be
          liable for the costs thereof apart from any payable out of
          the trust property; and
          (h) a person dealing with the custodian trustee shall not
          be concerned to inquire as to any direction, concurrence or
          otherwise of the managing trustees or be affected by notice
          of the fact that the managing trustees have not concurred;
          and
          (i) the power of appointing new trustees, when exercisable
          by the trustee, shall be exercisable by the managing
          trustees alone, but the custodian trustee shall have the
          same power as any other trustee of applying to the court
          for the appointment of a new trustee.
     (3) On the application of the custodian trustee or of any of the
     managing trustees or of any beneficiary and on satisfactory proof
     that it is the general wish of the beneficiaries or that on other
     grounds it is expedient to terminate the custodian trusteeship, the
     court may make an order for that purpose and may also make such
     vesting orders and give such directions as in the circumstances seem
     to the court to be necessary or expedient.
Application of particular provisions
*** 20 Application of particular provisions ***
Sections 29 to 30C apply despite anything contained in the instrument creating
the trust.
Power of trustee to invest
*** 21 Power of trustee to invest ***
A trustee may, unless expressly forbidden by the instrument creating the
trust—
     (a) invest trust funds in any form of investment; and
     (b) at any time, vary an investment or realise an investment of trust
     funds and reinvest an amount resulting from the realisation in any
     form of investment.
Duties of trustee in relation to power of investment
*** 22 Duties of trustee in relation to power of investment ***
     (1) A trustee must, in exercising a power of investment—
          (a) if the trustee’s profession, business or employment
          is, or includes, acting as a trustee or investing money for
          other persons—exercise the care, diligence and skill a
          prudent person engaged in that profession, business or
          employment would exercise in managing the affairs of other
          persons; or
          (b) if the trustee’s profession, business or employment
          is not, or does not include, acting as a trustee or
          investing money for other persons—exercise the care,
          diligence and skill a prudent person of business would
          exercise in managing the affairs of other persons.
     (2) A trustee must, in exercising a power of investment, comply with
     a provision of the instrument creating the trust that is binding on
     the trustee and requires the obtaining of a consent or approval or
     compliance with a direction for trust investments.
     (3) A trustee must, at least once in each year, review the
     performance, individually and as a whole, of trust investments.
Law and equity preserved
*** 23 Law and equity preserved ***
     (1) A rule or principle of law or equity imposing a duty on a trustee
     exercising a power of investment continues to apply except so far as
     it is inconsistent with this or another Act or the instrument
     creating the trust.
     (2) Without limiting the rules or principles mentioned in subsection
     (1), they include a rule or principle imposing—
          (a) a duty to exercise the powers of a trustee in the best
          interests of all present and future beneficiaries of the
          trust; and
          (b) a duty to invest trust funds in investments that are
          not speculative or hazardous; and
          (c) a duty to act impartially towards beneficiaries and
          between different classes of beneficiaries; and
          (d) a duty to obtain advice.
     (3) A rule or principle of law or equity relating to a provision in
     an instrument creating a trust that purports to exempt, limit the
     liability of, or indemnify a trustee in relation to a breach of
     trust, continues to apply.
     (4) If a trustee is under a duty to obtain advice, the reasonable
     cost of obtaining the advice is payable out of trust funds.
Matters to which trustee must have regard in exercising power of investment
*** 24 Matters to which trustee must have regard in exercising power of
investment ***
     (1) Without limiting the matters a trustee may take into account when
     exercising a power of investment, a trustee must, so far as they are
     appropriate to the circumstances of the trust, have regard to the
     following matters—
          (a) the purposes of the trust and the needs and
          circumstances of the beneficiaries;
          (b) the desirability of diversifying trust investments;
          (c) the nature of and risk associated with existing trust
          investments and other trust property;
          (d) the need to maintain the real value of the capital or
          income of the trust;
          (e) the risk of capital or income loss or depreciation;
          (f) the potential for capital appreciation;
          (g) the likely income return and the timing of income
          return;
          (h) the length of the term of the proposed investment;
          (i) the probable duration of the trust;
          (j) the liquidity and marketability of the proposed
          investment during, and at the end of, the term of the
          proposed investment;
          (k) the total value of the trust estate;
          (l) the effect of the proposed investment for the tax
          liability of the trust;
          (m) the likelihood of inflation affecting the value of the
          proposed investment or other trust property;
          (n) the cost (including commissions, fees, charges and
          duties payable) of making the proposed investment;
          (o) the results of a review of existing trust investments.
     (2) A trustee—
          (a) may obtain, and if obtained must consider, independent
          and impartial advice reasonably required for the investment
          of trust funds or the management of the investment from a
          person whom the trustee reasonably believes to be competent
          to give the advice; and
          (b) may pay out of trust funds the reasonable costs of
          obtaining the advice.
Powers of trustee in relation to securities
*** 25 Powers of trustee in relation to securities ***
     (1) If securities of a corporation are subject to a trust, the
     trustee may agree to a scheme or arrangement—
          (a) for or arising out of the reconstruction, reduction of
          capital or liquidation of, or the issue of shares by, the
          corporation; or
          (b) for the sale of all or part of the property and
          undertaking of the corporation to another corporation; or
          (c) for the acquisition of securities of the corporation,
          or of control of the corporation, by another corporation;
          or
          (d) for the amalgamation of the corporation with another
          corporation; or
          (e) for the release, modification or variation of rights,
          privileges or liabilities attached to the securities, or
          any of them;
     in the same way as if the trustee were beneficially entitled to the
     securities.
     (2) The trustee may accept instead of, or in exchange for, the
     securities subject to the trust, securities of any denomination or
     description of another corporation that is party to the scheme or
     arrangement.
     (3) If a conditional or preferential right to subscribe for
     securities in a corporation is offered to a trustee for a holding in
     that corporation or another corporation, the trustee may, for all or
     any of the securities—
          (a) exercise the right and apply capital money subject to
          the trust in payment of the consideration; or
          (b) assign to any person, including a beneficiary under the
          trust, the benefit of the right, or the title to the right,
          for the best consideration that can be reasonably obtained;
          or
          (c) renounce the right.
     (4) A trustee accepting or subscribing for securities under this
     section is, for any provision of this part, exercising a power of
     investment.
     (5) A trustee may retain securities accepted or subscribed for under
     this section for any period for which the trustee could properly have
     retained the original securities.
     (6) The consideration for an assignment made under subsection (3) (b)
     must be held as capital of the trust.
     (7) This section applies to securities whether acquired before or
     after the commencement of this section.
Investment in securities under RITS
*** 26 Investment in securities under RITS ***
     (1) A chose in action arising under RITS that entitles its holder to
     a security of a particular description (the
     "underlying security") is, for this Act and the instrument creating a
     trust, taken to be the same in all respects as the underlying
     security.
     (2) The holding or acquisition by a trustee of a chose in action
     mentioned in subsection (1) is taken to be an investment by the
     trustee in the underlying security.
     (3) It does not matter that the right conferred by the chose in
     action is a right in relation to securities of a particular
     description and not in relation to particular securities.
     (4) In this section—
     "RITS" means the Reserve Bank of Australia’s Information and
     Transfer System, as operating from time to time.
Power of trustee as to calls on shares
*** 27 Power of trustee as to calls on shares ***
A trustee may—
     (a) apply capital money subject to a trust in payment of calls on
     shares subject to the same trust; and
     (b) if the trustee is a trustee corporation, exercise the power
     conferred by paragraph (a) despite the shares on which the calls are
     made being shares in the trustee corporation.
Power to purchase dwelling house as residence for beneficiary
*** 28 Power to purchase dwelling house as residence for beneficiary ***
     (1) A trustee may—
          (a) purchase a dwelling house for a beneficiary to use as a
          residence; or
          (b) enter into an agreement or arrangement to secure for a
          beneficiary a right to use a dwelling house as a residence.
     (2) Despite the terms of the instrument creating the trust, a trustee
     may, if to do so would not unfairly prejudice the interests of other
     beneficiaries, retain as part of the trust property a dwelling house
     for a beneficiary to use as a residence.
     (3) A dwelling house purchased, retained or otherwise secured for use
     by the beneficiary as a residence may be made available to the
     beneficiary for that purpose on the conditions consistent with the
     trust and the extent of the beneficiary’s interest that the trustee
     considers appropriate.
     (4) The trustee may retain a dwelling house or an interest or rights
     in a dwelling house acquired under this section after the use of the
     dwelling house by the beneficiary has ended.
     (5) In this section—
     "dwelling house" includes—
          (a) a building or part of a building designed, or converted
          or capable of being converted, for use as a residence; and
          (b) amenities or facilities for use in association with the
          use of a dwelling house.
Power of trustee to retain investments
*** 29 Power of trustee to retain investments ***
A trustee is not liable for breach of trust only because the trustee continues
to hold an investment that has stopped being an investment—
     (a) authorised by the instrument creating the trust; or
     (b) properly made by the trustee exercising a power of investment; or
     (c) made under this part as previously in force from time to time; or
     (d) authorised by another Act or the general law.
Loans and investments by trustees not breaches of trust in particular
circumstances
*** 30 Loans and investments by trustees not breaches of trust in particular
circumstances ***
     (1) If a trustee lends an amount on the security of property, the
     trustee is not in breach of trust only on the ground of the
     comparison of the amount of the loan with the value of the property
     at the time when the loan was made—
          (a) if it appears to the court that—
               (i) in making the loan, the trustee was acting on
               a report about the value of the property made by
               a person whom the trustee reasonably believed to
               be competent to give the report and whom the
               trustee instructed and employed independently of
               any owner of the property; and
               (ii) the amount of the loan was not more than
               two-thirds of the value of the property as stated
               in the report; and
               (iii) the loan was made in reliance on the
               report; or
          (b) if the trustee is insured by an entity prescribed under
          a regulation carrying on the business of insurance against
          all loss that may arise because of the default of the
          borrower.
     (2) If a trustee lends an amount on the security of leasehold
     property, the trustee is not in breach of trust only because the
     trustee dispensed, either completely or in part, with the production
     or investigation of the lessee’s title when making the loan.
     (3) This section applies to transfers of existing securities as well
     as to new securities and to investments whether made before or after
     the commencement of this section.
Limitation of liability of trustee for loss on improper investments
*** 30A Limitation of liability of trustee for loss on improper investments ***
     (1) If a trustee improperly lends trust money on a security that
     would have been a proper investment if the amount lent had been less
     than the actual amount lent—
          (a) the security is to be taken to be a proper investment
          in relation to the lesser amount; and
          (b) the trustee is only liable to make good the difference
          between the amount advanced and the smaller amount, with
          interest.
     (2) This section applies to investments whether made before or after
     the commencement of this section.
Court may take into account investment strategy etc. in action for breach of
trust
*** 30B Court may take into account investment strategy etc. in action for
breach of trust ***
In a proceeding against a trustee for a breach of trust in relation to a duty
under this part relating to the trustee’s power of investment, the court may,
when considering the question of the trustee’s liability, take into account
the following matters—
     (a) the nature and purpose of the trust;
     (b) whether the trustee had regard to the matters set out in section
     24 so far as they are appropriate to the circumstances of the trust;
     (c) whether the trust investments have been made under an investment
     strategy formulated in accordance with the duty of a trustee under
     this part;
     (d) the extent the trustee acted on the independent and impartial
     advice of a person competent, or apparently competent, to give the
     advice.
Power of court to set off gains and losses arising from investment
*** 30C Power of court to set off gains and losses arising from investment ***
     (1) The court may, when considering an action for breach of trust
     arising out of or in relation to an investment by a trustee where a
     loss has been or is expected to be sustained by the trust, set off
     all or part of the loss resulting from the investment against all or
     part of the gain resulting from any other investment whether in
     breach of trust or not.
     (2) The power of set off conferred by subsection (1) is in addition
     to any other power or entitlement to set off all or part of any loss
     against any property.
Application of part
*** 31 Application of part ***
     (1) Except where otherwise provided in this part, the provisions of
     this part shall apply whether or not a contrary intention is
     expressed in the instrument (if any) creating the trust.
     (2) The powers conferred on a trustee by this part are exercisable by
     the trustee notwithstanding any lapse of time, or that all the
     beneficiaries are absolutely entitled to the trust property and are
     not under a disability, except so far as such powers are expressly
     revoked by all such beneficiaries by notice in writing to the
     trustee.
     (3) A statutory trustee shall not, except with the sanction of the
     court, exercise any of the powers conferred by section 32 (1), other
     than the power conferred by section 32 (1) (d), or by section 45.
Powers to sell, exchange, partition, postpone, lease etc.
*** 32 Powers to sell, exchange, partition, postpone, lease etc. ***
     (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, every trustee, in
     respect of any trust property, may—
          (a) sell the property or any part of the property;
          (b) dispose of the property by way of exchange for other
          property in the State of a like nature and a like or better
          tenure, or, where the property consists of an undivided
          share, concur in the partition of the property in which the
          share is held, and give or take any property by way of
          equality of exchange or partition;
          (c) postpone the sale, calling in, and conversion of any
          property that the trustee has a duty to sell, other than
          property that is of a wasting, speculative or reversionary
          nature;
          (d) let or sublet the property at a reasonable rent for any
          term not exceeding 1 year, or from year to year, or for a
          weekly, monthly, or other like tenancy or at will; or enter
          into any sharefarming agreement with respect to the
          property on reasonable terms for any period not exceeding 1
          year; and renew any such lease or tenancy or sharefarming
          agreement;
          (e) grant a lease or sublease of the property for any term
          not exceeding—
               (i) in the case of a building lease—30 years;
               or
               (ii) in the case of any other lease (including a
               mining lease)—21 years;
          to take effect in possession within 1 year next after the
          date of the grant of the lease or sublease at a reasonable
          rent, with or without a fine, premium or foregift, any of
          which if taken shall be deemed to be part of and an
          accretion to the rental, and shall, as between the persons
          beneficially entitled to the rental, be considered as
          accruing from day to day and be apportioned over the term
          of the lease or sublease;
          (f) at any time during the currency of a lease of the
          property, reduce the rent or otherwise vary or modify the
          terms thereof, or accept, or concur or join with any other
          person in accepting, the surrender of any lease.
     (2) Any trustee may, on such conditions as the trustee thinks proper,
     rescind, cancel, modify or vary any contract or agreement for the
     sale and purchase of any land, or agree to do so, or compromise with
     or make allowances to any person with whom such a contract or
     agreement has been made, or who is the assignee thereof in respect of
     any unpaid purchase money secured on mortgage or otherwise; and
     without prejudice to the generality of this subsection, a trustee
     may, by writing, waive or vary any right exercisable by the trustee
     that arises from a failure to comply at or within the proper time
     with any term of any agreement for sale, mortgage, lease, or other
     contract.
     (3) In exercising any power of leasing or subleasing conferred by
     this section or by the instrument (if any) creating the trust, a
     trustee may—
          (a) grant to the lessee or sublessee a right of renewal for
          1 or more terms, at a rent to be fixed or made
          ascertainable in a manner specified in the original lease
          or the original sublease, but so that the aggregate
          duration of the original and of the renewal terms shall not
          exceed the maximum single term that could be granted in the
          exercise of the power; or
          (b) grant a lease with an optional or compulsory purchasing
          clause; or
          (c) grant to the lessee or sublessee a right to claim
          compensation for improvements made or to be made by the
          lessee or sublessee in, upon or about the property which is
          leased or subleased.
     (4) Where there is a power (whether statutory or otherwise) to
     postpone the sale of any land or authorised investment that a trustee
     has a duty to sell by reason only of a trust or direction for sale,
     then, subject to any express direction to the contrary in the
     instrument (if any) creating the trust, the trustee shall not be in
     any way liable merely for postponing the sale in the exercise of the
     trustee’s discretion for an indefinite and unlimited period,
     whether or not that period exceeds the period during which the trust
     or direction for sale remains valid; nor shall a purchaser of the
     land or authorised investment be in any case concerned with any
     directions respecting a sale; but nothing in this subsection applies
     to any property of a wasting or speculative nature.
Miscellaneous powers in respect of property
*** 33 Miscellaneous powers in respect of property ***
     (1) Every trustee, in respect of any trust property, may—
          (a) expend money (including capital money) subject to the
          same trusts for the repair, maintenance, upkeep or
          renovation of the property, whether or not the work is
          necessary for the purpose of salvage of the property; and
          (b) expend money (including capital money) subject to the
          same trusts, but not, except with the sanction of the
          court, exceeding $10,000 in the improvement or development
          of the property; and
          (c) expend money (including capital money) subject to the
          same trusts, in payment of calls on shares subject to those
          trusts; and
          (d) pay out of money (including capital money) subject to
          the same trusts any rates, premiums, taxes, assessments,
          insurance premiums and other outgoings in respect of the
          property; and
          (e) where the property is land—subdivide or apply for
          approval to subdivide the land into blocks and for that
          purpose construct and dedicate all such roads, streets,
          access ways, service lanes and footpaths and make all such
          reserves, and do all such other things and pay all such
          money (including capital money), as the trustee thinks
          necessary or as are required by, or under, any Act or local
          law relating to subdivisions; and
          (f) pay out of money (including capital money) subject to
          the same trusts such sum as the trustee thinks reasonable
          by way of expenditure upon or contribution toward the
          construction and maintenance of such roads, streets, access
          ways, service lanes, and footpaths, and such sewerage,
          water, electricity, drainage and other works as are in the
          opinion of the trustee likely to be beneficial to the
          property, notwithstanding that they are intended to be
          constructed wholly or partly on land not subject to the
          same trusts and dedicate land subject to the same trusts as
          roads, streets, accessways, service lanes and footpaths
          where in the trustee’s opinion it is likely to be
          beneficial to the property; and
          (g) subject to this Act and to any direction of the court,
          apportion any payment or expenditure made in pursuance of
          paragraphs (a) to (f) between capital and income or
          otherwise among the persons entitled thereto in such manner
          as the trustee considers equitable, with power, where the
          whole or part of the payment or expenditure is made out of
          capital moneys, to recoup capital from subsequent income,
          if that course would be equitable in all the circumstances;
          and
          (h) grant easements and profits a prendre and enter into
          party wall agreements and agreements that relate to
          fencing, and execute all necessary documents to give effect
          thereto; and
          (i) as mortgagor or mortgagee, agree to the renewal,
          extension or variation of the mortgage for such period and
          on such terms and conditions as the trustee thinks fit;
          but—
               (i) the powers conferred by this paragraph may be
               exercised by a trustee as mortgagor for the
               purpose of raising additional money on the
               security of a mortgage of any property, where the
               trustee would have power under section 45 to
               raise money by a mortgage of the property, and
               not otherwise; and
               (ii) nothing in this paragraph authorises any
               trustee to advance money on the security of any
               mortgage that would not be an authorised
               investment in respect of the amount advanced; and
          (j) make such inquiries, by way of advertisement or
          otherwise, as the trustee thinks necessary for the purpose
          of ascertaining the next of kin or beneficiaries; and
          (k) where the property includes a life policy and there is
          no money or insufficient money available for the payment of
          premiums on the policy, surrender the policy for money or
          accept instead of the policy a fully paid-up policy or vary
          the terms of the policy in such manner as the trustee
          thinks fit; and
          (l) appropriate any part of the property in or towards
          satisfaction of any legacy payable thereout or in or
          towards satisfaction of any share of the trust property
          (whether settled, contingent or absolute) to which any
          person is entitled, and for that purpose value the whole or
          any part of the property in accordance with section 51;
          but—
               (i) the appropriation shall not be made so as to
               affect adversely any specific gift; and
               (ii) before any such appropriation is effectual,
               notice thereof shall be given to all persons not
               under a disability who are interested in the
               appropriation, and to the parent or guardian of
               any infant who is interested in the
               appropriation, and to the person having the care
               and management of the estate of any person who is
               not of full mental capacity, and any such person
               may within 1 month after receipt of the notice
               or, upon the person’s application to the court
               within that month, within such extended period as
               the court may allow, apply to the court to vary
               the appropriation, and the appropriation shall be
               conclusive save as varied by the court; and
          (m) where provision is made in any instrument creating a
          trust for payment of an annuity or other periodic payment,
          and notwithstanding that the annuity or payment may by the
          instrument be charged upon the trust property or upon any
          part thereof—set aside and appropriate out of property
          available for payment of the annuity and invest a sum
          sufficient in the opinion of the trustee at the time of
          appropriation to provide out of the income thereof the
          amount required to pay the annuity or periodic payment, and
          so that after the appropriation shall have been made—
               (i) the annuitant shall have the same right of
               recourse to the capital and income of the
               appropriated sum as the annuitant would have had
               against the trust property if no appropriation
               had been made; and
               (ii) the trustee may forthwith distribute the
               residue of the trust property and the income
               thereof (which residue and income shall no longer
               be liable for the annuity) in accordance with the
               trusts declared of and concerning the same; and
          (n) do or omit all acts and things, and execute all
          instruments necessary to carry into effect the powers and
          authorities given by this Act or by or under the instrument
          creating the trust.
     (2) Nothing in subsection (1) (l) shall be read as requiring a
     trustee to give to himself or herself, in some other capacity, notice
     of an appropriation; but, where a trustee would, but for this
     subsection, be obliged to give to himself or herself such a notice,
     the appropriation is not effectual until it has been approved by all
     the beneficiaries being persons not under a disability, or by the
     court on the ex parte application of the trustee or otherwise.
     (3) Any notice which is to be served in accordance with subsection
     (1) (l) may be served—
          (a) by delivering it to the person for whom it is intended
          or by sending it by prepaid registered letter addressed to
          that person at the person’s usual or last known place of
          abode or business; or
          (b) in such other manner as may be directed by the court.
     (4) Where a notice is sent by post as provided by this section, it
     shall be deemed to be served at the time at which the letter would
     have been delivered in the ordinary course of post.
     (5) Where a trustee desires to distribute, under the provisions of
     subsection (1) (m) (ii), any land subject to the provisions of the
     Land Title Act 1994, or any other Act, the trustee shall in writing
     notify the registrar or other person (if any) having the duty or
     function of registering or recording dealings under such Act, that
     the land is, by reason of an appropriation made in pursuance of
     subsection (1) (m) (ii), distributable, and the registrar or such
     other person shall not be concerned to make any inquiry as to the
     sufficiency of the appropriated sum.
Power of trustee to sell by auction etc.
*** 34 Power of trustee to sell by auction etc. ***
     (1) A trustee may sell or concur with any other person in selling all
     or any part of the trust property, either subject to prior
     encumbrances or not, and either together or in lots, by public
     auction, by public tender or by private contract, subject to any such
     conditions respecting title or evidence of title or other matters as
     the trustee thinks fit, with power to vary any contract for sale, and
     to buy in at any auction, or to rescind any contract for sale and to
     resell, without being answerable for any loss.
     (2) A trust or power to sell or dispose of land includes a trust or
     power to sell or dispose of part thereof, whether the division is
     horizontal, vertical or made in any other way; and also includes a
     trust or power to sell or dispose of any building, fixture, timber or
     other thing affixed to the soil apart and separately from the land
     itself.
     (3) If a trustee joins with any other person in selling trust
     property and other property, the purchase money shall be apportioned
     in or before the contract of sale, and a separate receipt shall be
     given by the trustee for the apportioned share; but a contravention
     of this subsection does not invalidate and shall not be deemed to
     have invalidated any instrument intended to affect or evidence the
     title to the trust property, and no person being a purchaser, lessee,
     mortgagee, or other person who, in good faith and for valuable
     consideration, acquires the trust property or an interest in it or a
     charge over it, and neither the registrar of titles nor any other
     person registering or certifying title, shall be affected by notice
     of, or be concerned to inquire whether there has been, a
     contravention of this subsection.
Power to sell subject to depreciatory conditions
*** 35 Power to sell subject to depreciatory conditions ***
     (1) A sale by a trustee shall not be impeached by any beneficiary
     upon the ground that any of the conditions subject to which the sale
     was made may have been unnecessarily depreciatory, unless it also
     appears that the consideration for the sale was thereby rendered
     inadequate.
     (2) A sale by a trustee shall not, after the execution of the
     conveyance or transfer, be impeached as against the purchaser, upon
     the ground that any of the conditions subject to which the sale was
     made may have been unnecessarily depreciatory, unless it appears that
     the purchaser was acting in collusion with the trustee at the time
     when the contract for sale was made.
     (3) A purchaser, upon any sale by a trustee, shall not be at liberty
     to make any objection against the title upon any of the grounds in
     this section mentioned.
Mortgage on sale of land
*** 36 Mortgage on sale of land ***
     (1) Where a trustee sells land for an estate in fee simple, the
     trustee may, where the proceeds are liable to be invested, contract
     that the payment of any part, not exceeding two-thirds of the
     purchase money shall be secured by a first legal or first statutory
     mortgage of the land sold, with or without the security of any other
     property, and the mortgage shall, if any buildings or other
     improvements are comprised in the mortgage, contain a covenant by the
     mortgagor to keep them insured against loss or damage by fire and by
     storm and tempest to their full insurable value.
     (2) The trustee shall not be bound to obtain any report as to the
     value of the land or other property to be comprised in such a
     mortgage as is mentioned in subsection (1), or any advice as to the
     making of the loan, and shall not be liable for any loss that may be
     incurred by reason only of the security being insufficient at the
     date of the mortgage.
     (3) Where the sale referred to in subsection (1) is made under the
     order of the court, the powers conferred by that subsection shall
     apply only if and so far as the court may by order direct.
Deferred payment on sale of property
*** 37 Deferred payment on sale of property ***
     (1) A sale of property by a trustee, in exercise of any power vested
     in the trustee in that behalf by the instrument creating the trust or
     by or under this Act or any other enactment, may be on terms of
     deferred payment.
     (2) The terms of deferred payment may provide that the purchase money
     and interest (if any) shall be paid by instalments.
     (3) The terms upon which property is sold shall, in addition to such
     other provisions as the trustee may think proper, include provisions
     giving effect to the following, namely that—
          (a) the part of the purchase money to be paid by deposit
          shall not be less than the sum which a person acting with
          prudence would, if the property were the person’s own,
          have accepted in the circumstances in order to sell the
          property to the best advantage, and in any case shall not
          be less than one-tenth of the purchase money;
          (b) the balance of the purchase money shall be payable by
          such instalments and shall bear interest payable half-
          yearly or oftener on the amount from time to time unpaid at
          such rate as a person acting with prudence would, if the
          property were the person’s own, have accepted in the
          circumstances in order to sell the property to the best
          advantage, and in any case the whole purchase money shall
          be payable within a period not exceeding 10 years from the
          date of sale;
          (c) if any instalment or interest or part thereof is in
          arrear and unpaid for 6 months, or for such less period as
          may be specified, the whole of the purchase money shall
          become due and payable;
          (d) the purchaser shall maintain and protect the property,
          and, in the case of land, keep all buildings (if any)
          thereon insured against loss or damage by fire and by storm
          and tempest to their full insurable value.
     (4) Notwithstanding that the property has been sold on terms of
     deferred payment, the trustee may, at any time after one-third of the
     purchase money has been paid, convey the property and take a mortgage
     to secure payment of the balance of the purchase money and interest,
     with or without the security of any other property.
     (5) Whether the sale is made under the order of the court or
     otherwise, the court may make such order as it thinks fit as to the
     terms of deferred payment.
     (6) A trustee selling property on terms authorised by this section or
     by any order of the court shall not be affected by section 30 in
     respect of so much of the purchase money as is payable under an
     agreement for sale or is secured by a mortgage, and shall not be
     liable for any loss that may be incurred by reason only of the
     security being insufficient at the date of the agreement or mortgage.
     (7) For the purposes of any consent or direction required by the
     instrument (if any) creating the trust or by statute, a trustee
     selling property on terms of deferred payment shall be deemed not to
     be lending money or investing trust funds.
Surrender of onerous leases or property
*** 38 Surrender of onerous leases or property ***
     (1) Where a leasehold is vested in a trustee and the property is
     subject to onerous covenants of such a nature that it would not be in
     the interests of the beneficiaries to retain the property, the
     trustee may surrender, or concur in surrendering, the lease; and the
     trustee shall not be chargeable with breach of trust nor shall the
     surrender be impeached by any beneficiary upon the ground only that
     the covenants were not of such a nature, if the trustee has acted
     bona fide and on the advice of a registered valuer, whom the trustee
     reasonably believed to be competent, instructed and employed
     independently of the lessor, whether the valuer carried on business
     in the locality where the property is situate or elsewhere.
     (2) Where a freehold is vested in a trustee and the property is of so
     onerous a nature that it would not be in the interests of the
     beneficiaries to retain the property, if the Crown agrees to accept
     the surrender of the freehold, the trustee may surrender, or concur
     in surrendering, it to the Crown; and the trustee shall not be
     chargeable with breach of trust nor shall the surrender be impeached
     by any beneficiary upon the ground only that the property was not of
     such a nature, if the trustee has acted bona fide and on the advice
     of a registered valuer, whom the trustee reasonably believed to be
     competent, whether that valuer carried on business in the locality
     where the property is situate or elsewhere.
     (3) A subsequent purchaser or the registrar or other person
     registering or certifying title shall not be concerned to inquire
     whether a surrender was authorised by this section.
Power to renew leases
*** 39 Power to renew leases ***
     (1) A trustee of any leasehold for life or lives or years which is
     renewable under any covenant or contract or by custom or usual
     practice may, if the trustee thinks fit, and shall, if thereto
     required by any person having any beneficial interest, present or
     future or contingent, in the leasehold, use the trustee’s best
     endeavours to obtain from time to time a renewed lease of the same
     hereditaments on the agreed or reasonable terms, and for that purpose
     may from time to time make or concur in making a surrender of the
     lease for the time being subsisting, and do all such other acts as
     are requisite; but where, by the terms of the instrument (if any)
     creating the trust, the person in possession for the person’s life
     or other limited interest is entitled to enjoy the same without any
     obligation to renew, or to contribute to the expense of renewal, this
     section does not apply unless the consent in writing of that person
     is obtained to the renewal.
     (2) A trustee obtaining a renewal of a lease under the powers
     conferred by this section or otherwise may pay or apply capital money
     subject to the trust, for the purpose of obtaining the renewal.
Power to purchase equity of redemption in lieu of foreclosure
*** 40 Power to purchase equity of redemption in lieu of foreclosure ***
A trustee may, in lieu of proceeding to foreclosure, purchase the equity of
redemption of land the subject of a mortgage held by the trustee under which
default has been made where the moneys expended in that purchase are subject to
the same trusts as the mortgage debt; but in no case shall the moneys paid by
way of consideration for such purchase exceed 5% of the amount due under the
mortgage.
Release of equity of redemption in discharge of mortgage debt
*** 41 Release of equity of redemption in discharge of mortgage debt ***
     (1) Where an equity of redemption is vested in a trustee and the
     mortgaged property is not of greater value than the amount of the
     mortgage debt, the trustee may release the equity of redemption to
     the mortgagee in discharge of the mortgage debt or part thereof; and
     the trustee shall not be chargeable with breach of trust nor shall
     the release be impeached by any beneficiary upon the ground only that
     the mortgaged property was of greater value than the amount of the
     mortgage debt or of the part thereof discharged, if the trustee has
     acted bona fide and on the advice of a registered valuer, whom the
     trustee reasonably believed to be competent, instructed and employed
     independently of the mortgagee, whether the valuer carried on
     business in the locality where the property is situate or elsewhere.
     (2) A subsequent purchaser or the registrar or other person
     registering or certifying title shall not be concerned to inquire
     whether a release was authorised by this section.
Application of income by trustee-mortgagee in possession
*** 42 Application of income by trustee-mortgagee in possession ***
     (1) Where a trustee is entitled, whether severally or as a co-
     mortgagee, to a debt secured by a mortgage of land in trust as to the
     whole or part of that debt for persons by way of succession, and the
     trustee is at the date of commencement of this Act, or at any time
     after that date becomes, mortgagee in possession of the mortgaged
     land, the trustee shall apply the net income of the mortgaged land
     received by the trustee after that date or after the trustee becomes
     mortgagee in possession—
          (a) in discharge of all rents, taxes, rates, and outgoings
          affecting the mortgaged land; and
          (b) in payment of the premiums on any insurances properly
          payable on the mortgaged property; and
          (c) in keeping down all annual sums or other payments and
          the interest on all principal sums having priority to the
          mortgage in right whereof the trustee is in possession;
     and subject to the rights of the mortgagor, the trustee shall hold
     the residue of the income so received by the trustee upon the trusts
     to which the mortgage debt is subject.
     (2) The rents, taxes, outgoings, premiums, costs, annual sums,
     payments and interest to be discharged, kept down and paid, pursuant
     to subsection (1), shall be those accruing due—
          (a) after the date of the commencement of this Act, where
          the trustee is in possession of the mortgaged land at that
          date; and
          (b) after the date of possession by the trustee, where the
          entry into possession is after the date of commencement of
          this Act;
     but if at the date of commencement of this Act, or on the date of
     possession by the trustee, as the case may be, any rents, taxes,
     rates, outgoings, annual sums, payments, interest or premiums
     mentioned in subsection (1) (a) to (c) were or are due and unpaid,
     and such of those rents, taxes, rates, outgoings, annual sums,
     payments, and premiums as are periodic payments were payable wholly
     or in part in respect of any period subsequent to the date of
     commencement or to the date of possession, as the case may be, then
     the lastmentioned rents, taxes, rates, outgoings, annual sums,
     payments, and premiums shall, for the purpose of this section, be
     considered as accruing from day to day and shall be apportionable in
     respect of time accordingly.
     (3) On the recovery of the moneys secured by the mortgage, whether in
     whole or in part, and whether by repayment or on realisation of the
     security or otherwise, such part of the income applied by the trustee
     in the payments specified in subsection (1) (a) to (c) as would
     otherwise have been payable as interest to the person entitled to the
     interest of the mortgage debt shall, as between the persons
     respectively entitled to the income and corpus of the mortgage debt,
     be deemed to be arrears of interest payable without interest thereon
     and the amount received by the trustee shall be apportioned
     accordingly.
     (4) Notwithstanding anything in this section contained, the trustee
     may, if in the administration of the trust the trustee thinks it
     necessary so to do, apply income of the mortgaged property received
     by the trustee after the date of commencement of this Act in payment
     of any rents, taxes, rates, outgoings, premiums, costs, annual sums,
     payments and interest, affecting the mortgaged land other than those
     specified in subsection (2); but the person entitled to the interest
     on the mortgage debt shall be entitled to recoupment out of the
     capital of the mortgage debt of all payments made by the trustee
     under the authority conferred by this subsection.
Power of trustee to give receipts
*** 43 Power of trustee to give receipts ***
The receipt in writing of a trustee or of any person thereto authorised by the
trustee in writing, or, where there are several trustees, of any person or of
any 1 or more of such trustees thereto respectively authorised by the trustees
in writing, for any money, securities, or other personal property or effects,
payable, transferable, or deliverable to the trustee or them, as the case may
be, under any trust or power is a sufficient discharge for the same, and
effectually exonerates the person paying, transferring, or delivering the same
from seeing to the application or being answerable for any loss or
misapplication thereof.
Power to compound liabilities
*** 44 Power to compound liabilities ***
A trustee may, if and as the trustee thinks fit—
     (a) accept any property, real or personal, before the time at which
     it is made transferable or payable; or
     (b) sever and apportion any blended trust funds or property; or
     (c) pay or allow any debt or claim on any evidence that the trustee
     thinks sufficient; or
     (d) accept, make or give any composition or any security, real or
     personal, for any debt or for any property, real or personal,
     claimed; or
     (e) allow any time for payment of any debt; or
     (f) compromise, compound, abandon, submit to arbitration or otherwise
     settle any debt, account, claim or thing whatever relating to the
     trust or to the trust property;
and for any of those purposes may enter into, give, execute, and do such
agreements, instruments of composition or arrangement, releases, and other
things as to the trustee seem expedient, without being responsible for any loss
occasioned by any act or thing so done by the trustee in good faith.
Power to raise money by sale or mortgage
*** 45 Power to raise money by sale or mortgage ***
Where a trustee is authorised by the instrument (if any) creating the trust or
by or under this Act or any other Act or by law to expend, pay or apply capital
money subject to the trust for any purpose or in any manner, the trustee has
and shall be deemed always to have had power to raise the money required by
sale, conversion, calling in or mortgage of all or any part of the trust
property for the time being in possession; and where a trustee, in the exercise
of the trustee’s powers in that behalf, purchases any property for the trust,
the trustee has and shall be deemed always to have had power to make the
purchase on terms of deferred payment or on mortgage of that property.
Protection to purchasers and mortgagees dealing with trustees
*** 46 Protection to purchasers and mortgagees dealing with trustees ***
A purchaser or mortgagee paying or advancing money to the trustee on a sale or
mortgage of trust property shall not be concerned to see that such money is
wanted, or that no more than is wanted is raised or otherwise as to the
application thereof, or that the trustee has power to effect such sale or
mortgage.
Insurance
*** 47 Insurance ***
     (1) A trustee may insure against loss or damage, whether by fire or
     otherwise, any insurable property, and against any risk or liability
     against which it would be prudent for a person to insure if the
     person were acting for himself or herself.
     (2) The insurance may be for any amount, provided that, together with
     the amount of any insurance already on foot, the total shall not
     exceed the insurable value or liability.
     (3) Subject to any direction expressed in the instrument (if any)
     creating the trust or to any direction of the court, the trustee may,
     as the trustee thinks fit, pay the premiums out of—
          (a) the income of the property concerned; or
          (b) the income of any other property subject to the same
          trusts; or
          (c) any capital money subject to the same trusts; or
          (d) any 1 or more of paragraphs (a) to (c) in such
          proportions as the trustee considers equitable.
Application of insurance money
*** 48 Application of insurance money ***
     (1) Where a policy of insurance against the loss or damage of any
     property subject to a trust, whether by fire or otherwise, has been
     kept up under any trust in that behalf, or under any power statutory
     or otherwise, or in performance of any obligation statutory or
     otherwise, the money receivable by a trustee under the policy shall
     be capital money for the purposes of the trust.
     (2) The money receivable shall be held upon trusts corresponding as
     nearly as may be with the trusts affecting the property in respect of
     which it was payable.
     (3) The money receivable or any part thereof may also be applied by
     the trustee or, if in court, under the direction of the court, in
     rebuilding, reinstating, replacing, or repairing the property lost or
     damaged.
     (4) Any application by the trustees under subsection (3) shall be
     subject to the consent of any person whose consent is required by the
     instrument (if any) creating the trust to the investment of money
     subject to the trust.
     (5) Nothing in this section shall prejudice or affect the right of
     any person to require the money or any part thereof to be applied in
     rebuilding, reinstating or repairing the property lost or damaged.
     (6) Nothing in this section shall prejudice or affect the rights of
     any mortgagee lessor or lessee, whether under any statute or
     otherwise.
     (7) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument (if any) creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (8) This section applies to trusts and to policies created or
     effected either before or after the commencement of this Act, but
     only to money received after the commencement of this Act.
Deposit of documents for safe custody
*** 49 Deposit of documents for safe custody ***
A trustee may deposit any document held by the trustee relating to the trust,
or to the trust property, with any financial institution or corporation whose
business includes the undertaking of the safe custody of documents, and any sum
payable in respect of any such deposit shall be paid out of the income of the
trust property, and so far as there is no available income out of the capital
of the trust property.
Reversionary interests
*** 50 Reversionary interests ***
     (1) Where trust property includes any share or interest in property
     not vested in the trustee, or the proceeds of sale of any such
     property, or any other thing in action, the trustee, on its or their
     falling into possession or becoming payable or transferable, may—
          (a) agree or ascertain the amount or value thereof or any
          part thereof in such manner as the trustee thinks fit; and
          (b) accept in or towards satisfaction thereof, at the
          market or current value, or upon any valuation or estimate
          of value that the trustee may think fit, any authorised
          investments; and
          (c) allow any deductions for duties, costs, charges, and
          expenses that the trustee thinks proper or reasonable; and
          (d) execute any release in respect thereof, so as
          effectually to discharge all accountable parties from all
          liability in respect of any matter coming within the scope
          of the release, without being responsible for any loss
          occasioned by any act or thing so done by the trustee in
          good faith.
     (2) The trustee shall not be under any obligation and shall not be
     chargeable with any breach of trust by reason of any omission—
          (a) to give any notice in respect of, or apply for any
          charging or other like order upon, any securities or other
          property out of or on which the share or interest or other
          thing in action mentioned in subsection (1) is derived,
          payable or charged; or
          (b) to take any proceedings on account of any act, default
          or neglect on the part of the persons in whom the
          securities or other property mentioned in paragraph (a) or
          any of them or any part of them are for the time being, or
          had at any time been, vested;
     unless and until required in writing so to do by some person, or the
     guardian of some person, beneficially interested under the trust, and
     unless also due provision is made to the trustee’s satisfaction for
     payment of the costs of any proceedings required to be taken.
     (3) Nothing in subsection (2) relieves the trustee of the obligation
     to get in and obtain payment or transfer of the share or interest or
     other thing in action upon its falling into possession.
Valuations
*** 51 Valuations ***
     (1) A trustee may, for the purpose of giving effect to the trust, or
     any of the provisions of the instrument (if any) creating the trust
     or of this Act or any other Act from time to time ascertain and fix
     the value of any trust property, or of any property which the trustee
     is authorised to purchase or otherwise acquire, in such manner as the
     trustee thinks proper; and where the trustee is not personally
     qualified to ascertain the value of any property the trustee shall
     consult a duly qualified person (whether employed by the trustee or
     not) as to that value; but the trustee shall not be bound to accept
     any valuation made by any person whom the trustee may consult.
     (2) Any valuation made by the trustee in good faith under this
     section is binding on all persons beneficially interested under the
     trust.
Audit
*** 52 Audit ***
     (1) A trustee may, in the trustee’s absolute discretion, from time
     to time, cause the accounts of the trust property to be examined or
     audited by a public accountant, and shall for that purpose produce
     such vouchers and give such information to that person as the trustee
     may require.
     (2) The costs of the examination or audit, including the fee of the
     person making the examination or audit, shall be charged against the
     capital or income of the trust property, or partly in 1 way and
     partly in the other, as the trustee may in the trustee’s absolute
     discretion think fit, but, in default of any direction by the trustee
     to the contrary in any special case, costs attributable to capital
     shall be borne by capital and those attributable to income by income.
     (3) Where the trustee or 1 of the trustees is the public trustee or a
     trustee corporation, nothing in this section authorises, except in
     the case of a business forming part of the trust property, any costs
     or fee to be paid out of, or borne by, the capital or income of the
     trust property, unless the court approves of the costs or fee being
     so paid out or borne.
Power to concur with others
*** 53 Power to concur with others ***
Where trust property includes an undivided share in any property, the trustee
may (without prejudice to any trust or power in relation to the entirety of the
property) execute or exercise any trust or power vested in the trustee in
relation to that share in conjunction with the persons entitled to, or having
power in that behalf over, the other share or shares, and notwithstanding that
the trustee or any 1 or more of several trustees may be entitled to or
interested in any such share, either in his, her or their own right or in a
fiduciary capacity.
Power to employ agents
*** 54 Power to employ agents ***
     (1) A trustee may, instead of acting personally, employ and pay an
     agent, whether a solicitor, accountant, financial institution,
     trustee corporation, financial services licensee, regulated principal
     or other person, to transact any business or do any act required to
     be transacted or done in the execution of the trust or the
     administration of the trust property, including the receipt and
     payment of money, and the keeping and audit of trust accounts, and
     shall be entitled to be allowed and paid all charges and expenses so
     incurred, and shall not be responsible for the default of any such
     agent employed in good faith and without negligence.
     (2) A trustee may appoint any person to act as the trustee’s agent
     or attorney for the purpose of selling, converting, collecting,
     getting in, and executing and perfecting assurances of, or managing
     or cultivating, or otherwise administering any property real or
     personal, movable or immovable, subject to the trust in any place
     outside the State, or executing or exercising any discretion or trust
     or power vested in the trustee in relation to any such property, with
     such ancillary powers, and with and subject to such provisions and
     restrictions, as the trustee may think fit, including a power to
     appoint substitutes, and shall not, by reason only of the trustee
     having made any such appointment, be responsible for any loss arising
     thereby.
     (3) Without limiting the generality of the powers conferred by
     subsections (1) and (2), a trustee may—
          (a) appoint a solicitor to be the trustee’s agent to
          receive and give a discharge for any money or valuable
          consideration or property receivable by the trustee under
          the trust, by permitting the solicitor to have the custody
          of, and to produce, a deed or instrument having in the body
          thereof or endorsed thereon a receipt for the money or
          valuable consideration or property, the deed or instrument
          being executed, or the endorsed receipt being signed, by
          the person entitled to give a receipt for that
          consideration; or
          (b) appoint a financial institution or solicitor to be the
          trustee’s agent to receive and give a discharge for any
          money payable to the trustee under or by virtue of a policy
          of insurance, by permitting the financial institution or
          solicitor to have the custody of and to produce the policy
          of insurance with a receipt signed by the trustee;
     and the production, by the solicitor, of any such deed or instrument
     as is mentioned in paragraph (a) shall have the same validity and
     effect as if the person appointing the solicitor had not been a
     trustee.
     (4) A trustee shall not be chargeable with a breach of trust, by
     reason only of the trustee having made, or concurred in making, any
     appointment such as is mentioned in subsection (3); but nothing in
     that subsection exempts a trustee from any liability that the trustee
     would have incurred if this Act and any enactment replaced by this
     Act had not been passed, where the trustee permits any money,
     valuable consideration or property therein mentioned to remain in the
     hands or under the control of the financial institution or solicitor
     for a longer period than is reasonably necessary to enable the
     financial institution or solicitor, as the case may be, to pay or
     transfer it to the trustee.
     (5) Subsections (3) and (4) apply whether the money or valuable
     consideration or property was or is received before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
     (6) In this section—
     "financial services licensee" means a financial services licensee,
     defined under the Corporations Act, section 761A, whose licence
     covers dealing in, or providing advice about, securities.
     "regulated principal" means a regulated principal—
          (a) defined under the Corporations Act, section 1430; and
          (b) dealing in, or providing advice about, securities as
          authorised by the Corporations Act, part 10.2, division 1,
          subdivision D.
Protection of financial institutions
*** 55 Protection of financial institutions ***
     (1) Where there are 2 or more trustees of a trust and the trustees by
     writing under their hands authorise a financial institution—
          (a) to pay bills of exchange drawn upon the financial
          institution account of the trustees by the trustee or
          trustees named in that behalf in the authority; or
          (b) to recognise as a valid endorsement upon any bill of
          exchange payable to the order of the trustees the
          endorsement thereon by the trustee or trustees named in
          that behalf in the authority; or
          (c) to pay money out of any account of the trust in a
          financial institution, on presentation of withdrawal forms
          signed in the manner specified in the authority;
     the financial institution acting in pursuance of that authority shall
     not be deemed privy to a breach of trust on the ground only of notice
     that the persons giving the authority were trustees, or that the
     instrument (if any) by which the trust was created did not contain
     any express power to give such an authority.
     (2) The protection afforded to financial institutions by subsection
     (1) does not apply in the case of anything done by a financial
     institution, in pursuance of an authority given under that
     subsection, after the financial institution has received notice in
     writing of the revocation, by death or otherwise, of the authority.
     (3) This section does not affect any question of the liability of any
     trustee for breach of trust in authorising a financial institution as
     provided by subsection (1).
     (4) Nothing in this section or in any rule of law prevents trustees
     opening an account named an imprest account at a financial
     institution and authorising any 1 or more of their number or any
     other person or persons to operate upon the imprest account.
     (5) In this section—
     "bill of exchange" has the same meaning as in the Bills of Exchange
     Act 1909 (Cwlth).
Power to delegate trusts
*** 56 Power to delegate trusts ***
     (1) A trustee who for the time being is out of the State or is about
     to depart therefrom, or who is, or may be about to become, by reason
     of physical infirmity, temporarily incapable of performing all duties
     as a trustee may, subject to the provisions of this section, and
     notwithstanding any rule of law or equity to the contrary, by power
     of attorney, delegate to any person resident in the State the
     execution or exercise during the trustee’s absence from the State
     or during the trustee’s incapacity, as the case may be, of all or
     any trusts, powers, authorities, and discretions vested in the
     trustee as such trustee, whether alone or jointly with any other
     person or persons; but a person being the only other co-trustee and
     not being a trustee corporation shall not be appointed to be an
     attorney under this subsection.
     (2) Where any delegation has under this section been duly made to and
     accepted by any person and is for the time being in operation, that
     person has, within the scope of the delegation, the same trusts,
     powers, authorities, discretions, liabilities, and responsibilities
     (except the power of delegation conferred by this section) as the
     person would have if the person were then the trustee.
     (3) Every trustee shall be liable for the acts and defaults of every
     such delegate as if they were the trustee’s own acts and defaults.
     (4) All jurisdictions and powers of any court apply to the donee of a
     power of attorney given under this section in the same manner, so far
     as respects the execution of the trust or the administration of the
     estate to which the power of attorney relates, as if the donee were
     acting in relation to the trust or estate in the same capacity as the
     donor of the power.
     (5) A power of attorney given under this section does not come into
     operation unless and until the donor is out of the State or is
     incapable of performing all the donor’s duties as a trustee, and is
     revoked by the donor’s return or by the donor’s recovery of that
     capacity, as the case may be.
     (6) In favour of any person dealing with the donee of a power of
     attorney given under this section, any act done or instrument
     executed by the donee, is, notwithstanding that the power has never
     come into operation or has been revoked, whether by the act of the
     donor of the power or by operation of law, as valid and effectual as
     if the power had come into operation and remained unrevoked at the
     time when the act was done or the instrument executed, unless that
     person had at that time actual notice that the power had never come
     into operation or of the revocation of the power.
     (7) A statutory declaration by the donee of a power of attorney given
     under this section relating to any trust or estate that the power has
     come into operation or that in any transaction the donee is acting in
     the execution of the trust or the administration of the estate, is,
     in favour of a person dealing with the donee of the power, conclusive
     evidence of that fact.
     (8) The fact that it appears from any power of attorney given under
     this section, or from any evidence required for the purposes of any
     power of attorney or otherwise, that in any transaction the donee of
     the power is acting in the execution of a trust shall not affect with
     notice of the trust any person dealing in good faith with the donee.
Power to carry on business
*** 57 Power to carry on business ***
     (1) Subject to the provisions of any other Act and of the instrument
     (if any) creating the trust, where at the commencement of the trust
     the trust property or any part of it was being used by the settlor in
     carrying on any business, whether alone or in partnership, the
     trustee may continue to carry on that business for any 1 or more of
     the following periods, namely—
          (a) 2 years from the commencement of the trust;
          (b) such period as may be necessary for the winding-up of
          the business;
          (c) such further period or periods as the court may
          approve.
     (2) In the exercise of the powers conferred by this section or by the
     instrument (if any) creating the trust, a trustee may—
          (a) employ any part of the trust property which is subject
          to the same trusts; and
          (b) from time to time increase or diminish the part of the
          trust property employed as provided by paragraph (a); and
          (c) purchase stock, machinery, implements, and chattels for
          the purpose of the business referred to in subsection (1);
          and
          (d) employ such managers, agents, employees, clerks,
          workers and others as the trustee thinks fit; and
          (e) at any time enter into a partnership agreement to take
          the place of any partnership agreement subsisting
          immediately before the commencement of the trust or at any
          time thereafter and notwithstanding that the trustee was a
          partner of the settlor in the trustee’s own right; and
          (f) enter into sharefarming agreements.
     (3) Application to the court for leave to carry on a business may be
     made by the trustee or any person beneficially interested in the
     estate at any time, whether the business has been carried on before
     or after the commencement of this Act and whether or not any previous
     authority to carry on the business has expired; and the court may
     make such an order, and may make such order retrospective to any
     particular date, or may order that the business be not carried on, or
     be carried on subject to conditions, or may make such other order as,
     in the circumstances, it thinks fit.
     (4) Nothing in this section affects any other authority to do the
     acts thereby authorised to be done.
     (5) Where a trustee is in any manner interested or concerned in a
     trade or business, the trustee may make such subscriptions as it
     would be prudent for the trustee to make, if the trustee were acting
     for himself or herself, out of the income of the assets affected, to
     any fund created for objects or purposes in support of any trade or
     business of a like nature and subscribed to by other persons engaged
     in a like trade or business.
Power to convert business into a company
*** 58 Power to convert business into a company ***
     (1) Subject to the provisions of the instrument (if any) creating the
     trust, a trustee may at any time, at the expense of the trust
     property, convert or join in converting any business into a company
     limited by shares in such manner, as the trustee thinks fit; and may,
     at the like expense, promote and assist in promoting a company for
     taking over the business; and may sell or transfer the business and
     the capital and assets and goodwill thereof, or any part thereof to
     the company, or to any company having for its objects the purchase of
     such a business, in consideration, in either case, wholly or in part
     of ordinary or preference shares wholly or partially paid up of any
     such company, or wholly or in part of debentures, debenture stock, or
     bonds of any such company, and as to the balance (if any) in cash
     payable immediately, or by any instalments with or without security.
     (2) A trustee may retain as an authorised investment of the trust any
     shares, debentures, debenture stock or bonds received by the trustee
     in consequence of the exercise by the trustee of any power conferred
     by subsection (1).
Trustee may sue himself or herself in a different capacity
*** 59 Trustee may sue himself or herself in a different capacity ***
Notwithstanding any rule of law or practice to the contrary, a trustee of any
property in that capacity may sue, and be sued by, himself or herself in any
other capacity whatsoever, including the trustee’s personal capacity; but in
every such case the trustee shall obtain the directions of the court in which
the proceedings are taken as to the manner in which differing interests are to
be represented.
Application of part
*** 60 Application of part ***
The provisions of this part shall apply whether or not a contrary intention is
expressed in the instrument (if any) creating the trust.
Power to apply income for maintenance etc. and to accumulate surplus income
during a minority
*** 61 Power to apply income for maintenance etc. and to accumulate surplus
income during a minority ***
     (1) When any property is held by trustees in trust, whether
     absolutely or contingently for a beneficiary who is an infant, the
     trustee may, at the trustee’s absolute discretion, pay to the
     infant’s parent or guardian (if any) or otherwise apply for or
     towards the infant’s maintenance, education (including past
     maintenance or education) advancement or benefit, the income of that
     property or any part thereof, whether there is any other fund
     applicable to the same purpose, or any person bound by law to provide
     for the infant’s maintenance or education or not.
     (2) During the infancy of any such person, if the person’s interest
     so long continues, the trustee shall accumulate all the residue of
     that income in the way of compound interest by investing the same and
     the resulting income thereof from time to time in authorised
     investments, and shall hold those accumulations as follows—
          (a) if any such person—
               (i) attains full age, or marries under that age,
               and the person’s interest in such income during
               the person’s infancy or until the person’s
               marriage is a vested interest; or
               (ii) on attaining full age or on marriage under
               that age becomes entitled to the property from
               which income arose in fee simple, absolute or
               determinable, or absolutely, or for an entailed
               interest;
          the trustee shall hold the accumulations in trust for such
          person absolutely, but without prejudice to any provision
          with respect thereto contained in any settlement by him or
          her made under any statutory powers during the person’s
          infancy, and so that the receipt of such person after
          marriage, and though still an infant, shall be a good
          discharge;
          (b) in any other case—the trustee shall, notwithstanding
          that such person had a vested interest in such income, hold
          the accumulations as an accretion to the capital of the
          property from which such accumulations arose, and as 1 fund
          with such capital for all purposes;
     but the trustee may, at any time during the infancy of such person if
     the person’s interest so long continues, apply those accumulations,
     or any part thereof, as if they were income arising in the then
     current year.
     (3) Where any property is held by a trustee in trust for a
     beneficiary of full age who has a contingent interest in that
     property, the trustee may, at the trustee’s sole discretion, pay to
     such beneficiary or otherwise apply for or towards the
     beneficiary’s maintenance, education (including past maintenance or
     education) advancement or benefit, the income of that property or any
     part thereof.
     (4) This section shall apply in the case of a contingent interest
     only if the limitation or trust carries the intermediate income of
     the property, but it applies to a future or contingent legacy by the
     parent of, or a person standing in loco parentis to, the legatee, if
     and for such period as, under the general law, the legacy carries
     interest for the maintenance of the legatee, and in any such case as
     last aforesaid the rate of interest shall (if the income available is
     sufficient, and subject to any rules of court to the contrary) be 4%
     per annum; and where in the case of a contingent interest the
     limitation or trust would, but for the operation of a protective
     trust (whether created or statutory) carry the intermediate income of
     the property, that limitation or trust shall for the purposes of this
     subsection be deemed notwithstanding the protective trust to carry
     the intermediate income.
     (5) This section applies to a vested annuity in like manner as if the
     annuity were the income of property held by a trustee in trust to pay
     the income thereof to the annuitant for the same period for which the
     annuity is payable, save that in any case accumulations made during
     the infancy of the annuitant shall be held in trust for the annuitant
     or the annuitant’s personal representative absolutely.
     (6) This section does not apply where the instrument (if any) under
     which the interest arises came into operation before the commencement
     of this Act.
     (7) The provisions of subsection (2) do not apply where, and to the
     extent that, a contrary intention is expressed in the trust
     instrument (if any).
Power to apply capital for advancement etc.
*** 62 Power to apply capital for advancement etc. ***
     (1) Where under a trust a person is entitled to the capital of the
     trust property or any share thereof, the trustee, in such manner as
     the trustee in the trustee’s absolute discretion thinks fit, may
     from time to time out of that capital pay or apply for the
     maintenance, education (including past maintenance or education),
     advancement or benefit of that person, an amount not exceeding in all
     $2,000 or one-half that capital (whichever is the greater) or with
     the consent of the court an amount greater than that amount.
     (2) The power conferred by this section may be exercised whether the
     person is entitled absolutely or contingently on the person attaining
     any specified age or on the occurrence of any other event, and
     notwithstanding that the interest of the person so entitled is liable
     to be defeated by the exercise of a power of appointment or
     revocation, or to be diminished by the increase of the class to which
     the person belongs.
     (3) The power conferred by this section may be exercised whether the
     person is so entitled in possession or in remainder or in reversion.
     (4) Any money so paid or applied shall be brought into account as
     part of the share in the trust property to which the person is or
     becomes absolutely or indefeasibly entitled.
     (5) No payment or application pursuant to this section shall be made
     so as to prejudice any person entitled to any prior life or other
     interest whether vested or contingent, in the money paid or applied
     unless that person is in existence and of full age and consents in
     writing to the payment or application, or unless the court, on the
     application of the trustee, so orders.
     (6) For the purposes of this section the trustee may raise money by
     sale, mortgage or exchange of the trust property.
Conditional advances for maintenance etc.
*** 63 Conditional advances for maintenance etc. ***
     (1) Where a power to pay or apply any property for the maintenance,
     education, advancement, or benefit of any person, or for any 1 or
     more of those purposes, is vested in a trustee, the trustee when
     exercising the power shall have authority to impose on the person any
     condition, whether as to repayment, payment of interest, giving
     security, or otherwise; and at any time after imposing any such
     condition, the trustee may, either wholly or in part, waive the
     condition or release any obligation undertaken or any security given
     by reason of the condition.
     (2) In determining the amount or value of the property that a trustee
     who has imposed a condition pursuant to subsection (1), may pay or
     apply in exercise of the power, any money repaid to the trustee or
     recovered by the trustee shall be deemed not to have been so paid or
     applied by the trustee.
     (3) Nothing in this section shall impose upon a trustee any
     obligation to impose any condition pursuant to subsection (1); and a
     trustee, when imposing any condition as to giving security, shall not
     be affected by any restrictions upon the investment of trust funds,
     whether imposed by this Act or by any rule of law or by the trust
     instrument (if any).
     (4) A trustee shall not be liable for any loss which may be incurred
     in respect of any money that is paid or applied under this section,
     whether the loss arises through failure to take security, or through
     the security being insufficient, or through failure to take action
     for its protection, or through the release or abandonment of the
     security without payment, or from any other cause.
Protective trusts
*** 64 Protective trusts ***
     (1) Where any income, including an annuity or other periodical income
     payment, is directed to be held on protective trusts for the benefit
     of any person (
     "the principal beneficiary") for the period of the principal
     beneficiary’s life or for any less period, then, during that period
     (the
     "trust period") the income shall, without prejudice to any prior
     interest, be held on the following trusts, namely—
          (a) upon trust for the principal beneficiary during the
          trust period or until the principal beneficiary, whether
          before or after the termination of any prior interest, does
          or attempts to do or suffers any act or thing, or until any
          event happens, other than an advance under any statutory or
          express power, whereby if the said income were payable
          during the trust period to the principal beneficiary
          absolutely during that period, the principal beneficiary
          would be deprived of the right to receive the same or any
          part thereof, in any of which cases, as well as on the
          termination of the trust period, whichever first happens,
          this trust of the said income shall fail or determine;
          (b) if the trust to which paragraph (a) refers fails or
          determines during the subsistence of the trust period,
          then, during the residue of that period, upon trust for the
          application thereof for the maintenance, education
          (including past maintenance or education), advancement or
          benefit, of all of any 1 or more exclusively of the other
          or others of the following persons (that is to say)—
               (i) the principal beneficiary and his or her wife
               or husband (if any), and his or her issue (if
               any);
               (ii) if there is no wife or husband or issue of
               the principal beneficiary in existence, the
               principal beneficiary and the persons who would,
               if the principal beneficiary were actually dead,
               be entitled to the trust property or the income
               thereof or to the annuity fund (if any), or
               arrears of the annuity, as the case may be—
          as the trustee in the trustee’s absolute discretion,
          without being liable to account for the exercise of such
          discretion, thinks fit.
     (2) Nothing in this section operates to validate any trust which
     would, if contained in the instrument creating the trust, be liable
     to be set aside.
Application of part
*** 65 Application of part ***
Except where otherwise provided in this part, the provisions of this part shall
apply whether or not a contrary intention is expressed in the instrument (if
any) creating the trust.
Protection against liability in respect of rents and covenants
*** 66 Protection against liability in respect of rents and covenants ***
     (1) Where a personal representative or trustee who is for any reason
     liable for—
          (a) any rent, covenant or agreement reserved by or
          contained in any lease; or
          (b) any rent, covenant or agreement payable under or
          contained in any grant made in consideration of a
          rentcharge; or
          (c) any indemnity given in respect of any rent, covenant or
          agreement referred to in paragraph (a) or (b);
     satisfies all liabilities under the lease or grant that may have
     accrued, and been claimed up to the date of the conveyance
     hereinafter mentioned, and, where necessary, sets apart a sufficient
     fund to answer any future claim that may be made in respect of any
     fixed and ascertained sum which the lessee or grantee agreed to lay
     out on the property demised or granted, although the period for
     laying out the same may not have arrived, then and in any such case
     the personal representative or trustee may convey the property
     demised or granted to a purchaser, legatee, devisee or other person
     entitled to call for a conveyance thereof and thereafter—
          (d) the personal representative or trustee may distribute
          the residuary real and personal estate of the deceased
          testator or intestate, or as the case may be, the trust
          estate other than the fund (if any) set apart under this
          subsection to or amongst the persons entitled thereto
          without appropriating any part, or any further part (as the
          case may be) of the estate of the deceased or of the trust
          estate to meet any future liability under the said lease or
          grant;
          (e) notwithstanding such distribution the personal
          representative or trustee shall not be personally liable in
          respect of any subsequent claim under the said lease or
          grant.
     (2) This section shall operate without prejudice to the right of the
     lessor or grantor or the persons deriving title under the lessor or
     grantor, to follow the assets of the deceased or the trust property
     into the hands of the persons amongst whom the same may have been
     respectively distributed, and shall apply notwithstanding anything to
     the contrary in the will or other instrument (if any) creating the
     trust.
     (3) In this section—
     "grant" applies to a grant whether the rent is created by limitation,
     grant, reservation or otherwise, and includes an agreement for a
     grant and any instrument giving any such mentioned indemnity or
     varying the liabilities under the grant.
     "lease" includes an under-lease and an agreement for a lease or
     under-lease and any instrument giving any such indemnity as is
     mentioned in subsection (1) or varying the liabilities under the
     lease.
     "lessee" and
     "grantee" include persons respectively deriving title under them.
Protection of trustees by means of advertisements
*** 67 Protection of trustees by means of advertisements ***
     (1) With a view to the distribution of any trust property or estate a
     trustee or personal representative may give notice by advertisement
     in—
          (a) if the notice is included in a notice of intention to
          apply for a grant—a publication approved by the Chief
          Justice under a practice direction; or
          (b) otherwise—a newspaper circulating throughout the
          State and sold at least once each week;
     and such other notices as would be directed by the court to be given
     in an action for administration, requiring any person having any
     claim, whether as creditor or beneficiary or otherwise, to send
     particulars of the person’s claim not later than the date fixed in
     the notice, being a date at least 6 weeks after the date of
     publication of the notice.
     (2) Notice of advertisement is sufficient if given in the approved
     form.
     (3) After the date fixed by the last of the notices to be published
     the trustee or personal representative may distribute the trust
     property or estate having regard only to the claims, whether formal
     or not, of which the trustee or personal representative has notice at
     the time of the distribution; and the trustee or personal
     representative shall not, as respects any trust property or estate so
     distributed, be liable to any person of whose claim the trustee or
     personal representative had no notice at the time of the
     distribution.
     (4) Nothing in this section—
          (a) prejudices the right of any person to enforce (subject
          to the provisions of section 113) any remedy in respect of
          the person’s claim against a person to whom a
          distribution of any trust property or estate has been made;
          or
          (b) relieves the trustee or personal representative of any
          obligation to make searches or obtain certificates of
          search similar to those which an intending purchaser would
          be advised to make or obtain.
     (5) In this section—
     "approved form" see the Supreme Court of Queensland Act 1991,
     schedule 5.
     "grant" see the Succession Act 1981, section 5.
     "notice", of intention to apply for a grant, means a notice in the
     approved form of intention to apply for a grant.
Barring of claims
*** 68 Barring of claims ***
     (1) Where a trustee wishes to reject a claim (not being a claim in
     respect of which any insurance is on foot, being insurance required
     by any Act) which has been made, or which the trustee has reason to
     believe may be made—
          (a) to or against the estate or property which the trustee
          is administering; or
          (b) against the trustee personally, by reason of the
          trustee being under any liability in respect of which the
          trustee is entitled to reimburse himself or herself out of
          the estate or property which the trustee is administering;
     the trustee may serve upon the claimant or the person who may become
     a claimant a notice calling upon the claimant, within a period of 6
     months from the date of service of the notice, to take legal
     proceedings to enforce the claim and also to prosecute the
     proceedings with all due diligence.
     (2) At the expiration of the period stipulated in a notice served
     under subsection (1), the trustee may apply to the court for an order
     under subsection (3), and shall serve a copy of the application on
     the person concerned.
     (3) Where, on the hearing of an application made under subsection
     (2), the person concerned does not satisfy the court that the person
     has commenced proceedings and is prosecuting them with all due
     diligence, the court may make an order—
          (a) extending the period, or barring the claim, or enabling
          the trust property to be dealt with without regard to the
          claim; and
          (b) imposing such conditions and giving such directions,
          including a direction as to the payment of the costs of or
          incidental to the application, as the court thinks fit.
     (4) Where a trustee has served any notices under this section in
     respect of claims on 2 or more persons, and the period specified in
     each of those notices has expired, the trustee may, if the trustee
     thinks fit, apply for an order in respect of the claims of those
     persons by a single application, and the court may, on that
     application, make an order accordingly.
     (5) This section applies to every claim therein mentioned, whether
     the claim is or may be made as creditor or next of kin or beneficiary
     under the trust or otherwise; but it does not apply to any claim
     under the Succession Act 1867, part 5 and no order made under this
     section shall affect any application for revocation of any grant of
     probate or of letters of administration, whether that application is
     made before or after the order.
     (6) Where any person beneficially entitled to the estate or property
     is not made a party to an application by a trustee under this section
     an order made by the court on the application shall not affect the
     right of that person to contest the claim of the trustee to be
     entitled to indemnify himself or herself out of the estate or
     property.
     (7) Any notice or application which is to be served in accordance
     with the provisions of this section may be served—
          (a) by delivering it to the person for whom it is intended
          or by sending it by prepaid registered letter addressed to
          that person at the person’s usual or last known place of
          abode or business; or
          (b) in such other manner as may be directed by an order of
          the court.
     (8) Where a notice is sent by post as provided by this section, it
     shall be deemed to be served at the time at which the letter would
     have been delivered in the ordinary course of post.
Protection in regard to notice when a person is trustee etc. of more than 1
estate or trust
*** 69 Protection in regard to notice when a person is trustee etc. of more
than 1 estate or trust ***
A trustee acting for the purposes of more than 1 trust or estate shall not, in
the absence of fraud, be affected by notice of any instrument, matter, fact or
thing in relation to any particular trust or estate if the trustee has obtained
notice thereof merely by reason of the trustee acting or having acted for the
purposes of another trust or estate.
Exoneration of trustees in respect of certain powers of attorney
*** 70 Exoneration of trustees in respect of certain powers of attorney ***
     (1) A trustee acting or paying money in good faith in reliance on any
     power of attorney and on a statutory declaration or other sufficient
     evidence that the power of attorney had not been revoked shall not be
     liable for that act or payment by reason of the fact that at the time
     of the act or payment the person who gave the power of attorney was
     subject to any disability or bankrupt or dead, or had done or
     suffered some act or thing to avoid the power, if this fact was not
     known to the trustee at the time of the trustee’s so acting or
     paying.
     (2) Nothing in this section affects the right of any person entitled
     to money paid by a trustee, in circumstances mentioned in subsection
     (1), against the person to whom the payment is made; and the person
     so entitled shall have the same remedy against the person to whom
     payment is made as the person would have had against the trustee.
Implied indemnity of trustees
*** 71 Implied indemnity of trustees ***
A trustee shall be chargeable only for money and securities actually received
by the trustee, notwithstanding the trustee signing any receipt for the sake of
conformity; and shall be answerable and accountable only for the trustee’s
own acts, receipts, neglects or defaults, and not for those of any other
trustee, nor those of any financial institution, broker or other person with
whom any trust money or securities may be deposited, nor for the insufficiency
or deficiency of any securities, nor for any other loss, unless the
insufficiency, deficiency or loss occurs through the trustee’s own default.
Reimbursement of trustee out of trust property
*** 72 Reimbursement of trustee out of trust property ***
A trustee may reimburse himself or herself for or pay or discharge out of the
trust property all expenses reasonably incurred in or about the execution of
the trusts or powers.
Delivery of chattels to life tenant
*** 73 Delivery of chattels to life tenant ***
Where any chattels are included in the trust property the trustee may, at the
request of any beneficiary entitled to a life or other limited interest
therein, deliver such chattels to that beneficiary upon the beneficiary signing
and delivering to the trustee an inventory of all such chattels.
Delivery of chattels to infant
*** 74 Delivery of chattels to infant ***
     (1) A trustee may in the trustee’s discretion deliver to an infant,
     or to the guardian or any of the guardians of an infant, any chattels
     to which the infant is beneficially entitled, and the receipt of the
     infant or guardian shall be a complete discharge to the trustee for
     any chattels so delivered.
     (2) The powers conferred by this section are in addition to the
     powers conferred by section 62 and, for the purposes of section 62
     (1), the value of the chattels delivered pursuant to this section
     shall not be taken into account in any way.
Personal representatives relieved from personal liability in respect of calls
made after transfer of shares
*** 75 Personal representatives relieved from personal liability in respect of
calls made after transfer of shares ***
A personal representative of a deceased person who was registered as the holder
of shares not fully paid up in any incorporated company may distribute the
assets of the estate of that deceased person as soon as the personal
representative has procured the registration of some other person as the holder
of the shares without reserving any portion of the estate for the payment of
any calls made after the date of that registration, whether made by the company
or its directors or by its liquidators in a winding-up, but nothing in this
section affects any right which the company or its liquidator may have to
follow the assets of the deceased person into the hands of any persons to or
amongst whom they have been transferred or distributed.
Power of court to relieve trustee from personal liability
*** 76 Power of court to relieve trustee from personal liability ***
If it appears to the court that a trustee, whether appointed by the court or
otherwise, is, or may be, personally liable for any breach of trust, whether
the transaction alleged to be a breach of trust occurred before or after the
commencement of this Act, but has acted honestly and reasonably, and ought
fairly to be excused for the breach of trust and for omitting to obtain the
directions of the court in the matter in which the trustee committed the
breach, then the court may relieve the trustee either wholly or partly from
personal liability for that breach.
Power of court to make beneficiary indemnify for breach of trust
*** 77 Power of court to make beneficiary indemnify for breach of trust ***
     (1) Where a trustee commits a breach of trust at the instigation or
     request or with the consent in writing of a beneficiary, the court
     may, if it thinks fit, make such order as to the court seems just for
     impounding all or any part of the interest of the beneficiary in the
     trust estate by way of indemnity to the trustee or persons claiming
     through the trustee.
     (2) This section applies to breaches of trust committed as well
     before as after the commencement of this Act.
Abolition of rule in Allhusen v Whittell
*** 78 Abolition of rule in Allhusen v Whittell ***
     (1) Where, under the provisions of the will of a person (
     "the deceased") who dies on or after 1 July 1973, any real or
     personal estate included (either by specific or general description)
     in a residuary gift is settled by way of succession, no part of the
     income of that property shall be applicable in or towards the payment
     of the debts and liabilities which have accrued at the date of death
     or in payment of the funeral, testamentary and administration
     expenses, or of any legacies bequeathed by the will.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to any commission which is payable
     to the trustee in respect of any such income as is mentioned in that
     subsection or to any testamentary or administration expenses which,
     apart from that subsection, would be payable wholly out of income.
     (3) The income of the settled property shall be applicable in
     priority to any other assets in payment of the interest (if any)
     accruing due on the debts, liabilities, funeral, testamentary and
     administration expenses, and legacies, after the date of the death of
     the deceased and up to the payment thereof, and the balance of the
     income shall be payable to the person for the time being entitled to
     the income of the property.
     (4) Where, after the death of the deceased, income of assets which
     are ultimately applied in or towards payment of the debts,
     liabilities, funeral, testamentary and administration expenses, and
     legacies, arises pending such application, that income shall, for the
     purposes of this section, be deemed income of the residuary estate of
     the deceased.
     (5) In this section—
     "administration expenses" includes duty payable under the Succession
     and Probate Duties Act 1892 and estate duty payable under any
     Commonwealth Act and any duty payable in any State or country outside
     Queensland on or consequent on or arising out of the death of the
     deceased to the extent to which such duties are payable out of
     residue.
     (6) This section shall only affect the rights of beneficiaries under
     the will as between themselves, and shall not affect the rights of
     creditors of the deceased.
     (7) This section shall have effect subject to the provisions (if any)
     to the contrary contained in the will and to the provisions of any
     Act as to charges on the property of the deceased.
Application of part
*** 79 Application of part ***
Except where otherwise provided in this part, the provisions of this part shall
apply whether or not a contrary intention is expressed in the instrument (if
any) creating the trust.
Power of court to appoint new trustees
*** 80 Power of court to appoint new trustees ***
     (1) The court may, whenever it is expedient to appoint a new trustee
     or new trustees, and it is found inexpedient, difficult or
     impracticable to do so without the assistance of the court, make an
     order appointing a new trustee or new trustees either in substitution
     for or in addition to any existing trustee or trustees, or although
     there is no existing trustee.
     (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of
     subsection (1) the court may make an order appointing a new trustee
     in substitution for a trustee who desires to be discharged, or who is
     convicted of a crime or misdemeanour, or is a bankrupt, or is a
     corporation that is under official management or is in liquidation or
     has been dissolved, or who for any other reason whatsoever appears to
     the court to be undesirable as a trustee.
     (3) An order under this section and any consequential vesting order
     or conveyance, shall not operate further or otherwise as a discharge
     to any former or continuing trustee than an appointment of new
     trustees under any power for that purpose contained in any instrument
     would have operated.
     (4) Nothing in this section confers power to appoint an executor or
     administrator.
Powers of new trustee
*** 81 Powers of new trustee ***
Every trustee appointed by the court has, as well before as after the trust
property becomes by law, or by assurance, or otherwise, vested in the trustee,
the same powers, authorities and discretions, and may in all respects act, as
if the trustee had been originally appointed a trustee by the instrument (if
any) creating the trust.
Vesting orders
*** 82 Vesting orders ***
     (1) The court may make an order, in this Act called a
     "vesting order", which has effect as provided in section 90.
     (2) A vesting order may be made in any of the following cases,
     namely—
          (a) where the court appoints or has appointed a new
          trustee;
          (b) where a new trustee has been appointed out of court
          under any statutory or express power;
          (c) where a trustee retires or has retired;
          (d) where a trustee is under a disability;
          (e) where a trustee is out of the jurisdiction of the
          court;
          (f) where a trustee can not be found;
          (g) where a trustee, being a corporation, has ceased to
          carry on business or is under official management or is in
          liquidation or has been dissolved;
          (h) where a trustee neglects or refuses to convey any
          property, or to receive the dividends or income of any
          property, or to sue or recover any property according to
          the direction of the person absolutely entitled to the same
          for 28 days next after a request in writing has been made
          to the trustee by that person;
          (i) where it is uncertain who was the survivor of 2 or more
          trustees jointly entitled to or possessed of any property;
          (j) where it is uncertain whether the last trustee known to
          have been entitled to or possessed of any property is alive
          or dead;
          (k) where there is no personal representative of the last
          trustee who was entitled to or possessed of any property or
          where it is uncertain who is the personal representative of
          that trustee or where the personal representative of that
          trustee can not be found;
          (l) where any person neglects or refuses to convey any
          property, or to receive the dividends or income of any
          property, or to sue for or recover any property in
          accordance with the terms of an order of the court;
          (m) where a deceased person was entitled to or possessed of
          any property and his or her personal representative is
          under a disability;
          (n) where property is vested in a trustee and it appears to
          the court to be expedient to make a vesting order.
     (3) Where the provisions of subsection (2) are applicable, they
     extend to a trustee entitled to, or possessed of, any property either
     solely or jointly with any other person and whether by way of
     mortgage or otherwise.
In whom property to be vested etc.
*** 83 In whom property to be vested etc. ***
     (1) Where the making of a vesting order is consequential on the
     appointment of a new trustee, the property shall be vested in the
     persons who, on the appointment, are the trustees.
     (2) Where the making of a vesting order is consequential on the
     retirement of 1 or more of a number of trustees, the property may be
     vested in the continuing trustees alone.
     (3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), a vesting order may
     vest the property in any such person in any such manner and for any
     such estate or interest as the court may direct, or may release or
     dispose of any contingent right to such person as the court may
     direct.
     (4) The fact that a vesting order is founded or purports to be
     founded on an allegation of the existence of any of the matters
     mentioned or referred to in section 82 shall be conclusive evidence
     of the matter so alleged in any court upon any question as to the
     validity of the order.
     (5) Nothing in this Act shall prevent the court from directing a
     reconveyance or the payment of costs occasioned by any such order if
     improperly obtained, or from making a further vesting order.
     (6) A vesting order shall not vest in any person shares which are not
     fully paid up unless that person applies for the order or consents to
     the order being made or unless the court directs that the person’s
     consent be dispensed with.
Orders as to contingent rights of unborn persons
*** 84 Orders as to contingent rights of unborn persons ***
Where any property is subject to a contingent right in an unborn person or
class of unborn persons who, on coming into existence, would become entitled to
or possessed of the property on any trust, the court may make an order
releasing the property from the contingent right or may make an order vesting
in any person the estate or interest to or of which the unborn person or class
of unborn persons would, on coming into existence, be entitled or possessed in
the property.
Vesting order in place of conveyance by mortgagee under disability
*** 85 Vesting order in place of conveyance by mortgagee under disability ***
Where any person entitled to or possessed of any property by way of mortgage is
under a disability the court may make an order vesting or releasing or
disposing of the property in like manner as in the case of a trustee under like
disability.
Contracts by guardians on behalf of infants
*** 86 Contracts by guardians on behalf of infants ***
     (1) The court, where it considers it necessary or desirable in the
     interest of an infant or of an infant and some other person, may on
     the application of a guardian or next friend of the infant, make an
     order appointing the guardian of the infant, or some other fit and
     proper person, to enter into any agreement for or on behalf of such
     infant.
     (2) An agreement entered into in accordance with this section shall
     be as effectual and binding as if the infant had been a person of
     full age and mental capacity and had himself or herself entered into
     that agreement.
     (3) In this section—
     "court" includes, where the amount or subject matter is within the
     jurisdiction of the District Court, the District Court or a District
     Court judge.
Vesting orders etc. in relation to infant’s beneficial interests
*** 87 Vesting orders etc. in relation to infant’s beneficial interests ***
     (1) Where an infant is beneficially entitled to any property of which
     there is no trustee, the court, where it considers it necessary or
     desirable in the interest of the infant or of the infant and some
     other person, may on the application of a guardian or next friend of
     the infant make an order—
          (a) appointing the guardian of the infant, or some other
          fit and proper person, to sell and convey, lease, mortgage
          or charge the property, or otherwise to exercise such of
          the powers as are conferred by or under this Act on a
          trustee, as the court may in the order specify; or
          (b) in the case of stock or a thing in action—vesting in
          the guardian of the infant, or some other fit and proper
          person, the right to transfer or call for a transfer of
          that stock, or to receive the dividends or income thereof,
          or to sue for and recover that thing in action, upon such
          terms as the court thinks fit.
     (2) An act done in accordance with this section shall be as effectual
     and binding as if the infant had been a person of full age and mental
     capacity and had himself or herself done that act.
Vesting order consequential on order for sale or mortgage of land
*** 88 Vesting order consequential on order for sale or mortgage of land ***
Where the court gives a judgment or makes an order directing the sale or
mortgage or the release of a mortgage of any land, every person who is entitled
to or possessed of the land, or entitled to a contingent right therein, and is
a party to the action or proceeding in which the judgment or order is given or
made, or is otherwise bound by the judgment or order, shall be deemed to be so
entitled or possessed, as the case may be, as a trustee for the purposes of
this Act; and the court may, if it thinks expedient, make an order vesting the
land or any part thereof for such estate as the court thinks fit in the
purchaser or mortgagee or mortgagor or in any other person.
Vesting order consequential on judgment for specific performance
*** 89 Vesting order consequential on judgment for specific performance ***
Where a judgment is given for the specific performance of a contract concerning
any land, or for the partition, or sale in lieu of partition, or exchange, of
any land, and generally when a judgment is given for the conveyance of any land
either in cases arising out of the doctrine of election or otherwise, the court
may declare that any of the parties to the action are trustees of the land or
any part thereof within the meaning of this Act, or may declare that the
interests of unborn persons who might claim under any party to the action, or
under the will or voluntary settlement of any person deceased who was during
the person’s lifetime a party to the contract or transactions concerning
which the judgment is given, are the interests of persons who, on coming into
existence, would be trustees within the meaning of this Act, and thereupon the
court may make a vesting order, relating to the rights of those persons, born
and unborn, as if they had been trustees.
Effect of vesting order
*** 90 Effect of vesting order ***
     (1) Subject to the provisions of any other Act, a vesting order vests
     the property to which it relates in the persons named in the order
     without any conveyance, transfer or assignment.
     (1A) Such property shall vest in the persons named as trustees or
     otherwise as appears from the order.
     (2) Where more than 1 person is named in the order, the order vests
     as aforesaid the property to which it relates in those persons as
     joint tenants.
     (3) Where, by reason of the provisions of any other Act or for the
     protection of any trust property to which the order relates, it is
     requisite that the order should be notified to or registered or
     recorded by the registrar or other person having the duty or function
     of registering or recording the order, the trustees shall—
          (a) produce the order to the registrar or such other
          person; and
          (b) do such other act or acts as may properly be required
          by the registrar or such other person;
     for the purpose of effecting the notification, registration or
     recording of that order.
     (4) Where the consent of any person is requisite to the conveyance,
     transfer or assignment of any property to which a vesting order
     relates the order shall, unless it otherwise specifies, be subject to
     such consent; but the consent may be obtained after the making of the
     order by the persons named in the order.
     (5) The order, or the registration or recording thereof, shall not
     operate as a breach of covenant or condition or occasion any
     forfeiture of any lease, under-lease, agreement for lease, or other
     property.
     (6) The person in whose favour a vesting order as trustee is made has
     and may exercise in relation to the property the subject of the order
     all the powers by this Act conferred on or capable of being exercised
     by a trustee; but the court may by the order limit or, under section
     95, enlarge those powers as it thinks fit.
Directions etc. as to transferring stock etc.
*** 91 Directions etc. as to transferring stock etc. ***
The court may make declarations and give directions concerning the manner in
which the right to transfer any stock or thing in action vested under the
provisions of this Act is to be exercised.
Power to appoint persons to convey
*** 92 Power to appoint persons to convey ***
In all cases where a vesting order may be made under any of the foregoing
provisions the court may, if it is more convenient, appoint a person to convey
the land or release the contingent right, and a conveyance or release by that
person in conformity with the order shall have the same effect as an order
under the appropriate provision.
Vesting orders of charity property
*** 93 Vesting orders of charity property ***
The powers conferred by this Act as to vesting orders may be exercised for
vesting any property in any trustee of a charity or society over which the
court would have jurisdiction upon action duly instituted, whether the
appointment of the trustee was made by instrument under a power or by the court
under its general or statutory jurisdiction.
Court’s jurisdiction to make other orders
*** 94 Court’s jurisdiction to make other orders ***
     (1) Where in the opinion of the court any sale, lease, mortgage,
     surrender, release or other disposition, or any purchase, investment,
     acquisition, retention, expenditure or other transaction is expedient
     in the management or administration of any property vested in a
     trustee, or would be in the best interests of the persons, or the
     majority of the persons, beneficially interested under the trust, but
     it is inexpedient or difficult or impracticable to effect the
     disposition or transaction without the assistance of the court, or it
     or they can not be effected by reason of the absence of any power for
     that purpose vested in the trustee by the trust instrument (if any)
     or by law, the court may by order confer upon the trustee, either
     generally or in any particular instance, the necessary power for the
     purpose, on such terms, and subject to such provisions and conditions
     (if any) as the court may think fit, and may direct in what manner
     any money authorised to be expended, and the costs of any
     transaction, are to be paid or borne, and as to the incidence thereof
     between capital and income.
     (2) The court may from time to time rescind or vary any order made
     under this section, or may make any new or further order; but such a
     rescission or variation of any order shall not affect any act or
     thing done in reliance on the order before the person doing the act
     or thing became aware of the application to the court to rescind or
     vary the order.
     (3) An application to the court under this section may be made by the
     trustees, or by any of them, or by any person beneficially interested
     under the trust.
Power of court to authorise variations of trust
*** 95 Power of court to authorise variations of trust ***
     (1) Where property, whether real or personal, is held on trusts
     arising, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, under
     any instrument creating the trust, the court may if it thinks fit by
     order approve on behalf of—
          (a) any person having, directly or indirectly, an interest,
          whether vested or contingent, under the trusts who by
          reason of infancy or other incapacity is incapable of
          assenting; or
          (b) any person (whether ascertained or not) who may become
          entitled, directly or indirectly, to an interest under the
          trusts as being at a future date or on the happening of a
          future event a person of any specified description or a
          member of any specified class of persons, so however that
          this paragraph shall not include any person who would be of
          that description, or a member of that class (as the case
          may be) if the said date had fallen or the said event had
          happened at the date of the application to the court; or
          (c) any person unborn; or
          (d) any person in respect of any discretionary interest of
          the person under protective trusts where the interest of
          the principal beneficiary has not failed or determined;
     any arrangement (by whomsoever proposed and whether or not there is
     any other person beneficially interested who is capable of assenting
     thereto) varying or revoking all or any of the trusts, or enlarging
     the powers of the trustees of managing or administering any of the
     property subject to the trusts.
     (1A) However, except—
          (a) in the case of an unascertained person whose
          entitlement is dependent on a future event which the court
          is satisfied is unlikely to occur; or
          (b) where the court approves of an arrangement on behalf of
          a person referred to in subsection (1) (d);
     the court shall not approve an arrangement on behalf of any person
     unless the carrying out thereof would be for the benefit of that
     person.
     (2) In subsection (1) —
     "protective trusts" means the trusts specified in section 64 (1) (a)
     and (b) or any like trusts,
     "the principal beneficiary" has the same meaning as in section 64 (1)
     and
     "discretionary interest" means an interest arising under the trust
     specified in section 64 (1) (b) or any like trust.
     (3) Notice of an application to the court for an order pursuant to
     subsection (1) shall be given to such persons as the court may
     direct.
     (4) Nothing in subsections (1) to (3) shall apply to trusts affecting
     property settled by Act of Parliament.
     (5) Nothing in this section shall limit the powers conferred by Section 94.
Right of trustee to apply to court for directions
*** 96 Right of trustee to apply to court for directions ***
     (1) Any trustee may apply upon a written statement of facts to the
     court for directions concerning any property subject to a trust, or
     respecting the management or administration of that property, or
     respecting the exercise of any power or discretion vested in the
     trustee.
     (2) Every application made under this section shall be served upon,
     and the hearing thereof may be attended by, all persons interested in
     the application or such of them as the court thinks expedient.
Protection of trustees while acting under direction of court
*** 97 Protection of trustees while acting under direction of court ***
     (1) Any trustee acting under any direction of the court shall be
     deemed, so far as regards the trustee’s own responsibility, to have
     discharged the trustee’s duty as trustee in the subject matter of
     the direction, notwithstanding that the order giving the direction is
     subsequently invalidated, overruled, set aside or otherwise rendered
     of no effect, or varied.
     (2) This section does not indemnify any trustee in respect of any act
     done in accordance with any direction of the court if the trustee has
     been guilty of any fraud or wilful concealment or misrepresentation
     in obtaining the direction or in acquiescing in the court making the
     order giving the direction.
Persons entitled to apply to court
*** 98 Persons entitled to apply to court ***
     (1) An order under this Act for the appointment of a new trustee or
     concerning any property subject to a trust, may be made on the
     application of any person beneficially interested in the property,
     whether under disability or not, or on the application of any person
     duly appointed trustee thereof or intended to be so appointed.
     (2) An order under this Act concerning any interest in any property
     subject to a mortgage may be made on the application of any person
     beneficially interested in the property, whether under disability or
     not, or of any person interested in the money secured by the
     mortgage.
Power of court to make orders in absence of parties
*** 99 Power of court to make orders in absence of parties ***
     (1) Where in any proceedings the court is satisfied that diligent
     search has been made for any person, who, in the character of
     trustee, is made a defendant in any action, to serve the person with
     a process of the court, and that the person can not be found, the
     court may hear and determine the proceedings and give judgment
     therein against that person, in the person’s character of a
     trustee, as if the person had been duly served or had entered an
     appearance in the action, and had also appeared by the person’s
     counsel or solicitor at the hearing, but (except as provided in
     subsection (2)) without prejudice to any interest the person may have
     in the matters in question in the proceedings in any other character.
     (2) Where any party to any proceedings relating to a trust, or where
     any person or class of persons that the court thinks should be made a
     party or parties to those proceedings or otherwise be given an
     opportunity to attend and be heard in those proceedings, at the time
     of the proceedings—
          (a) is not within the jurisdiction; or
          (b) is under disability; or
          (c) can not be found; or
          (d) is unborn; or
          (e) is not capable of being identified or ascertained;
     the court may appoint some person to represent that party, person or
     class, or may proceed in the person’s or their absence, and all
     orders made in the proceedings are as binding on that party, person
     or class as if personally present and of full capacity.
Power of court to charge costs on trust estate
*** 100 Power of court to charge costs on trust estate ***
The court may order the costs and expenses of and incident to any application
for an order appointing a new trustee, or for a vesting order, or of and
incident to any such order, or any conveyance or transfer in pursuance thereof,
or for the directions of the court, to be paid or raised out of the land or
personal estate in respect whereof the same is made, or out of the income
thereof, or to be borne and paid in such manner and by such persons as to the
court may seem just.
Remuneration of trustee
*** 101 Remuneration of trustee ***
     (1) The court may, in any case in which the circumstances appear to
     it so to justify, authorise any person to charge such remuneration
     for the person’s services as trustee as the court may think fit.
     (2) In the absence of a direction to the contrary in the instrument
     creating the trust, a trustee, being a person engaged in any
     profession or business for whom no benefit or remuneration is
     provided in the instrument, is entitled to charge and be paid out of
     the trust property all usual professional or business charges for
     business transacted, time expended, and acts done by the person or
     the person’s firm in connection with the trust, including acts
     which a trustee not being in any profession or business could have
     done personally; and, on any application to the court for
     remuneration under subsection (1), the court may take into account
     any charges that have been paid out of the trust property under this
     subsection.
     (3) For the purpose of this section—
     "trustee" includes a custodian trustee.
Payment into court by trustee
*** 102 Payment into court by trustee ***
     (1) A trustee or trustees, or the majority of trustees, having in
     his, her or their hands or under his, her or their control money or
     securities belonging to a trust, may pay the same into court; and the
     same shall, subject to rules of court, be dealt with according to the
     orders of the court.
     (2) The receipt or certificate of the proper officer shall be a
     sufficient discharge to the trustee or trustees for the money or
     securities so paid into court.
     (3) Where money or securities are vested in any persons as trustees,
     and the majority are desirous of paying the same into court, but the
     concurrence of the other or others can not be obtained, the court may
     order the payment into court to be made by the majority without the
     concurrence of the other or others.
     (4) Where any money or securities ordered to be paid into court under
     subsection (3), are deposited with any financial institution, broker,
     or other depositary, the court may order payment or delivery of the
     money or securities to the majority of the trustees for the purpose
     of payment into court.
     (5) Every transfer payment and delivery made in pursuance of any
     order under this section shall be valid and take effect as if the
     same had been made on the authority or by the act of all the persons
     entitled to the money and securities so transferred, paid, or
     delivered.
Meaning of charity
*** 103 Meaning of charity ***
     (1) The repeal by this Act of the statute 43 Elizabeth chapter 4
     (Charitable Uses Act, 1601), shall not affect the established rules
     of law relating to charity.
     (2) Notwithstanding any rule of law to the contrary, it shall be and
     be deemed always to have been charitable to provide, or to assist in
     the provision of, facilities for recreation or other leisuretime
     occupation, if the facilities are provided in the interests of social
     welfare.
     (3) The requirement of subsection (2) that the facilities are
     provided in the interests of social welfare shall not be satisfied
     unless—
          (a) the facilities are provided with the object of
          improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom
          the facilities are primarily intended; and
          (b) either—
               (i) those persons have need of such facilities by
               reason of their youth, age, infirmity or
               disablement, poverty or social and economic
               circumstances; or
               (ii) the facilities are to be available to the
               members or to the male members or to the female
               members of the public at large.
     (4) Nothing in this section shall be taken to derogate from the
     principle that, in order to be charitable, a gift, trust or
     institution must be for the public benefit.
Inclusion of non-charitable purpose not to invalidate trust
*** 104 Inclusion of non-charitable purpose not to invalidate trust ***
     (1) No trust shall be held to be invalid by reason that some non-
     charitable and invalid as well as some charitable purpose or purposes
     is or are or could be deemed to be included in any of the purposes to
     or for which an application of the trust property or funds or any
     part thereof is by such trust directed or allowed.
     (2) Any such trust shall be construed and given effect in the same
     manner in all respects as if no application of the trust property or
     funds or of any part thereof to or for any such non-charitable and
     invalid purpose had been or should be deemed to have been so directed
     or allowed.
     (3) This section shall not apply to any trust declared before, or to
     the will of any testator dying before, the commencement of this Act.
Occasions for applying property cy pres
*** 105 Occasions for applying property cy pres ***
     (1) Subject to subsection (2), the circumstances in which the
     original purposes of a charitable trust can be altered to allow the
     property given or part of it to be applied cy pres shall be as
     follows—
          (a) where the original purposes, in whole or in part—
               (i) have been as far as may be fulfilled; or
               (ii) can not be carried out; or
               (iii) can not be carried out according to the
               directions given and to the spirit of the trust;
          (b) where the original purposes provide a use for part only
          of the property available by virtue of the trust;
          (c) where the property available by virtue of the trust and
          other property applicable for similar purposes can be more
          effectively used in conjunction, and to that end can
          suitably, regard being had to the spirit of the trust, be
          made applicable to common purposes;
          (d) where the original purposes were laid down by reference
          to an area which then was but has since ceased to be a unit
          for some other purpose, or by reference to a class of
          persons or to an area which has for any reason since ceased
          to be suitable, regard being had to the spirit of the
          trust, or to be practical in administering the trust;
          (e) where the original purposes, in whole or in part, have,
          since they were laid down—
               (i) been adequately provided for by other means;
               or
               (ii) ceased, as being useless or harmful to the
               community or for other reasons, to be in law
               charitable; or
               (iii) ceased in any other way to provide a
               suitable and effective method of using the
               property available by virtue of the trust, regard
               being had to the spirit of the trust.
     (2) Subsection (1) shall not affect the conditions which must be
     satisfied in order that property given for charitable purposes may be
     applied cy pres, except in so far as those conditions require a
     failure of the original purposes.
     (3) References in subsections (1) and (2) to the original purposes of
     a trust shall be construed, where the application of the property
     given has been altered or regulated by a scheme or otherwise, as
     referring to the purposes for which the property is for the time
     being applicable.
     (4) It is hereby declared that a trust for charitable purposes places
     a trustee under a duty, where the case permits and requires the
     property or some part of it to be applied cy pres, to secure its
     effective use for charity by taking steps to enable it to be so
     applied.
     (5) Nothing in this section shall affect the application of the
     provisions of the Charitable Funds Act 1958 to the funds to which
     that Act applies.
Proceedings in case of charitable trust
*** 106 Proceedings in case of charitable trust ***
     (1) The court may upon application under this section by an order in
     respect of any charitable trust—
          (a) give directions in respect of the administration of the
          trust; and
          (b) require any trustee to carry out the trust, or to
          comply with a scheme (if any); and
          (c) require any trustee to satisfy the trustee’s
          liability for any breach of the trust.
     (2) An application under this section may be made—
          (a) by the Attorney-General or person authorised by the
          Attorney-General; and
          (b) by the charity, or any trustee of the trust; and
          (c) by any person interested in the due administration of
          the trust.
     (3) Notice of the application shall be given to the Attorney-General,
     and to the trustee of the trust and to such other person as the court
     directs.
     (4) On any such application the court may make such order as to costs
     and otherwise as may be just.
     (5) In this section—
     "charitable trust" means any property held in trust for a charitable
     purpose.
     "charity" means any institution, whether or not incorporated, which
     is established for charitable purposes.
Definitions for pt 9
*** 107 Definitions for pt 9 ***
In this part—
"eligible recipient" means a deductible gift recipient under the Income Tax
Assessment Act 1997 (Cwlth), whether or not the deductible gift recipient is a
charity at law or (without limitation) is established for a charitable purpose
or purposes.
"prescribed trust" means a trust—
     (a) that establishes and maintains a fund mentioned in item 2 of the
     table of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cwlth), section 30 -15;
     or
     (b) that is established for charitable or philanthropic purposes and
     is of a class prescribed under a regulation.
"trust instrument" means the initial instrument establishing a prescribed
trust, as modified by all validly executed amendments.
Prescribed trust—trust instrument containing express power to give to
eligible recipients
*** 108 Prescribed trust—trust instrument containing express power to give to
eligible recipients ***
The trust instrument of a prescribed trust may include an express power for the
trustees to provide money, property or benefits to or for an eligible recipient
or for the establishment of an eligible recipient.
Prescribed trust—trust instrument not containing express power to give to
eligible recipients
*** 109 Prescribed trust—trust instrument not containing express power to
give to eligible recipients ***
     (1) The powers of the trustees of a prescribed trust, whose trust
     instrument does not contain an express power to do so, include a
     power to provide money, property or benefits to or for an eligible
     recipient or for the establishment of an eligible recipient.
     (2) Subsection (1) —
          (a) applies despite any provision to the contrary in the
          trust instrument; but
          (b) does not apply in relation to a particular eligible
          recipient or a particular class of eligible recipients to
          the extent that there is an express prohibition in the
          trust instrument against the provision by the trustees of
          money, property or benefits—
               (i) to or for that eligible recipient or class of
               eligible recipients; or
               (ii) for the establishment of that eligible
               recipient or class of eligible recipients.
     (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to the trustees of a prescribed
     trust unless there is in force a declaration substantially to the
     effect of the approved form for the prescribed trust.
     (4) For the purpose of making a declaration under this section, the
     approved form may be modified so as to limit the application of the
     declaration to a stated eligible recipient or stated class of
     eligible recipients.
     (5) If the declaration made for a prescribed trust is so limited,
     subsection (1) in its application to the prescribed trust has effect
     only in relation to the stated eligible recipient or stated class of
     eligible recipients.
     (6) The trustees must ensure that the declaration, or a certified
     copy of it, is retained with the records of the prescribed trust.
     (7) The trustees are not under a duty to make a declaration under
     this section, nor are the trustees in breach of a duty in making a
     declaration under this section.
Ancillary provisions
*** 110 Ancillary provisions ***
     (1) A reference in this section to
     "prescribed power", in relation to a prescribed trust, means—
          (a) a power referred to in section 108 included in the
          trust instrument; or
          (b) the power referred to in section 109 as applying to the
          prescribed trust.
     (2) This Act applies to a prescribed trust as if the prescribed power
     were a power exercisable for a charitable purpose.
     (3) Without limiting subsection (2) —
          (a) neither the existence nor the exercise of the
          prescribed power affects the validity or status of a
          charitable trust as a charitable trust; and
          (b) a prescribed trust is to be construed and given effect
          to as if—
               (i) the prescribed power were a power exercisable
               for a charitable purpose; and
               (ii) any payment or application of the trust
               property or the trust income, or any part of
               either of them, in the way allowed by the power
               were to or for a charitable purpose; and
          (c) the existence or exercise of the prescribed power does
          not affect the control of a prescribed trust by the court
          in the exercise of the court’s general jurisdiction in
          relation to charitable trusts; and
          (d) the jurisdiction mentioned in paragraph (c) extends to
          the prescribed power as if the power were exercisable for a
          charitable purpose.
Application of part
*** 111 Application of part ***
Except where otherwise provided in this part, the provisions of this part shall
apply whether or not a contrary intention is expressed in the instrument
creating the trust.
Indemnity
*** 112 Indemnity ***
This Act, and every order purporting to be made under this Act, shall be a
complete indemnity to all persons for any acts done pursuant thereto; and it
shall not be necessary for any person to inquire concerning the propriety of
the order, or whether the court had jurisdiction to make the same.
Remedies for wrongful distribution of trust property
*** 113 Remedies for wrongful distribution of trust property ***
     (1) In any case where a trustee has wrongfully distributed trust
     property any person who has suffered loss by that distribution may
     enforce the same remedies against the trustee and against any person
     to whom the distribution has been made as in the case where a
     personal representative has wrongfully distributed the estate of a
     deceased person.
     (2) Except by leave of the court, no person who has suffered loss by
     reason of the wrongful distribution of trust property or of the
     estate of a deceased person may enforce any remedy against any person
     to whom such property or estate has been wrongfully distributed until
     the person has first exhausted all remedies which may be available to
     the person against the trustee or personal representative.
     (3) Where any remedy is sought to be enforced against a person to
     whom a wrongful distribution of trust property or the estate of a
     deceased person has been made and that person has received the
     distribution in good faith and has so altered the person’s position
     in reliance on the propriety of the distribution that, in the opinion
     of the court, it would be inequitable to enforce the remedy, the
     court may make such order as it considers to be just in all the
     circumstances.
Fees and commission deemed a testamentary expense
*** 114 Fees and commission deemed a testamentary expense ***
The fees, commission, remuneration, and other charges payable to a personal
representative in respect of the administration of the estate of a deceased
person shall be deemed to be testamentary expenses.
Costs of inquiring regarding beneficiaries
*** 115 Costs of inquiring regarding beneficiaries ***
The costs, expenses, and charges of the trustee of any property in respect of
any inquiries made by the trustee to ascertain the existence or whereabouts of
any person or persons entitled to any legacy, money or distributive share in
the property, or otherwise incurred in relation thereto, shall be borne by and
paid out of the legacy, money or distributive share of the person or persons in
respect of whom the inquiries were made, unless a contrary intention appears in
the instrument (if any) creating the trust.
Local governments may be trustee for certain purposes
*** 116 Local governments may be trustee for certain purposes ***
A local government may be appointed a trustee of real or personal property,
either as sole trustee or as a trustee with others and may accept and hold the
trust property for any charitable or public purpose, or for any purpose of
recreation or other leisuretime use or occupation and act in the administration
of the trust property for the purpose of and according to the trust
notwithstanding that the purpose is not a function of local government save
where, in the case of an existing trust, a contrary intention appears from the
instrument creating the trust.
Requirement upon certain transfers to local government
*** 117 Requirement upon certain transfers to local government ***
     (1) Where land under the provisions of the Land Title Act 1994 is
     transferred to a local government, as sole transferee, by means of an
     instrument of transfer, such instrument shall not be registered in
     accordance with the provisions of that Act unless it is accompanied
     by a statutory declaration made under the Oaths Acts 1867 by the
     prescribed person or persons declaring that the land is not being
     transferred to the local government as a sole trustee.
     (2) The statutory declaration referred to in subsection (1) shall be
     made—
          (a) in a case where there is only 1 transferor—by him or
          her;
          (b) in a case where there are 2 or more transferors—by
          each of them;
          (c) in a case where paragraph (a) can not be complied with
          due to death or incapacity of the transferor—by an
          appropriate employee of the transferee;
          (d) in a case where paragraph (b) can not be complied with
          due to death or incapacity of any of the transferors—by
          the other transferor or each of the other transferors, as
          the case may be, or, if no transferor is available and
          competent to make the declaration, by an appropriate
          employee of the transferee.
     (3) Subsection (1) applies only in respect of instruments of transfer
     executed by the transferor or by all the transferors, where there are
     2 or more, after the date of commencement of this section.
Approval of forms
*** 118 Approval of forms ***
The chief executive may approve forms for use under this Act.
Transitional provision for Trusts (Investments) Amendment Act 1999
*** 119 Transitional provision for Trusts (Investments) Amendment Act 1999 ***
     (1) A provision in an Act or document, whether or not the document
     creates a trust, that empowers or requires a person to invest an
     amount in the investments authorised by this Act as in force
     immediately before the commencement of this section, is to be read as
     if it empowered or required the person to invest the amount according
     to the provisions of part 3 as to the investment of trust funds.
     (2) In an Act or document, and if otherwise appropriate, the
     following references are taken to be references to an authorised
     investment under this Act as in force after the commencement of this
     section—
          (a) a reference to an authorised investment under the
          repealed Acts, section 4;
          (b) a reference to an authorised investment under this Act
          as in force immediately before the commencement of this
          section.
Definitions for pt 12
*** 120 Definitions for pt 12 ***
In this part—
"commencement day" means the date of assent of the Criminal Proceeds
Confiscation and Other Acts Amendment Act 2009.
"eligible recipient" see section 107.
"prescribed trust" see sections 107 and 121.
Application of pt 9 to existing trusts
*** 121 Application of pt 9 to existing trusts ***
For part 9 and this part, a trust is a prescribed trust as defined under
section 107 whether the trust was created before, on or after the commencement
day.
Validation
*** 122 Validation ***
     (1) The provision, before the commencement day, by the trustees of a
     prescribed trust of money, property or benefits to or for an eligible
     recipient or for the establishment of an eligible recipient—
          (a) is taken to be, and always to have been, a provision
          for an authorised and valid purpose of the prescribed
          trust; and
          (b) does not affect, and is taken never to have affected,
          the status of the prescribed trust as a charitable trust.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies despite anything to the contrary in the
     trust instrument.
     (3) The inclusion of a power referred to in section 108 in the trust
     instrument of a prescribed trust before the commencement day is taken
     to be, and always to have been, validly included.
Validation of execution of power of attorney for s 56
*** 123 Validation of execution of power of attorney for s 56 ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) before the commencement, a trustee purported to
          delegate, by power of attorney, the execution or exercise
          of a matter under previous section 56; and
          (b) the power of attorney was made in the approved form
          under the Powers of Attorney Act 1998, section 11.
     (2) The power of attorney is taken to be, and to have always been, as
     valid as if it had been executed as a deed under previous section 56.
     (3) In this section—
     "previous section 56" means section 56 as in force from time to time
     before the commencement.
