library_id: 500000008
citation: Taxation Adminstration Act 2001
type: primary_legislation
version_id: sha256:7ba32268be20699d09f924b9de0a8053b6693283d668a7fe3f0d4fc4abd9509a
jurisdiction: queensland
url: https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-2001-072
content_format: xml
source: sha256

Taxation Administration Act 2001

Part 1 Preliminary

Division 1 Introductory provisions

1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Taxation Administration Act 2001.

2. Commencement
This Act commences on a day to be fixed by proclamation.

Division 2 Purpose and application of Act

3. Purposes of Act and relationship with revenue laws
(1) The main purpose of this Act is to make general provision about the administration and enforcement of revenue laws.
(2) Nothing in this Act prevents a revenue law making specific provision about the administration and enforcement of that law.
(3) Each revenue law must be read together with this Act as if they together formed a single Act.
(4) Another purpose of this Act is to make provision about the administration and enforcement of recognised laws.

4. Act binds all persons
(1) This Act binds all persons, including the State and, as far as the legislative power of the Parliament permits, the Commonwealth and the other States.
(2) Nothing in this Act makes the State liable to be prosecuted for an offence.

Division 3 Interpretation

5. Definitions
The dictionary in schedule 2 defines particular words used in this Act.

6. Revenue laws
(1) The Duties Act 2001 is a revenue law on and from the day this section commences.
(2) The Payroll Tax Act 1971 is a revenue law.
(3) Subsection (2) is subject to the Payroll Tax Act 1971, part 7, division 2.
(4) The Land Tax Act 2010 is a revenue law.
(5) The Betting Tax Act 2018 is a revenue law.
(6) Each of the following provisions of the Mineral Resources Act 1989 is a revenue law—
(7) Subsection (6) is subject to the Mineral Resources Act 1989, chapter 15, part 20.
(8) Each of the following provisions of the Petroleum and Gas (Production and Safety) Act 2004 is a revenue law—
(9) Subsection (8) is subject to the Petroleum and Gas (Production and Safety) Act 2004, chapter 15, part 28.

6A. References to tax
(1) To enable the use of a simpler style in provisions that apply to both taxes and royalties, this Act uses the term ‘tax’ which, under its definition, includes royalty payable under the Mineral Resources Act 1989 and petroleum royalty payable under the Petroleum and Gas (Production and Safety) Act 2004.
(2) That use of the term ‘tax’, and related terms, must not be taken to affect the nature of the payments under those Acts as royalties.

Part 2 Commissioner of State Revenue

7. Appointment of commissioner
(1) There is to be a Commissioner of State Revenue.
(2) The Governor in Council must, by gazette notice, appoint an appropriately qualified person to be the commissioner.
(3) It does not matter whether the appointee is or is not already a public service officer.
(4) The commissioner is to be employed under the Public Sector Act 2022.

8. Commissioner’s functions
(1) The commissioner is responsible for the administration and enforcement of the tax laws.
(2) Also, the commissioner may perform the functions of a State taxation officer under the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cwlth), part IIIA.

9. Commissioner’s powers
(1) The commissioner has the powers given under the tax laws.
(2) In addition, the commissioner has the power to do all things necessary or convenient to be done for performing the commissioner’s functions.
(3) Without limiting subsection (2), the commissioner may engage the consultants and contractors the commissioner considers necessary for the performance of the commissioner’s functions.

10. Delegations
(1) The commissioner may delegate the commissioner’s powers under a tax law to an appropriately qualified public service employee.
(2) A delegation of a power may permit the subdelegation of the power to an appropriately qualified public service employee.

Part 3 Assessments of tax

Division 1 Assessments made by the commissioner

11. When commissioner makes an assessment
(1) The commissioner must make an assessment if—
(2) Also, the commissioner may make an assessment—
(3) If the commissioner does not make an assessment under subsection (2), the commissioner’s decision not to make the assessment is a non-reviewable decision.

12. Compromise assessments
(1) This section applies if, in assessing a taxpayer’s liability for tax, it is difficult or impracticable for the commissioner to properly determine the amount of the taxpayer’s liability because of a complexity or uncertainty or for another reason.
(2) The commissioner may make an assessment of the taxpayer’s liability under a written agreement with the taxpayer (a compromise assessment).
(3) The compromise assessment is a non-reviewable decision.
(4) Nothing in this part requires the commissioner to make a compromise assessment for a taxpayer.

13. Default assessments
(1) This section applies in each of the following circumstances—
(2) The commissioner may make an assessment under this section (a default assessment) for the amount the commissioner reasonably believes to be the taxpayer’s liability.
(3) If this section applies because a lodgement requirement has not been complied with (whether or not the time for compliance has ended), the commissioner may make the default assessment as if the document were in existence and in the commissioner’s possession.

13A. Assessment may be made despite related objections, appeals or reviews
The commissioner may make an assessment under this division even if any of the following has started but not yet been decided—

Division 2 Self assessments

14. Making self assessment by lodging return
The following provisions apply if, under a revenue law, a self assessor lodges a return—

14A. Making self assessment by lodging transaction statement
The following provisions apply if, under a revenue law, a self assessor lodges a transaction statement—

15. Matters to which self assessor must have regard
For assessing a taxpayer’s liability for tax, a self assessor must have regard to directions given by the commissioner, whether generally or specifically for the liability, about the assessment of the liability.

16. Effect of commissioner making an assessment for self assessor
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The assessment must be made as if the liability were not required or permitted to be self assessed.
(3) This section does not apply for a default assessment.

Division 3 Reassessments

17. Commissioner’s general power to make reassessments
(1) Subject to sections 21 and 22, the commissioner may, at any time, make a reassessment of a taxpayer’s liability for tax.
(2) However, the commissioner may make a reassessment of a taxpayer’s liability assessed under a compromise assessment only—
(3) The commissioner may make a reassessment under subsection (1) even if any of the following has started but not yet been decided—
(4) The commissioner can not be compelled to make a reassessment under subsection (1) decreasing a taxpayer’s liability for tax.
(5) The commissioner’s decision not to make a reassessment of a taxpayer’s liability for tax is a non-reviewable decision.

18. When commissioner must make reassessment—general
Subject to sections 21 and 22, the commissioner must make a reassessment of a taxpayer’s liability for tax if the circumstances mentioned in—

19. When commissioner must make reassessment—objections, court decisions or QCAT decisions
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner must make any amendment of the royalty valuation decision, and any reassessment of the taxpayer’s liability for tax, that is necessary to give effect to the decision.
(3) However, the commissioner need not act under subsection (2) to give effect to a decision of a court or QCAT until—

20. Legal interpretations and practices applying to particular reassessments
(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (5), a reassessment of a taxpayer’s liability for tax must be made in accordance with the legal interpretations and assessment practices applied by the commissioner for assessing liability for tax in similar circumstances when the original assessment of the taxpayer’s liability for tax was made.
(2) If any legislative change made after an original assessment is made affects the legal interpretations and assessment practices to be applied under subsection (1), the reassessment must, to the extent that the interpretations and practices are changed because of the legislative change, be made in accordance with the changed interpretations and practices.
(3) The commissioner’s decision about what constituted the commissioner’s legal interpretations and assessment practices is a non-reviewable decision.
(4) Subsection (5) applies if—
(5) For any assessment made after the original decision but before the appeal is decided, the commissioner may make a reassessment to increase a taxpayer’s liability for tax in accordance with the appeal decision.

21. Time for reassessment decreasing liability for tax
(1) A reassessment decreasing a taxpayer’s liability for tax must be made in the limitation period.
(2) However, if, within the limitation period, the taxpayer asks for a reassessment to decrease the taxpayer’s liability, the reassessment may be made after the limitation period.

22. Time for reassessment increasing liability for tax
(1) A reassessment increasing a taxpayer’s liability for tax must be made in the limitation period.
(2) Despite subsection (1), a reassessment increasing a taxpayer’s liability for tax may be made at any time—
(3) For subsection (2)(a), a deliberate tax default arises if—

23. Limitation period does not apply to particular reassessments
Despite sections 21(1) and 22(1)—

24. Reassessment by self assessors
A self assessor may make a reassessment only if required or permitted under a revenue law.

25. Reassessment does not replace previous assessment
A reassessment does not replace the previous assessment but merely varies it by—

Division 4 Assessment notices

26. Assessment notice to be given to taxpayer
(1) The commissioner must give notice of the making of an assessment (an assessment notice) to the taxpayer.
(2) The assessment notice must state—
(3) For subsection (2)(c), the assessment notice must state—
(4) The assessment notice may include information that does not form part of the assessment, including, for example, information about other amounts payable by the taxpayer.
(5) More than 1 assessment may be included in the assessment notice.
(6) Despite subsection (1), the commissioner need not give an assessment notice for an assessment making a remission under section 60 or a revenue law if, after the remission and the application of payments received by the commissioner for the taxpayer’s assessment liability, the taxpayer has no assessment liability.

Division 5 Other provisions

27. Assessments made on available relevant information
The commissioner may make an assessment on the available information the commissioner considers relevant.

28. Taxpayer to advise commissioner if liability for tax under assessed
(1) A taxpayer must advise the commissioner if the taxpayer becomes aware that—
(2) The taxpayer must comply with subsection (1) within 30 days after becoming aware of the matters mentioned in the subsection.

28A. Assessments of liability for royalty under the Mineral Resources Act 1989
(1) This section applies in relation to a taxpayer’s liability for royalty under the Mineral Resources Act 1989.
(2) Without limiting section 26, the matters stated in an assessment notice must include—
(3) A reassessment mentioned in section 25(b) may change the amount of royalty payable to the State or the amount payable to another person, whether or not it changes the taxpayer’s total liability for royalty.
(4) Section 28(1) applies as if a reference to a taxpayer’s liability for tax were a reference to the amount of the taxpayer’s liability for royalty that is payable to the State.

Part 4 Payments and refunds of tax and other amounts

Division 1 Payments of tax and other amounts

29. Methods of payment
(1) An amount payable to the commissioner under a tax law must be paid—
(2) This section applies subject to section 29A.

29A. Requirement for electronic payment
(1) The commissioner may give a written notice (an electronic payment notice) to a person requiring the person to pay any amount, or a stated type of amount, payable by the person under a tax law to the commissioner by—
(2) Subject to subsection (3) and section 29B, a person given an electronic payment notice must, when paying an amount payable by the person under a tax law to the commissioner, comply with the notice from the day that is 30 days after being given the notice.
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the person on a particular occasion is unable to comply with the notice due to circumstances beyond the person’s control.
(4) In this section—

29B. Application to withdraw electronic payment notice
(1) A person given an electronic payment notice may apply to the commissioner to withdraw the notice.
(2) The application must—
(3) The application may be made on any of the following grounds—
(4) The commissioner must consider the application and either grant, or refuse to grant, the application.
(5) The person is not required to comply with the notice pending the person being notified of the commissioner’s decision on the application under subsection (6) or (8).
(6) If the commissioner decides to grant the application, the commissioner must immediately give the person written notice of the decision.
(7) Subsections (8) to (11) apply if the commissioner decides to refuse to grant the application.
(8) The commissioner must immediately give the person a written notice stating the following—
(9) The person may apply to the tribunal for a review of the decision during the review period.
(10) The person is not required to comply with the notice—
(11) If the person applies for a review of the decision—

30. Time for payment of tax
(1) Tax payable under a tax law must be paid—
(2) For subsection (1)(e), the stated date must be at least 30 days after the assessment notice for the tax is given to the taxpayer.
(3) For a return self-assessment, assessed interest is payable on the day the assessment is made.

31. Time for payment of late payment interest
Late payment interest is payable on the date it accrues.

32. Time for payment of other amounts
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The amount must be paid—
(3) For subsection (2)(b), the stated date must be at least 30 days after the notice is given.

33. Earlier time for payment of tax and other amounts
(1) This section applies despite sections 30 and 32.
(2) The commissioner may, in an assessment notice or notice given under this section, state an earlier date than the date stated in section 30 or 32 as the date the tax or amount is payable if the commissioner reasonably believes the tax or amount may not be recoverable if the date for payment under the section otherwise were to apply.
(3) The date stated in the notice mentioned in subsection (2) must not be a date before the notice is given.

34. Payment arrangements
(1) If the commissioner is satisfied payment of a taxpayer’s tax law liability would cause the taxpayer significant financial hardship, the commissioner may, on the taxpayer’s written application, approve an arrangement (a payment arrangement) extending the time for paying an amount under a tax law.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the payment arrangement may be for payment of the amount by way of instalments.
(3) The payment arrangement must be in writing and state the conditions applying to it.
(4) The commissioner may, at any time, by written notice given to the taxpayer, terminate the arrangement.
(5) If the commissioner terminates the arrangement, amounts outstanding under the arrangement are immediately payable by the taxpayer to the commissioner.
(6) The commissioner’s decision about extending the time for paying a tax law liability or to terminate a payment arrangement is a non-reviewable decision.

35. Payments by tax agents
If a tax agent receives an amount to pay a tax law liability for a taxpayer, the tax agent must pay the amount to the commissioner—

Division 2 Refunds of tax and other amounts and particular payments to taxpayers

36. Refunds made only under this division
(1) A person is not entitled to a refund of any amount paid, or purportedly paid, under a tax law other than under this division.
(2) No cause of action, right or remedy is available at common law for the refund or recovery of any amount paid or purportedly paid under a tax law.
(3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that subsection (2) does not affect a person’s right to seek judicial review under the Judicial Review Act 1991 to the extent permitted under this Act.

37. Commissioner to refund tax and other amounts
(1) An entitlement to a refund of an amount paid under a tax law arises if—
(2) Subject to sections 38 and 39, the commissioner must refund the overpaid amount.
(3) However, the commissioner must not make a refund under subsection (1)(b) more than 5 years after the payment of the amount.

38. Applying amounts to current and future tax liabilities
(1) This section applies if a taxpayer is entitled to a refund of an amount (the refund amount) under section 37.
(2) The commissioner may apply the whole or part of the refund amount, and any section 61A interest payable on the refund amount, as payment for any of the following—
(3) Immediately after the end of the period within which the commissioner may apply the refund amount under subsection (2), the commissioner must refund or pay to the taxpayer any part of the refund amount and section 61A interest that has not been applied.
(4) However subsections (2) and (3) do not prevent the commissioner from holding the refund amount or section 61A interest for any period, or applying it for any purpose, at the taxpayer’s request or with the taxpayer’s consent.
(5) This section has effect subject to section 39.
(6) In this section—

39. General provision about refunds and payments of section 61A interest
(1) The commissioner may refund an amount and pay any section 61A interest for the amount to a taxpayer or, under section 38, apply an amount and any section 61A interest for the amount as a payment for a taxpayer only if the commissioner is satisfied—
(2) A court or QCAT must not make an order relating to the refund that is inconsistent with subsection (1).
(3) If subsection (1)(b) applies, the taxpayer must—
(4) Also, if subsection (1)(b) applies and the taxpayer does not, within the relevant period, reimburse the other person for the amount received or pay the person any section 61A interest for the amount, the taxpayer must, within 7 days after the relevant period—
(5) In this section—

Division 3 How payments for tax and other amounts are allocated and applied

40. When payments are received
(1) A payment is taken to be received by the commissioner—
(2) However, if an amount is tendered to the commissioner on a day that is not a business day, or after 5p.m. on a business day, the payment of the amount is taken to have been made on the following business day.
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply to an amount if—

41. Allocating payments if more than 1 assessment liability
(1) If a taxpayer has an assessment liability under more than 1 assessment, the commissioner must decide the assessment liabilities to which a payment received by the commissioner is to be applied under section 42.
(2) In making the decision, the commissioner may, but is not required to, have regard to a request by the taxpayer for the allocation of the payment.

42. Application of payments to assessment liability
A payment received by the commissioner for an assessment liability must be applied in the following order—

Division 4 Power to waive or write off liability

43. Waiver of tax law liability
(1) The commissioner may waive payment of a taxpayer’s tax law liability up to the amount prescribed under a regulation.
(2) The liability to pay the amount waived is extinguished.

44. Effect of writing off tax law liability
If all or part of a taxpayer’s tax law liability is written off under the Financial Accountability Act 2009, section 21, the writing off does not extinguish the taxpayer’s liability or prevent a later proceeding against the taxpayer to recover the amount of the liability.

Division 5 Recovery of tax and other amounts

Subdivision 1 Recovery from taxpayers

45. Unpaid amount under tax law is debt
(1) An amount payable under a tax law must be paid to the commissioner.
(2) If the whole or part of an amount payable under a tax law is not paid as required—
(3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to an amount of royalty payable under the Mineral Resources Act 1989 to a person other than the State.

46. Recovery proceedings not affected by reassessment
A reassessment does not affect a proceeding for the recovery of an amount payable under a tax law but an appropriate adjustment must be made to the amount sought to be recovered in the proceeding to accord with the reassessment.

47. Joint and several liability
(1) If 2 or more taxpayers are liable under a tax law to pay an amount, the commissioner may recover the whole or part of the amount from any 1 or more of them.
(2) Subsection (1) does not affect the right of a taxpayer who pays an amount to recover a contribution from another person jointly or severally liable for the whole or part of the amount.

Subdivision 1A Registration and release of charges

47A. Definition for sdiv 1A
In this subdivision—

47B. Registration of charge over land
(1) This section applies if, under a revenue law, the commissioner may lodge a request to register a charge over land under this division.
(2) The commissioner may lodge the request, in the approved form, with the registrar.
(3) The registrar must register the charge over the land on lodgement of—
(4) The fee for registration of the charge is payable by the owner of the land.

47C. Release of charge over land
(1) This section applies if, in relation to a registered charge—
(2) The commissioner must, as soon as practicable after payment of the outstanding amount of tax or the reassessment, lodge with the registrar a request in the approved form to register the release of the charge.
(3) The registrar must register the release of the charge on lodgement of the request.
(4) This section does not prevent the commissioner requesting registration of the release of the charge in other circumstances.
(5) The fee for registration of the release of the charge is payable by the owner of the land.
(6) In this section—

47D. Recovery of fees paid by commissioner
(1) This section applies if the commissioner pays, to the registrar, a fee mentioned in section 47B(4) or 47C(5).
(2) The commissioner may recover the amount of the fee from the person or persons liable for payment of the fee.

Subdivision 2 Obligations of administrators and garnishees

48. Particular administrators to notify commissioner of appointment
(1) A person who is appointed as administrator for the property of a taxpayer who has a tax law liability must, before the required date, give written notice to the commissioner of the appointment.
(2) For subsection (1), the required date is—
(3) However, notice is not required in the circumstances prescribed under a regulation.

49. Administrator’s liability for payment of tax
(1) The commissioner has the same powers and remedies in relation to the administrator for the property of a taxpayer as the commissioner would have in relation to the taxpayer.
(2) However, an administrator is liable for payment of a tax law liability of a taxpayer only to the extent of the realised value of all property that—

50. Collection of amounts from a garnishee
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Subsection (1)(b) applies even though the taxpayer’s entitlement to the amount may be subject to unfulfilled conditions.
(3) The commissioner may, by written notice given to the garnishee (the garnishee notice), require the garnishee to pay to the commissioner by a stated date a stated amount (the garnishee amount).
(4) Without limiting subsection (3), the garnishee notice may require the garnishee to pay to the commissioner an amount out of each payment the garnishee is or becomes liable, from time to time, to make to the taxpayer.
(5) However, if, on the date for payment under the garnishee notice, the garnishee amount is not held for, or is not liable to be paid to, the taxpayer by the garnishee, the notice has effect as if the date for payment were immediately after the date the amount is held for, or is liable to be paid to, the taxpayer by the garnishee.
(6) The garnishee amount must not be more than the taxpayer’s debt.
(7) The garnishee must comply with the garnishee notice unless the garnishee has a reasonable excuse.
(8) The commissioner must give to the taxpayer—

51. Duration of garnishee notice
The garnishee notice has effect until the garnishee amount is paid or the commissioner, by written notice given to the garnishee, withdraws the notice.

52. Effect of discharge of debt on garnishee notice
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner must give written notice to the garnishee and the taxpayer—

53. Effect of payment by garnishee
If the garnishee pays an amount to the commissioner under a garnishee notice, the garnishee—

Part 5 Interest and penalty tax

Division 1 Interest payable to commissioner and penalty tax

Subdivision 1 Interest

54. Unpaid tax interest
(1) A taxpayer must pay interest (unpaid tax interest) on the amount of primary tax payable by the taxpayer and unpaid from time to time (unpaid primary tax).
(2) Unpaid tax interest, other than late payment interest, accrues daily at the prescribed rate on the unpaid primary tax for the period starting on the start date and ending on the date the primary tax is paid in full, both dates inclusive.
(3) Late payment interest accrues at the prescribed rate on the unpaid primary tax as follows—
(4) Any unpaid tax interest that has accrued when an assessment is made (assessed interest) must be included in the assessment.
(5) For subsections (2) and (3), the start date is the day after—
(6) For subsection (5)(aa)(ii), (iii) and (iv) or (c)(ii)—
(7) For a reassessment—
(8) A reference in this section to an amount of primary tax payable by a taxpayer does not include a reference to an amount of royalty payable under the Mineral Resources Act 1989 to a person other than the State.
(9) Despite subsections (2) and (3)(a), a regulation under a royalty law may prescribe how unpaid tax interest is worked out in particular cases or classes of cases, including, for example, how the interest is worked out if royalty is, under a regulation under a royalty law, payable in instalments.
(10) In this section—

55. When particular taxpayers liable for unpaid tax interest
A taxpayer to whom a regulation under section 147(2) applies is liable for unpaid tax interest in relation to an assessment only from the due date in the assessment notice given to the taxpayer.

56. Unpaid tax interest unaffected by extensions of time
(1) The making of a payment arrangement must be disregarded for determining late payment interest accruing under section 54.
(2) Any extension of time allowed by the commissioner for complying with an information or lodgement requirement must be disregarded in determining the start date under section 54(4).

57. Application of payments for unpaid tax interest
(1) The order of application of a payment under section 42 applies to determine the amount of unpaid primary tax on which unpaid tax interest accrues.
(2) For a reassessment, subsection (1) applies as if there had been no previous application of payments.

Subdivision 2 Penalty tax

58. Liability for penalty tax
(1) A taxpayer is liable for an amount (penalty tax) if—
(2) Penalty tax must be assessed as follows—
(3) The commissioner may increase the amount of the penalty tax by not more than 20% of the penalty tax under subsection (2) if the commissioner is satisfied the taxpayer—
(4) A reference in this section to an amount of primary tax does not include a reference to an amount of royalty payable under the Mineral Resources Act 1989 to a person other than the State.

59. Penalty tax not payable if proceeding for offence started
(1) This section applies if a taxpayer is liable to pay penalty tax because of an act or omission of the person.
(2) If a proceeding is started against the taxpayer for an offence against a tax law that is constituted by the act or omission and the penalty tax has not been paid to the commissioner, the penalty tax is payable only if the commissioner withdraws the proceeding.
(3) If the penalty tax has been paid to the commissioner, but a proceeding is started against the person for an offence against a tax law that is constituted by the act or omission, the commissioner must make a reassessment remitting the amount of penalty tax to nil.
(4) Despite subsection (3), if the commissioner withdraws the proceeding for the offence, the commissioner must make a reassessment to reinstate the penalty tax remitted under the subsection.
(5) In this section—

Division 2 Remission of interest and penalty tax

60. When commissioner may remit unpaid tax interest and penalty tax
(1) The commissioner may remit the whole or part of unpaid tax interest or penalty tax.
(2) The remission of assessed interest or penalty tax must be made by assessment.

Division 3 Interest payable by commissioner

61. Interest on particular overpayments following court’s or QCAT’s decision
(1) This section applies if a taxpayer is entitled to a refund of tax or late payment interest (the overpaid amount) because of—
(2) The court or QCAT may order the commissioner to pay interest on the overpaid amount.
(3) The interest must be calculated on a daily basis at the prescribed rate from the date the overpaid amount was paid to the commissioner to the date the refund is made by the commissioner.

61A. Interest on particular overpayments following commissioner’s decision
(1) This section applies if a taxpayer is entitled to a refund of tax or late payment interest (the overpaid amount) because of a reassessment giving effect to a decision of the commissioner under section 67(1).
(2) The commissioner must pay interest on the overpaid amount.
(3) The interest must be calculated on a daily basis at the prescribed rate from the date the overpaid amount was paid to the commissioner to the date the refund is made by the commissioner.

62. Interest only payable under this division
A person is not entitled to interest on any amount the commissioner is required to refund to the person other than under this division.

62A. Royalty under Mineral Resources Act 1989
A person is not entitled to interest under this division on an amount of royalty paid under the Mineral Resources Act 1989 to a person other than the State.

Part 6 Objections, reviews and appeals

Division 1 Objections

63. Right to object—assessments
(1) A taxpayer who is dissatisfied with an original assessment, other than a compromise assessment, may object to the assessment.
(2) Also, a taxpayer who is dissatisfied with any of the following reassessments may object to it—
(3) However, the right of objection to the reassessment is limited to the changes for the particular matters for which the reassessment is made.
(4) A decision or conduct leading up to or forming part of the process of making an assessment is subject to objection only as part of an objection to the assessment.

63A. Right to object—royalty valuation decisions
(1) A taxpayer who is dissatisfied with an original royalty valuation decision may object to the decision.
(2) A taxpayer who is dissatisfied with an amended royalty valuation decision may object to the decision.
(3) However, the right of objection to an amended royalty valuation decision is limited to the changes for the particular matters for which the amended royalty valuation decision is made.
(4) A decision or conduct leading up to or forming part of the process of making a royalty valuation decision is subject to objection only as part of an objection to the royalty valuation decision.

64. Grounds of objection
(1) An objection against an assessment or royalty valuation decision may be made on any grounds.
(2) However, for an objection to a decision to which this part is declared to apply under a provision of a revenue law, the grounds of objection are limited to whether the particular circumstances apply for the instrument or transaction to which the decision relates.
(3) Also, if a royalty valuation decision relates to an assessment, a matter relating to the decision may only be raised in an objection to the decision under section 63A and may not be raised in an objection to the assessment under section 63.

65. Making objection
(1) An objection must—
(2) The commissioner may extend the time for lodging an objection if the commissioner is satisfied it would be unreasonable in particular circumstances for the objection to be lodged within the 60 days.
(3) The commissioner’s decision to refuse to extend the time for lodging an objection is a non-reviewable decision.

66. Onus of proof on objection
The objector has the onus of proving the objector’s case.

67. Deciding objection
(1) The commissioner must allow the objection completely or partly or disallow it.
(2) If the objection relates to an assessment or royalty valuation decision made by a delegate of the commissioner, the delegate must not decide the objection.

68. Notice of decision
(1) The commissioner must give written notice to the objector of the commissioner’s decision on the objection.
(2) If the objection is allowed in part or disallowed, the notice must state the following—

Division 2 Appeals and reviews

Subdivision 1 Right of appeal or review

69. Right of appeal or review
(1) This section applies to a taxpayer if—
(2) The taxpayer may, within 60 days after notice is given to the taxpayer of the commissioner’s decision on the objection—
(3) QCAT may not, under the QCAT Act, section 61(1)(a), extend the period under subsection (2) within which the taxpayer may apply to QCAT for the review.
(4) To remove any doubt, it is declared that subsection (1)(b) applies to an objection to an assessment whether or not the taxpayer also makes an objection under section 63A to a royalty valuation decision relating to the assessment.
(5) For royalty payable under the Mineral Resources Act 1989, the reference in subsection (1)(b) to payment of the whole of the amount of the tax is a reference to payment of the whole of the amount of the royalty assessed as payable to the State.

69A. Effect of reassessment or amendment of decision after appeal or review started
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The taxpayer may—
(3) However, the taxpayer may change the grounds of the appeal or review only to the extent that the taxpayer would have a right of objection to the reassessment or amended royalty valuation decision.

Subdivision 2 Appeals to the Supreme Court

70. How to start appeal to the Supreme Court
(1) An appeal to the Supreme Court is started by giving written notice of the appeal to the commissioner within 7 days after the notice of appeal is filed.
(2) The notice of appeal must be filed within 60 days after notice is given to the taxpayer of the commissioner’s decision on the objection.
(3) The Supreme Court must not extend the time for filing the notice.
(4) The notice of appeal must state fully the grounds of the appeal and the facts relied on.
(5) The grounds of an appeal to the Supreme Court are limited to the grounds of objection unless the court otherwise orders.

70A. Onus on appeal
On the appeal, the appellant has the onus of proving the appellant’s case.

70B. Admissibility of new evidence
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) The court must—
(3) However, subsection (2) does not apply if the commissioner asks the court to continue the hearing without the commissioner reconsidering the objection.
(4) For reconsidering the objection, the commissioner has all the powers conferred under this Act.

70C. Deciding appeal
The Supreme Court must allow the appeal completely or partly or disallow it.

Subdivision 3 Reviews by QCAT

71. QCAT to decide review on evidence before the commissioner
(1) This section applies to a proceeding for a review by QCAT of a decision of the commissioner on an objection.
(2) The grounds on which the application for review is made are limited to the grounds of the relevant objection, unless QCAT otherwise orders.
(3) QCAT must—
(4) If QCAT decides, under the QCAT Act, section 139, that the proceeding should be reopened, the issues in the proceeding that are reheard must be—
(5) In this section—

72. Representation of parties before QCAT
(1) This section applies to a party in a proceeding before QCAT relating to an application under section 69(2)(b).
(2) The party may be represented by a lawyer.

73. Onus on review
On the review, the applicant has the onus of proving the applicant’s case.

74

Division 3 Decisions and determinations not subject to objection, appeal or review

75. What is a non-reviewable decision
(1) A non-reviewable decision is a decision or determination that, under a provision of a tax law, is declared to be a non-reviewable decision.
(2) In this section—

76. Effect of non-reviewable decisions
A non-reviewable decision—

77. Application of Judicial Review Act
The Judicial Review Act 1991, parts 3 and 5, does not apply to—

Part 7 Investigations

Division 1 Preliminary

78. Declaration of recognised law and corresponding commissioner
(1) A regulation may declare a law of the Commonwealth or another State that provides for any of the following to be a recognised law for this Act—
(2) However, a law may be declared to be a recognised law only if the law or another law of the relevant jurisdiction provides or will provide for the conduct of investigations for a tax law or another law administered by the commissioner that corresponds to a recognised law.
(3) The regulation must declare a person to be the corresponding commissioner for the recognised law.

79. Exercise of powers only for tax law or recognised law
A power conferred under this part may be exercised only for the administration or enforcement of a tax law or recognised law.

Division 2 Investigations under tax laws

Subdivision 1 Investigators

80. Appointment
(1) The commissioner may appoint a public service employee as an investigator.
(2) The commissioner may appoint a person as an investigator only if the commissioner is satisfied the person is qualified for appointment because the person has the necessary expertise or experience.

81. Appointment conditions and limit on powers
(1) An investigator holds office on any conditions stated in—
(2) The instrument of appointment, a signed notice given to the investigator or a regulation may limit the investigator’s powers under this Act.
(3) In this section—

82. Issue of identity card
(1) The commissioner must issue an identity card to each investigator.
(2) The identity card must—
(3) This section does not prevent the issue of a single identity card to a person for this Act and other purposes.

83. Production of identity card
(1) In exercising a power under subdivision 3 or 4 in relation to a person, an investigator must—
(2) However, if it is not practicable to comply with subsection (1), the investigator must produce the identity card for the person’s inspection at the first reasonable opportunity.
(3) For subsection (1), an investigator does not exercise a power in relation to a person only because the investigator has entered a place as mentioned in section 90(1)(b) or (2).

84. When investigator ceases to hold office
(1) An investigator ceases to hold office if any of the following happens—
(2) Subsection (1) does not limit the ways an investigator may cease to hold office.
(3) In this section—

85. Resignation
(1) An investigator may resign by signed notice given to the commissioner.
(2) However, if holding office as an investigator is a condition of the investigator holding another office, the investigator may not resign as an investigator without resigning from the other office.

86. Return of identity card
A person who ceases to be an investigator must return the person’s identity card to the commissioner within 21 days after ceasing to be an investigator unless the person has a reasonable excuse.

Subdivision 2 Provisions about requiring information, documents and attendance

87. Power to require information or documents
The commissioner or an investigator may, by written notice given to a person, require the person to—

88. Power to require attendance
(1) The commissioner or an investigator may, by written notice given to a person, require the person to attend before the commissioner or an investigator to do either or both of the following—
(2) The notice must state a reasonable time and place for the person’s attendance.
(3) The commissioner or an investigator may require—
(4) When making a requirement under this section, the commissioner or investigator must warn the person it is an offence to fail to comply with the requirement, unless the person has a reasonable excuse.
(5) For subsection (3)(a), the commissioner or investigator may administer an oath.
(6) The person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to—
(7) A person, other than a taxpayer or the taxpayer’s representative, who is required under a notice under this section to attend a place is entitled to be paid the expenses prescribed under a regulation.

89. Power to record giving of information
(1) This section applies if a person is giving information to the commissioner or an investigator under a requirement under section 88.
(2) With the person’s knowledge, a recording may be made, in the way the commissioner or investigator considers appropriate, of questions asked by the commissioner or investigator and information given by the person.
(3) If asked to do so by the person, the commissioner or investigator must give the person a copy of the recording.

Subdivision 3 Entry of places

90. Investigator’s power to enter places for investigations
(1) An investigator may enter a place if—
(2) For the purpose of asking the occupier of a place for consent to enter, an investigator may, without the occupier’s consent or a warrant—
(3) For subsection (1)(c), a place used for conducting an enterprise does not include a part of the place where a person resides.

91. Entry with consent
(1) This section applies if an investigator intends to ask an occupier of a place to consent to the investigator or another investigator entering the place under section 90(1)(a).
(2) Before asking for the consent, the investigator must tell the occupier—
(3) If the consent is given, the investigator may ask the occupier to sign an acknowledgement of the consent.
(4) The acknowledgement must state—
(5) If the occupier signs the acknowledgement, the investigator must immediately give a copy to the occupier.
(6) If—
(6) the onus of proof is on the person relying on the lawfulness of the entry to prove the occupier consented.

92. Application for warrant
(1) An investigator may apply to a magistrate for a warrant for a place.
(2) The application must be sworn and state the grounds on which the warrant is sought.
(3) The magistrate may refuse to consider the application until the investigator gives the magistrate all the information the magistrate requires about the application in the way the magistrate requires.

93. Issue of warrant
(1) The magistrate may issue a warrant only if the magistrate is satisfied—
(2) The warrant must state the following—

94. Special warrants
(1) An investigator may apply for a warrant (a special warrant) by phone, fax, radio or another form of communication if the investigator considers it necessary because of—
(2) Before applying for the special warrant, the investigator must prepare an application stating the grounds on which the warrant is sought.
(3) The investigator may apply for the warrant before the application is sworn.
(4) After issuing the special warrant, the magistrate must immediately fax a copy to the investigator if it is reasonably practicable to fax the copy.
(5) If it is not reasonably practicable to fax a copy to the investigator—
(6) The facsimile warrant, or the warrant form properly completed by the investigator, authorises the entry and the exercise of the other powers stated in the warrant issued by the magistrate.
(7) The investigator must, at the first reasonable opportunity, send to the magistrate—
(8) On receiving the documents, the magistrate must attach them to the warrant.
(9) If—
(9) the onus of proof is on the person relying on the lawfulness of the exercise of the power to prove a special warrant authorised the exercise of the power.

95. Warrants—procedure before entry
(1) This section applies if an investigator named in a warrant issued under this subdivision for a place is intending to enter the place under the warrant.
(2) Before entering the place, the investigator must do or make a reasonable attempt to do the following things—
(3) However, the investigator need not comply with subsection (2) if the investigator believes on reasonable grounds that immediate entry to the place is required to ensure the effective execution of the warrant is not frustrated.

Subdivision 4 General powers of investigators on entry to places

96. General powers for places
(1) An investigator who enters a place under subdivision 3 may exercise any of the following powers—
(2) If an investigator secures a thing, a person must not tamper, or attempt to tamper, with the thing, or something restricting access to the thing, without the investigator’s approval.
(3) When making a requirement mentioned in subsection (1)(g), the investigator must warn the person it is an offence to fail to comply with the requirement, unless the person has a reasonable excuse.
(4) The person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with the requirement.

Subdivision 5 Provisions about seizing and retaining things

97. Power to seize and retain things
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner or investigator may retain the document or the investigator may seize and retain a thing—
(3) Nothing in this section affects a lien or other security over the retained document or thing (the retained thing).

98. Receipt for retained thing
(1) The commissioner or investigator must, as soon as practicable, give a receipt for the retained thing to the person from whom it was received or seized.
(2) However, if, under section 97(2), the retained thing is seized by the investigator and for any reason it is not practicable for the investigator to comply with subsection (1), the investigator must leave the receipt at the place of seizure in a conspicuous position and in a reasonably secure way.
(3) A receipt must—
(4) This section does not apply to a retained thing if it is impracticable or would be unreasonable to give the receipt because of the thing’s nature, condition or value.

99. Return of retained thing
(1) The commissioner must ensure the retained thing is returned to its owner—
(2) However, the commissioner may retain a document for which tax is payable under a tax law until the tax is paid in full.

99A. Testing of seized thing for royalty law
(1) This section applies only for the administration or enforcement of—
(2) If an investigator considers a thing seized under section 97 is a mineral or petroleum, the investigator may carry out, or arrange to have carried out, a scientific or other test on a sample of the thing.
(3) The testing may have the effect of destroying the thing.
(4) Section 99(1) does not apply in relation to a thing seized and tested under this section.

100. Access to retained thing
(1) Until the retained thing is forfeited or returned, the commissioner must allow the owner of the retained thing, or a person who would be entitled to inspect it if it were not in the commissioner’s possession, at any reasonable time to inspect it and, if it is a document, to copy it.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply if it is impracticable or would be unreasonable to allow the inspection or copying.

101. Forfeiture of retained thing
(1) A retained thing is forfeited to the State if the commissioner—
(2) In applying subsection (1)—
(3) Regard must be had to a thing’s nature, condition and value in deciding—

102. Dealing with forfeited thing
(1) On the forfeiture of a retained thing to the State, it becomes the State’s property and may be dealt with by the commissioner as the commissioner considers appropriate.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the commissioner may destroy or dispose of the thing.

Subdivision 6 Miscellaneous provisions

103. Investigators may use help and force in exercise of powers
(1) An investigator may exercise a power under this division with the help that is reasonable in the circumstances.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), a person engaged by the commissioner may help the investigator exercise powers under this division.
(3) Also, an investigator may exercise a power under this division using the force that is reasonable in the circumstances.

104. Access to public records without fee
The commissioner or an investigator is not required to pay any fee for inspecting or taking copies of a record that ordinarily is open to inspection by members of the public.

105. Notice of damage
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The investigator must promptly give written notice of particulars of the damage to the person who appears to the investigator to be the owner of the property.
(3) If the investigator believes the damage was caused by a latent defect in the property or circumstances beyond the control of the investigator or other person, the investigator may state it in the notice.
(4) If, for any reason, it is impracticable to give the notice to the person mentioned in subsection (2), the investigator must leave the notice in a conspicuous position and in a reasonably secure way where the damage happened.
(5) This section does not apply to damage the investigator reasonably believes is trivial.
(6) In this section—

106. Compensation
(1) A person may claim from the commissioner the cost of repairing or replacing property damaged because of the exercise or purported exercise of a power under this division.
(2) The cost may be claimed and ordered to be paid in a proceeding—
(3) A court may order an amount be paid only if it is satisfied it is just to make the order in the circumstances of the particular case.
(4) A regulation may prescribe matters that may, or must, be taken into account by the court when considering whether it is just to make the order.

Division 3 Investigations for recognised laws

107. Commissioner may make reciprocal investigation arrangement
(1) The commissioner may make an arrangement with a corresponding commissioner for a recognised law to conduct an investigation under this part into any matter connected with the administration or enforcement of the recognised law.
(2) The commissioner may make the arrangement only on the written application of the corresponding commissioner.
(3) The application must state the reasons for the investigation.
(4) The arrangement must—

108. Conduct of particular reciprocal investigations subject to commissioner
If a reciprocal investigation is to be conducted by a reciprocal investigator—

109. Identity certificates for reciprocal investigators
If a reciprocal investigation is to be conducted by a reciprocal investigator, the commissioner must issue to the investigator a certificate stating the investigator is a reciprocal investigator authorised to exercise powers under this part for conducting the investigation.

110. Application of Act to reciprocal investigations
(1) This section prescribes changes for the application of this Act, other than this division, for conducting a reciprocal investigation.
(2) For a reciprocal investigator conducting a reciprocal investigation—
(3) However, subsection (2)(a) does not apply to sections 80 to 82, 84 to 86 and 150.
(4) A reference to a tax law, or a tax law liability, is taken to be a reference to the relevant recognised law or a liability under the relevant recognised law.

Part 8 Confidentiality and collection of information

Division 1 Confidentiality

111. Disclosure of confidential information
(1) An official must not disclose confidential information acquired by the official in the official’s capacity to anyone else other than under this part.
(2) The commissioner may disclose personal confidential information—
(3) Also, if the commissioner becomes aware, from information obtained or held by the commissioner in the course of administering this Act, of a particular offence or suspected offence (whether against this Act or another law), the commissioner may disclose confidential information about the offence or suspected offence to a member of the Queensland Police Service or the Australian Federal Police for an investigation or proceeding (including for starting an investigation or proceeding).
(4) Also, the commissioner may disclose other confidential information to any person, or for any purpose, the commissioner is satisfied is appropriate in the circumstances.
(5) The commissioner’s decision not to disclose confidential information is a non-reviewable decision.
(6) This section does not create a right in any person to be given confidential information.
(7) In this section—

112. Other obligations about disclosure and use of confidential information
(1) If—
(1) the person must not disclose the information to anyone else unless the disclosure is permitted under this part.
(2) If, under section 111, the commissioner discloses confidential information to a person, the person may disclose the information—

113. Refusal of disclosure of particular information
(1) A person engaged in the administration or enforcement of a tax law can not be compelled to disclose to a court or QCAT in a proceeding, or to a party to the proceeding—
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a proceeding for the administration or enforcement of a tax law.

Division 2 Collection of information for disclosure to Commonwealth

113A. Definitions for division
In this division—

113B. Relationship with other laws
(1) This division applies despite any other provision of this Act or another Act or law.
(2) This division does not limit the extent to which reportable information may be collected or disclosed under another provision of this Act or another Act or law.
(3) Information may be collected and disclosed under this division even if—

113C. Commissioner may collect and disclose reportable information
The commissioner may collect reportable information and disclose it to the commissioner of taxation.

113D. How reportable information may be collected
(1) The commissioner may require a person who is providing information under a tax law to give the commissioner reportable information.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the commissioner may require reportable information to be given with an instrument or ELN transaction document lodged, or an application made, under a tax law.
(3) This section does not limit the circumstances in which the commissioner may collect reportable information.

Part 9 Record keeping

114. Requirement to keep proper records
(1) A person must keep the records necessary to enable the person’s tax law liability to be ascertained.
(2) For subsection (1), the commissioner may, by written notice given to a person, require the person to keep a particular record stated in the notice for a stated revenue law.
(3) The person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with the notice.
(4) A person who, under a notice given under a revenue law, is required to keep a stated record must comply with the requirement.

115. Accessibility of records
A person who is required under a tax law to keep a record must keep the record in a way that it is able to be readily produced to the commissioner if required by the commissioner.

116. Form of records
A person who is required under a tax law to keep a record must keep the record—

117. Commissioner may require translation or conversion of document or information
(1) The commissioner may, by written notice given to a person, require the person to translate or convert into a written document in the English language and Australian currency any document or information the commissioner reasonably believes is relevant to the administration or enforcement of a tax law.
(2) The notice must state the reasonable time for compliance with the requirement.
(3) The person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with the requirement.
(4) If the person does not comply with the requirement, the commissioner may have the document or information translated or converted.
(5) The costs and expenses incurred under subsection (4) are a debt payable to the State by the person and may be recovered by the commissioner by action in a court of competent jurisdiction.

118. Period for keeping records
A person who is required under a tax law to keep a record must keep it until the later of the following—

119. Wilfully damaging records
(1) A person must not wilfully damage a record that is required to be kept under a tax law.
(2) In this section—

Part 10 Enforcement and legal proceedings

Division 1 Offences and related provisions

120. Failure to give notice
If, under a tax law, a person is required to give to the commissioner a notice about a matter, the person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with the requirement.

121. Failure to comply with information or lodgement requirement
A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with an information or lodgement requirement.

122. False or misleading documents
(1) A person must not give to the commissioner or an investigator a document containing information that the person knows, or should reasonably know, is false or misleading in a material particular.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who, when giving the document—
(3) It is enough for a complaint against a person for an offence against subsection (1) to state the document was, without specifying which, ‘false or misleading’.

123. False or misleading information
(1) A person must not state anything to the commissioner or an investigator that the person knows is false or misleading in a material particular.
(2) It is enough for a complaint for an offence against subsection (1), to state the statement made was ‘false or misleading’ to the person’s knowledge, without specifying which.

124. Self-incrimination not a reasonable excuse for failure to comply with particular information or lodgement requirement
(1) This section applies if, under a tax law, a person is required by written notice given to the person to—
(2) It is not a reasonable excuse for the person to fail to comply with the requirement because complying with the requirement might tend to incriminate the person.
(3) However, evidence of, or evidence directly or indirectly derived from, information or a document given or lodged in compliance with the requirement, by the person that might tend to incriminate the person is not admissible in evidence against the person in a criminal proceeding, other than a proceeding in which the falsity or misleading nature of the information or document is relevant.

125. Use in legal proceedings of document or information obtained under a recognised law
(1) This section applies if, under a recognised law—
(2) Evidence of, or evidence directly or indirectly derived from, the information or document that might tend to incriminate the person is not admissible in evidence against the person in a criminal proceeding, other than a proceeding in which the falsity or misleading nature of the information or document is relevant.

126. Obstruction of person exercising power under tax law
A person must not, without reasonable excuse, obstruct—

127. Impersonation of investigator
A person must not pretend to be an investigator.

Division 2 Evidence

128. Application of div 2
This division applies to a proceeding under or in relation to a tax law.

129. Commissioner’s office and signature
(1) Judicial notice must be taken of the name and signature of a person who is or was the commissioner.
(2) A document is taken to be signed by the commissioner if it bears the written, printed or stamped signature or name of the commissioner instead of the commissioner’s signature.
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the name of the commissioner was written, printed or stamped on the document without the commissioner’s authority.
(4) A document bearing the written, printed or stamped name of the commissioner is presumed to have been made with the commissioner’s authority unless the contrary is proved.

130. Statement in complaint
A statement made by or for the commissioner in a complaint starting a proceeding is evidence of the matter stated.

131. Evidentiary certificates
A certificate purporting to be signed by the commissioner stating any of the following matters is evidence of the matter—

132. Evidentiary provisions for assessments
(1) Production of a document signed by the commissioner purporting to be a copy of an assessment notice—
(2) The validity of an assessment is not affected merely because a provision of a tax law has not been complied with.

133. Production of copies of documents
A copy of a document made or issued by the commissioner or in the commissioner’s possession—

Division 3 Legal proceedings

134. Conducting proceeding for commissioner
(1) The commissioner may, by signed writing, authorise a person to conduct—
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the person—

135. Summary proceedings for offences
A proceeding for an offence against a tax law must be taken in a summary way under the Justices Act 1886.

136. When proceeding must start
A proceeding for an offence against a tax law must start within 5 years after the commission of the offence.

137. Court may order compliance or payment
(1) If a person is convicted of an offence against a provision of a tax law, the court may order the person to comply with the provision.
(2) Subsection (1) applies even if the time for complying with the provision has passed.
(3) If a court makes an order under subsection (1), the order must state a place where and a time or period by or within which the order is to be complied with.
(4) The person must comply with the order.
(5) Also, if a person is convicted of an offence against a provision of a tax law, the court may order the person pay the commissioner the amounts payable by the person under the tax law that are outstanding on the conviction.
(6) In addition, if the court is satisfied the purpose of the act or omission constituting the offence was to avoid a tax law liability, the court may order the person pay twice the amount of the liability.
(7) This section does not limit the court’s powers under the Penalties and Sentences Act 1992 or any other law.

138. Second or subsequent offence
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The maximum penalty for the further offence is twice the maximum penalty fixed in the tax law for the offence.

139. Responsibility for acts or omissions of representative
(1) This section applies in a proceeding for an offence against a tax law.
(2) If it is relevant to prove a person’s state of mind about a particular act or omission, it is enough to show—
(3) An act done or omitted to be done for a person by a representative of the person within the scope of the representative’s actual or apparent authority is taken to have been done or omitted to be done also by the person, unless the person proves the person could not, by the exercise of reasonable diligence, have prevented the act or omission.
(4) In this section—

140. Liability of executive officer—particular offences committed by corporation
(1) An executive officer of a corporation commits an offence if—
(2) In deciding whether things done or omitted to be done by the executive officer constitute reasonable steps for subsection (1)(b), a court must have regard to—
(3) The executive officer may be proceeded against for, and convicted of, an offence against subsection (1) whether or not the corporation has been proceeded against for, or convicted of, the offence against the executive liability provision.
(4) This section does not affect either—
(5) In this section—

141. Treatment of partnerships and unincorporated bodies
(1) Subject to this section, the tax laws apply to a partnership or unincorporated body as if the partnership or unincorporated body were a person.
(2) An obligation or liability that, apart from this subsection, would be imposed by a tax law on a person that is a partnership or unincorporated body, is imposed on each partner or management member of the body, but may be discharged by any of the partners or management members.
(3) An amount that, apart from this subsection, would be payable under a tax law by a person that is a partnership or unincorporated body is jointly and severally payable by the partners or management members of the body.
(4) If, because of the operation of subsection (1), an offence against a provision of a tax law is taken to have been committed by a partnership or unincorporated body, the offence is taken to have been committed by each of the partners or management members of the body.
(5) However, it is a defence for a partner or management member to prove—

Part 11 Giving and lodging documents

Division 1 Preliminary

142. Application of pt 11
This part applies if a tax law requires or permits a document to be given to a person, whether the expression ‘deliver’, ‘give’, ‘lodge’, ‘notify’, ‘send’ or ‘serve’ or another expression having a similar meaning is used.

Division 2 Documents given to the commissioner

143. Ways of giving document to commissioner
(1) A document is given to the commissioner only if—
(2) This section applies subject to section 143A.

143A. Requirement for electronic communication
(1) The commissioner may give a written notice (an electronic communication notice) to a person requiring the person, in complying with a stated lodgement requirement, to give any document or a stated type of document to the commissioner by an electronic communication using an approved information system.
(2) Subject to subsection (3) and section 143B, a person given an electronic communication notice must, in complying with a lodgement requirement to which the notice relates, comply with the notice from the day that is 30 days after being given the notice.
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the person on a particular occasion is unable to comply with the notice due to circumstances beyond the person’s control.

143B. Application to withdraw electronic communication notice
(1) A person given an electronic communication notice may apply to the commissioner to withdraw the notice.
(2) The application must—
(3) The application may be made on any of the following grounds—
(4) The commissioner must consider the application and either grant, or refuse to grant, the application.
(5) The person is not required to comply with the notice pending the person being notified of the commissioner’s decision on the application under subsection (6) or (8).
(6) If the commissioner decides to grant the application, the commissioner must immediately give the person written notice of the decision.
(7) Subsections (8) to (11) apply if the commissioner decides to refuse to grant the application.
(8) The commissioner must immediately give the person a written notice stating the following—
(9) The person may apply to the tribunal for a review of the decision during the review period.
(10) The person is not required to comply with the notice—
(11) If the person applies for a review of the decision—

144. When document given to commissioner
(1) A document is taken to be given to the commissioner—
(2) However, if the document is given to the commissioner on a day that is not a business day, or after 5p.m. on a business day, the document is taken to be given to the commissioner on the following business day.
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply to a document given to the commissioner using an approved information system.

145. When lodgement requirement complied with
A lodgement requirement is complied with only if—

Division 3 Documents given by the commissioner

146. Giving document to agents of taxpayers, members of partnerships and unincorporated bodies
(1) A document is taken to be given by the commissioner to a taxpayer if it is given to an agent of the taxpayer with apparent authority to be given the document.
(2) A document to be given by the commissioner to a partnership is taken to have been given to all members of the partnership if it is given to any member of the partnership.
(3) A document to be given by the commissioner to an unincorporated body is taken to have been given to all members of the body if it is given to any member of the committee of management of the body.

147. Giving document if more than 1 taxpayer liable
(1) A document is taken to be given to all taxpayers who are liable to pay tax for an instrument, transaction or matter, if it is given to 1 of the taxpayers who is liable to pay the tax.
(2) However, a regulation may declare that subsection (1) does not apply to a taxpayer in stated circumstances.
(3) A regulation may be made only if—
(4) Subsections (2) and (3) do not prevent the commissioner from giving the document to the taxpayer to whom the regulation applies.
(5) A reference in this section to a liability to pay tax for an instrument, transaction or matter includes a reference to a liability to pay tax for a matter for a particular period.

148. Ways document given by commissioner
(1) A document to be given under a tax law to a person by the commissioner is properly given if it is—
(2) Without limiting subsection (1)(a), a document to be given to a person by the commissioner is properly given if it is left at, or sent to—
(3) In this section—

149. When document given by commissioner
(1) A document is taken to be given by the commissioner to a person—
(2) However, if under subsection (1), the document is given after 5p.m. on a particular day, the document is taken to be given to the person on the following business day.

Part 11A Registration of charitable institutions

149A. Application for registration
(1) A person authorised by an institution may apply to the commissioner for registration of the institution under this part.
(2) The application must—
(3) In this section—

149B. Decision on application
The commissioner must approve or refuse the application.

149C. Restrictions on registration
(1) The commissioner may register the institution only if it is an institution mentioned in subsections (2) to (4).
(2) Each of the following may be registered—
(3) Also, an institution may be registered if its principal object or pursuit—
(4) In addition, the trustees of an institution mentioned in subsection (2) or (3), other than a university or university college, may be registered.
(5) However, an institution, other than an institution or trustee of an institution mentioned in subsection (2)(a) or (c), must not be registered unless its constitution, however described, expressly provides that—
(6) In this section—

149D. Approval of application
If the commissioner approves the application, the commissioner must register the institution.

149E. Refusal of application
If the commissioner refuses the application, the commissioner must give notice of the decision to the institution.

149F. Later registration
(1) If the commissioner refuses the application, the commissioner may state in the notice of the decision a later date when the commissioner will reconsider the application on the facts and circumstances known at the later date.
(2) If at the later date the commissioner is satisfied the institution is entitled to be registered, the commissioner must approve the application and register the institution.
(3) The date of registration must be the date that the institution would have been registered had the commissioner approved the application in the first instance.

149G. Notice of registration
(1) On registration of an institution, the commissioner must give notice to the institution of its registration.
(2) The notice—
(3) The date of registration may be before the date of the application or notice.

149H. Notice of ceasing to be entitled to be registered
Within 28 days after a charitable institution stops being entitled to be registered under section 149C, it must give written notice to the commissioner.

149I. Cancellation of registration
(1) The commissioner may cancel a charitable institution’s registration if the commissioner is satisfied the institution—
(2) If the commissioner cancels the institution’s registration under subsection (1)(b) or (c), the commissioner must give notice to the institution that its registration is cancelled effective from the date stated in the notice.
(3) The stated date may be before the date of the notice.

Part 11B Royalty operations

149J. Definitions for part
In this part—

149K. References to assessment
A reference in this Act to an assessment of a taxpayer’s liability for tax includes a reference to an assessment of the liability for tax, for a royalty operation, of all the authority holders.

149L. Refunds
(1) This section applies if the authority holders for a royalty operation are entitled to a refund of an amount under section 37 in relation to the liability for tax for the royalty operation.
(2) Section 38 applies as if a reference to a tax law liability of the taxpayer were a reference to a tax law liability, for the royalty operation, of the authority holders.
(3) A reference in section 39 to a taxpayer receiving an amount from another person includes a reference to an authority holder for the royalty operation receiving an amount from a person other than another authority holder for the royalty operation.

Part 12 Miscellaneous provisions

150. Protection from liability
(1) An official is not civilly liable for an act done, or omission made, honestly and without negligence under a tax law.
(2) If subsection (1) prevents a civil liability attaching to an official, the liability attaches instead to the State.
(3) In this section—

150A. When information requirement complied with
An information requirement is complied with only if the information required to be given under the requirement has been given by the date for complying with the requirement.

151. Extension of date for complying with information or lodgement requirement
If, in particular circumstances, the commissioner considers it would be unreasonable to require compliance with an information or lodgement requirement by the date for complying with the requirement, the commissioner may extend the date for compliance.

152. Rounding down
The commissioner may round down an amount required to be paid under a tax law to the nearest 5c.

153. Approved forms
(1) The commissioner may approve forms for use under this Act.
(2) A form may be approved for use under this Act that is combined with, or is to be used together with, an approved form under another Act.

153A. Approved information system
The commissioner may approve an information system for a tax law.

153B. Commissioner may arrange for use of an approved information system to make particular decisions
(1) The commissioner may arrange for the use of an approved information system for any purposes for which the commissioner may make a relevant decision under a tax law.
(2) A relevant decision made by the operation of an approved information system under an arrangement made under subsection (1) is taken to be a decision made by the commissioner.
(3) In this section—

153C. Commissioner may require payment of penalty
(1) This section applies if a person—
(2) The commissioner may, by written notice given to the person, require the person to pay a penalty (the penalty amount) of $100.
(3) The notice must state the following—
(4) To remove doubt, it is declared that a notice may be given under subsection (2) each time a person does not comply with an electronic payment notice or electronic communication notice.
(5) The commissioner may remit the whole or part of the penalty amount.
(6) The person may apply to the tribunal for a review of the decision during the review period.
(7) If the person applies for a review of the decision—

154. Regulation-making power
(1) The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
(2) A regulation may provide for a maximum penalty of not more than 20 penalty units for a contravention of a regulation.

Part 13 Repeal, savings and transitional provisions

Division 1 Repeal of Revenue Laws (Reciprocal Powers) Act 1988

155. Act repealed
The Revenue Laws (Reciprocal Powers) Act 1988 is repealed.

Division 2 Savings and transitional provisions for repealed Stamp Act

Subdivision 1 Preliminary

156. Definitions for div 2
In this division—

Subdivision 2 Application of this Act and repealed Stamp Act

157. Repealed Stamp Act is revenue law for particular provisions
(1) Despite its repeal, the repealed Stamp Act is taken to be a revenue law under section 6.
(2) However, the following provisions do not apply to the repealed Stamp Act as a revenue law—
(3) For applying a provision of this Act to the repealed Stamp Act, the provision applies with all necessary changes to ensure the repealed Stamp Act can be read together with this Act as if they together formed a single Act.
(4) If, under this section, a provision of this Act relating to a particular matter applies to the repealed Stamp Act and the repealed Stamp Act contains a provision about the same matter, the provision in the repealed Stamp Act does not apply to the matter.
(5) This section has effect subject to sections 159 and 160.

158. Confidential information
To remove any doubt, it is declared that part 8 applies to—

159. Application of s 48 to particular administrators
Section 48 applies to an administrator appointed before the commencement day as if the required date under the section were the later of the following—

160. Second or subsequent offences
(1) For applying section 138 to the repealed Stamp Act, the reference in subsection (1)(b) of that section to a further offence is a reference to an offence committed on or after the commencement day.
(2) If section 138(1)(a) applies for an offence against a provision of the repealed Stamp Act, the reference in subsection (1)(b) of that section to a further offence against the provision includes a reference to an offence against a provision of a tax law that corresponds to the provision of the repealed Stamp Act.

Subdivision 3 Miscellaneous provisions

161. Office of commissioner
The person who, immediately before the commencement day, held the office of commissioner of stamp duties under the repealed Stamp Act, becomes the commissioner on that day.

162. Reference in Act or document to particular officers
In an Act or document—

163

Division 3 Transitional provision for Queensland Civil and Administrative Tribunal (Jurisdiction Provisions) Amendment Act 2009

164 165. Transfer of appeals from Supreme Court only with consent
(1) Despite the QCAT Act, section 268(4) the court may not transfer a proceeding to QCAT without the consent of the applicant for the proceeding.
(2) The QCAT Act, section 268(7) does not apply to a final decision of the court in a proceeding relating to an appeal against a decision of the commissioner on an objection.

Division 4 Transitional provisions for Land Tax Act 2010

166. Definition for div 4
In this division—

167. Repealed Land Tax Act is revenue law
(1) Despite its repeal, the repealed Land Tax Act is taken to be a revenue law under section 6.
(2) Despite their repeal, sections 72 to 75 of the repealed Land Tax Act continue to apply in relation to how this Act applies to the repealed Land Tax Act.
(3) Subsection (2) does not limit the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 20A.

168. Existing exempt institutions taken to be registered
(1) This section applies to an institution that—
(2) The institution is taken to be registered under part 11A.
(3) The institution’s date of registration is taken to be 30 June 2010.
(4) The commissioner is not required to give a notice of registration to the institution under section 149G.

Division 5 Savings provision for repealed Tobacco Products (Licensing) Act 1988

169. Continuation of Tobacco Products Act, s 43
(1) Despite its repeal, section 43 of the Tobacco Products Act continues to apply for information and records obtained in connection with the administration of that Act before it was repealed by the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2011, section 121.
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a proceeding may be started against a person for a contravention of section 43(1) or (3) of the Tobacco Products Act as if that Act had not been repealed.
(3) Words used in section 43 of the Tobacco Products Act, as continued under this section, have the same meanings as they had under that Act before it was repealed.
(4) In this section—

Division 6 Savings, transitional and related provisions for repeal of Community Ambulance Cover Act 2003

170. Definitions for div 6
In this division—

171. Repealed Act continues as revenue law
(1) Despite its repeal, the repealed Act is taken to continue to be a revenue law under section 6.
(2) Despite its repeal, section 141 of the repealed Act continues to apply in relation to how this Act applies to the repealed Act.
(3) Subsection (2) does not limit the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 20A.

172. Community Ambulance Cover Levy Repeal Act is revenue law
The Community Ambulance Cover Levy Repeal Act 2011 is taken to be a revenue law under section 6.

173. Delegations
(1) This section applies if, immediately before 1 July 2011, a delegation of any of the commissioner’s powers under the repealed Act was in force.
(2) The delegation continues for the purpose of the administration of the repealed Act as continued under the Community Ambulance Cover Levy Repeal Act 2011 part 2, divisions 1 and 2 until the delegation is ended under this Act.
(3) If the delegation had permitted the subdelegation of the power and a subdelegation of the power was in force immediately before 1 July 2011, the subdelegation also continues under subsection (2) until it is ended under this Act.

174. Confidential information
To remove any doubt, it is declared that part 8 applies to—

Division 7 Transitional provision for Revenue Amendment and Trade and Investment Queensland Act 2013

175. Application of s 22 for existing reassessments
Section 22(2)(b) applies in relation to an investigation into a taxpayer’s liability for tax under a recognised law started before the commencement of this section as if the investigation had started after the commencement.

Division 8 Transitional provision for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2014

176. Application of s 7
Section 7, as in force on the day this section commences, is taken to have had effect on and from 19 February 2014.

Division 9 Transitional provision for Payroll Tax Rebate, Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2015

177. Application of s 61A
Section 61A applies in relation to a reassessment giving effect to a decision by the commissioner under section 67(1) if the decision is made on or after the commencement.

Division 10 Transitional provision for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2018

178. Application of s 149C to currently registered entities
(1) This section applies to an institution that, immediately before the commencement, was registered under part 11A.
(2) Despite the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2018, the unamended section continues to apply in relation to the institution until the day that is 2 years after the commencement.
(3) In this section—

Division 11 Transitional provisions for Royalty Legislation Amendment Act 2020

179. Definitions for division
In this division—

180. Application of ss 13A and 19
(1) Sections 13A and 19 apply to the commissioner in relation to an assessment, amendment or reassessment even if it relates to a pre-commencement liability.
(2) Subsection (1) applies despite the Mineral Resources Act 1989, section 887(2)(a) and the Petroleum and Gas (Production and Safety) Act 2004, section 1020(2)(a).

181. Assessment for mineral royalty for financial year ending 30 June 2021
(1) Part 3 applies to an assessment of liability for royalty or a royalty-related amount under the Mineral Resources Act 1989 for the financial year ending 30 June 2021.
(2) Subsection (1) applies despite the Mineral Resources Act 1989, section 887(2)(a).

182. Application of s 61 (Interest on particular overpayments following court’s or QCAT’s decision)
(1) A reference in section 61(1)(a) to a decision of the Supreme Court under section 70C includes a decision, made after the commencement, relating to a pre-commencement liability.
(2) A reference in section 61(1)(b) to an application by a taxpayer does not include an application relating to a pre-commencement liability.
(3) A reference in section 61(1)(c) to a decision of QCAT includes a decision, made after the commencement, relating to a pre-commencement liability.

183. Application of s 61A (Interest on particular overpayments following commissioner’s decision)
A reference in section 61A(1) to a decision of the commissioner under section 67(1) includes a decision, made after the commencement, relating to a pre-commencement liability.

184. Application of pt 6 (Objections, reviews and appeals)
(1) Part 6 applies in relation to an assessment, reassessment, royalty valuation decision or amended royalty valuation decision made on or after the commencement.
(2) For subsection (1), it does not matter whether an assessment, reassessment, royalty valuation decision or amended royalty valuation decision—

185. Application of pt 8 (Confidentiality and collection of information)

Part 8 applies to—

186. References to royalty valuation decision
A reference in this Act to a royalty valuation decision includes—

187

Division 12 Transitional provisions for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2023

187. Existing proceedings
(1) This section applies if, immediately before the commencement, a proceeding involving a cause of action, right or remedy at common law for the refund or recovery of an amount paid or purportedly paid under a tax law has been started but not completed.
(2) The proceeding may be continued and decided as if the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2023, part 6, had not been enacted.

188. Proceedings not yet started
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Section 36(2) extinguishes the cause of action, right or remedy and the proceeding may not be started.
(3) This section applies despite the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 20.

Division 13 Effect of particular assessments

189. Assessments related to Duties Act 2001, s 688 and Land Tax Act 2010, ss 104 and 105
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The assessment has, and is taken to have always had, the same force and effect as if it were made in relation to—
(3) The rights and liabilities of a person in relation to the assessment are taken to be, and to have always been, the same as if the assessment were made in relation to—
(4) Anything done or omitted to be done by a person in relation to the assessment has, and is taken to have always had, the same force and effect as if it were done or omitted to be done in relation to—
(5) Any amount paid by a person in relation to the assessment is taken to be, and to have always been, paid in relation to—

Schedule 2 Dictionary
