library_id: 500000006
citation: Payroll Tax Regulation 2019
type: secondary_legislation
version_id: sha256:52429c4b172b94dd15eca77efdf958da3963b45f409e153fc80e982051c02b5c
jurisdiction: queensland
url: https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/sl-2019-0147
content_format: xml
source: sha256

Part 1 Preliminary

1. Short title
This regulation may be cited as the Payroll Tax Regulation 2019.

2. Commencement
This regulation commences on 2 September 2019.

3. Definitions
The dictionary in schedule 1 defines particular words used in this regulation.

Part 2 Liability to taxation

4. Value of taxable wages—Act, s 13
For section 13(1) of the Act, the value of taxable wages paid or payable in kind by an employer (other than fringe benefits under the Fringe Benefits Assessment Act) is the highest of the following amounts—

Part 3 Fringe benefits

Division 1 Preliminary

5. Things that are not fringe benefits—Act, sch, definition fringe benefit
(1) For the schedule of the Act, definition fringe benefit, paragraph (d), a tax-exempt body entertainment fringe benefit is prescribed not to be a fringe benefit.
(2) In this section—

6. Notice of amended assessments under the Fringe Benefits Assessment Act
An employer must, within 30 days of receiving a notice of an amended assessment under the Fringe Benefits Assessment Act, give the commissioner a copy of the notice.

7. Calculation of fringe benefits on same basis
(1) An employer must calculate fringe benefits on the same basis for a financial year—
(2) This section is subject to sections 11 to 13.

Division 2 Basis for calculating fringe benefits—Act, s 91

Subdivision 1 Preliminary

8. Purpose of division
This division provides, for section 91(1) and (3)(b) of the Act, for the election by an employer to include in returns an estimated value amount, or an actual value amount, for fringe benefits.

Subdivision 2 Electing to calculate fringe benefits on estimated value basis

9. Application of subdivision
This subdivision applies to an employer who has paid, or is liable to pay, fringe benefits tax for at least 15 consecutive months immediately before the start of a financial year (a relevant financial year).

10. Election in first periodic return period for relevant financial year
(1) The employer may elect to include in returns estimated value amounts and use those amounts to work out the employer’s prelevant payroll tax and levy liabilities.
(2) The employer makes an election under subsection (1) by using an estimated value amount to work out the employer’s periodic liability and periodic levy liability for the first periodic return period for the relevant financial year.
(3) An election under subsection (1) continues to apply until the employer elects, under subdivision 3, to use actual value amounts to work out the employer’s relevant payroll tax and levy liabilities.
(4) If an election under subsection (1) applies to the employer on 30 June in the relevant financial year or a later financial year, the employer must include an estimated value amount as part of the wages paid or payable during that year by the employer—
(5) An election under subsection (1) applies for working out—

11. Election during relevant financial year
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The employer must apply to the commissioner for consent to make the election.
(3) An application under subsection (2) must be in writing.
(4) The commissioner must consider the application and decide whether or not to give the consent.
(5) The commissioner may give the consent only if reasonably satisfied—
(6) The commissioner must give the employer written notice of the commissioner’s decision.
(7) If the commissioner consents to the election, the employer must elect to include in returns estimated value amounts and use those amounts to work out the employer’s relevant payroll tax and levy liabilities.
(8) An election under subsection (7)—
(9) If the employer makes an election under subsection (7), the employer must—
(10) If the election applies to the employer on 30 June in a financial year after the relevant financial year (a subsequent financial year), the employer must include an estimated value amount as part of the wages paid or payable during the subsequent financial year—
(11) The employer must not purport to make an election under subsection (7) unless the employer has received a consent under this section.

Subdivision 3 Electing to calculate fringe benefits on actual value basis

12. Election in annual return
(1) An employer, who has made an election under subdivision 2 that continues to apply, may elect to include in returns actual value amounts and use those amounts to work out the employer’s relevant payroll tax and levy liabilities.
(2) An employer makes an election under subsection (1) by using a reconciliation amount to work out—
(3) If an employer makes an election under subsection (1), the employer must include a reconciliation amount as part of the wages paid or payable by the employer—
(4) An election under subsection (1) continues to apply until the employer elects, under subdivision 2, to use estimated value amounts to work out the employer’s relevant payroll tax and levy liabilities.
(5) An election under subsection (1) applies for working out—
(6) In this section—

13. Election during financial year
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The employer must apply to the commissioner for consent to make the election.
(3) An application under subsection (2) must be in writing.
(4) The commissioner must consider the application and decide whether or not to give the consent.
(5) The commissioner may give the consent only if reasonably satisfied—
(6) The commissioner must give the employer written notice of the commissioner’s decision.
(7) If the commissioner consents to the election, the employer must elect to include in returns actual value amounts and use those amounts to work out the employer’s relevant payroll tax and levy liabilities.
(8) An election under subsection (7)—
(9) If the employer makes an election under subsection (7), the employer must—
(10) However, if the employer makes an election under subsection (7) and a change of status happens for the employer during the financial year in which the election is made, the employer must—
(11) The employer must not purport to make an election under subsection (7) unless the employer has received a consent under this section.
(12) In this section—

Division 3 Value of fringe benefits—Act, s 97

Subdivision 1 Preliminary

14. Purpose of division
This division prescribes, for section 97(2)(d) of the Act, what is to be included in a return as the value of fringe benefits paid or payable by an employer.

Subdivision 2 Value of Queensland fringe benefits

15. Definition for subdivision
In this subdivision—

16. Value of Queensland fringe benefits for estimated value amount
For calculating the estimated value amount for a financial year, the value of Queensland fringe benefits for the previous year of tax or the last year of tax is the grossed-up value of the benefits.

17. Value of Queensland fringe benefits for reconciliation amount, final return and information given under Act, s 88B
(1) This section applies for calculating a reconciliation amount or the value of fringe benefits to be included in—
(2) The value of Queensland fringe benefits for the last year of tax is the grossed-up value of the benefits.
(3) The value of Queensland fringe benefits for the year of tax ending in the employer’s election year is the grossed-up value of the benefits.

Subdivision 3 Value of fringe benefits calculated on estimated value basis in periodic and annual returns

18. Application of subdivision
This subdivision applies to an employer for whom an election under division 2, subdivision 2 applies.

19. Periodic return on estimated value basis
(1) The estimated value amount for the employer to be included in a periodic return for a periodic return period of 1 month in a financial year is one-twelfth of the value of the employer’s Queensland fringe benefits for the previous year of tax.
(2) The estimated value amount for the employer to be included in a periodic return for a periodic return period of 3 months in a financial year is one-quarter of the value of the employer’s Queensland fringe benefits for the previous year of tax.
(3) The estimated value amount for the employer to be included in a periodic return for a periodic return period of 6 months in a financial year is one-half of the value of the employer’s Queensland fringe benefits for the previous year of tax.

20. Annual return and information given on estimated value basis
(1) This section applies for—
(2) The estimated value amount to be included in the annual return and information is the value of the employer’s Queensland fringe benefits for the last year of tax.

Subdivision 4 Value of fringe benefits calculated on estimated value basis in final returns

21. Application of subdivision
This subdivision applies to an employer if, when a change of status happens for the employer, an election under division 2, subdivision 2 applies.

22. Final return and information given on estimated value basis
(1) This section applies for—
(2) The value of fringe benefits to be included in the final return and information as part of the wages paid or payable during the final period for the final return by the employer is the difference between the following amounts—

Part 4 Transitional provisions

Division 1 Transitional provisions for SL No. 147 of 2019

23. Definition for part
In this part—

24. Continuation of election under s 12 of expired regulation
An election made by an employer under section 12(1) of the expired regulation, that applies immediately before the commencement, is taken to be an election by the employer under section 10(1).

25. Application, consent and continuation of election under s 13 of expired regulation
(1) An application for consent made by an employer under section 13(2) of the expired regulation, that has not been decided by the commissioner before the commencement, is taken to be an application for consent under section 11(2).
(2) Consent given by the commissioner under section 13 of the expired regulation is taken to be consent given by the commissioner under section 11.
(3) An election made by an employer under section 13(7) of the expired regulation, that applies immediately before the commencement, is taken to be an election by the employer under section 11(7).

26. Continuation of election under s 14 of expired regulation
An election made by an employer under section 14(1) of the expired regulation, that applies immediately before the commencement, is taken to be an election by the employer under section 12(1).

27. Application, consent and continuation of election under s 15 of expired regulation
(1) An application for consent made by an employer under section 15(2) of the expired regulation, that has not been decided by the commissioner before the commencement, is taken to be an application for consent under section 13(2).
(2) Consent given by the commissioner under section 15 of the expired regulation is taken to be consent given by the commissioner under section 13.
(3) An election made by an employer under section 15(7) of the expired regulation, that applies immediately before the commencement, is taken to be an election by the employer under section 13(7).

Division 2 Transitional provision for Revenue Legislation Amendment Regulation 2022

28. Basis for calculating fringe benefits applies in relation to mental health levy
(1) This section applies to an employer if a relevant election made by the employer applied to the employer immediately before the commencement.
(2) From the commencement, and until the employer makes another election under part 3, division 2, the relevant election also applies for working out—
(3) In this section—

Schedule 1 Dictionary
