library_id: 500000007
citation: Property Law Act 2023
type: primary_legislation
version_id: sha256:0d2e346a65461a030497b666b6b4759d6a604817af166c99575f6fc2a9975648
jurisdiction: queensland
url: https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-2023-027
content_format: xml
source: sha256

Part 1 Preliminary

Division 1 Introduction

1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Property Law Act 2023.

2. Commencement
This Act commences on a day to be fixed by proclamation.

Division 2 Application of Act

3. Act binds all persons
(1) This Act binds all persons, including the State and, to the extent the legislative power of the Parliament permits, the Commonwealth and the other States.
(2) Nothing in this Act makes the State, the Commonwealth or another State liable to be prosecuted for an offence against this Act.

4. Act applies to land, property and documents
This Act applies to—

5. Relationship with other Acts
(1) This Act applies subject to the following Acts—
(2) If this Act is inconsistent with an Act mentioned in subsection (1), unless this Act or the Act mentioned in subsection (1) expressly provides otherwise, the Act mentioned in subsection (1) prevails to the extent of the inconsistency.

Division 3 Interpretation

6. Dictionary
The dictionary in schedule 2 defines particular words used in this Act.

Part 2 General rules affecting property

Division 1 Requirement for writing

7. Contracts for disposition of land not enforceable unless in writing
A contract for the disposition of land is not enforceable by action in a proceeding unless—

8. Writing required for creation of particular interests in land
(1) The creation of a legal or equitable interest in land must be in writing and signed by the person creating the interest.
(2) A trust relating to land must be created or declared in writing and signed by the person creating or declaring the trust.

9. Nature of interest in land created by parol
(1) An interest in land created by parol, and not put in writing and signed by the person creating the interest, has the effect of an interest at will only.
(2) Subsection (1) applies despite any consideration given for the interest.

10. Particular matters not affected
(1) This division does not affect—
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a short lease created by parol takes effect when the lessee has an immediate entitlement to possession.

Division 2 Other rules

11. Transfer or lease to self and others
A person may transfer or lease property to the person’s self, or to the person’s self and others.

12. Merger of estate
An estate does not merge by operation of law with another estate unless the person acquiring both estates intends the estates to merge.

Part 3 Freehold estates

13. Freehold estates capable of creation
The following estates of freehold are capable of being created and subsisting in land—

14. Abolition of obsolete estates and rules
(1) The following estates can not be created—
(2) In a document, words that, apart from this section, would have created an estate tail are taken to create an estate in fee simple.
(3) The rule known as the rule in Shelley’s Case is abolished.

15. Abolition of incidents of tenure for benefit of State
A tenure created by the State on granting an estate in fee simple is in free and common socage without any incident of tenure for the benefit of the State.

16. Abolition of quit rent
If quit rent issues to the State out of land, or the residue of quit rent issues to the State out of land in relation to which quit rent has been apportioned or redeemed, the land is released from quit rent.

17. Abolition of escheat for dissolved corporation
If a corporation is dissolved or otherwise ceases to exist, subject to the Corporations Act, the State is entitled to take as bona vacantia any of the corporation’s property that would have been liable to escheat if escheat had not been abolished.

18. Waiver by State of any remaining rights to property by escheat
(1) This section applies if a person believes the State may have a right to property by escheat, devolution or bona vacantia on the death intestate of a person.
(2) The person may apply to the Minister to waive the State’s rights.
(3) The Minister may waive the State’s rights on terms the Minister considers appropriate.
(4) The Minister must publish in the gazette the details of a waiver under this section.
(5) The Minister may delegate the Minister’s functions or powers under this section to an appropriately qualified public service employee.
(6) In this section—

19. Voluntary waste or equitable waste by life tenant
(1) A life tenant who commits voluntary or equitable waste in relation to land, other than under subsection (3) or (4), is liable in damages to the person entitled, immediately after the life estate ends, to the fee simple interest in remainder in the land (the remainder person).
(2) If the interest of the life tenant is an equitable interest, the trustee for the remainder person may bring a proceeding for the damages on behalf of the remainder person.
(3) A life tenant may commit voluntary waste in relation to land if an express or implied term in the document creating the life estate permits the waste.
(4) A life tenant may commit equitable waste in relation to land if an express term in the document creating the life estate permits the waste.

20. Recovery of property when life estate ends
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The remainder person may apply to the court for any or all of the following in relation to the interest in the property—
(3) If the life tenant or third person has been absent for at least 7 years, the court may presume the life tenant or third person has died.
(4) The presumption mentioned in subsection (3) is rebuttable.
(5) The court may hear and decide the application and make the orders it considers appropriate.
(6) If, after the court has decided the application, a life tenant or third person presumed dead by the court is proved to be alive—

21. Penalty for holding over possession after life estate ends
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The third person is liable to the remainder person for the market rent for the remainder person’s interest in remainder in the land for the period—
(3) The remainder person may recover the market rent for the remainder person’s interest in remainder in the land as a debt due to the remainder person.

Part 4 Future interests

22. Creation of future interests in land
(1) If a future interest in land is created, it takes effect as an equitable and not a legal interest.
(2) Despite the Land Title Act 1994, an interest in remainder must not be registered in the freehold land register.
(3) In this section—

23. Creation and disposition of interests in property
(1) Each interest in property that can be created or disposed of may be created or disposed of by an individual—
(2) However, subsection (1) does not make a joint tenancy severable by will.

24. When gift over stops being capable of taking effect
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The gift over stops being capable of taking effect when the first person has a child, or a child of the stated class, who attains 18 years.
(3) Subsection (2) applies even if the child dies after attaining 18 years.
(4) For this section, a gift over includes a gift over expressed to take effect on the ending of an interest preceding that of the person whose interest is the subject of the gift over.
(5) In this section—

Part 5 Co-ownership of property

Division 1 General rules

25. Forms of co-ownership
Property may be held by 2 or more persons—

26. Corporation may hold property as joint tenant
(1) A corporation may acquire and hold property in joint tenancy in the same way as if it were an individual.
(2) If a corporation and an individual, or 2 or more corporations, become entitled to property under circumstances or because of a document that would, if the corporation or corporations had been individuals, have created a joint tenancy, the corporation and the individual, or the 2 or more corporations, are entitled to the property as joint tenants.
(3) However, the acquisition and holding of property by a corporation in joint tenancy is subject to the same conditions and restrictions as attach to the acquisition and holding of property by a corporation in severalty.
(4) If a corporation is a joint tenant of property and the corporation is dissolved or otherwise ceases to exist, the property devolves on the other joint tenant.

27. Liability of co-owners to account
If a co-owner of property receives more than the co-owner’s just or proportionate share according to the co-owner’s interest in the property, the co-owner is liable to account to each other co-owner of the property.

28. Construction of disposition of property to 2 or more persons
(1) A disposition of an equitable interest in property, whether with or without a legal interest in the property, to 2 or more persons together beneficially takes effect as a disposition to the persons as tenants in common, and not as joint tenants.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to—
(3) Subject to the Partnership Act 1891 or any agreement to the contrary, a disposition of property to 2 or more persons carrying on business in partnership for partnership purposes takes effect as—
(4) In this section—

29. Tenants in common of equitable interest who become entitled to legal interest
(1) This section applies if 2 or more persons holding property—
(2) Subject to any agreement to the contrary, both the legal and equitable interests in the property are held by the persons as tenants in common.

Division 2 Sale and division of co-owned property

Subdivision 1 Preliminary

30. Definitions for division
In this division—

31. Other forms of severance not affected
Nothing in this division affects or prevents the severing of a joint tenancy under—

32. Security interests not affected
Despite anything to the contrary appearing in a document creating or related to a security interest, the severing of a joint tenancy under this division—

Subdivision 2 Sale and division

33. Application to court for sale or division of co-owned property
(1) A co-owner of property may apply to the court for an order under this subdivision to be made in relation to the property.
(2) The application may request—
(3) The applicant must, within 30 days after making the application, give a copy of the application to each person who holds a security interest over the property.

34. Orders court may make
(1) In the proceeding, the court may make any order that the nature of the case requires to ensure a just and fair sale or division of the property.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the court may make any of the following orders—

35. Sale and division of proceeds to be preferred
(1) If the court decides to make an order for the sale or division of the property, the court must make an order under section 34(2)(a) unless the court considers an order under section 34(2)(b) or (c) would be more just and fair.
(2) In deciding whether an order under section 34(2)(b) or (c) would be more just and fair, the court must consider—
(3) Subsection (2) does not limit or otherwise affect the matters the court may consider.

36. Order varying entitlements to property
In making an order under section 34, the court may order that—

37. Order appointing trustee
(1) In the proceeding, if the court considers the appointment of a trustee for the sale or physical division of the property is necessary or desirable, the court may order—
(2) In an order appointing a trustee for the sale of the property, the court may make any order that the nature of the case requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
(3) In an order appointing a trustee for the physical division of the property, the court may make any order that the nature of the case requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
(4) If the property is held by joint tenants, an order of the court appointing a trustee for the sale of the property does not of itself sever the joint tenancy.
(5) Subject to an order of the court, if the property is land held by co-owners, an order of the court appointing a trustee for the sale of the land converts the interest of each co-owner into an interest in the proceeds of the sale of the land.
(6) Subject to an order of the court, a trustee appointed by the court may pay the following amounts out of income generated by the property or the proceeds of the sale of the property—

38. Vesting of property in trustee
(1) If the court orders the appointment of a trustee for the sale or physical division of the property, the order is taken to vest the property in the trustee in the same way as a vesting order under the Trusts Act 1973, section 90.
(2) If the property is subject to a security interest affecting the entirety, the property vests in the trustee subject to the security interest.
(3) If the property is subject to a security interest affecting an undivided share of the property—

39. Other orders court may make
(1) In the proceeding, the court may also make any other order the court considers appropriate, including, for example, any of the following orders—
(2) This section does not limit or otherwise affect section 34 or 37.

40. Orders for compensation and accounting
(1) In the proceeding, the court may order that—
(2) In deciding whether to make an order under subsection (1), the court must consider the following matters—
(3) The court must not make an order requiring a co-owner who has occupied land (the occupying co-owner) to pay an amount equivalent to rent to a co-owner who did not occupy the land (the non-occupying co-owner) unless—
(4) The court must not make an order requiring a co-owner who has used property other than land (the using co-owner) to pay an amount equivalent to rent to a co-owner who did not use the property (the non-using co-owner) unless—
(5) This section applies despite any other Act or law.

Subdivision 3 Accounting of amounts received by co-owners

41. Application to court for accounting
(1) A co-owner of property may apply to the court for an order for an accounting under section 42.
(2) An application under subsection (1) may be made whether or not an application is made under subdivision 2.

42. Orders court may make
(1) In the proceeding, the court may make any order that the nature of the case requires to ensure a just and fair accounting of amounts received by the co-owners in relation to the property.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the court may make an order that a co-owner, who has received more than the share of rent or other payments from a third party in respect of the property to which that co-owner is entitled, account for that rent or those other payments to the other co-owners.

Subdivision 4 Miscellaneous matters

43. Adjournment or stay of co-ownership proceeding—family law proceeding
(1) The court may adjourn or stay a proceeding under subdivision 2 or 3 in relation to property at any time before it has made a final order if a co-owner starts, or has started, a family law proceeding in relation to the property.
(2) Also, the court may adjourn a proceeding under subdivision 2 or 3 in relation to property at any time before it has made a final order to allow a co-owner of the property to start a family law proceeding.
(3) This section does not limit or otherwise affect the power of the court to grant or refuse an adjournment or stay in relation to a proceeding.
(4) In this section—

Part 6 Deeds and covenants

Division 1 Deeds

Subdivision 1 Preliminary

44. Definitions for division
In this division—

45. What is a counterpart for a document
(1) A counterpart, for a document, is a copy of the document that includes the entire content of the document.
(2) Despite subsection (1), a counterpart need not include—

46. Division does not apply to enduring documents
This division does not apply to an enduring document under the Powers of Attorney Act 1998.

47. Application of division to powers of attorney
(1) Each of the following documents made by an individual must be a physical document that is signed by the individual in the presence of a witness—
(2) However, a document containing a power of attorney given by an individual under a deed may be an electronic document that is electronically signed by the individual if—
(3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that—
(4) This section applies—
(5) In this section—

48. Execution of documents under other Acts
This division does not limit or otherwise affect the way in which documents are validly executed under the Land Act 1994 or the Land Title Act 1994.

Subdivision 2 Form and execution

49. How deed is made generally
(1) A document takes effect as a deed if the document—
(2) A document takes effect as a deed under subsection (1) even if—

50. Electronic document and electronic signing
A document that is to have effect as a deed may be in the form of an electronic document and may be electronically signed.

51. Execution by individual
(1) An individual may execute a document that is to have effect as a deed by signing the document.
(2) An individual may sign a document under subsection (1) whether or not in the presence of a witness.

52. Execution by corporation
(1) A corporation may execute a document that is to have effect as a deed, without using a seal, if the document is signed by—
(2) A corporation with a common seal may execute a document that is to have effect as a deed if the seal is fixed to the document and the fixing of the seal is witnessed by—
(3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), a corporation sole or statutory corporation may execute a document that is to have effect as a deed, without using a seal, if the document is signed by a person, or in a way, authorised by the Act or another document under which the corporation is established, incorporated or registered.
(4) For a corporation with a common seal executing a document that is to have effect as a deed, or a corporation sole or statutory corporation using a seal, the fixing of the seal to the document is taken to have been witnessed by a person if—
(5) A corporation that is not incorporated under a law of the Commonwealth or a State may execute a document that is to have effect as a deed if the document is signed by a person, or in a way, authorised by the law of the place in which the corporation is incorporated.
(6) A document that is to have effect as a deed may be signed under this section whether or not in the presence of a witness.
(7) If a person signs a document that is to have effect as a deed for a corporation as a lawfully authorised agent or attorney for the corporation, the person must—
(8) This section does not limit or otherwise affect the ways in which a document that is to have effect as a deed for a corporation may be executed by the corporation.
(9) In this section—

53. Execution by partnership or unincorporated association
(1) An individual may execute a document that is to have effect as a deed on behalf of a partnership or unincorporated association by signing the document.
(2) An individual may sign a document under subsection (1) whether or not in the presence of a witness.
(3) If an individual signs a document under subsection (1), the individual must sign the document in a way that indicates the person is executing the document on behalf of the partnership or unincorporated association.
(4) A reference in subsection (1) to a document includes a document containing a power of attorney for the partnership or unincorporated association.
(5) This section does not limit or otherwise affect another law or document that requires or permits a document executed on behalf of a partnership or unincorporated association to be executed in a particular way.

54. Execution by the State
(1) A person who is authorised to execute a document that is to have effect as a deed for the State may execute the document by signing the document.
(2) The person may sign the document under subsection (1) without using a seal and whether or not in the presence of a witness.
(3) If a seal is used to execute a document that is to have effect as a deed for the State, the fixing of the seal to the document is taken to have been witnessed by a person who is authorised to witness the fixing of the seal if—
(4) This section does not limit or otherwise affect—
(5) In this section—

55. Signing counterpart or true copy
(1) A document that is to have effect as a deed for a person may be signed by or for the person by signing a counterpart or true copy of the document.
(2) For subsection (1), if the counterpart or true copy is electronically signed by a person, the counterpart or true copy need not include any material included in the document about the method used for electronically signing the document.
(3) In this section—

Subdivision 3 Miscellaneous matters

56. Delivery
(1) The execution of a document in the form of a deed does not, of itself, constitute delivery of a deed, unless it appears the execution of the document was intended to constitute delivery of the document.
(2) Subject to subsection (1), delivery of a deed may be inferred from any fact or circumstance, including, for example, words or conduct, that indicates delivery.
(3) In this section—

57. Receipt in body of deed sufficient
(1) A receipt for consideration in the body of a deed or other document is a sufficient discharge for the consideration to the person giving the consideration without any further receipt for the consideration being endorsed on the deed or document.
(2) In this section—

58. Deposit of deed in registry
(1) This section applies to a deed made under this division that is proposed to be deposited in a registry for the purpose of supporting another document lodged or deposited in the registry.
(2) If the deed is made in counterparts, each counterpart must be deposited in the registry for the purpose.
(3) If the deed or a counterpart of the deed is in the form of an electronic document, a printed copy of the deed or counterpart certified under subsection (4) must be deposited in the registry for the purpose.
(4) For subsection (3), the printed copy must be certified as a true copy of the original deed or counterpart—
(5) In this section—

59. Protection for third parties
(1) A person may assume that a document has been duly executed by a corporation if—
(2) This section does not limit or otherwise affect any requirement to be satisfied that a person signing a document is a director, secretary, or lawfully authorised agent or attorney, of a corporation.

60. Abolition of rule in Pigot’s case
(1) The rule of law known as the rule in Pigot’s case is abolished.
(2) Accordingly, a material alteration to a deed does not, by itself, invalidate the deed or render it voidable, or limit or otherwise affect any obligation under the deed.

Division 2 Covenants

61. Construction of expressions used in deeds and other documents
(1) In a deed, contract, will or other document, unless the context otherwise requires—
(2) A covenant, power or term implied in a deed, contract, will, or other document under this Act or another Act must be construed under subsection (1).

62. Implied covenants may be negatived
(1) A covenant, power or term implied, under this Act or another Act, in a document has the same effect, and may be enforced in the same way, as if the covenant, power or term had been expressed in the document.
(2) However, the covenant, power or term implied in the document may be negatived, varied or extended by the express terms of the document or another document.
(3) This section is subject to this Act or another Act.

63. Covenants and agreements made by person with self and others
(1) A covenant, whether express or implied, or agreement, entered into by a person with the person’s self and 1 or more other persons, has the same effect, and may be enforced in the same way, as if the covenant or agreement had been entered into by the person with the other person or persons alone.
(2) In this section—

64. Covenants relating to land bind successors
(1) A covenant relating to land of a covenantee is taken to be made with each of the following—
(2) A covenant relating to land of a covenantor, or land capable of being bound by a covenantor, is taken to be made by each of the following—
(3) Subsection (2) extends to a covenant to do some act relating to the land, notwithstanding that the subject matter of the covenant may not be in existence when the covenant is made.
(4) This section applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.

65. Particular covenants in registered easements bind successors
(1) This section applies to a covenant contained in a registered easement over land (the burdened land).
(2) If the covenant imposes an obligation, whether positive or negative, in relation to the use, ownership or maintenance of the burdened land, the covenant binds the grantor and the grantee of the easement, and each of their successors in title.
(3) A covenant imposes an obligation in relation to the use, ownership or maintenance of the burdened land if the covenant imposes an obligation—
(3A) Subsection (3) does not limit the covenants that may impose an obligation in relation to the use, ownership or maintenance of the burdened land.
(4) Subsection (2) does not apply if the covenant is expressed to be personal to the grantor or the grantee of the easement.
(5) This section does not limit or otherwise affect the Land Title Act 1994, part 6, division 4 or 4A.
(6) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a registered easement under this section includes a registered easement in gross.

66. No right to register restrictive covenant
To remove any doubt, it is declared that this Act does not confer on any person a right to register a restrictive covenant.

Part 7 Contracts, sales of land, instalment contracts and seller disclosure for sales of lots

Division 1 Contracts

67. Effect of joint promises and liabilities
(1) Subject to this Act and any other Act—
(2) In this section—

68. Contract containing promise for benefit of third party
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The promisor is subject to a duty enforceable by the third party to perform the promise.
(3) Subject to the terms of the contract, the contract or the promise may be terminated or modified by the agreement of the promisor and promisee before the third party accepts the benefit of the promise.
(4) If the third party accepts the benefit of the promise, either expressly or by conduct, an obligation imposed by the contract on the third party for the benefit of the promisor is enforceable by the promisor.
(5) The promise is enforceable by the third party in a proceeding brought in the third party’s own name.
(6) If the third party brings a proceeding under subsection (5)—
(7) If the promise creates an interest in land, this section applies subject to part 2, division 1.
(8) In this section—

69. Guarantee not enforceable unless in writing
(1) A guarantee is not enforceable in a proceeding unless—
(2) However, subsection (1) does not require the consideration given for the guarantee to appear in writing or by necessary inference from a written document.
(3) Subject to the National Consumer Credit Protection Act 2009 (Cwlth), a guarantee may comply with subsection (1) even if the guarantee is—
(4) In this section—

70. Effect of conclusive evidence provision
(1) If a contract or other document provides that a certificate of a person is conclusive evidence of a fact, the certificate is evidence, but not conclusive evidence, of the fact.
(2) However, subsection (1) does not apply to—
(3) Subsection (1) applies—
(4) In this section—

71. Effect on contract of non-compliance with statutory instrument
(1) A statutory instrument, other than prescribed subordinate legislation, does not and can not—
(2) In this section—

72. Effect of statutory requirement for certificate
(1) This section applies if an Act requires a certificate to be obtained or given before or when—
(2) It is sufficient compliance with the requirement if the certificate is obtained or given before settlement of the contract or disposition.
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply if this Act or another Act expressly provides otherwise.
(4) In this section—

73. Stipulations not of essence of contract
(1) This section applies to a stipulation in a contract, as to time or otherwise, that under the rules of equity is not of the essence of the contract.
(2) The stipulation must be construed, and has effect at law, under the rules of equity.

Division 2 Sales of land

74. Definitions for division
In this division—

75. Reference to settlement of sale of land using e-conveyancing
(1) A reference in this Act or another Act to the settlement, however described, of the sale of land or a contract for the sale of land, using e-conveyancing, is a reference to the electronic workspace for the e-conveyance recording—
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply if this Act or another Act expressly provides otherwise.

76. Implied conditions
(1) The following conditions are implied in a contract for the sale of land—
(2) Also, if a sale of land is not an e-conveyance, the following conditions are implied in the contract for the sale of the land—
(3) This section applies subject to the terms of the contract for the sale of the land.

77. Buyer may rescind contract if residential dwelling unfit for occupation
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The buyer may rescind the contract by giving notice to the seller of the rescission before the earliest of the following to happen—
(3) If the seller restores the residential dwelling to the condition it was in immediately before it was so damaged or destroyed as to be unfit for occupation as a residential dwelling, the seller must give notice to the buyer of the restoration as soon as practicable after the restoration.
(4) The buyer may, after receiving notice under subsection (3) and giving reasonable notice to the seller, inspect the residential dwelling.
(5) On rescission of the contract, an amount, if any, paid under the contract by the buyer must be refunded to the buyer.
(6) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
(7) In this section—

78. When day of settlement is next business day
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Despite the terms of the contract, the day of settlement of the contract is—

79. Effect of inoperative computers in office of the land registry on day of settlement
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Time stops being of the essence of the contract.
(3) The seller is taken—
(4) The seller or buyer may give a notice to the other party to the contract to complete the contract.
(5) The notice must state—
(6) The notice may not be given earlier than the day after the first continuous day of operation of the computers after the computers are again fully operational.
(7) From a party’s receipt of the notice, time is again of the essence of the contract.
(8) This section applies subject to the terms of the contract for the sale of the land.

80. Effect of inoperative computers in particular entities on day of settlement
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The parties to the contract are taken not to be in breach of the contract only because of the failure, on the day of settlement of the contract, to complete settlement of the contract.
(3) Time does not stop being of the essence of the contract.
(4) The day of settlement of the contract is taken to be the next business day.
(5) The parties must do everything required under the ELN to enable the contract to be settled on the next business day.
(6) This section applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.
(6A) To remove any doubt, it is declared that if, on the next business day mentioned in subsection (4), the contract again can not be settled because of the circumstances mentioned in subsection (1), this section again applies in relation to the circumstances.
(7) In this section—

81. Effect of adverse event on day of settlement
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Time stops being of the essence of the contract.
(3) The non-attending party—
(4) Despite the terms of the contract, but subject to any right under the contract to nominate a new day and time of settlement of the contract, the day and time of settlement of the contract are—
(5) The non-attending party must—
(6) The notice under subsection (5)(b) must state—
(7) From a party’s receipt of a notice under subsection (5)(b) and (6), time is again of the essence of the contract.
(8) If a notice is given under subsection (5)(b) by the buyer and the seller in relation to the same adverse event on the same day of settlement, the notice given by the seller prevails.
(9) In this section—

82. Direction for payment given by seller’s authorised agent sufficient discharge of buyer
(1) A written direction given by a seller’s authorised agent to the buyer or the buyer’s authorised agent in relation to the payment of money under a contract for the sale of land is sufficient discharge of the buyer in relation to the payment of the money.
(2) In this section—

83. Buyer may recover damages if defective title
(1) The rule of law known as the rule in Bain v Fothergill is abolished in relation to a contract for the sale or other disposition of land.
(2) The court may award damages for loss of bargain against a seller who can not perform a contract for the sale or other disposition of land because of a defect in the seller’s title.
(3) This section does not affect a right, power or remedy available to a buyer under a contract for the sale or other disposition of land in relation to a defect in the seller’s title, or a failure of the seller to perform the contract, that is available under a law other than this section.
(4) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.

84. Buyer may recover deposit and instalments if defective title but no rescission
(1) This section applies if a seller is not entitled to specific performance of a contract for the sale of land against a buyer because of a defect in the seller’s title but the defect does not entitle the buyer to rescind the contract.
(2) The buyer may recover the buyer’s deposit and any instalments under the contract and is relieved from all liability under the contract, unless the contract discloses the defect and contains a term precluding the buyer from objecting to the defect.
(3) If the defect was known, or should reasonably have been known, to the seller at the date of the contract the buyer may also recover the buyer’s expenses of investigating the title.
(4) Also, without being limited by subsection (1), in any proceeding in which the court refuses to order specific performance of a contract, or in which the buyer seeks return of the deposit or any instalments under a contract, the court may order the repayment of the deposit and any instalments.
(5) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.

85. Seller may forfeit deposit of no more than 20 per cent if buyer breaches contract for sale of proposed lot
(1) This section applies in relation to a contract for the sale of a proposed lot.
(2) The contract may provide for a sum of not more than 20% of the purchase price of the proposed lot that is paid under the contract as a deposit, whether paid in 1 or more amounts, to be forfeited and retained by the seller in the event of a breach of the contract by the buyer.
(3) However, the sum mentioned in subsection (2) may only be forfeited or retained by the seller if the breach of the contract by the buyer results in termination of the contract.
(4) The sum mentioned in subsection (2) is not, either at law or in equity, a penalty if the sum is forfeited or retained by the seller under subsection (3).

86. When statutory right of termination on settlement ends if e-conveyance
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The right of termination—
(3) In this section—

Division 3 Instalment contracts for sale of land

87. Definitions for division
In this division—

88. Application of division
(1) This division applies in relation to an instalment contract despite any agreement to the contrary.
(2) However, despite section 3, this division does not bind the State, the Commonwealth or the other States.
(3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that this division does not apply in relation to a contract for the sale of land by the public trustee.
(4) In this section—

89. What is an instalment contract
An instalment contract is a contract for the sale of land under which the buyer is bound to make 1 or more payments by instalment of the purchase price of the land, other than a deposit, and is not entitled to receive a transfer of the title to the land in exchange for the payments.

90. When buyer must give seller notice to constitute contract an instalment contract
(1) This section applies if a contract for the sale of land may, at the election of the buyer, be performed in a way that would constitute the contract an instalment contract.
(2) The contract is not an instalment contract unless and until the buyer gives the seller a notice stating that the buyer elects to perform the contract in a way that will constitute the contract an instalment contract.

91. Restriction on seller’s right to termination if buyer defaults on payment of instalment
(1) The seller under an instalment contract may not terminate the contract because of default by the buyer in payment of an instalment of the purchase price of the land, or in payment of any other sum of money, other than a deposit, until 30 days after the seller gives the buyer a notice in the approved form about the default.
(2) If a buyer receives a notice under subsection (1) about a default by the buyer in payment of an instalment or sum of money mentioned in subsection (1), the buyer may, within 30 days after the seller gives the notice to the buyer, pay the outstanding instalment or sum to the seller.
(3) If a buyer pays the outstanding instalment or sum to the seller under subsection (2), any right or power of the seller to terminate the contract because of the default ends and the buyer is taken not to be in default under the instalment contract.

92. Seller can not sell or mortgage land
(1) The seller under an instalment contract must not without the consent of the buyer sell or mortgage the land the subject of the contract.
(2) The buyer may give consent under subsection (1) only by giving the seller a notice stating that—
(3) If land is sold or mortgaged in contravention of subsection (1), the instalment contract is voidable by the buyer before settlement of the contract.
(4) If the buyer elects to render the instalment contract void under subsection (3), the buyer may recover as a debt a deposit or instalment paid to the seller under the contract.
(5) This section does not limit or otherwise affect—
(6) In this section—

93. Buyer may lodge caveat
(1) The buyer under an instalment contract may, by a caveat under the Land Title Act 1994 that is stated to be lodged under this section, forbid the registration of any document affecting the land the subject of the contract until settlement of the contract.
(2) The caveat is taken, for the Land Title Act 1994, to have been lodged other than under part 7, division 2 of that Act.
(3) The caveat may, on the application of any person interested, be removed on proof to the satisfaction of the registrar or of the court that—
(4) This section does not limit or otherwise affect the powers of the registrar in relation to caveats under the Land Title Act 1994.

94. Buyer not in default may require seller to transfer land
(1) A buyer not in default under an instalment contract may give a notice to the seller requiring the seller to transfer the land on a stated day (the day of settlement) in exchange for payment of the balance of the purchase money owing at the day of settlement.
(2) The notice must—

Division 4 Seller disclosure for sales of lots

Subdivision 1 Preliminary

95. Definitions for division
In this division—

96. When buyer and seller are related
(1) The buyer of a lot and the seller of a lot are related if—
(2) In this section —

97. References to things done by or in relation to buyer or seller
(1) This section applies in relation to a provision of this division that refers to—
(2) The thing may be done, or the thing may have been done, by or in relation to the buyer of the lot or seller of the lot either—

98. Contracting out prohibited
This division applies despite any agreement to the contrary.

Subdivision 2 Disclosure requirement

99. Seller must give buyer disclosure documents
(1) Before a contract for the sale of a lot is signed by the buyer, the seller must give the buyer—
(2) The disclosure statement must—
(3) The approved form must contain, in appropriate places on the form, the warnings and other statements prescribed by regulation.
(4) A prescribed certificate may be a document that is required to be given to the buyer under another Act.
(5) For a contract under which there are 2 or more sellers of a lot, a reference in subsection (1) to the seller of a lot giving a disclosure statement or prescribed certificate is a reference to any of the sellers giving the statement or certificate.
(6) For a contract under which there are 2 or more buyers of a lot—
(7) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a disclosure statement may be an electronic document and may be electronically signed.

100. Exceptions to requirement
The seller of a lot is not required to comply with section 99 if—

101. How disclosure documents to be given
(1) A seller of a lot may give a buyer of the lot the disclosure documents for the lot in a way mentioned in—
(2) If the lot is sold by auction—
(3) The seller of a lot has the onus of proving that the seller gave the buyer of the lot the disclosure documents.
(4) To remove any doubt, it is declared that—
(5) In this section—

102. Electronic communication of disclosure documents
(1) A seller of a lot may give a buyer of the lot the disclosure documents for the lot by giving the buyer a separate physical document (a communication) stating that—
(2) Also, if the buyer has consented to the disclosure documents being sent to an electronic address, the seller may give the buyer the disclosure documents by sending an electronic communication (also a communication) to the electronic address that—
(3) For subsections (1)(a) and (2)(c), the buyer is taken to have received the disclosure documents only if, by using the electronic link, the buyer would have been able to view and obtain a copy of the disclosure documents—
(4) Subsection (3) applies whether or not the buyer used the electronic link.
(5) Unless otherwise agreed between the seller of the lot and the buyer of the lot, a communication under subsection (1) or (2) is taken to be received by the buyer—
(6) Unless otherwise agreed between the seller of the lot and the buyer of the lot, an electronic communication is taken to be capable of being retrieved by the buyer at the electronic address of the buyer when the communication reaches the address.
(7) Subsection (8) applies if the buyer of a lot is given a communication under subsection (1) and asks the seller of the lot for a copy of the disclosure documents.
(8) The seller is taken to have given the buyer the disclosure documents only if, before the contract for the sale of the lot is signed by the buyer, the seller gives the buyer a copy of the disclosure documents in hard copy or electronic form.
(9) In this section—

103. Giving of disclosure documents to buyer who is not registered as bidder until after start of auction
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The seller is taken to have given the buyer the disclosure documents for the lot before the completion of the auction if—
(3) However, if subsection (2)(a)(ii) applies and the buyer of the lot asks the seller of the lot for a physical copy of the disclosure documents, the seller is taken to have given the buyer the disclosure documents for the lot before the completion of the auction only if the seller—
(4) For subsections (2)(a)(ii) and (b)(ii), the buyer of the lot is taken to have received the disclosure documents only if, by using the stated electronic link, the buyer would have been able to view and obtain a copy of the disclosure documents for the period—
(5) Subsection (4) applies whether or not the buyer of the lot used the electronic link.

Subdivision 3 Termination by buyer

104. Buyer may terminate contract if seller fails to disclose or makes inaccurate disclosure
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The buyer of the lot may terminate the contract for the sale of the lot by giving a notice (a termination notice) to the seller terminating the contract.
(3) The termination notice may be given at any time before settlement of the contract for the sale of the lot.
(4) However, subsection (2) does not apply if—
(5) For subsection (4)(b), the other Act is taken not to provide a consequence to the seller for the failure, or for the giving of the inaccurate or incomplete statement or certificate, only because the failure, or the giving of the inaccurate or incomplete statement or certificate, is an offence under that Act.
(6) In this section—

105. Seller must repay amounts to buyer on termination
(1) This section applies if a buyer of a lot terminates a contract for the sale of the lot under section 104.
(2) The seller of the lot must, within 14 days after the termination, repay to the buyer—
(3) The buyer may recover an amount repayable under subsection (2) as a debt.
(4) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the seller of a lot is not required to repay an amount that is collateral to the purchase of the lot and for which the buyer receives consideration separate to the purchase.

106. No other remedy if prescribed certificate contains inaccurate information given by body corporate or other entity
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The buyer’s sole remedy against the seller in relation to the inaccurate information is under this division.
(3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a reference in subsection (1) to information given to a seller by a body corporate includes a reference to information given to a seller by a body corporate manager or another person who is authorised to give the information for the body corporate.
(4) This section does not limit the Body Corporate and Community Management Act 1997, chapter 5, part 3.
(5) In this section—

Subdivision 4 Miscellaneous matters

107. Original owner of lot in community titles scheme must give statement describing power of attorney
(1) This section applies in relation to a contract for the sale of a lot included in a community titles scheme if—
(2) The power of attorney may be exercised only if, before the power is given, the seller gives the buyer a statement that includes a detailed description of the circumstances in which the power may be exercised.
(3) The power of attorney may be exercised only in ways, and only for purposes, disclosed in the statement.
(4) The power of attorney expires 1 year after it is given, unless it expires earlier other than under this subsection.
(5) In this section—

Part 8 Mortgages

Division 1 Preliminary

108. Definition for part
In this part—

109. Application of part
(1) This part applies to a mortgage over land subject to any of the following Acts—
(2) Subject to this Act or another Act, this part also applies to a mortgage over the following property—

Division 2 General rules

110. Variation of mortgage
(1) A mortgage over land evidenced by an instrument of mortgage may be varied by an instrument of variation.
(2) The instrument of variation may do any of the following—
(3) An instrument of variation relating to a mortgage registered under the Land Act 1994 may be registered under section 343 of that Act if it complies with the requirements of that Act relating to registration.
(4) An instrument of variation relating to land subject to the Land Title Act 1994 may be registered under that Act if it complies with the requirements of that Act relating to registration.
(5) This section does not limit or otherwise affect a power of, or procedure for, variation or amendment of a mortgage under another law.

111. Effect of advance out of joint account
(1) This section applies in relation to—
(2) An amount owing under the mortgage belongs to the mortgagees on a joint account.
(3) The receipt, for an amount paid under the mortgage, given in writing by the survivors or last survivor of the mortgagees is a complete discharge for the amount, despite any notice to the mortgagor of a severance of the joint account.
(4) This section applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.
(5) In this section—

112. Mortgages lodged electronically
(1) This section applies in relation to a mortgage under this Act or another law if—
(2) If the mortgage is required to be given, produced or used for any purpose, the document mentioned in subsection (1)(b) may be—
(3) Subsection (2) applies whether or not the document mentioned in subsection (1)(b)—

Division 3 Powers and rights of mortgagees

113. Implied powers of mortgagee
(1) A mortgagee under a mortgage over land, or over land and other property, has the following powers—
(2) A power under subsection (1) takes effect as a term of the mortgage.
(3) If a mortgagee exercises a power under subsection (1)(b), the premiums paid for the insurance are a charge on the mortgaged property, in addition to the mortgage money, and with the same priority, and with interest at the same rate, as the mortgage money.
(4) This section applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.
(5) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the power to sell land under subsection (1)(a) includes—
(6) In this section—

114. Restriction on exercise of power of sale
(1) A mortgagee under a mortgage over property must not exercise a power to sell the property unless and until—
(2) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
(3) This section does not apply to the exercise by a mortgagee of a power of sale given under the Land Act 1994.

115. Power of sale if disclaimer of onerous property
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Also, this section applies if—
(3) Despite the disclaimer, the mortgagee under the registered mortgage may exercise a power to sell the land if—
(4) The mortgagee may exercise a power to sell the land under subsection (3) even if the mortgagee has not complied with section 114.
(5) In this section—

116. Duty to sell at market value
(1) This section applies if a mortgagee exercises a power of sale given under an instrument of mortgage, or this Act or another Act, in relation to property.
(2) The mortgagee must take reasonable care to ensure the property is sold at the market value of the property.
(3) Also, if the mortgage is a prescribed mortgage, the mortgagee must, unless the mortgagee has a reasonable excuse—
(4) Within 28 days after the sale of the property, the mortgagee must give the mortgagor a notice in the approved form about the sale, unless the mortgagee has a reasonable excuse.
(5) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
(6) This section does not limit or otherwise affect a law relating to the duty of a mortgagee to account to a mortgagor.
(7) Section 113(1)(a), 119(4) or 123(2) do not limit or otherwise affect a duty imposed on a mortgagee under this section.
(8) In this section—

117. Protection of buyer
(1) This section applies if a mortgagee exercises a power of sale given under an instrument of mortgage, or this Act or another Act, in relation to property.
(2) The buyer—
(3) A person who incurs loss or damage because of a breach of the mortgagee’s duty under section 116, or an unauthorised or improper exercise of the mortgagee’s power of sale, may claim compensation for the loss or damage from the mortgagee.
(4) In this section—

118. Application of proceeds of sale
(1) This section applies if a mortgagee exercises a power of sale given under an instrument of mortgage, or this Act or another Act, in relation to property.
(2) The proceeds of sale must be held by the mortgagee in trust to be applied in payment of the following amounts in the following order—
(3) However, if the property is disclaimed property mentioned in section 115, the mortgagee must pay into court the balance mentioned in subsection (2)(c).
(4) A person claiming an amount paid into court under subsection (3) may apply to the court for an order dealing with the amount.

119. Other matters relating to power of sale
(1) This section applies to a power of sale given under this Act.
(2) The power of sale may be exercised by a person entitled to receive and give a discharge for the mortgage.
(3) The power of sale does not affect the right of foreclosure.
(4) The person exercising the power of sale is not answerable for any involuntary loss relating to the exercise of the power.
(5) The person exercising the power of sale under a mortgage may obtain from a person, other than a person having an interest in priority to the mortgage, any document that a purchaser under the power of sale would be entitled to obtain from the person.

120. Receipt of mortgagee sufficient discharge
(1) The receipt in writing of a mortgagee is sufficient discharge for—
(2) A person paying or transferring money or securities mentioned in subsection (1) is not required to—
(3) Money received by a mortgagee under the mortgagee’s mortgage or from the proceeds of securities comprised in the mortgagee’s mortgage must be applied as if—

121. Insurance of mortgaged property
(1) This section applies in relation to the insurance against loss or damage of mortgaged property.
(2) The mortgagee may not insure the property for an amount of more than—
(3) Despite section 113(1)(b), the mortgagee may not insure the property if—
(4) Also, the mortgagee may not require a mortgagor to insure the property for the reinstatement value of the property if—

122. Application of insurance money
(1) This section applies if money is received under an insurance of mortgaged property.
(2) The mortgagee may require that the money be applied towards reinstatement of the property.
(3) The mortgagor may require that the money be applied towards reinstatement of the property only if—
(4) The mortgagee may require that the money be applied towards discharge of the mortgage money only if—
(5) The right of the mortgagor under subsection (3) overrides any right of the mortgagee under subsection (4).
(6) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
(7) In this section—

123. Appointment of receiver
(1) This section applies if a mortgagee under a mortgage over property is entitled to take or enter into possession of the property.
(2) The mortgagee may appoint an appropriately qualified person as receiver of the property.
(3) The appointment must be in the approved form.
(4) The receiver is the agent of the mortgagor.
(5) The receiver may take or enter into possession of the property.
(6) As soon as practicable after taking or entering into possession of the property, the receiver must give a receipt for the property to the person from whom the property was taken or who held possession of the property.
(7) The receiver may take or enter into possession of the property despite a lien or other security over the property claimed by another person.
(8) However, the taking or entry into possession does not affect the other person’s claim to the lien or other security against a person other than the receiver.
(9) The receiver may deal with the property in the same way as the mortgagor may have lawfully dealt with the property if the receiver had not taken or entered into possession of the property, including, for example, claiming or receiving an amount owing in relation to the property.
(10) The receiver may insure the property, and deal with money received under an insurance of the property, to the extent the mortgagee is authorised under section 121 to insure the property or under section 122 to deal with the money.
(11) The receiver is entitled to remuneration—
(12) The receiver must apply money received by the receiver in payment of the following amounts in the following order—
(13) However, if the property is disclaimed property mentioned in section 115, the mortgagee must pay into court the balance mentioned in subsection (12)(i).
(14) A person claiming an amount paid into court under subsection (13) may apply to the court for an order dealing with the amount.
(15) In this section—

124. Judgment debt does not permit seizure
(1) This section applies if a court gives judgment to a claimant for the payment of a debt secured by a mortgage over property.
(2) The interest of the mortgagor in the property, or any other property over which the mortgagor has granted a mortgage to the claimant, may not be taken in execution of the judgment.
(3) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.
(4) This section does not limit or otherwise affect a power of a mortgagee under section 113(1)(a).
(5) In this section—

125. Subsequent mortgage does not affect first mortgage
(1) A mortgagor under a mortgage over property (the first mortgage) may grant a second or subsequent mortgage over the property.
(2) The granting of the second or subsequent mortgage does not—
(3) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.

126. When further advance ranks in priority to subsequent mortgage
(1) A mortgagee (the prior mortgagee) may make a further advance to rank in priority to a subsequent mortgage granted by the mortgagor to another person (the subsequent mortgagee) only if—
(2) This section does not affect the right of the prior mortgagee to rank in priority to a subsequent mortgagee in relation to expenses reasonably incurred in preserving the mortgaged property.
(3) For subsection (1)(b), and despite any other Act, the registration of the subsequent mortgage is not of itself actual notice to the prior mortgagee of the subsequent mortgage.

Division 4 Obligations and rights of mortgagors

127. Contracting out prohibited
This division, other than section 128, applies despite any agreement to the contrary.

128. Implied obligations of mortgagor
(1) The mortgagor under a mortgage over property has the following obligations—
(2) An obligation under subsection (1) takes effect as a term of the mortgage.
(3) If the mortgage is under a deed, an obligation under subsection (1) takes effect as a covenant by the mortgagor.
(4) This section applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.

129. Right to obtain copy of documents in possession of mortgagee
(1) A mortgagor under a mortgage over property may ask the mortgagee to give the mortgagor a copy of, or allow the mortgagor to inspect at a reasonable time, each document in the possession of the mortgagee that relates to the property.
(2) The mortgagee must comply with the request if the mortgagor pays the mortgagee’s reasonable costs and expenses of complying with the request.

130. Right to relief against payment of accelerated sum
(1) This section applies in relation to a mortgage over land if—
(2) The mortgagor can not be required to pay the accelerated sum if the mortgagor, before the mortgagee exercises a power of sale or starts a proceeding to enforce the mortgagee’s rights—
(3) The mortgagor may, in a proceeding brought by the mortgagee to enforce the mortgagee’s rights or in a proceeding brought by the mortgagor, apply to the court for an order for relief against payment of the accelerated sum (a relief order).
(4) The court may make the relief order if the court is satisfied that making the order is appropriate in the circumstances.
(5) In considering whether or not to make the relief order, the court must take into account—
(6) The court may also make any other order it considers appropriate, including, for example—

131. Right to relief against payment of overdue principal amount if payment of interest accepted
(1) This section applies in relation to a mortgage over land if—
(2) The mortgagee must not call up as payable the principal amount unless—
(3) The notice period must be at least 3 months starting on the day the mortgagee gives the notice to the mortgagor.
(4) In this section—

132. Right to require transfer of mortgage instead of discharge
(1) This section applies if a mortgagor is entitled to discharge a mortgage over property.
(2) The mortgagor may require the mortgagee (the first mortgagee), instead of discharging the mortgage, to transfer the mortgage to another person as directed by the mortgagor.
(3) Also, if the property is subject to another mortgage, the mortgagee under that mortgage (the subsequent mortgagee), may require the first mortgagee, instead of discharging the mortgage, to transfer the mortgage to another person as directed by the subsequent mortgagee.
(4) The transfer is on the terms on which the first mortgagee would be required to discharge the mortgage.
(5) However, a requirement may not be made under subsection (2) or (3) if—
(6) If a requirement of a mortgagor under subsection (2) is inconsistent with a requirement of a subsequent mortgagee under subsection (3), the requirement of the subsequent mortgagee under subsection (3) prevails.
(7) Also, if more than 1 requirement of a subsequent mortgagee is made under subsection (3), the requirement of the subsequent mortgagee under whichever of the subsequent mortgages is earlier prevails.

133. Abolition of consolidation of mortgages
A mortgagor seeking to discharge a mortgage over property (the primary mortgage) is entitled to the discharge without paying any money due under another mortgage made by the mortgagor over property other than the property the subject of the primary mortgage.

Division 5 Proceedings

134. Court may order sale of mortgaged property in proceeding for redemption or foreclosure
(1) The court may order the sale of mortgaged property if a person entitled to redemption of the mortgaged property brings a proceeding for either or both of the following in relation to the property—
(2) Also, the court may order the sale of mortgaged property if—
(3) Subsection (2) applies even if—
(4) In making an order under subsection (2), the court is not required to allow time for redemption or for payment of any mortgage money.
(5) Without limiting subsection (1) or (2), the court may also make any of the following orders—
(6) The court may order a sale of mortgaged property under subsection (1) or (2) without previously determining the priorities of mortgages.
(7) In this section—

135. Realisation of equitable mortgage of land
(1) This section applies if the court makes an order for sale in relation to an equitable mortgage of land.
(2) Without limiting section 134 or another power of the court, the court may make any of the following orders—
(3) An order made by a court in relation to an equitable mortgage of land is without prejudice to any mortgage having priority to the equitable mortgage unless the mortgagee consents to the sale.

136. Facilitation of redemption in case of absent or unknown mortgagee
(1) This section applies if land is subject to a mortgage and the person entitled to receive, or alleged to have received, payment of any money secured by the mortgage—
(2) The court may, on the application of the person entitled to redeem the land, order—
(3) If an order is made under subsection (2), and the person entitled to redeem the land pays the amount of any outstanding debt under the mortgage into court, the registrar of the court must give the person a certificate stating that—
(4) The certificate operates to discharge the mortgage debt.
(5) However, as between the mortgagor and another person entitled to the mortgage debt, any amount shown by the other person entitled to the mortgage debt to have been in fact due or payable over the amount determined by the court under subsection (2)(a), or paid into court under subsection (2)(b), continues to be a debt due under the mortgage.
(6) If an amount is paid into court under subsection (2)(b), the court must, on the application of the person entitled to the amount, order the amount to be paid to that person.
(7) However, subsection (6) applies only if—
(8) The certificate mentioned in subsection (3)—
(9) For the purpose of effecting registration under subsection (8)(b), the registrar may dispense with the publication of any notice or the doing of any other act required under the Land Title Act 1994.
(10) This section does not limit or otherwise affect the Public Trustee Act 1978, section 61.

Part 9 Leases

Division 1 Preliminary

137. Definition for part
In this part—

Division 2 General rules

138. Lease for term of years may take effect without entry into possession
(1) A lease of land for a term of years is capable of taking effect at law or in equity from the start of the term, without entry into possession of the land.
(2) This section—
(3) In this section—

139. Implied terms
(1) A lease of land includes the standard terms.
(2) This section is subject to—
(3) In this section—

Division 3 Transfer of reversion of lease

140. Effect of transfer of reversion of lease by lessor
(1) This section applies in relation to a lease of land if the lessor transfers the reversion of the lease to another person (the transferee).
(2) Each right conferred under the terms of the lease on the lessor—
(3) Each obligation imposed under the terms of the lease on the lessor—
(4) Also, the transferee is—
(5) Subsection (4) applies whether or not the term—
(6) Subsections (2), (3) and (4) do not apply in relation to a term of the lease to the extent—
(7) Also, the lessor remains liable for a breach of a term of the lease committed by the lessor.
(8) If a term of the lease restricts the use of the land, the reference to the transferee in subsection (4) also includes a reference to any person who is the owner of the land to which the term relates.
(9) This section applies despite the Land Title Act 1994, section 62.
(10) In this section—

141. Payment of rent or other amount without notice of transfer of reversion
(1) This section applies in relation to a lease of land if—
(2) The lessee is discharged from liability to pay the rent or other amount to the extent the rent or other amount has been paid under subsection (1)(b).
(3) For subsection (1)(b), and despite any other Act, the registration of the transfer of the reversion of the lease is not of itself actual notice to the lessee of the transfer.

Division 4 Dealings with leases

142. Effect of requirement in lease for consent of lessor to assign lease or take other action
(1) This section applies if a lessee is required under a lease of land to obtain the lessor’s consent to—
(2) The lessee may give the lessor a notice (a proposal notice), containing any information required under the lease, asking for consent.
(3) The lessor must not unreasonably withhold consent.
(4) If the lessor considers the information given in the proposal notice is not sufficient to enable the lessor to make a decision, the lessor may give the lessee a notice requiring the further information the lessor considers is required to make the decision.
(5) The lessor must give the lessee a notice (the decision notice) stating the lessor’s decision within 1 month after receiving full particulars of the lessee’s proposal.
(6) The decision notice must also state—
(7) The lessor and lessee may, within the period mentioned in subsection (5), agree to extend the period for the giving of the decision notice.
(8) The lessee may apply to the court to make a decision about the lessee’s proposal if—
(9) The court may hear and decide the application and make the orders it considers appropriate.
(10) If the lessee makes an alteration or carries out work in relation to the leased premises without the consent of the lessor, the lessee must restore the premises to the condition the premises were in immediately before the alteration or the carrying out of the work.
(11) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.

143. Effect of assignment of lease by lessee to assignee
(1) This section applies in relation to a lease of land if the lessee assigns the lease to another person (the assignee).
(2) On and from the assignment, the assignee is—
(3) Subsection (2) applies whether or not the term—
(4) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to a term of the lease to the extent—
(5) If a term of the lease restricts the use of the land, the reference to the assignee in subsections (2) and (4) also includes a reference to any person who is the occupier of the land to which the term relates.
(6) This section—

144. Effect of assignment of lease by transferee to subsequent transferee
(1) This section applies in relation to a lease of land if—
(2) The lessee, and any guarantor of the lessee, is released from liability to the lessor for a breach of the lease by the subsequent assignee.
(3) Subsection (2) applies despite any agreement to the contrary.

145. Effect of surrender or merger of lease
(1) This section applies in relation to a lease of land if—
(2) The person entitled, on the surrender or merger, to the reversion of the lease has the same rights and obligations in relation to the lease as the person who, but for the surrender or merger, would have been entitled to the reversion.

146. Effect of reconfiguration of land
(1) This section applies in relation to a lease of land if the land is reconfigured and 2 or more persons become entitled to the income of the land.
(2) The rights and obligations under the lease—
(3) In this section—

147. Head lease may be surrendered and new head lease granted without affecting other rights and obligations
If a head lease is surrendered in order to be renewed, and another head lease (the new head lease) is granted during the term of a sublease and the parties to the surrendered head lease and the new head lease are the same—

148. Involuntary transmission not breach of lease
(1) This section applies if a term of a lease of land—
(2) A transmission of the lease by the lessee does not cause a breach of the term of the lease.
(3) This section applies despite any agreement to the contrary.

Division 5 Relief

Subdivision 1 Preliminary

149. Definition for division
In this division—

150. Application of division
(1) This division applies to a lease of land other than any of the following leases—
(2) In relation to a lease of land of not more than 1 year, this division applies only in relation to—
(3) In this section—

151. Contracting out prohibited
This division applies despite any agreement to the contrary.

Subdivision 2 Relief against forfeiture for breach of term of lease

152. Definitions for subdivision
In this subdivision—

153. Lessor must give lessee notice to remedy breach
(1) A lessor may exercise a right to re-enter land under a term of the lease for breach of a term of the lease only if—
(2) For subsection (1)(a)(ii)(B) and (iii)(B), a period is reasonable only if it is reasonable having regard to all of the circumstances, including, for example—

154. Lessor must give copy of notice to designated persons
(1) If a lessor gives a notice to remedy breach to a lessee, the lessor must also give a copy of the notice to each designated person for the lease whose name and address is known to the lessor.
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the lessor’s failure to comply with subsection (1) does not prevent the lessor from exercising a right to terminate the lease, re-enter land under a term of the lease, or make an application to the court for any form of relief in relation to the lease.

155. Acceptance of rent paid by lessee in possession not waiver of lessor’s rights
(1) This section applies if a lessor accepts rent, or another amount, after the lessor gives the lessee a notice to remedy breach.
(2) The lessor’s acceptance of the rent, or other amount, does not operate as a waiver of the lessor’s right to forfeit the lease because of the breach.
(3) Subsection (2) applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.

156. Notice to remedy breach not required if lessee has given up possession
(1) Despite section 153, a lessor of land may exercise a right to re-enter the land under a term of the lease for breach of a term of the lease if the lessor reasonably believes the lessee has given up possession of the land.
(2) A lessor exercising a right of re-entry under subsection (1) is not required to—
(3) As soon as practicable after exercising a right of re-entry under subsection (1), the lessor must give each designated person for the lease whose name and address is known to the lessor a notice stating the lessor has exercised the right of re-entry.

157. How lessor may exercise right of re-entry
(1) This section applies if a lessee of land fails to remedy a breach or pay an amount of reasonable compensation required under a notice to remedy breach given to the lessee.
(2) The lessor may exercise a right to re-enter the land under a term of the lease for breach of a term of the lease by—

158. Powers of court in making order for possession
(1) This section applies if a lessor of land applies to the court for recovery of possession of the land in exercise of a right to forfeit the lease because of a breach by the lessee of a term of the lease.
(2) The court may make any order that the nature of the case requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—

159. Lessor’s claim for damages not affected
This subdivision does not limit or otherwise affect a claim by a lessor for damages for a breach of a term of the lease or another obligation owed by the lessee to the lessor.

160. Proceedings for relief against forfeiture
(1) The lessee or a designated person for the lease may apply to the court for relief against the forfeiture, or proposed forfeiture, of the lease because of a breach by the lessee of a term of the lease.
(2) The application may be—
(3) An application mentioned in subsection (2)(b) must be made—
(4) The court may extend the period in which the lessee or designated person may bring an application under subsection (3)(a) if the court considers it appropriate.

161. Application for relief against forfeiture not admission
(1) An application under section 160 is not an admission by the lessee or designated person for the lease that—
(2) A court may order relief against the forfeiture, or proposed forfeiture, of a lease without deciding a matter mentioned in subsection (1).

162. Powers of court in making order for relief against forfeiture
(1) This section applies if the lessee or a designated person for the lease applies under section 160 to the court.
(2) The court may make any order that the nature of the case requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
(3) The court may make an order that the lessor enter into a lease of the land, or a part of the land, with a sublessee only if the lease—
(4) In making an order under subsection (3), the court must take into account the terms of the sublease.

Subdivision 3 Relief against refusal to renew, or extend term of, or sell reversion of, lease

163. Definitions for subdivision
In this subdivision—

164. When lessor may refuse to renew, or extend term of, or sell reversion of, lease
(1) This section applies to a lease of land if—
(2) The lessor may refuse to renew, or extend the term of, or sell the reversion of, the lease, only if—
(3) The lessor must give the lessee the breach notice—
(4) In this section—

165. Lessor must give copy of notice to designated persons
(1) This section applies if a lessor gives a lessee a breach notice.
(2) The lessor must also give a copy of the breach notice to each designated person for the lease whose name and address is known to the lessor.
(3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the lessor’s failure to comply with subsection (2) does not limit or otherwise affect any right of the lessor to refuse to renew, or extend the term of, or sell the reversion of, the lease.

166. Proceedings for relief against refusal
(1) The lessee or a designated person for the lease may apply to the court for relief against the refusal to renew, or extend the term of, or sell the reversion of, the lease, because of 1 or more breaches mentioned in section 164(1)(c).
(2) The application may be—
(3) If the lessor gives the lessee a breach notice relying on 1 or more breaches mentioned in subsection (1), the lessee, or designated person for the lease, must make the application under subsection (1) within 1 month after the giving of the breach notice to the lessee.

167. Powers of court in making order for relief against refusal
(1) This section applies if the lessee or a designated person for the lease applies to the court under section 166.
(2) In deciding whether to give the relief, the court may consider anything the court considers relevant, including, for example—
(3) The court may make any order that the nature of the case requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
(4) If the lease ends before the court makes an order under this section, the lease is taken to continue on the same terms that were in effect immediately before the application was made until the court makes an order under this section.

Division 6 Apportionment of rent

168. Apportionment in respect of time
(1) This section applies to a payment of rent under a lease in relation to a fixed or ascertainable period, whether or not the payment is reserved or made payable under a document.
(2) The payment—
(3) This section is subject to any agreement to the contrary.

169. Payment and recovery of apportioned part of rent
(1) An apportioned part of rent is payable and recoverable—
(2) A person entitled to an apportioned part of rent—

Division 7 Termination of particular leases

170. Definitions for division
In this division—

171. Contracting out permitted
This division applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.

172. Meaning of lease terminable at will
A lease of land is a lease terminable at will if—

173. What is a termination notice
(1) A termination notice, in relation to a lease, is a notice given by a party to the lease that—
(2) The notice may, but need not, be in the approved form.
(3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that this section does not limit or otherwise affect the ability of a party to sign by an agent.

174. Termination of lease terminable at will
A party to a lease terminable at will may terminate the lease on a stated day (the termination day) by giving a termination notice to the other party at least 20 business days before the termination day.

175. Termination of periodic tenancy
(1) A party to a periodic tenancy may terminate the tenancy, on a stated day that is the last day of a period of the tenancy (the termination day), by giving a termination notice to the other party—
(2) For subsection (1)(d), subject to any contrary agreement, the period of the tenancy is taken to start on the day on which rent under the tenancy is payable.
(3) In this section—

176. Termination of other tenancies
(1) This section applies to a tenancy other than—
(2) A party to the tenancy may terminate the tenancy on a stated day (the termination day) by giving a termination notice to the other party a reasonable period before the termination day.
(3) For subsection (2), whether a period is reasonable depends on all of the circumstances, including, for example—

Division 8 Miscellaneous matters

177. Effect of waiver
(1) A waiver by a lessor of the benefit of a term of the lease—
(2) This section applies subject to any agreement to the contrary.

178. Limitation on award of damages for breach of obligation to repair
(1) This section applies if a lessor brings a proceeding against the lessee claiming damages for breach of an obligation to keep or put premises in good repair during the term of the lease or when the lease ends.
(2) In making an award of damages for breach of the obligation, the court may not award more than the lesser of the following amounts—
(3) Also, the court may not award damages for breach of the obligation if the lessee proves that on or after the termination of the lease—

Part 10 Neighbouring land

Division 1 Support for land

179. Duty of care in relation to support for land
(1) For the common law of negligence—
(2) Subsection (1) applies—
(3) The duty of care may be excluded or modified by express agreement between a person on whom the duty lies and a person to whom the duty is owed.
(4) If an agreement under subsection (3) is embodied in an easement registered under the Land Title Act 1994, the agreement binds the parties to the agreement and each of their successors in title.
(5) The right at common law, if any, to bring a proceeding in nuisance in relation to acts or omissions that adversely affect the support provided by supporting land to supported land is abolished.
(6) In this section—

Division 2 Easements and rights of use

180. Power of court to impose statutory right of use
(1) A person having an interest in land (the benefited land) may apply to the court for an order imposing a statutory right of use over other land (the burdened land) if the statutory right of use is reasonably necessary for the effective use and development of the benefited land.
(2) Also, a person having an interest in land (also the benefited land) may apply to the court for an order imposing a statutory right of use over other land (the burdened land), relating to a utility, in favour of the public utility provider providing the utility, if the statutory right of use is reasonably necessary for the effective use and development of the benefited land.
(3) A statutory right of use imposed under subsection (1) may take any form, including, for example an easement or licence.
(4) A statutory right of use imposed under subsection (2) must take the form of an easement in gross.
(5) The court may make the order if the court is satisfied that—
(6) Also, for a statutory right of use imposed under subsection (2), the court may make the order only if the court is satisfied—
(7) If the court makes the order, the court must state in the order—
(8) However, for subsection (7)(b), the court is not required to state the land to be benefited if the statutory right of use is imposed under subsection (2).
(9) Also, if the court makes the order, and is satisfied that a person having an interest in the burdened land will suffer loss or disadvantage arising from the imposition of the statutory right of use, the court must make an order that the applicant pay an amount to the person, considered by the court to be just in the circumstances, by way of compensation.
(10) The court may make any order that the nature of the case requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
(11) If the court makes an order that creates an interest that may be registered—
(12) If an interest is registered under subsection (11), the order creating the interest binds all persons, including, for example, the parties to the proceeding and each of their successors in title.
(13) The costs of a proceeding under this section are payable by the applicant unless special circumstances exist.
(14) Despite section 3, this section does not bind the State, other than to the extent a public utility provider is bound to comply with a statutory right of use in the form of an easement in gross in favour of the public utility provider.
(15) In this section—

181. Power of court to modify or extinguish easement or covenant
(1) This section applies if land (the burdened land) is subject to the burden of—
(2) A person having an interest in the burdened land may apply to the court for an order modifying or extinguishing the easement or covenant.
(3) The court may make the order if the court is satisfied—
(4) However, the court may make an order under subsection (3)(c) only if the court is satisfied that each person who will suffer loss or other disadvantage from the modification or extinguishment of the easement or covenant can be paid an amount as adequate compensation for the loss or disadvantage.
(5) In deciding whether to make an order under subsection (3)(a) or (b), the court—
(6) The court may make any order that the nature of the case requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
(7) In this section—

182. No interest created by prescription
No interest under the Land Act 1994 or the Land Title Act 1994 can be created by prescription or through the doctrine of lost modern grant.

Division 3 Encroachment of buildings

183. Definitions for division
In this division—

184. Relationship with other Acts
This division applies despite any other Act.

185. Proceedings for relief
(1) A person who has an interest in land from which an encroachment extends on to other land (an encroaching owner) may apply to the court for relief in relation to the encroachment.
(2) A person who has an interest in land on to which an encroachment extends from other land (an affected owner) may apply to the court for relief in relation to the encroachment.
(3) The court may make an order granting or refusing to grant the relief.
(4) In deciding whether to make an order under subsection (3), the court may take into account the following matters—
(5) The court may make any order that the nature of the case requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—

186. Minimum compensation
(1) If the court makes an order under section 185(5)(d), the amount of compensation must be at least—
(2) In deciding whether to make an order under section 185(5)(d) that is more than the minimum amount of compensation under subsection (1), the court must take into account—

Division 4 Improvements under mistake of title

187. Relationship with other Acts
This division applies despite any other Act.

188. Proceedings for relief
(1) This section applies to each of the following persons—
(2) The person may apply to the court for relief in relation to the lasting improvement.
(3) The court may make an order granting or refusing to grant the relief.
(4) In deciding whether to make an order under subsection (3), the court may take into account the following matters—
(5) Without limiting subsection (3), the court may make any of the following orders—
(6) In this section—

Part 11 Transactions

Division 1 Assignment of debts or things in action

189. Definitions for division
In this division—

190. Assignment of debt or legal thing in action
(1) The absolute assignment in writing of a debt or legal thing in action, signed by the assignor, passes to the assignee—
(2) However, subsection (1) applies only if the debtor, trustee or other person liable for the debt or thing in action is given actual notice of the assignment.
(3) Also, an assignment under subsection (1) is subject to equities in relation to the debt or thing in action that—

191. Discharge of debt or legal thing in action when no actual notice of assignment
(1) This section applies if a debt or legal thing in action is assigned under section 190 or in equity.
(2) If the debtor, trustee or other person liable for the debt or thing in action has actual notice of the assignment, the debt or legal thing in action is payable to the assignee.
(3) If the debtor, trustee or other person liable for the debt or thing in action does not have actual notice of the assignment, and that person pays all or part of the debt or legal thing in action to the assignor, the payment discharges that person to the extent of the payment.
(6) A debtor, trustee or other person liable for a debt or thing in action may interplead in any proceeding brought against that person for the payment of the debt or legal thing in action, or may apply to a court for an order determining the entitlement to any right in relation to the debt or thing in action, if that person has actual notice—

192. Assignment in equity
(1) A voluntary assignment of property is taken to have been assigned in equity, whether the assignment is oral or in writing, if the assignment is complete.
(2) For subsection (1), an assignment is complete when the assignor has done everything that needs to be done by the assignor to transfer to the assignee, whether absolutely, conditionally, or by way of charge, the rights of the assignor in relation to the property.
(3) Subsection (2) applies even if a thing remains to be done, without the intervention or assistance of the assignor, to transfer to the assignee the rights of the assignor in relation to the property.
(4) This section applies—

Division 2 Dispositions to defraud creditors

193. Disposition with intent to defraud creditor voidable
(1) A disposition of property by a person (the transferor) is voidable against the transferor, by a person prejudiced by the disposition, if the transferor made the disposition with intent to defraud the transferor’s creditors.
(2) A disposition is not voidable against the transferor under subsection (1) if the disposition was made to a person who—
(3) A person whose interests are affected by a disposition of property voidable under subsection (1) may apply to the court for relief against the disposition.
(4) The court may hear and decide the application and make the orders it considers appropriate.

Part 12 Powers of appointment

194. When exercise of power of appointment valid
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The deed, document or instrument is validly executed for the purpose of the power of appointment if—
(3) Subsection (2) applies even if the document giving the person the power of appointment requires the deed, instrument or document to be executed in another way.
(4) Subsection (2) does not affect either of the following requirements in a document, other than a will, giving a person a power of appointment over property—
(5) Also, subsection (2) does not prevent a person from executing a document in writing in a way allowed under the power of appointment.

195. Appointment among 2 or more objects
(1) This section applies if a document gives a person a power of appointment over property among 2 or more objects.
(2) An appointment of property made in exercise of the power is valid even if—
(3) This section does not affect a term of the document that states the amount of a share of the property from which an object is not to be excluded.

196. Protection of buyer if invalid appointment
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The buyer has a valid title to the property if—
(3) However, if the amount or value of the invalidly appointed property is more than the value of the appointee’s entitlement to the property immediately before the purported exercise of the power of appointment, the buyer has a valid title to the property only to the extent of the appointee’s entitlement to the property at that time.
(4) For subsection (3), the appointee’s entitlement to the property immediately before the purported exercise of the power of appointment must be calculated taking into account—
(5) In this section—

197. Release and disclaimer of power
(1) This section—
(2) The person who can exercise the power may—
(3) The release of the power extinguishes the power.
(4) If the power is disclaimed—
(5) Subsection (4)(b) applies subject to the terms of the document creating the power.

Part 13 Perpetuities

Division 1 Preliminary

198. Definitions for part
In this part—

199. When disposition in will made
For the purpose of this part, a disposition in a will is made at the death of the testator.

Division 2 General rules

200. Abolition of rule against perpetuities
The common law rule known as the rule against perpetuities is abolished.

201. What is the perpetuity period
The perpetuity period, for a disposition of property under a trust, is—

202. Vesting of trust property
(1) This section applies to a disposition of property under a trust to a person.
(2) The disposition is valid only if the property vests in the person before the end of the perpetuity period for the disposition.

203. Wait and see rule
A disposition of property under a trust to a person is not invalid under section 202 merely because the property may vest in the person after the end of the perpetuity period for the disposition provided it is possible the property may vest in the person before the end of the perpetuity period.

Division 3 Trust saving devices

204. Reduction of age to ensure disposition within perpetuity period
(1) This section applies to a disposition of property under a trust if—
(2) The stated age is taken to be reduced to an age not less than 18 years to the extent necessary to cause the disposition to be valid under section 202.

205. Exclusion of class members to ensure disposition within perpetuity period
(1) This section applies to a disposition of property under a trust if—
(2) The non-qualifying members are taken to be excluded from the class to the extent necessary to cause the disposition to be valid under section 202.
(3) However, a non-qualifying member is not excluded under subsection (2) if the member’s exclusion would exhaust the class.
(4) This section does not affect the validity of anything done in relation to the trust property before the disposition, including, for example, by way of advancement or application of intermediate income.
(5) In this section—

206. Acceleration of prior disposition to ensure subsequent disposition within perpetuity period
(1) This section applies in relation to a disposition of property under the terms of a trust (a prior disposition) if the prior disposition is invalid under section 202.
(2) A disposition of property under the terms of the trust that is ulterior to and dependent on the prior disposition (a subsequent disposition) may be accelerated so the subsequent disposition is valid under section 202.

Division 4 Ambit of perpetuity period

207. Non-charitable purpose trust
(1) If a document creates a non-charitable purpose trust, or a trust for the benefit of a corporation that is not a charity, and the trust is not otherwise invalid, the property must be applied for the purposes of the trust before the end of the perpetuity period for the disposition of property under the trust.
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that division 2 applies to a trust mentioned in subsection (1).

208. Powers of appointment
(1) If a document creates a general power of appointment relating to property, the property must vest before the end of the perpetuity period.
(2) For subsection (1), the perpetuity period starts when the property is appointed by the donee of the power.
(3) If a document creates a special power of appointment relating to property, both of the following must happen before the end of the perpetuity period—
(4) For subsection (3), the perpetuity period starts when the power is created.
(5) In this section—

209. Conditions precedent and conditions subsequent
(1) If a document limits property in trust so as to create an interest in property subject to a condition precedent, the property must vest before the end of the perpetuity period for the disposition of the property.
(2) If a document limits property in trust so as to create an interest in property subject to a condition subsequent—
(3) If a right mentioned in subsection (2) is not exercised before the end of the perpetuity period for the disposition of the property, the interest in the property is no longer subject to the condition subsequent.

210. Determinable interests
(1) This section applies if the terms of a trust allow the disposition of property under—
(2) If the property does not vest before the end of the perpetuity period for the disposition of the property—
(3) In this section—

211. Accumulation of income
(1) This section applies if property is held on trust the terms of which confer a power or impose a duty on the trustee to accumulate income of the property.
(2) The power or duty is valid only to the extent the disposition of the accumulated income is valid under this part.
(3) This section does not limit or otherwise affect—

212. Particular trusts, powers and funds
The perpetuity period does not apply in relation to any of the following matters—

213. Commercial arrangements
The perpetuity period does not apply in relation to any of the following dispositions of property—

214. Gift over from charity to charity
The perpetuity period does not apply in relation to a gift over from 1 charity to another charity.

215. Particular matters relating to land
To remove any doubt, it is declared that the perpetuity period does not apply in relation to any of the following matters—

Division 5 Variation of vesting date

216. Variation of trust to opt in to 125-year perpetuity period if trustee has power of variation
(1) This section applies if a trustee has power, under the terms of the trust, to vary the vesting date of a disposition of property under the trust.
(2) The trustee may vary the vesting date to a date not later than the last day of the period of 125 years starting on the day of the disposition of the property under the trust.

217. Variation of trust to opt in to 125-year perpetuity period if trustee does not have power of variation
(1) This section applies if a trustee does not have power, under the terms of the trust, to vary the vesting date of a disposition of property under the trust.
(2) If all of the beneficiaries under the trust are adults and of full capacity, the beneficiaries may execute a deed to vary the vesting date to a date not later than the last day of the period of 125 years starting on the day of the disposition of the property under the trust.

Division 6 Applications to court

218. Application to court for declaration of validity
(1) A person interested in a disposition of property may apply to the court for a declaration about the validity of the disposition under this part.
(2) The court may hear and decide the application and make the orders it considers appropriate.

219. Application to court to opt in to 125-year perpetuity period
(1) A person interested in a disposition of property under the terms of a trust, settled before the commencement, may apply to the court for an order that the property vest within 125 years after the creation of the trust.
(2) The court may hear and decide the application and make the orders it considers appropriate.
(3) Without limiting subsection (2), the court may make an order about the disposition of property that, under the terms of the trust, may have vested more than 125 years after the creation of the trust.

Part 14 Corporations sole and particular bodies corporate

220. Perpetual succession of corporation sole
A corporation sole—

221. Constitution of corporation sole
A corporation sole is constituted by the person who holds the appointment to the office of the corporation sole.

222. Effect of transaction if temporary vacancy in particular bodies corporate
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The contract or other transaction, or acquisition of property, or appointment as trustee, takes effect as if the successor had already been appointed.
(3) However, the successor may disclaim the contract or other transaction or acquisition of property, or renounce the appointment as trustee.

223. Powers of particular corporations
(1) This section applies to a corporation other than—
(2) The corporation has all the powers of an individual and may, for example—
(3) If a contract made by an individual is valid only if in writing signed by the individual, the contract may be made by the corporation in writing signed by a person acting under the express or implied authority of the corporation.
(4) If a contract made by an individual is valid even if made by parol, the contract may be made by parol by the corporation by a person acting under the express or implied authority of the corporation.
(5) In this section—

224. Appointment of administrator if particular corporations incapable of acting
(1) This section applies to a corporation, including, for example, a corporation incorporated under the Associations Incorporation Act 1981, the Corporations Act or another Act.
(2) If the corporation is incapable of acting for any reason, including, for example, the death or incapacity of an officer or member of the corporation, a designated person for the corporation may apply to the court for the appointment of an administrator.
(3) The court may order the appointment of an administrator if the court considers the appointment is necessary or desirable.
(4) The court may make any order that the nature of the case requires, including, for example, any of the following orders—
(5) Subject to an order of the court, the administrator may—
(6) The court may, on the application of an administrator appointed under subsection (3), or a designated person for the corporation—
(7) If the court makes an order for the appointment, removal or replacement of an administrator in relation to a corporation incorporated under the Corporations Act, the order does not take effect until the order is lodged with ASIC.
(8) The order mentioned in subsection (7) must be lodged with ASIC—
(9) For subsection (2), a corporation is incapable of acting whether the corporation is incapable of acting—
(10) In this section—

Part 15 Unregistered land

225. Registrar must give public notice if request to register unregistered land
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The registrar must give public notice of the request.
(3) The registrar may decide—
(4) The public notice must include an invitation to any person who claims an interest in the land to give notice of the person’s claim to the registrar within 2 months after the public notice is published.

226. Registrar must give public notice if registrar believes land unregistered
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The registrar must give public notice of the registrar’s intention to include the land in the land registry.
(3) The registrar may decide—
(4) The public notice must include an invitation to any person who claims an interest in the land to give notice of the person’s claim to the registrar within 2 months after the public notice is published.

227. Registrar may hold inquiry
(1) If an issue arises in relation to land mentioned in section 225 or 226, the registrar may hold an inquiry under the Land Title Act 1994, part 2, division 4 to consider the issue.
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the Land Title Act 1994, part 2, division 5 applies in relation to the inquiry.

228. Obligations of registrar
(1) This section applies—
(2) The registrar must consider the following information—
(3) After considering the information mentioned in subsection (2), the registrar must decide to record in the land registry the particulars relating to the land the registrar considers appropriate.
(4) Without limiting subsection (3), the registrar may decide to—
(5) The registrar must give the applicant, and any person claiming an interest under section 225(4) or 226(4), notice of the decision.

Part 16 General

Division 1 Service

229. Application of division
This division applies if this Act, or an agreement or another document relating to property, authorises or requires a document to be served on a person.

230. Relationship of division with other matters
(1) If this division is inconsistent with the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, part 10 or the Electronic Transactions (Queensland) Act 2001, this division prevails to the extent of the inconsistency.
(2) This division is subject to this Act or an agreement to the contrary.
(3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that this division does not limit or otherwise affect a power of a court relating to service of a document.

231. General requirements for service
(1) The document may be served on the person—
(2) If the document is sent by post, the document is taken to be served 7 business days after the document was sent unless the actual time the document was served by post is proven.
(3) Despite subsection (1), the court may—
(4) In this section—

232. Individual absent from State or deceased
(1) This section applies if the person is an individual who is absent from the State or deceased.
(2) The document may be served on the person’s agent or personal representative in a way mentioned in section 231(1)(a).
(3) If the person’s agent or personal representative is not known, the document may be served under an order of a court.

233. Electronic communication
(1) This section applies if the person has designated an electronic address for receiving the document.
(2) The document may be served on the person by an electronic communication to the electronic address.
(3) The electronic communication must—
(4) The time of receipt of the electronic communication is taken to be—
(5) However, subsection (4)—
(6) To remove any doubt, it is declared that subsection (3)(c) is satisfied whether or not the person is required to take another step, including, for example, accepting terms and conditions of the electronic link, to access, and obtain a copy of, the document mentioned in subsection (3)(a), or the content mentioned in subsection (3)(b).

Division 2 Miscellaneous

234. Approved forms
The chief executive may approve forms for use under this Act.

235. Regulation-making power
(1) The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
(2) A regulation may—

236. Transitional regulation-making power
(1) A regulation (a transitional regulation) may make provision of a saving or transitional nature about any matter—
(2) A transitional regulation may have retrospective operation to a day that is not earlier than the day this section commences.
(3) A transitional regulation must declare it is a transitional regulation.
(4) This section and any transitional regulation expire 2 years after this section commences.

Part 17 Repeal

237. Repeal of Property Law Act 1974
The Property Law Act 1974, No. 76 is repealed.

Part 18 Savings and transitional provisions

Division 1 Preliminary

238. Application of Acts Interpretation Act 1954
This part does not limit or otherwise affect the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 20 or 20A.

239. Definitions for part
In this part—

Division 2 Savings provisions

239A. Express references to general law of agency
(1) This section applies if—
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the omission of the express reference mentioned in subsection (1)(a) does not limit or otherwise affect the application of the general law of agency in relation to the corresponding provision.

240. Saving of abolition or modification of common law provided for in repealed Act
(1) This section applies if a repealed provision provided for the abolition or modification of a common law rule about a matter.
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that, whether or not there is a corresponding provision for the repealed provision, this Act does not affect the abolition or modification of the common law rule effected by the repealed provision.
(3) Without limiting subsection (2), it is declared that—

241. Saving of abolition of common law rule that alien can not take, give, buy or sell property
To remove any doubt, it is declared that the repeal of the repealed Act, section 15A does not affect the abolition of the common law rule that an alien can not take, give, buy or sell property.

242. Particular provisions do not apply in relation to matters that happened before 1 December 1975
(1) This section applies if a repealed provision provided that the provision applied only in relation to a matter that happened after the commencement of the repealed Act.
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a corresponding provision for the repealed provision does not apply in relation to a matter for which the corresponding provision provides that happened before the commencement of the repealed Act.
(3) Without limiting subsection (2), it is declared that a corresponding provision for the repealed provision does not apply in relation to the following matters that happened before the commencement of the repealed Act—

Division 3 Transitional provisions

243. Waiver of State’s rights to property by escheat on death intestate of person before commencement
A person may apply under section 18 for the waiver of the State’s rights to property by escheat, devolution or bona vacantia on the death intestate of a person whether the death happens before or after the commencement.

244. Liability of co-owner of property to account for interest in property arising before commencement
A co-owner of property is liable to account under section 27 to each other co-owner of the property whether the interest in the property of the co-owners arises before or after the commencement.

245. Abolition of rule in Pigot’s case
(1) Section 60 applies in relation to a material alteration of a deed whether the alteration is made before or after the commencement.
(2) However, section 60 does not apply in relation to a proceeding started before the commencement.

246. Covenant or agreement made by person with self and others before commencement
(1) Section 63 applies in relation to a covenant or agreement entered into by a person with the person’s self and 1 or more other persons, whether the covenant or agreement is entered into before or after the commencement.
(2) However, section 63 does not apply in relation to an order of the court made before the commencement.

247. Particular covenants in registered easements created before commencement
Section 65 applies in relation to a covenant contained in a registered easement over land for the benefit of other land whether the easement is created or registered before or after the commencement.

248. Effect of inoperative computers in office of the land registry on day of settlement on contract entered into before commencement
Section 79 applies in relation to a contract for the sale of land whether the contract is entered into before or after the commencement.

249. Effect of inoperative computers in particular entities on day of settlement on contract entered into before commencement
Section 80 applies in relation to a contract for the sale of land whether the contract is entered into before or after the commencement.

250. Effect of adverse event on day of settlement on contract entered into before commencement
Section 81 applies in relation to a contract for the sale of land whether the contract is entered into before or after the commencement.

251. Seller disclosure for sales of lots
(1) Part 7, division 4 applies in relation to a contract for the sale of a lot only if the contract is entered into after the commencement.
(2) If a contract for the sale of a lot arises from the exercise of an option, part 7, division 4 applies in relation to the contract only if the option is granted after the commencement.

252. Mortgagee’s power of sale in relation to disclaimed property mortgaged before commencement
A mortgagee may sell under section 115 land subject to a registered mortgage that has been disclaimed by a trustee in bankruptcy or a liquidator whether the registered mortgage is entered into, or the disclaimer happens, before or after the commencement.

253. Court may order sale of mortgaged property in proceeding for redemption or foreclosure started before commencement
The court may order in a proceeding a sale of mortgaged property under section 134 whether the proceeding is started before or after the commencement.

254. Realisation of equitable mortgage in proceeding started before commencement
The court may make an order under section 135 in a proceeding brought in relation to an equitable mortgage whether the proceeding is brought before or after the commencement.

255. Dealings with leases entered into before commencement
(1) Subject to subsection (2), part 9, division 4 applies in relation to a dealing with a lease if the dealing happens after the commencement, whether the lease is entered into before or after the commencement.
(2) Section 144 applies only if the lease is entered into after the commencement.

256. Relief in relation to leases entered into before commencement

Part 9, division 5 applies in relation to a lease as mentioned in section 150 whether the lease is entered into before or after the commencement.

257. No interest created by prescription before commencement
Section 182 applies whether the interest is alleged to have been created before or after the commencement.

258. Disposition with intent to defraud creditor before commencement
Section 193 applies in relation to the disposition of property whether the disposition happens before or after the commencement.

259. Powers of appointment over property created before commencement

Part 12 applies in relation to a document giving a person a power of appointment over property, including, for example, an appointment, or purported appointment, of property under the document, whether the document, or the appointment or purported appointment, is made before or after the commencement.

Schedule 1 Standard terms

1. Payment of rent
The lessee must pay the rent payable under the lease when it is due.

2. Payment of taxes, rates and other assessments
The lessee must pay all taxes, rates and assessments of any kind that are charged or chargeable on the land or the lessor, in relation to the leased premises for the term of the lease in the proportion that the area of the leased premises bears to the land subject to the assessment.

3. Maintain and leave the premises in good repair
(1) The lessee must at all times during the term of the lease—
(2) However, the lessee is not bound to repair any damage to the leased premises caused by—
(3) Despite subclause (2)(b), the lessee is not excused from liability to repair any damage caused by any of the events mentioned in that subclause if, and to the extent that, any insurance moneys that would otherwise have been payable to the lessor for the destruction of or damage to the leased premises can not be recovered because of an act or omission of—

4. Abatement of rent if premises are destroyed or damaged
(1) If the leased premises or any part of them are destroyed or damaged by a relevant cause to the extent that they become unfit for occupation and use by the lessee, the rent and any contribution payable by the lessee to the outgoings on those premises abates, in fair and just proportion to the destruction or damage, until the premises or part of them—
(2) Despite subclause (1), the lessee is not entitled to the abatement referred to in that subclause if, and to the extent that, any insurance moneys that would otherwise have been payable to the lessor for the destruction of or damage to the leased premises can not be recovered because of an act or omission of—
(3) In this clause—

5. Assignment of the lease
(1) The lessee must not assign the lease without first obtaining the lessor’s written consent.
(2) The lessor’s written consent must not be unreasonably withheld.

6. Noxious or offensive acts or things
(1) The lessee must not do, or permit to be done, on the leased premises a prohibited thing to—
(2) Subclause (1) does not apply to a prohibited thing contemplated under the lease.
(3) In this clause—

7. Commission of waste
The lessee must not commit, or permit any of the lessee’s agents, contractors, or invitees to commit, voluntary waste in relation to the leased premises.

8. Lessee entitled to quiet enjoyment
(1) The lessee and all persons claiming under the lessee must be able quietly to enjoy the leased premises without disturbance by—
(2) The lessor must not derogate from the lease.

9. Change of use
(1) The lessee must not use the premises for any purpose other than the purpose permitted under the lease unless the lessor consents to the change of use.
(2) The lessor must not unreasonably withhold consent to a request from the lessee for a change in use of the premises.

10. Power to inspect premises
(1) The lessor may at all reasonable times, either personally or by the lessor’s agent, enter the leased premises for the purpose of—
(2) The lessor must not unreasonably interfere with the lessee’s occupation and use of the leased premises in the exercise of the power conferred by subclause (1).

11. Power to terminate lease for non-payment of rent or other breach
(1) The lessor may terminate the lease if—
(2) The lessee is not released from liability for the payment of any unpaid rent or for the breach or non-observance of any other covenant, condition, or stipulation mentioned in subclause (1) if the lessor terminates the lease.
(3) Subclause (1) is subject to part 9, division 5, subdivision 2.

12. Lessee must remove lessee’s fixtures
(1) Before or at the end of the lease, whether by expiration of the lease term or otherwise, the lessee must remove and take away from the leased premises all fixtures, fittings, plant, machinery, utensils, shelving, counters, safes and other items owned by the lessee.
(2) The lessee must repair any damage caused to the leased premises by the removal of the items mentioned in subclause (1).
(3) If the lessee does not comply with subclause (1) or (2) within 1 month after the end of the lease term then the items mentioned in subclause (1) are taken to be abandoned items and the lessor is entitled to remove, sell or otherwise dispose of the abandoned items and to repair any damage caused to the leased premises by the removal of the items.
(4) The lessor may recover from the lessee any loss or damages incurred in exercising its rights under subclause (3).

Schedule 2 Dictionary
