library_id: 500000005
citation: Payroll Tax Act 1971
type: primary_legislation
version_id: sha256:026fee5a3e00abb94b23911c5cedbae43bcc56da2421ef4b30b69d8ef762126c
jurisdiction: queensland
url: https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-1971-037
content_format: xml
source: sha256

Part 1 Preliminary

1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Payroll Tax Act 1971.

2. Dictionary
The dictionary in the schedule defines particular words used in this Act.

3. Meaning of superannuation contribution
(1) A superannuation contribution is a monetary or non-monetary contribution paid or payable by an employer for an employee, or by a company for a director of the company—
(2) In this section—

3A. Meaning of termination payment
(1) A termination payment is—
(2) In this section—

4. Other provisions about meaning of wages—superannuation contributions and GST
(1) This section applies for the definition of wages in the schedule.
(2) For paragraph (g) of the definition, a superannuation contribution paid or payable by an employer for an employee on or after 1 January 2000 is taken to be for the employee’s services performed or rendered on or after 1 January 2000.
(3) However, if the commissioner is satisfied any part of a superannuation contribution mentioned in subsection (2) is for an employee’s services performed or rendered before 1 January 2000, the part is not wages.
(4) Also, for paragraph (g) of the definition—
(5) For this Act, the amount or value of wages paid or payable to a person must be reduced by the relevant proportion of the amount of any GST paid or payable by the person on the supply to which the wages relate.
(6) In this section—

4A 5. Meaning of change of status
(1) A change of status happens for a person who is an employer if, during a financial year—
(2) A change of status happens—
(3) For subsection (2)(e), the relevant periodic return period is the periodic return period in which the person ceases to be the DGE for the group.

6. Meaning of final period
The final period, for a change of status of a person (the relevant change of status) happening during a financial year, means the period—

6A. Reference to periodic return period or return period
Despite section 59(1A), a reference in this Act, other than section 59(1), to a periodic return period or return period in relation to an employer is taken to include the last periodic return period of a financial year for the employer.

7. Notes in text
A note in the text of this Act is part of the Act.

8. Relationship of Act with Administration Act
(1) This Act does not contain all the provisions about payroll tax or the mental health levy.
(2) The Administration Act contains provisions dealing with, among other things, each of the following—

Part 2 Liability to taxation

Division 1 Imposition of liability

Subdivision 1 Wages liable to payroll tax and mental health levy

8A. Application of sdiv 1
(1) This subdivision applies for working out the wages paid or payable by an employer for services performed or rendered by a person that are liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under this Act.
(2) If wages are paid or payable for a person other than an employee, a reference to an employee in this subdivision includes a reference to the person.

9. Wages liable to payroll tax and mental health levy—nexus with Queensland
(1) Wages are liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under this Act if—
(2) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), the question of whether wages are liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under this Act must be decided by reference only to the services performed or rendered by the employee for the employer during the month in which the wages are paid or payable.
(3) Wages paid or payable by an employer for an employee in a particular month are taken to be paid or payable in relation to the services performed or rendered by the employee for the employer during the month.
(4) If no services are performed or rendered by an employee for an employer during the month in which wages are paid or payable in relation to the employee—
(5) If no services were performed or rendered by an employee for an employer during the month in which wages are paid or payable in relation to the employee or in any earlier month—
(6) All amounts of wages paid or payable in the same month by the same employer for the same employee must be aggregated for deciding whether the wages are liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under this Act.
(7) If wages are paid in a different month from the month in which they are payable, the question of whether the wages are liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under this Act must be decided by reference to the earlier of the relevant months.

9A. State in which employee is based
(1) For this Act, the State in which an employee is based is the State in which the employee’s principal place of residence is located.
(2) The State in which an employee is based must be decided by reference to the state of affairs existing during the month in which the relevant wages are paid or payable.
(3) If more than 1 State would qualify as the State in which an employee is based during a month, the State in which the employee is based must be decided by reference to the state of affairs existing on the last day of that month.
(4) An employee who does not have a principal place of residence is taken, for this Act, to be an employee who is not based in a State.
(5) If wages are paid or payable to a corporate employee, the State in which the corporate employee is based must be worked out under section 9B instead of this section, as if a reference in section 9B to an employer were a reference to the employee.
(6) In this section—

9B. State in which employer is based
(1) For this Act, the State in which an employer is based is—
(2) If wages are paid or payable in connection with a business carried on by an employer under a trust, the employer’s registered business address is—
(3) If an employer has 2 or more registered business addresses located in different States at the same time, the State in which the employer is based at that time is the State in which the employer’s principal place of business is located.
(4) The State in which an employer is based must be decided by reference to the state of affairs existing during the month in which the relevant wages are paid or payable.
(5) If more than 1 State would qualify as the State in which an employer is based in a month, the State in which the employer is based must be decided by reference to the state of affairs existing on the last day of that month.
(6) An employer who has neither a registered business address nor a principal place of business is taken, for this Act, to be an employer who is not based in a State.
(7) In this section—

9C. Place and day of payment of wages
(1) For this Act, wages are taken to have been paid at a place if, for the payment of the wages—
(2) The wages are taken to have been paid on the day the instrument was sent or given, the amount was transferred, or the account was credited.
(3) Subject to subsection (4), wages are taken to be payable at the place they are paid.
(4) Wages that are not paid by the end of the month in which they are payable are taken to be payable at—
(5) If wages paid or payable in the same month by the same employer for the same employee are paid or payable in more than 1 State, the wages paid or payable in that month are taken to be paid or payable in the State in which the highest proportion of the wages are paid or payable.
(6) This section is subject to section 13W.
(7) In this section—

Subdivision 2 Other provisions about imposing liability for payroll tax

10. Imposition of payroll tax on taxable wages
(1) Subject to, and in accordance with, the provisions of this Act, there shall be charged, levied and paid for the use of Her Majesty on all taxable wages payroll tax at the rate of 4.75% of the taxable wages paid or payable in the financial year ending 30 June 2020 or in a later financial year.
(2) However, the rate of payroll tax is increased for an employer to 4.95% of taxable wages for each return period during which—
(3) The rate of payroll tax imposed under this section is subject to any discount that may apply under section 10A.
(4) In this section—

10A. Discount for regional employers
(1) This section applies to the return periods occurring in the financial years ending 30 June 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, 2028, 2029 and 2030.
(2) Subject to subsection (4), for each return period, a regional employer is entitled to a discount of 1% on the rate of payroll tax imposed on taxable wages under section 10.
(3) An employer is a regional employer for a return period if, during that period, the employer—
(4) A regional employer is not entitled to a discount under subsection (2) for a return period ending after 30 June 2024 if the total amount of taxable wages paid or payable by the employer during that return period is more than the wage threshold.
(5) In this section—

11. When liability for payroll tax arises
A liability for payroll tax imposed on taxable wages arises on the return date for lodgement by an employer of a return.

12. Employer to pay payroll tax
Payroll tax shall be paid by the employer by whom the taxable wages are paid or payable.

Subdivision 3 Other provisions about imposing liability for mental health levy

12A. Imposition of mental health levy on taxable wages
(1) A mental health levy is imposed under this part on particular taxable wages paid or payable in a financial year.
(2) Amounts attributable to the levy may be used only for providing a service or infrastructure that is consistent with—
(3) A reference in subsection (2) to amounts attributable to the levy does not include amounts of penalty tax or unpaid tax interest, a penalty amount under section 90 or an amount recovered because of the imposition of a penalty for an offence.

12B. When liability for mental health levy arises
Liability for the mental health levy imposed on taxable wages arises on the return date for lodgement by an employer of a return.

12C. Particular employer to pay mental health levy
The mental health levy must be paid by an employer as provided under divisions 5A, 5B and 5C.

Subdivision 4 Value of taxable wages

13. Value of taxable wages
(1) The value of taxable wages that are paid or payable in kind by an employer (other than fringe benefits under the Fringe Benefits Assessment Act) is the value under the regulations.
(2) The employer must give evidence of the value of the taxable wages to the commissioner if asked by the commissioner.
(3) If the commissioner is not satisfied with the evidence given by the employer, the commissioner may appoint a person to value the taxable wages.
(4) If the value stated by the person appointed under subsection (3) is more than the value stated by the employer, the commissioner may claim all or part of the valuation costs from the employer.
(5) The value of taxable wages comprising a fringe benefit under the Fringe Benefits Assessment Act is, unless otherwise prescribed by regulation, the value worked out using the following formula—
(5) where—
(6) This section does not apply to taxable wages comprising the grant of a share or option to which division 1C applies.

Division 1A Contractor provisions

13A. Definitions for div 1A
In this division—

13B. Meaning of relevant contract
(1) A relevant contract is a contract under which a person (the designated person), in the course of a business carried on by the designated person—
(2) However, a relevant contract does not include a contract of service or a contract under which a person (the designated person), in the course of a business carried on by the designated person—
(3) For subsection (2)(b), relevant financial year means the financial year during which the designated person is supplied with the services.
(3A) Subsection (2)(a), (b), (c) or (d) does not apply to a contract under which any additional services or work of a kind not covered by the relevant subsection is supplied or performed.
(4) Subsection (2) does not apply if the commissioner is satisfied the contract or arrangement under which the services are supplied was entered into with an intention either directly or indirectly of avoiding the payment of tax by any person.
(5) An employment agency contract under which services are supplied by an employment agent, or a service provider is procured by an employment agent, is not a relevant contract.

13C. Persons taken to be employers
(1) For this Act, a person is taken to be an employer if, under a relevant contract—
(2) However, if a contract is a relevant contract under both section 13B(1)(a) and (b)—
(3) A person taken to be an employer under this section is a relevant contract employer.

13D. Persons taken to be employees
(1) For this Act, a person is taken to be an employee if, under a relevant contract—
(2) A person taken to be an employee under this section is a relevant contract employee.

13E. Amounts taken to be wages
(1) For this Act, the following amounts paid or payable by a relevant contract employer under a relevant contract are taken to be wages—
(2) Subsection (1)(a) is taken to include the following, to the extent the following do not otherwise comprise wages under this Act—
(3) For subsection (1), an amount paid or payable on or after 1 July 2008 for the performance of work under a relevant contract is taken to be for services supplied, or goods re-supplied, on or after 1 July 2008.
(4) However, if the commissioner is satisfied any part of an amount mentioned in subsection (3) is for services supplied, or goods re-supplied, before 1 July 2008, the part is not wages.
(5) If an amount mentioned in subsection (1) is included in a larger amount paid or payable by the relevant contract employer under the relevant contract, the part of the larger amount that is not attributable to the performance of work mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b) is the part decided by the commissioner.

13F. Liability for payroll tax or mental health levy for payments taken to be wages
(1) If a relevant contract employer pays payroll tax on wages comprising a payment (the primary payment) in relation to the performance of work—
(2) If a relevant contract employer pays the mental health levy on wages comprising a payment (the primary payment) in relation to the performance of work—
(3) Subsection (2)(a) applies subject to part 2, divisions 5B and 5C.
(4) Subsection (1)(b) or (2)(b) does not apply if the commissioner is satisfied either the secondary payment or the primary payment is made with an intention either directly or indirectly of avoiding the payment of tax by the relevant contract employer or another person.

Division 1B Employment agents

13G. Meaning of employment agency contract
(1) An employment agency contract is a contract under which a person (an employment agent) procures the services of another person (a service provider) for a client of the employment agent.
(2) However, a contract is not an employment agency contract if it is, or results in the creation of, a contract of employment between the service provider and the client.
(3) Subsection (1) applies to a contract whether it is formal or informal, express or implied.
(4) For this section—

13H. Persons taken to be employers
For this Act, the employment agent under an employment agency contract is taken to be an employer.

13I. Persons taken to be employees
For this Act, the person who performs work in relation to which services are supplied to the client under an employment agency contract is taken to be an employee of the employment agent under the contract.

13J. Amounts taken to be wages
(1) For this Act, the following are taken to be wages paid or payable by the employment agent under an employment agency contract—
(2) However, subsection (1) does not apply to an amount, benefit or payment mentioned in the subsection if—

13K. Liability for payroll tax or mental health levy for payments taken to be wages
(1) This section applies if an employment agent—
(2) No other person, including another person engaged to procure the services of the service provider for the employment agent’s client, is liable for payroll tax or the mental health levy on wages paid or payable for the procurement or performance of services by the service provider for the client.
(3) This section applies subject to sections 13L and 13LA and part 2, divisions 5B and 5C.

13L. Employment agency contract reducing or avoiding liability to payroll tax or mental health levy
(1) If the effect of an employment agency contract is to reduce or avoid the liability of a party to the contract to the assessment, imposition or payment of payroll tax or the mental health levy, the commissioner may—
(2) A reference in subsection (1) to a party to a contract includes, for a contract to which a non-DGE member of a group is a party, a reference to the DGE for the group.
(3) If the commissioner makes a determination under subsection (1), the commissioner must give written notice of the determination to the person taken to be an employer for the purposes of this Act.
(4) The notice must state the facts on which the commissioner relies and the reasons for making the determination.

13LA. Particular avoidance arrangements involving employment agents
(1) This section applies if—
(2) If this section applies in a return period, for the period—
(3) For this section, a client has, or clients have, a controlling interest in a business if the client has, or the clients have, a controlling interest in the business under section 71.
(4) In subsection (1)—
(5) To remove any doubt about the application of subsection (4)(b), it is declared that if an employment agency is involved in more than 1 avoidance arrangement in a return period, subsection (4)(b) is to be applied by first applying each relevant resultant provision to each avoidance arrangement and then calculating the total amount for the subsection.
(6) In this section—

Division 1C Shares and options

13M. Application of div 1C
This division applies for paragraphs (j) and (k) of the definition of wages in the schedule.

13N. Definitions for div 1C
In this division—

13O. When share or option is granted
(1) A share is granted to a person if—
(2) An option is granted to a person if—
(3) Also, a share or an option is granted to a person if—

13P. Grant of share because of exercise of option
Despite paragraphs (j) and (k) of the definition of wages in the schedule, the grant of a share by a grantor does not comprise wages if—

13Q. Day on which wages are paid or payable
(1) Wages comprising the grant of a share or option are taken to be paid or payable on the relevant day.
(2) The relevant day is the day the grantor elects under this division to treat as the day on which the wages comprising the grant of the share or option are paid or payable.

13R. Election by grantor of relevant day
(1) A grantor may elect to treat either of the following as the day on which wages comprising the grant of a share or option are paid or payable—
(2) The vesting day—
(3) For subsection (2), a share vests in the grantee when—

13S. Automatic election of relevant day
(1) This section applies if a grantor grants a share or option to a grantee and any of the following applies—
(2) If subsection (1)(a) applies, the grantor is taken to have elected to treat the vesting day for the share or option as the day on which the wages comprising the grant of the share or option are paid or payable.
(3) If subsection (1)(b) or (c) applies, the grantor is taken to have elected to treat the day the share or option is granted as the day on which the wages comprising the grant of the share or option are paid or payable.
(4) This section applies despite section 13R.

13T. Effect of rescission or cancellation of share or option
(1) If, before the vesting day, the grant of a share or option is withdrawn, cancelled or exchanged for consideration other than the grant of other shares or options—
(2) A grantor must reduce, by the relevant amount, the taxable wages paid or payable by the grantor for a financial year or final period, if—
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment of a grantor’s liability for payroll tax and the mental health levy for a financial year or final period, to reduce the taxable wages of the grantor by the relevant amount, if—
(4) However, if the grantor is a non-DGE group member, subsection (3) applies as if a reference to making a reassessment of a grantor’s liability for the mental health levy were a reference to making a reassessment of the DGE’s liability for the mental health levy.
(5) For subsections (2) and (3), the relevant amount is the value of the grant of a share or option previously included in the taxable wages of the grantor under subsection (2)(a) or (3)(a).
(6) Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply only because the grantee fails to exercise an option or otherwise exercise the grantee’s rights in relation to a share or option.

13U. Value of taxable wages
(1) The value of taxable wages comprising the grant of a share or option is taken to be the amount equal to—
(2) For subsection (1)(a), the value of a share or option is—
(3) For working out the value of a share or option under subsection (2)(a), the regulations mentioned in that subsection apply with the following changes—
(4) In working out the market value of a share or option, anything that would prevent or restrict conversion of the share or option to money must be disregarded.
(5) An employer must give evidence of the value of a share or option to the commissioner if asked by the commissioner.
(6) If the commissioner is not satisfied with the evidence given by the employer under subsection (5), the commissioner may appoint a person to value the share or option.
(7) If the value stated by the person appointed under subsection (6) is more than the value stated by the employer, the commissioner may claim all or part of the valuation costs from the employer.

13V. When services are performed
(1) Wages comprising the grant of a share or option by a company to a director of the company by way of remuneration for the appointment of the director, but not for services performed, are taken to be paid or payable for services performed or rendered during the month in which the relevant day falls.
(2) Wages comprising the grant of a share or option to which subsection (1) does not apply are taken to be paid or payable for services performed or rendered during the month in which the relevant day falls.

13W. Place where wages are paid or payable
(1) Wages comprising the grant of a share or option are taken to be paid or payable in Queensland if—
(2) If subsection (1) does not apply, wages comprising the grant of a share or option are taken to be paid or payable elsewhere than in Queensland.
(3) Subsection (4) applies to wages comprising the grant of a share or option by a company to a director of the company by way of remuneration for the appointment of the director, but not for services performed or rendered.
(4) The wages are taken to be paid or payable for services performed or rendered in the place or places where it may reasonably be expected the services of the director for the company will be performed or rendered.
(5) In this section—

Division 1D Allowances

Subdivision 1 Motor vehicle allowances

13X. Definitions for sdiv 1
In this subdivision—

13Y. Exempt component of motor vehicle allowance
(1) For this Act, a reference to wages, in relation to a return period, does not include a reference to the exempt component of a motor vehicle allowance paid or payable to an employee for the period.
(2) If the total motor vehicle allowance paid or payable to an employee for a return period is not more than the exempt component of the allowance, the allowance does not comprise wages for this Act.
(3) If the total motor vehicle allowance paid or payable to an employee for a return period is more than the exempt component for the allowance, if any, only the amount of the allowance exceeding the exempt component comprises wages for this Act.
(4) The exempt component of a motor vehicle allowance paid or payable to an employee for a business vehicle for a return period is the amount worked out using the following formula—
(4) where—

13Z. Working out the number of exempt kilometres
(1) For section 13Y(4), the number of exempt kilometres must be worked out using either of the following chosen by the employer—
(2) However, if the commissioner gives a written approval for the employer to use another method for working out the number of exempt kilometres, the number of exempt kilometres must be worked out using the approved method.
(3) An approval mentioned in subsection (2)—
(4) As soon as practicable after giving an approval under subsection (2), the commissioner must give a copy of the approval to the employer or, if the approval applies to a class of employers, each employer to whom it applies.

13ZA. Continuous recording method
(1) This section applies if, under section 13Z(1)(a), the employer uses the continuous recording method to work out the number of exempt kilometres for a business vehicle.
(2) The employer must keep a record of the following details—
(3) The number of exempt kilometres is the distance of all business journeys mentioned in subsection (2)(a), worked out using the odometer readings mentioned in the subsection.

13ZB. Averaging method—how it works
(1) This section applies if, under section 13Z(1)(b), the employer uses the averaging method to work out the number of exempt kilometres for a business vehicle.
(2) The employer must keep the records mentioned in section 13ZC.
(3) The number of exempt kilometres is the number worked out using the following formula—
(3) where—
(4) The relevant percentage for the business vehicle is the percentage worked out using the following formula—
(4) where—
(5) If a relevant percentage for the business vehicle is worked out on the basis of an averaging period for the vehicle, the number of exempt kilometres for the vehicle for a return period mentioned in subsection (6) must be worked out using that relevant percentage.
(6) For subsection (5), the return periods are—
(7) Subsection (5) applies subject to section 13ZE.

13ZC. Averaging method—records to be kept by employer
(1) An employer who, under section 13Z(1)(b), works out the number of exempt kilometres for a business vehicle using the averaging method must keep a record of the details stated in this section.
(2) In relation to the averaging period for the business vehicle, the details are each of the following—
(3) In relation to the return period to which the number of exempt kilometres relates, the details are each of the following—
(4) If the odometer of the business vehicle is replaced or recalibrated during a return period for which its readings are relevant for using the averaging method, the employer must keep a record of the odometer readings immediately before and immediately after the replacement or recalibration.

13ZD. Averaging method—what is the averaging period
(1) The averaging period, for a business vehicle of an employee, means a continuous period of at least 12 weeks, chosen by the employer, throughout which the vehicle is provided or maintained by the employee.
(2) The averaging period may overlap the start or end of a financial year.
(3) If the averaging method is used for more than 1 business vehicle of an employee for the same return period, the averaging period for the vehicles must be the same.
(4) This section applies subject to section 13ZE.

13ZE. Averaging method—recalculation of relevant percentage
(1) This section applies to an employer who, under section 13Z(1)(b), works out the number of exempt kilometres for a business vehicle using the averaging method.
(2) The employer must recalculate the relevant percentage for the business vehicle if—
(3) Also, the employer must recalculate the relevant percentage for the business vehicle if the employer—
(4) In this section—

13ZF. Averaging method—replacing a business vehicle
(1) An employer using the averaging method may nominate 1 business vehicle (the replacement vehicle) to be the replacement of another business vehicle (the original vehicle).
(2) The employer must record the nomination in writing—
(3) The nomination takes effect on the day stated in it.
(4) After the nomination takes effect, for the employer’s use of the averaging method the replacement vehicle is taken to be the original vehicle.
(5) The employer need not repeat, for the replacement vehicle, the steps already taken under this subdivision for the original vehicle.
(6) The employer must keep a record of—

13ZG. Switching between continuous recording and averaging methods
(1) An employer may change from using a recording method to using the other recording method with effect from the beginning of a financial year.
(2) In this section—

Subdivision 2 Accommodation allowances

13ZH. Exempt rate for accommodation allowance
(1) For this Act, a reference to wages does not include a reference to an accommodation allowance—
(2) If an accommodation allowance paid or payable to an employee for a night’s absence from the employee’s usual place of residence is more than the exempt rate, the allowance comprises wages for this Act only to the extent it is more than the exempt rate.
(3) The exempt rate, for a financial year, is—

Division 2 Exemptions

14. Exemption from payroll tax and mental health levy
(2) The wages liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under this Act do not include wages paid or payable—
(3) The exemption given in subsection (2)(j) does not apply to wages paid or payable to a trainee under a traineeship started with the trainee’s employer after the commencement of this subsection (the current traineeship) if, immediately before the current traineeship starts, the trainee had been employed by the employer for a continuous period of at least—
(5) Despite subsection (3), the exemption given in subsection (2)(j) applies to wages paid or payable to the trainee under the current traineeship if—
(6) For subsection (3), the trainee is taken to have been employed by the employer for a continuous period if, in the period, 1 of the following events is effected for the sole or dominant purpose of obtaining the benefit of Commonwealth or State funding, or an exemption under subsection (2)(j), in relation to the traineeship—
(7) For subsection (5)(a), a reference to the trainee’s employer includes a reference to the former owner of the business in which the trainee is employed if—
(8) The exemption given in subsection (2)(k) does not apply to wages paid or payable as annual leave, long service leave, recreation leave or sick leave.
(9) In this section—

14A. Exemption for parental, adoption, surrogacy or cultural parent leave
(1) The wages liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under this Act do not include wages paid or payable to an employee for parental leave, adoption leave, surrogacy leave or cultural parent leave.
(2) It is immaterial whether—
(3) The exemption under subsection (1) is limited to wages paid or payable for—
(4) A reference in subsection (3) to 14 weeks’ leave is a reference to—
(5) An employer who claims an exemption under subsection (1) must obtain and keep as a record—
(6) The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to wages comprising a fringe benefit under the Fringe Benefits Assessment Act.
(7) In this section—

15. Exemption from payroll tax and mental health levy—certain CWA wages
(1) CWA is not required to lodge a return.
(2) Divisions 3 to 5 apply to CWA as if—
(3) For divisions 5A to 5C, CWA’s periodic levy liability, annual levy liability and final levy liability are nil.
(4) However, CWA is required to lodge a return and subsections (2) and (3) do not apply if—
(5) If subsection (4)(a) applies and subsection (4)(b) does not apply—
(6) If subsection (4)(b) applies—
(7) For this section, a business activity by CWA is taken to be conducted on a commercial basis if it is conducted in a similar way to similar business activities conducted by anyone else on a commercial basis.
(8) For this section, a business activity does not include—
(9) In this section—

15A. Exemption for services performed or rendered entirely in another country
The wages liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under this Act do not include wages paid or payable by an employer for an employee for services performed or rendered entirely in another country for a continuous period of more than 6 months after wages were first paid for the employee for the services.

Division 3 Periodic liability for payroll tax

Subdivision 1 Employer other than the DGE for a group

16. Application of sdiv 1
This subdivision applies to an employer who—

16J 16K
16L 17. Definitions for sdiv 1
In this subdivision—
where—

18. Meaning of calculation day
For working out the employer’s fixed periodic deduction for a periodic return period in a financial year, each of the following days in the year is a calculation day—

18A 19. Meaning of significant wage change
(1) A significant wage change happens during a periodic return period for an employer if—
(2) In this section—

20. Amount of periodic liability
(1) The employer’s liability (periodic liability) for payroll tax for a periodic return period is the amount worked out by applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax to—
(2) For subsection (1)(b), the periodic deduction is—
(2A) Subsection (1) does not apply for the last periodic return period of a financial year for the employer.
(3) In this section—

21. Determination by commissioner of fixed periodic deduction
(1) The commissioner may, by written notice given to the employer, determine the amount of the employer’s fixed periodic deduction for a periodic return period, if the employer—
(1A) Subsection (1) does not apply for the last periodic return period of a financial year for the employer.
(2) The determination must state the periodic return periods to which it applies.
(3) The determination may apply for a periodic return period starting before or after, or the periodic return period in which, the determination is made.
(4) The commissioner may, at any time by written notice given to the employer, revoke a determination made under subsection (1) with effect from the first day of the periodic return period stated in the notice.
(5) The periodic return period stated in a notice under subsection (4) may be before or after, or the same periodic return period as, the periodic return period in which the notice is given but may not be before the date of the determination being revoked.

Subdivision 2 DGE for a group

22. Application of sdiv 2
This subdivision applies to the DGE for a group.

23. Definition for sdiv 2
In this subdivision—

24. Meaning of calculation day
For working out the DGE’s fixed periodic deduction for a periodic return period in a financial year, each of the following days in the year is a calculation day—

25. Meaning of significant wage change
(1) A significant wage change happens during a periodic return period for a group if the previous estimated wages differ by more than 30% from the current estimated wages.
(2) In this section—

26. Amount of periodic liability
(1) The DGE’s liability (periodic liability) for payroll tax for a periodic return period is the amount worked out by applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax to the greater of zero and the amount equal to the total taxable wages paid or payable by the DGE during the period less the DGE’s fixed periodic deduction for the period.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply for the last periodic return period of a financial year for the DGE.

27. Determination by commissioner of fixed periodic deduction
(1) The commissioner may, by written notice given to the DGE, determine the amount of the DGE’s fixed periodic deduction for a periodic return period.
(1A) Subsection (1) does not apply for the last periodic return period of a financial year for the DGE.
(2) The determination must state the periodic return periods to which it applies.
(3) The determination may apply for a periodic return period starting before or after, or the periodic return period in which, the determination is made.
(4) The commissioner may, at any time by written notice given to the DGE, revoke a determination made under subsection (1) with effect from the first day of the periodic return period stated in the notice.
(5) The periodic return period stated in a notice under subsection (4) may be before or after, or the same periodic return period as, the periodic return period in which the notice is given but may not be before the date of the determination being revoked.
(6) The commissioner may make a determination, or revoke a determination, under this section in relation to the deduction amount for a non-DGE group member.
(7) If the commissioner makes a determination mentioned in subsection (6), the group member is, on the first day of the first periodic return period to which the determination applies, taken to have been designated under section 75(1) or (2) as the DGE for the group.

Subdivision 3 Rebate

27A. Rebate for periodic liability
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The employer’s, or DGE’s, periodic liability for payroll tax for each periodic return period is reduced by the amount of the rebate for the period.
(3) In this section—

Division 4 Annual liability for payroll tax

Subdivision 1 Employer other than the DGE for a group

28. Application of sdiv 1
This subdivision applies to an employer who—

29. Definitions for sdiv 1
(1) In this subdivision—
(2) Despite subsection (1), definition annual deduction, if a person who did not pay and was not liable to pay taxable wages or interstate wages for any part of a financial year satisfies the commissioner that, by reason of the nature of the person’s trade or business, the taxable wages and interstate wages (if any) paid or payable by the person fluctuate with different periods of the financial year, the commissioner may treat the person—
(3) However, if under section 64(2) the person lodged, or was required to lodge, 1 or more final returns during the year, subsection (2) can apply in relation to the person only if the person did not pay, and was not liable to pay, taxable wages or interstate wages for a part of the year after the end of the last final period.
(4) Also, the commissioner may treat the person, under subsection (2), as an employer only during the part of the year after the end of the last final period.

30. Amount of annual liability
(1) The employer’s liability (annual liability) for payroll tax for a financial year is—
(2) However, if under section 64(2) the employer lodged, or was required to lodge, 1 or more final returns during the financial year, for working out the employer’s annual liability—
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to a final period during the year if—
(4) If the commissioner includes final return wages and final return liability under subsection (3) for working out the employer’s annual liability, the annual deduction for the employer for the financial year must be worked out having regard to the days in a final period mentioned in subsection (3).

31. Entitlement to annual refund amount
(1) This section applies if the employer’s periodic liability for periodic return periods in a financial year is greater than the employer’s annual payroll tax amount for the year.
(2) The employer is entitled to a refund of the amount (the annual refund amount) of the difference between the periodic liability and the annual payroll tax amount.
(3) Subsection (2) is subject to section 83.
(4) However, the employer is not entitled to a refund of the amount more than 5 years after the making of the assessment of the employer’s annual liability for the year.
(5) This section does not apply in relation to a reassessment of the employer’s annual liability.

Subdivision 2 DGE for a group

32. Application of sdiv 2
This subdivision applies to an employer who, on 30 June in a financial year, is the DGE for a group.

33. Definitions for sdiv 2
In this subdivision—

34. Amount of DGE’s annual liability
(1) The DGE’s liability (annual liability) for payroll tax for a financial year is—
(2) If the DGE does not pay the DGE’s annual liability for the financial year on the return date for lodgement of the DGE’s annual return, every relevant group employer for the designated period is liable jointly and severally to pay the amount of the liability.

35. Entitlement to annual refund amount
(1) This section applies if the DGE’s periodic liability for periodic return periods in the designated period for the DGE in a financial year is greater than the DGE’s annual payroll tax amount for the year.
(2) The DGE is entitled to a refund of the amount (the annual refund amount) of the difference between the periodic liability and the annual payroll tax amount.
(3) Subsection (2) is subject to section 83.
(4) However, the DGE is not entitled to a refund of the amount more than 5 years after the making of the assessment of the DGE’s annual liability for the year.
(5) This section does not apply in relation to a reassessment of the DGE’s annual liability.

Subdivision 3 Rebate

35A. Rebate for annual payroll tax amount
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The employer’s, or DGE’s, annual payroll tax amount for the eligible year is reduced by the amount of the rebate for the eligible year.
(3) However, if under section 64(2) the employer or DGE lodged, or was required to lodge, 1 or more final returns during the eligible year, the amount of the wages mentioned in subsection (1) paid or payable for a final period during the year are not to be included in working out the amount of the rebate.
(4) In this section—

Division 5 Final liability for payroll tax

Subdivision 1 Employer other than the DGE for a group

36. Application of sdiv 1
This subdivision applies to an employer who—

37. Definitions for sdiv 1
In this subdivision—

38. Amount of final liability
(1) The employer’s liability (final liability) for payroll tax for a final period is—
(2) However, subsection (3) applies if—
(3) If this subsection applies, for working out the employer’s final liability for the final period, the commissioner may treat the employer—

39. Entitlement to final refund amount
(1) This section applies if the employer’s periodic liability amount for a final period is greater than the employer’s final payroll tax amount for the period.
(2) The employer is entitled to a refund of the amount (the final refund amount) of the difference between the periodic liability amount and the final payroll tax amount.
(3) Subsection (2) is subject to section 83.
(4) However, the employer is not entitled to a refund of the amount more than 5 years after the making of the assessment of the employer’s final liability for the period.
(5) This section does not apply in relation to a reassessment of the employer’s final liability.

Subdivision 2 DGE for a group

40. Application of sdiv 2
This subdivision applies to an employer who is the DGE for a group on the last day of a final period.

41. Definitions for sdiv 2
In this subdivision—
where—

42. Amount of DGE’s final liability
(1) The DGE’s liability (final liability) for payroll tax for a final period is—
(2) If the DGE does not pay the DGE’s final liability for the period on the return date for lodgement of the DGE’s final return, every relevant group employer for the period is liable jointly and severally to pay the amount of the liability.

43. Entitlement to final refund amount
(1) This section applies if the DGE’s periodic liability amount for a final period is greater than the DGE’s final payroll tax amount for the period.
(2) The DGE is entitled to a refund of the amount (the final refund amount) of the difference between the periodic liability amount and the final payroll tax amount.
(3) Subsection (2) is subject to section 83.
(4) However, the DGE is not entitled to a refund of the amount more than 5 years after the making of the assessment of the DGE’s final liability for the period.
(5) This section does not apply in relation to a reassessment of the DGE’s final liability.

Subdivision 3 Rebate

43A. Rebate for final payroll tax amount
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The employer’s, or DGE’s, final payroll tax amount for the final period is reduced by the amount of the rebate for the period.
(3) In this section—

Division 5A Periodic liability for mental health levy

43B. Application of division
This division applies to an employer who is required under section 59 to lodge periodic returns.

43C. Meaning of adjusted primary threshold
(1) The adjusted primary threshold for a financial year for an employer who is not a group member is the amount worked out using the following formula—
(1) where—
(2) The adjusted primary threshold for a financial year for an employer who is a group member is the amount worked out using the following formula—
(2) where—

43D. Meaning of adjusted additional threshold
(1) The adjusted additional threshold for an employer who is not a group member for a financial year is the amount worked out using the following formula—
(1) where—
(2) The adjusted additional threshold for an employer who is a group member for a financial year is the amount worked out using the following formula—
(2) where—

43E. Meaning of primary periodic threshold and additional periodic threshold
(1) The commissioner may, by written notice given to an employer, determine—
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply for the last periodic return period of a financial year for the employer.
(3) The primary periodic threshold for an employer for a periodic return period is—
(4) The additional periodic threshold for an employer for a periodic return period is—

43EA. Meaning of current financial year
The current financial year for a periodic return period is the financial year in which the periodic return period occurs.

43EB. Meaning of calculation day
(1) This section applies for working out an employer’s primary periodic threshold or additional periodic threshold, for a periodic return period, under section 43E.
(2) Each of the following days is a calculation day—
(3) Subsection (2)(c) does not apply if, at the time the relevant determination stops applying, another relevant determination starts to apply.
(4) In this section—

43EC. Meaning of significant wage change
(1) A significant wage change happens during a periodic return period for an employer or group if the previous estimated wages for the period differ by more than 30% from the current estimated wages for the period.
(2) In this section—

43F. Amount of periodic levy liability
(1) An employer’s liability (periodic levy liability) for the mental health levy for a periodic return period is the total of—
(2) For subsection (1)(a), the primary periodic liability for a periodic return period is the greater of the amount worked out using the following formula and zero—
(2) where—
(3) For subsection (1)(b), the additional periodic liability for a periodic return period is the greater of the amount worked out using the following formula and zero—
(3) where—
(4) There is no periodic levy liability for the last periodic return period of a financial year.

Division 5B Annual liability for mental health levy

43G. Application of division
This division applies to an employer who is required, under section 63, to lodge an annual return for a financial year if the employer—

43H. Meaning of combined periodic liability
The combined periodic liability, for the employer for the financial year, is—

43I. Definitions for division
In this division—
where—
where—

43J. Amount of annual levy liability
(1) The employer’s liability (annual levy liability) for the mental health levy for the financial year is—
(2) Subsection (1) applies subject to subsections (3) to (7).
(3) Subsection (4) applies if—
(4) For working out the employer’s annual levy liability for the financial year—
(5) Subsection (6) applies if—
(6) For working out the DGE’s annual levy liability for the financial year—
(7) Subsections (2) to (6) do not apply in relation to a final period during the financial year if—

43K. Entitlement to annual levy refund amount
(1) This section applies if the employer’s combined periodic liability for the financial year is greater than the employer’s annual levy liability for the year.
(2) The employer is entitled to a refund of the amount (the annual levy refund amount) of the difference between the combined periodic liability and the annual levy amount.
(3) Subsection (2) is subject to section 83.
(4) However, the employer is not entitled to a refund of the amount more than 5 years after the making of the assessment of the employer’s annual levy liability for the financial year.
(5) This section does not apply in relation to a reassessment of the employer’s annual levy liability.

Division 5C Final liability for mental health levy

43L. Application of division
(1) This division applies to an employer who is required under section 64 to lodge a final return for a final period if the employer—
(2) For this division, a reference to the final period for an employer who is the DGE for a group is a reference to the final period for the change of status of—

43M. Definitions for division
In this division—

43N. Amount of final levy liability
(1) This section states the employer’s liability (final levy liability) for the mental health levy for the final period.
(2) The employer’s final levy liability for the final period is the employer’s final levy adjustment amount for the period if—
(3) The employer’s final levy liability for the final period is the employer’s final levy amount for the period, if—
(4) However, subsection (5) applies if—
(5) For working out the employer’s final levy liability for the final period, the commissioner may—

43O. Entitlement to final levy refund amount
(1) This section applies if the employer’s periodic levy liability amount for the final period is greater than the employer’s final levy amount for the period.
(2) The employer is entitled to a refund of the amount (the final levy refund amount) of the difference between the periodic levy liability amount and the final levy amount.
(3) Subsection (2) is subject to section 83.
(4) However, the employer is not entitled to a refund of the amount more than 5 years after the making of the assessment of the employer’s final levy liability for the final period.
(5) This section does not apply in relation to a reassessment of the employer’s final levy liability.

Division 6 Sharing of excess deduction by group members

44. Definitions for div 6
In this division—

45. Meaning of excess deduction
(1) Subsection (2) applies—
(2) The amount of the difference is the excess deduction for the assessment.
(3) In this section—

46. Nomination by DGE of group members to share in excess deduction
The DGE for a group may nominate, in an annual return or a final return lodged under section 64(2)—

46A 46B
46C 47. Determination by commissioner of group members to share in excess deduction
(1) This section applies, for an assessment of annual liability or final liability of the DGE for a group, if—
(2) The commissioner may make a determination of—
(3) The determination may apply in relation to an assessment of the DGE’s annual liability or final liability made before or after the determination is made.

48. Sharing of excess deduction by entitled group members at end of financial year
(1) This section applies if—
(2) An entitled group member for the excess deduction is, after the end of the relevant financial year, entitled to the following share of the excess deduction—
(3) The commissioner must make an assessment or reassessment of an entitled group member’s annual liability for the year.
(4) An assessment or reassessment mentioned in subsection (3) must be made on the basis that, for part 2, division 4, subdivision 1, the member’s annual payroll tax amount for the year is the amount worked out by applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax to the member’s annual wages for the year less the member’s share of the excess deduction under subsection (2).
(5) In this section—

49. Sharing of excess deduction by entitled group members on group ceasing to exist
(1) This section applies if—
(2) An entitled group member for the excess deduction is, after all group members have ceased to pay, or be liable to pay, wages as members of the group, entitled to the following share of the excess deduction—
(3) The commissioner must make an assessment or reassessment of an entitled group member’s final liability for the relevant final period.
(4) An assessment or reassessment mentioned in subsection (3) must be made on the basis that, for part 2, division 5, subdivision 1, the member’s final payroll tax amount for the relevant final period is the amount worked out by applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax to the member’s final wages for the period less the member’s share of the excess deduction under subsection (2).
(5) In this section—

Division 6A Sharing of excess rebate by group members

49A. Definitions for div 6A
In this division—

49B. Meaning of excess rebate
(1) Subsection (2) applies—
(2) The amount of the difference is the excess rebate for the assessment.
(3) In this section—

49C. Nomination by DGE of group members to share in excess rebate
The DGE for a group may nominate, in an annual return or a final return lodged under section 64(2)—

49D. Determination by commissioner of group members to share in excess rebate
(1) This section applies, for an assessment of annual liability or final liability relating to the relevant financial year of a group member (the first member), if—
(2) The commissioner may make a determination of—
(3) The determination may apply in relation to an assessment of the first member’s annual liability or final liability relating to the relevant financial year made before or after the determination is made.

49E. Sharing of excess rebate by entitled group members at end of relevant financial year
(1) This section applies if—
(2) An entitled group member for the excess rebate is, after the end of the relevant financial year, entitled to the following share of the excess rebate—
(3) The commissioner must make an assessment or reassessment of an entitled group member’s annual liability for the year.
(4) An assessment or reassessment mentioned in subsection (3) must be made on the basis that, for part 2, division 4, subdivision 1 or 2, the member’s annual payroll tax amount for the year is the amount worked out by applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax to the member’s annual wages for the year less the member’s share of the excess rebate under subsection (2).
(5) In this section—

49F. Sharing of excess rebate by entitled group members on group ceasing to exist
(1) This section applies if—
(2) An entitled group member for the excess rebate is, after all group members have ceased to pay, or be liable to pay, wages as members of the group, entitled to the following share of the excess rebate—
(3) The commissioner must make an assessment or reassessment of an entitled group member’s final liability for the relevant final period.
(4) An assessment or reassessment mentioned in subsection (3) must be made on the basis that, for part 2, division 5, subdivision 1 or 2, the member’s final payroll tax amount for the relevant final period is the amount worked out by applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax to the member’s final wages for the period less the member’s share of the excess rebate under subsection (2).
(5) In this section—

Division 7 Avoidance arrangements

50. Arrangements for avoidance of tax may be disregarded
(1) Where any person enters into any agreement, transaction, or arrangement, whether in writing or otherwise, whereby a natural person performs or renders, for or on behalf of another person, services in respect of which any payment is made to some other person related or connected to the natural person performing or rendering the services and the effect of such agreement, transaction or arrangement is to reduce or avoid the liability of any person to the assessment, imposition or payment of payroll tax or the mental health levy, the commissioner may—
(2) Where the commissioner makes a determination under subsection (1), the commissioner shall serve a notice to that effect on the person deemed to be an employer for the purposes of this Act and shall set out in the notice the facts on which the commissioner relies and the commissioner’s reasons for making the determination.

Division 8 Miscellaneous provisions

51. Wages paid by or to third parties
(1) Subsection (2) applies if money or other consideration—
(2) The money or other consideration is taken to be wages paid or payable by the employer to the employee.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if money or other consideration—
(4) The money or other consideration is taken to be wages paid or payable by the company to the director.
(5) In this section—

51A. Joint and several liability of group members
(1) This section applies if a member of a group fails to pay an amount the member is required to pay under this Act in respect of a period.
(2) Every member of the group is liable jointly and severally to pay the amount, whether or not the member was an employer during the period to which the amount relates.
(3) This section is subject to sections 34(2) and 42(2).

Part 3 Registration and returns

Division 1 Registration

52. Meaning of criteria for registration
For this division, the criteria for registration are that, during a month, an employer pays, or is liable to pay, taxable wages and the employer—

53. Application for registration
(1) An employer who is not already registered as an employer under this division and who meets the criteria for registration must, within 7 days after the end of the month during which the employer meets the criteria, give the commissioner an application for registration as an employer.
(2) The application must be made in the approved form.
(3) If—
(3) the person may give the commissioner an application, in the approved form, for registration as an employer, even though the person is not required under subsection (1) to apply for registration as an employer.
(4) If an employer applies under subsection (1) or (3) for registration as an employer, the commissioner must register the employer.

54. Registration of employer without application
The commissioner may, by written notice given to a person who meets the criteria for registration, register the person as an employer.

55. Notice of registration
(1) On registration of a person as an employer, the commissioner must give written notice to the person of the registration.
(2) The notice must state each of the following—

56. Amendment of registration
(1) The commissioner may amend an employer’s registration by written notice given to the employer.
(2) The notice must state the particulars of the employer’s notice of registration that are amended.

57. Cancellation of registration
(1) The commissioner must cancel the registration of a person as an employer if—
(2) If the commissioner cancels the registration of a person as an employer, the commissioner must give written notice of the cancellation to the person.

Division 2 Returns

58. Definition for div 2
In this division—

59. Periodic returns
(1) A relevant employer must, not later than 7 days after the last day of each periodic return period for all or part of which the employer is a relevant employer, lodge a return for taxable wages paid or payable by the employer for the period.
(1A) Subsection (1) does not apply for the last periodic return period of a financial year for the employer.
(2) However, if the commissioner considers it would be unduly onerous to require the employer to lodge periodic returns within the 7-day period required under subsection (1), the commissioner may, by written notice, vary the time within which the employer is required to lodge returns under this section.
(3) The commissioner may revoke a notice given under subsection (2) at any time by written notice.
(4) The return must—
(5) This section is subject to sections 60 to 62.

60. Duration of periodic return period
(1) Subject to subsection (2), a periodic return period is the period—
(2) However, if the commissioner considers it would be unduly onerous to require the employer to lodge periodic returns for each month, the commissioner may, by written notice, authorise the employer to lodge periodic returns for the periods stated in the notice.
(3) A period stated in the notice must be less than 1 year.
(4) The commissioner may revoke a notice given under subsection (2) at any time by written notice.

61. Deemed lodgement of periodic return—payment by electronic transfer of funds
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The employer is taken to have lodged a periodic return for the periodic return period to which the payment relates.
(3) The amount of the payment is, for the Administration Act, section 14(a), taken to be the amount of the employer’s periodic liability and periodic levy liability stated in the return.
(4) However, if the employer makes more than 1 payment for a periodic return period by the electronic transfer of funds, subsections (2) and (3) apply only to the first payment made by the employer for the period.
(5) In this section—

62. Exemption from requirement to lodge periodic returns
(1) If the commissioner considers that no tax will be payable by a relevant employer or, if paid, would be refunded, the commissioner may issue a certificate to the employer exempting the employer from the requirement under section 59 to lodge periodic returns.
(2) An employer to whom a certificate is issued under subsection (1) is not required to lodge periodic returns.
(3) A certificate issued under subsection (1) may be either unconditional or subject to such conditions as are prescribed or as the commissioner thinks fit.
(4) The commissioner may, at any time by notice in writing, revoke any certificate issued under subsection (1).
(5) The issue of a certificate under subsection (1) shall not exempt an employer from the payment of any payroll tax or mental health levy, notwithstanding that it may have the effect of postponing the time for payment of any payroll tax or mental health levy.

63. Annual return
(1) This section applies to an employer who is a relevant employer on 30 June in a financial year.
(2) The employer must, not later than 21 July immediately after the end of the year, lodge a return for taxable wages paid or payable by the employer for the year.
(3) The return must—
(4) Despite subsection (2), an employer is not required to lodge an annual return for a financial year if the employer—

64. Final return
(1) Subsection (2) applies if, during a financial year, a change of status happens for a relevant employer.
(2) The employer must, not later than 21 days after the change of status happens, lodge a return for taxable wages paid or payable by the employer for the final period for the change of status.
(3) The return must—
(4) Subsection (5) applies if, during a financial year, a change of status happens for a relevant employer who is a member of a group (the relevant group member).
(5) The employer who is the DGE for the group on the last day of the final period for the change of status must lodge a return for taxable wages paid or payable by the group members for the final period.
(6) The return must—

65. Further returns
The commissioner may, by notice in writing, call upon any employer or person to lodge, within the time specified in the notice, such return or such further or fuller return, as the commissioner requires, whether on the employer’s or person’s own behalf or as an agent or a trustee.

Part 4 Grouping provisions

Division 1 Interpretation

66. Definitions for pt 4
In this part—

67. Grouping provisions to operate independently
The fact that a person is not a member of a group constituted under a provision of this part does not prevent the person being a member of a group constituted under another provision of this part.

Division 2 Business groups

68. Constitution of groups
A group is constituted by all the persons forming a group that is not part of a larger group.

69. Groups of corporations
Corporations constitute a group if they are related bodies corporate.

70. Groups arising from the use of common employees
(1) If 1 or more employees of an employer perform duties in connection with 1 or more businesses carried on by the employer and 1 or more other persons, the employer and each of those other persons constitute a group.
(2) If 1 or more employees of an employer are employed solely or mainly to perform duties in connection with 1 or more businesses carried on by 1 or more other persons, the employer and each of those other persons constitute a group.
(3) If 1 or more employees of an employer perform duties—
(3) the employer and each of those other persons constitute a group.
(4) In this section—

71. Groups of commonly controlled businesses
(1) If a person or set of persons has a controlling interest in each of 2 businesses, the persons who carry on those businesses constitute a group.
(2) For this section, a person or set of persons has a controlling interest in a business if any of the following applies—
(3) If—
(3) the other corporation has a controlling interest in the business.
(4) If—
(4) the person or set of persons mentioned in paragraph (a) has a controlling interest in the other business.
(5) If—
(5) the person or set of persons has a controlling interest in the business.
(6) A person who may benefit from a discretionary trust as a result of the trustee or another person, or the trustee and another person, exercising or failing to exercise a power or discretion, is taken for this part to be a beneficiary of the trust in respect of more than 50% of the value of the interests in the trust.
(7) If—
(7) the person or set of persons has a controlling interest in the business of the corporation.
(8) If—
(8) the person or set of persons has a controlling interest in the business of the partnership.

72. Groups arising from tracing of interests in corporations
(1) A relevant entity and a corporation constitute a group if the entity has a controlling interest in the corporation.
(2) For this section, a relevant entity has a controlling interest in a corporation if—
(3) In this section—

73. Smaller groups subsumed into larger groups
(1) If a person is a member of 2 or more groups, the members of all the groups together constitute a group.
(2) If 2 or more members of a group have together a controlling interest in a business within the meaning of section 71, all the members of the group and the person or persons who carry on the business together constitute a group.

74. Exclusion of persons from groups
(1) The commissioner may, by order in writing (an exclusion order), exclude a person from a group.
(2) The commissioner may make an exclusion order only if the commissioner is satisfied a business carried on by the person is carried on independently of, and is not connected with the carrying on of, a business carried on by any other member of the group.
(3) For deciding whether to make an exclusion order, the commissioner must have regard to—
(4) Despite subsection (1), the commissioner can not make an exclusion order if the person and another body corporate that is a member of the group are related bodies corporate.
(5) The commissioner may, by order in writing, revoke an exclusion order if the commissioner is satisfied the circumstances in which an exclusion order may be made do not apply to the person.
(6) An exclusion order or order revoking an exclusion order takes effect on the date stated in it, which may be a date earlier than the date of the exclusion order.

Division 2A Business groups—interpretation provisions for tracing of interests in corporations

74A. Application of div 2A
This division applies for interpreting section 72.

74B. Definitions for div 2A
In this division—

74C. Who are associated persons
Persons are associated persons if they are any of the following—

74D. Who are related persons
(1) Persons are related persons if they are any of the following—
(2) In this section—

74E. Direct interest
(1) A relevant entity has a direct interest in a corporation if—
(2) The value of the relevant entity’s direct interest in the corporation is the percentage equivalent to the proportion of the voting power of all voting shares issued by the corporation that—
(3) In this section—

74F. Indirect interest
(1) A relevant entity has an indirect interest in a corporation if the corporation is linked to another corporation (the directly controlled corporation) in which the entity has a direct interest.
(2) A corporation is linked to the directly controlled corporation if the corporation is part of a chain of corporations—
(3) The value of a relevant entity’s indirect interest in a corporation (the indirectly controlled corporation) that is linked to a directly controlled corporation is the percentage worked out by multiplying the following amounts—

74G. Aggregate interest
(1) A relevant entity has an aggregate interest in a corporation if—
(2) The value of a relevant entity’s aggregate interest in a corporation is the sum of the following amounts—

Division 3 Designated group employer

75. Designation of group member as DGE
(1) The members of a group may, by an instrument in writing in the approved form executed by or on behalf of each member of the group and served on the commissioner, designate 1 of its members to be the DGE in respect of the group for the purposes of this Act.
(2) If the members of a group do not in accordance with subsection (1) designate 1 of the members of the group to be the DGE in respect of the group for the purposes of this Act, the commissioner may exercise in respect of the group the powers of designation conferred on members of the group by that subsection and for the purposes of this Act such a designation by the commissioner shall be by instrument in writing served on the member of the group designated as the DGE and shall have the same effect and give rise to the same consequences as if validly made by the members of the group.
(3) Subject to subsection (4), the DGE in respect of a group ceases to be the DGE in respect of that group on and from the first day of the periodic return period relating to the DGE during which—
(3) whichever occurs the earlier.
(4) The members of a group may exercise the power of revoking a designation conferred by subsection (3) only with the prior written consent of the commissioner or, if at the same time as revoking the designation, the members make a further designation of 1 of their members to be the DGE in substitution for the member whose designation is revoked.
(5) Where the commissioner has exercised the powers conferred on the commissioner by subsection (2), the commissioner may, by instrument in writing served on the member of the group designated as the DGE, revoke the commissioner’s designation of that member as the DGE and thereafter may further exercise the powers conferred on the commissioner by that subsection.

Part 5 Provisions about assessments

Division 1 Reassessments

76. When registered employer may make reassessment
(1) An employer who is registered as an employer under part 3, division 1 may make a reassessment of the employer’s periodic liability, annual liability or final liability only if—
(2) A registered employer must not make a self assessment of a reassessment made by the commissioner.

77. Reassessment—determination of periodic deduction
(1) This section applies if—
(2) A reassessment of the employer’s periodic liability for the periodic return period must be made to give effect to the making or revocation of the determination.
(3) If a reassessment required under subsection (2) would change the amount of the employer’s annual liability for a financial year, or final liability for a final period, for which an assessment has been made, a reassessment of the employer’s annual liability or final liability must be made to take into account the making or revocation of the determination.

77A. Reassessment—determination of primary periodic threshold or additional periodic threshold
(1) This section applies if—
(2) A reassessment of the employer’s periodic levy liability for the periodic return period must be made to give effect to the making or revocation of the determination.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if a reassessment required under subsection (2) would change the amount of any of the following (each an affected liability) for which an assessment has been made—
(4) A reassessment of the affected liability must be made to take into account the making or revocation of the determination.

78. Reassessment—annual liability of non-group employer who has lodged a final return
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Despite section 30(2), the commissioner must make a reassessment of the employer’s annual liability for the year to include the final return wages and final return liability mentioned in subsection (1)(d) for working out the liability.
(3) If the commissioner includes final return wages and final return liability under subsection (2) for working out the employer’s annual liability, the employer’s annual deduction for the financial year must be worked out having regard to the days in a final period mentioned in subsection (1)(b).
(4) In this section—

78A. Reassessment—annual levy liability of non-group employer who has lodged a final return
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Despite section 43J(4), the commissioner must make a reassessment of the employer’s annual levy liability for the year to include the final return wages and final return liability mentioned in subsection (1)(d) for working out the liability.
(3) In this section—

79. Reassessment of payroll tax liability—change of DGE
(1) This section applies for an employer who is a group member if—
(2) A reassessment of the employer’s periodic liability for the periodic return period must be made to give effect to the change of DGE.
(3) If a reassessment required under subsection (2) would change the amount of the employer’s annual liability for a financial year, or final liability for a final period, for which an assessment has been made, a reassessment of the employer’s annual liability or final liability must be made to take into account the change of DGE.

79A. Reassessment of levy liability—change of DGE
(1) This section applies for an employer who is a group member if—
(2) A reassessment of the employer’s periodic levy liability for the periodic return period must be made to give effect to the change of DGE.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if a reassessment required under subsection (2) would change the amount of any of the following (each an affected liability) for which an assessment has been made—
(4) A reassessment of the affected liability must be made to take into account the change of DGE.

80. Reassessment of payroll tax liability—making or revocation of order excluding a person from a group
(1) This section applies if—
(2) A reassessment of the person’s periodic liability for the periodic return period must be made to give effect to the making or revocation of the order.
(3) If a reassessment required under subsection (2) would change the amount of the person’s annual liability for a financial year, or final liability for a final period, for which an assessment has been made, a reassessment of the person’s annual liability or final liability must be made to take into account the making or revocation of the order.

80A. Reassessment of levy liability—making or revocation of order excluding a person from a group
(1) This section applies if—
(2) A reassessment of the person’s periodic levy liability for the periodic return period must be made to give effect to the making or revocation of the order.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if a reassessment required under subsection (2) would change the amount of any of the following (each an affected liability) for which an assessment has been made—
(4) A reassessment of the affected liability must be made to take into account the making or revocation of the determination.

Division 2 Provisions about particular assessments made by the commissioner

81. Provision about payroll tax assessments made by commissioner—employer who is required to lodge periodic returns
(1) Subsection (2) applies if an employer lodged, or was required under section 59 to lodge, a periodic return during all or part of a financial year (the relevant period).
(2) In making an assessment or reassessment of the employer’s annual liability for the year, the commissioner may treat the employer as if the employer had been exempt under section 62 from lodging periodic returns during all or part of the relevant period.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if an employer lodged, or was required under section 59 to lodge, a periodic return during all or part of a final period (also the relevant period).
(4) In making an assessment or reassessment of the employer’s final liability for the final period, the commissioner may treat the employer as if the employer had been exempt under section 62 from lodging periodic returns during all or part of the relevant period.
(5) If subsection (2) or (4) applies—
(6) For this section, the circumstances in which an employer was required under section 59 to lodge a periodic return during the relevant period include an assessment or reassessment mentioned in section 82(2) or (4) being made by the commissioner in relation to the period.

81A. Provision about levy assessments made by commissioner—employer who is required to lodge periodic returns
(1) Subsection (2) applies if an employer lodged, or was required under section 59 to lodge, a periodic return during all or part of a financial year (the relevant period).
(2) In making an annual levy liability assessment for the employer for the year, the commissioner may treat the employer as if the employer had been exempt under section 62 from lodging periodic returns during all or part of the relevant period.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if an employer lodged, or was required under section 59 to lodge, a periodic return during all or part of a final period (also the relevant period).
(4) In making a final levy liability assessment for the employer for the final period, the commissioner may treat the employer as if the employer had been exempt under section 62 from lodging periodic returns during all or part of the relevant period.
(5) If subsection (2) or (4) applies—
(6) For this section, the circumstances in which an employer was required under section 59 to lodge a periodic return during the relevant period include an assessment or reassessment mentioned in section 82A(2) or (5) being made by the commissioner in relation to the period.
(7) In this section—

82. Provision about payroll tax assessments made by commissioner—employer who is exempt from lodging periodic returns
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) In making an assessment or reassessment of the employer’s periodic liability for a periodic return period during the exemption period, and the employer’s annual liability for the year, the commissioner may treat the employer as if the employer had been required under section 59 to lodge a periodic return for each month during all or part of the exemption period.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if—
(4) In making an assessment or reassessment of the employer’s periodic liability for a periodic return period during the exemption period, and the employer’s final liability for the final period, the commissioner may treat the employer as if the employer had been required under section 59 to lodge a periodic return for each month during all or part of the exemption period.
(5) The commissioner may make an assessment or reassessment mentioned in subsection (2) or (4) only if—
(6) If the commissioner makes an assessment or reassessment mentioned in subsection (2) or (4)—
(7) For this section, the circumstances in which an employer was exempt under section 62 from lodging a periodic return during the exemption period include an assessment or reassessment mentioned in section 81(2) or (4) being made by the commissioner in relation to the period.

82A. Provision about levy assessments made by commissioner—employer who is exempt from lodging periodic returns
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) In making a relevant assessment for the employer for the exemption period, the commissioner may treat the employer as if the employer had been required under section 59 to lodge a periodic return for each month during all or part of the exemption period.
(3) For subsection (2), a relevant assessment is—
(4) Subsection (5) applies if—
(5) In making a relevant assessment, the commissioner may treat the employer as if the employer had been required under section 59 to lodge a periodic return for each month during all or part of the exemption period.
(6) For subsection (5), a relevant assessment is—
(7) The commissioner may make an assessment or reassessment mentioned in subsection (2) or (5) only if—
(8) If the commissioner makes an assessment or reassessment mentioned in subsection (2) or (5)—
(9) For this section, the circumstances in which an employer was exempt under section 62 from lodging a periodic return during the exemption period include an assessment or reassessment mentioned in section 81A(2) or (4) being made by the commissioner in relation to the period.

Part 6 Miscellaneous

Division 1 Refund provisions

83. Application of annual refund amount, annual levy refund amount, final refund amount or final levy refund amount
(1) This section applies if an employer is entitled to an annual refund amount, annual levy refund amount, final refund amount or final levy refund amount on an original assessment of the employer’s annual liability, annual levy liability, final liability or final levy liability.
(2) The commissioner may apply the amount wholly or partly as payment for—
(3) If the commissioner does not apply any part of the amount as payment for a liability mentioned in subsection (2) within the 60 day period mentioned in subsection (2)(c), the commissioner must refund immediately to the employer the amount not applied.
(4) However subsections (2) and (3) do not prevent the commissioner from holding the amount for any period, or applying the amount for any purpose, at the employer’s request or with the employer’s consent.
(5) This section applies despite the Administration Act, section 36.
(6) The Administration Act, section 39, applies to a refund of an amount to the employer, or an application of an amount as payment for an employer, under this section.
(7) For subsection (6), a reference to a taxpayer in the Administration Act, section 39, includes a reference to—

84. Provision for refunds under Administration Act to group members
(1) This section applies if a group member is entitled to a refund, under the Administration Act, section 37, of an amount paid by the group member under this Act or the Administration Act in relation to payroll tax or the mental health levy.
(2) The commissioner may apply all or part of the amount as payment for—
(3) Subsection (2) applies in addition to the Administration Act, section 38(2).
(4) If the commissioner applies any part of the amount held to a liability mentioned in subsection (2) within the 60 day period mentioned in subsection (2)(b)—
(5) This section has effect subject to the Administration Act, section 39.
(6) For subsection (5)—

85. Entitlement to a refund
(1) An employer is not entitled to a refund of an amount of payroll tax paid, or purportedly paid, by the employer other than under—
(2) An employer is not entitled to a refund of an amount of the mental health levy paid, or purportedly paid, by the employer other than under—

Division 2 Notification requirements

86 87. Notification requirement—employers exempt from lodging periodic returns
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Within 28 days of the last day of the third month mentioned in subsection (1)(b), the employer must give written notice to the commissioner stating that the event mentioned in the subsection has happened.

87A. Notification requirement—employers authorised to lodge periodic returns for periods other than a month
(1) This section applies if—
(2) For subsection (1)(b), a relevant wage change happens during a periodic return period for the employer if the employer’s current estimated wages is more than 30% more than the employer’s previous annual wages.
(3) Within 28 days after the last day of the periodic return period, the employer must give written notice to the commissioner stating that a relevant wage change has happened during the period for the employer.
(4) In this section—

88. Notification requirement—particular group members
(1) This section applies to an employer who is a non-DGE group member—
(2) The employer must, within 7 days after the last day, notify the DGE of the taxable wages and interstate wages that were paid or payable by the employer, as a member of the group, during—
(3) In this section—

88A. Notification requirements—annual information for groups
(1) This section provides for the giving of—
(2) On or before 7 July in the relevant financial year, an employer who was a non-DGE group member on 1 July of the relevant financial year must give the following information to the DGE for the group—
(3) On or before 28 July in the relevant financial year, the DGE for a group must give the following information to each employer who was a group member on 1 July in the relevant financial year—
(4) The information given under subsection (3) may be determined from the information received under subsection (2)(b).
(5) On or before 7 July in the following financial year, an employer who was a non-DGE group member at any time during the relevant financial year must give the following information to the DGE for the group—
(6) A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with subsection (2), (3) or (5).

88B. Notification requirements—final return information for non-DGE group member
(1) This section applies if a change of status happens for an employer (the affected employer) who is a non-DGE group member.
(2) Within 7 days after the end of the final periodic return period, the affected employer must give the following information to the DGE for the group—
(3) On or before the due day, an employer who is a non-DGE group member, other than the affected employer, must give the following information to the DGE for the group—
(4) A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with subsection (2) or (3).
(5) In this section—

88C. Notification requirements—final return information for DGE
(1) This section applies if a change of status happens for the DGE for a group.
(2) On or before the due day, each employer who is a non-DGE group member must give the following information to the DGE—
(3) A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with subsection (2).
(4) In this section—

88D. Notification requirements—employer joining a group
(1) This section applies if an employer becomes a group member and does not become the DGE for the group at the same time.
(2) Within 7 days after the day the employer joins the group, the employer must give the following information to the DGE—
(3) A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with subsection (2).
(4) In this section—

88E. Notification requirements—revised group wage information
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Within 7 days after the thing mentioned in subsection (1)(a) to (e) happens, the DGE must give the following information to each non-DGE group member—
(3) A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with subsection (2).
(4) It is sufficient compliance with a requirement under subsection (2)(a) or (b) to give an estimate of an amount if the DGE gives the estimate based on the latest information held by the DGE at the time the requirement arises.
(5) In this section—

89. Notification requirement—liquidators and other administrators
(1) This section applies to a person who—
(2) The person must, within 14 days of becoming the liquidator or being appointed as the administrator, give written notice to the commissioner stating the person has become the liquidator or been appointed as the administrator.
(3) The Administration Act, section 48, does not apply to the person.
(4) In this section—

Division 3 Other provisions

89A. Commissioner may give group information to incoming DGE
(1) This section applies if an employer becomes the DGE for a group.
(2) The commissioner may give the DGE any information relating to the group that was received from a previous DGE for the group under part 3, division 2 or part 6, division 2.

90. Commissioner may require payment of penalty
(1) This section applies if an employer—
(2) The commissioner may, by written notice given to the employer, require the employer to pay a penalty of an amount (the penalty amount) that is not more than the greater of the following amounts—
(3) The notice must state—
(4) The commissioner may enter into an arrangement for payment of the penalty amount by instalments.
(5) The arrangement may include provision for the payment of interest calculated at the rate for unpaid tax interest for the period starting on the start day and ending on the day the penalty amount is paid in full, both days inclusive.
(6) For this section—

91. Period for keeping particular records relating to fringe benefits tax
(1) This section applies to an employer who elects under a regulation to include in returns estimated value amounts for fringe benefits.
(2) The employer must keep a record of the fringe benefits paid or payable by the employer during the financial year in which the election is made.
(3) The person must keep the record until 5 years has elapsed after the earlier of the following—
(4) The Administration Act, section 118, does not apply to the keeping of the record.

92. Application of Act to trustees
(1) If an employer pays, or is liable to pay, wages as trustee of a trust—
(2) Subsection (1) does not exclude, limit or otherwise affect the operation of part 4 to the extent the part applies to—

93. Avoiding taxation
Any person who, by any wilful act, default or neglect, or by any fraud, art or contrivance whatever, avoids or attempts to avoid payroll tax or mental health levy imposed under this Act, shall be guilty of an offence.

94. Notice of change of address for service
(1) An employer who is registered as an employer under part 3, division 1 must give the commissioner written notice of a change of the employer’s address for service within 1 month after each change.
(2) In this section—

95. Cents to be disregarded for calculations
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The cents must be disregarded.

96. Approval of forms
The commissioner may approve forms for use under this Act.

97. Regulation-making power
(1) The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
(2) Regulations may be made with respect to—
(3) A regulation may impose a penalty of not more than 20 penalty units for a contravention of the regulation.

97A. Application of particular amendments
This Act, as amended by the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2022, part 8, division 3, subdivisions 1 and 2, applies in relation to taxable wages paid or payable from 1 January 2023 in the financial year starting on 1 July 2022 and each later financial year.

Part 7 Savings and transitional provisions for Payroll Tax Administration Amendment Act 2004

Division 1 Preliminary

98. Definitions for pt 7
In this part—

Division 2 Application of amended Act and Administration Act

99. Application of amended Act in relation to liabilities etc. arising on or after commencement
(1) The amended Act applies in relation to—
(2) Subsection (1) has effect subject to division 4.

100. Registration under s 54 of person required to register before commencement
(1) This section applies if a person was required to apply for registration as an employer under previous section 12 but did not do so before the commencement.
(2) The commissioner may register the person under section 54.
(3) If the commissioner registers the person under section 54, a reference in the previous provisions of this Act to an employer registered under section 12 is taken to include a reference to the person.

101. Application of amended ss 58–62 for previous return periods
(1) This section applies if an employer was required under previous section 13 or 14 to furnish a return for a previous return period but did not do so before the commencement.
(2) Amended sections 58 to 62 apply in relation to the employer for the previous return period.
(3) For subsection (2), the employer is taken to be a relevant employer for the return period.
(4) Previous sections 13 and 14 do not apply to the employer for the previous return period.
(5) However, subsection (4) does not affect the employer’s liability for contravening previous section 13 or 14 before the commencement.

102. Assessment under amended s 81 in relation to particular pre-commencement liabilities
(1) The commissioner may make an assessment under section 81(2) in relation to an employer’s liability for payroll tax for a financial year ending before the commencement.
(2) For subsection (1), a reference in section 81(5)(c) to a prescribed payroll tax liability of the employer is taken to be a reference to tax, within the meaning of previous section 3, payable by the employer.
(3) Section 81(5)(d) does not apply if the commissioner makes an assessment mentioned in subsection (1).
(4) This section applies subject to section 104.
(5) In this section—

103. Application of amended s 95 to calculations made under previous provisions
(1) Amended section 95 applies for a calculation made under the previous provisions of this Act.
(2) Previous section 3(3) does not apply for the calculation.

104. This Act as a revenue law for the Administration Act
(1) This section provides for how the Administration Act applies to this Act, in relation to particular liabilities, acts and omissions, as a revenue law under the Administration Act.
(2) The provisions of the Administration Act mentioned in subsection (3) do not apply in relation to—
(3) For subsection (2), the provisions of the Administration Act that do not apply are each of the following—
(4) To remove doubt, it is declared that the Administration Act applies in relation to an act or omission done or omitted to be done on or after the commencement, even if the act or omission relates to a liability mentioned in subsection (2).
(5) However, the Administration Act, sections 124, 125 and 132 do not apply in relation to an act or omission mentioned in subsection (4) if the act or omission relates to a liability mentioned in subsection (2).
(6) For applying the Administration Act, part 4, in relation to a liability, act or omission mentioned in subsection (2) or (4)—
(7) Subsection (4) applies subject to subsection (8).
(8) However, to the extent this Act applies to an act or omission mentioned in subsection (4), the application of the Administration Act, section 136 is subject to previous section 38.
(9) If, under this section, a provision of the Administration Act relating to a particular matter applies to this Act and this Act contains provision about the same matter, this Act does not apply to the matter.

105. Application of Administration Act, s 38
An amount relating to a post-commencement liability may be applied under the Administration Act, section 38, as payment for a pre-commencement liability or a liability for payroll tax for a transitional return period.

106. Second or subsequent offences
(1) For applying the Administration Act, section 138 to this Act, the reference in subsection (1)(b) of that section to a further offence is a reference to an offence committed on or after the commencement.
(2) If the Administration Act, section 138(1)(a), applies for an offence against a previous provision of this Act that is repealed by the amending Act, the reference in subsection (1)(b) of that section to a further offence against the provision includes a reference to an offence against a provision of the amended Act or the Administration Act that corresponds to the previous provision.

Division 3 Application of previous provisions

107. Application of previous provisions to particular liabilities etc.
(1) Despite their amendment or repeal by the amending Act, the previous provisions of this Act continue to apply in relation to—
(2) However, previous section 16L(5) does not apply.
(3) Also, subsection (1) has effect subject to sections 100, 101, 103 and 104(9).

Division 4 Provisions about periodic liability after commencement

108. Fixed periodic deduction for periodic return periods after commencement—existing determination
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The amount determined is, for part 2, division 3, the employer’s fixed periodic deduction for each periodic return period in the transitional year.
(3) However, if the commissioner determines the employer’s fixed periodic deduction under amended section 21 or 27 on or after the commencement during the transitional year, the amount determined under the section is the employer’s fixed periodic deduction.

109. Fixed periodic deduction for periodic return periods after commencement—existing nomination
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The amount nominated is, for part 2, division 3, the employer’s fixed periodic deduction for each periodic return period in the transitional year until the earlier of the following—
(3) Subsection (2) applies subject to section 110.

110. Application of fixed periodic deduction to particular non-group employers after commencement
(1) This section applies to an employer—
(2) For section 20, the employer can not be a previous interstate wage payer for a periodic return period unless the employer has paid, or been liable to pay, interstate wages on or after the commencement.

Division 5 Provisions for annual liability for transitional year

111. Purpose of div 5
This division provides for working out an employer’s annual liability for a transitional year.

112. Basic principles for working out employer’s annual liability
(1) This section applies if there was a prescribed period during the year for—
(2) For working out the employer’s annual liability for the transitional year—
(3) This section applies subject to sections 113, 114, 118 and 119.

113. Employer who was not a group member for a prescribed period during the transitional year
(1) This section applies if—
(2) If the commissioner makes an original assessment of the employer’s annual liability for the year, other than under the Administration Act, section 14(a), section 112(2) does not apply to the employer.
(3) If the original assessment of the employer’s annual liability for the year was made by the commissioner under the Administration Act, section 14(a), the commissioner must make a reassessment of the liability on the basis that section 112(2) does not apply to the employer.

114. Employer who is a DGE on 30 June in the transitional year
(1) This section applies if—
(2) For working out the employer’s annual liability for the transitional year—
(3) The employer’s annual return for the transitional year must state the wages that were paid or payable, as a member of the group, by an employer—
(4) Subsection (3) applies despite section 63(3)(b).

Division 6 Provisions for final liability for transitional final period

115. Purpose of div 6
This division provides for working out an employer’s final liability for a transitional final period.

116. When transitional final period starts
(1) A transitional final period starts on the latest of the following days in the transitional year—
(2) This section applies despite section 6(a).

117. Employer who is a DGE on the last day of a transitional final period
(1) This section applies if—
(2) For working out the employer’s final liability for the transitional final period—
(3) The employer’s final return for the transitional final period must state the wages that were paid or payable, as a member of the group, by an employer—
(4) Subsection (3) applies despite section 64(3)(b).

Division 7 Miscellaneous provisions

118. Commissioner assessment—employer who becomes a DGE in a transitional year before commencement
(1) This section applies in relation to an employer if—
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment of the employer’s final liability or annual liability, as applicable, to reduce the relevant deduction by the total amount of the deductions claimed during the year under previous section 16I by any earlier DGE for the group.
(3) Also, in making an original assessment of the employer’s final liability or annual liability, as applicable, the commissioner must reduce the relevant deduction by the total amount of the deductions claimed during the year under previous section 16I by any earlier DGE for the group.
(4) In this section—

119. Commissioner assessment—employer who ceases to be a DGE in a transitional year before commencement
(1) This section applies in relation to an employer who—
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment of the employer’s final liability or annual liability, as applicable, to reduce the relevant wages by the total amount of the deductions claimed by the employer under previous section 16I during the year.
(3) Also, in making an original assessment of the employer’s final liability or annual liability, as applicable, the commissioner must reduce the relevant wages by the total amount of the deductions claimed by the employer under previous section 16I during the year.
(4) In this section—

120. Delegations under previous s 4A
A delegation under previous section 4A in force immediately before the commencement continues in force.

121. Employers registered under previous s 12 immediately before commencement
An employer who is registered as an employer under previous section 12 immediately before the commencement is, on and from the commencement, taken to be registered under part 3, division 1.

122. Notices given by commissioner under previous s 13
(1) A notice given by the commissioner under previous section 13(2)(a) and in force immediately before the commencement is, on and from the commencement, taken to be a notice given under section 59(2).
(2) A notice given by the commissioner under previous section 13(2)(b) and in force immediately before the commencement is, on and from the commencement, taken to be a notice given under section 60(2).

123. Continuing effect of exemptions given by commissioner under previous s14
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The existing exemption is, on the commencement, taken to be a certificate exempting the employer from the requirement under section 59 to lodge periodic returns.
(3) To remove doubt, it is declared that the employer is required to lodge annual returns under section 63 even if the existing exemption states the employer is not required to lodge returns for each financial year.

124. Continuing use of particular forms
A form approved before the commencement relating to a provision of this Act repealed by the amending Act may continue to be used after the commencement to facilitate the operation of this part.

125. Application of ss 83 and 84
A refund to which section 83 or 84 applies may be applied under the section as payment for a liability mentioned in section 83(2) or 84(2), as applicable, even if the liability—

126. Application of s 88 notification requirement in relation to a transitional year
(1) This section applies to an employer who is a non-DGE group member—
(2) If subsection (1)(a) applies, the wages the employer must notify to the DGE under section 88(2) are the taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the employer, as a member of the group, during the transitional year.
(3) If subsection (1)(b) applies, the wages the employer must notify to the DGE under section 88(2) are the taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the employer, as a member of the group, at any time in the transitional year on or before the last day of the DGE’s transitional final period.
(4) Subsections (2) and (3) apply despite section 88(2)(a) and (b).

127. Application of s 89 to particular liquidators
(1) This section applies to a person who—
(2) Section 89 applies to the liquidator as if the time within which the person is required to give notice under section 89(2) were 14 days after the commencement.

128. Application of s 94 to particular employers
(1) This section applies to an employer—
(2) Section 94 applies to the employer as if the time within which the person is required to give notice under section 94 were 1 month after the commencement.

129. References in amended Act
For the application of this part, if the context permits, a reference in the amended Act—

130

Part 8 Transitional provisions for Payroll Tax (Harmonisation) Amendment Act 2008

131. Interpretation of amended provisions
(1) The amendments made to this Act by the Payroll Tax (Harmonisation) Amendment Act 2008 are intended to enhance the consistency of this Act with the Payroll Tax Act 2007 (NSW) and the Payroll Tax Act 2007 (Vic).
(2) However, this section does not apply to the extent—

132. Application of amended Act
This Act, as amended by the Payroll Tax (Harmonisation) Amendment Act 2008, applies in relation to wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2008.

133. Application of avoidance provision for employment agency contracts
Section 13L applies to employment agency contracts made before, on or after the commencement of this section.

134. Continuation of orders excluding person from group
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The order mentioned in paragraph (a) is taken to be an exclusion order made by the commissioner under section 74(1).

Part 9 Transitional provisions for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2010

Division 1 Interpretation

135. Definitions for pt 9
In this part—

Division 2 Application of amended Act and Administration Act

136. Application of amended Act
The amended Act applies, and is taken on and from 1 July 2009 to have applied, to wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2009.

137. Exemption of penalty under s 90
Section 90(2) does not apply in relation to a relevant employer’s liability for payroll tax under the amended Act for relevant wages.

138. Remission of unpaid tax interest and penalty tax under the Administration Act
The commissioner must remit the whole of any unpaid tax interest and penalty tax in relation to a relevant employer’s liability for payroll tax under the amended Act for relevant wages.

139. Exemption for offences
(1) This section applies if a relevant person does not comply with a requirement under this Act or the Administration Act in relation to relevant wages.
(2) The relevant person does not commit an offence against this Act or the Administration Act if—
(3) In this section—

140. Reassessment—final return included excluded wages
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The employer may lodge a written application for a reassessment.
(3) If the employer lodges an application under subsection (2), the commissioner must make a reassessment of the employer’s final liability disregarding the excluded wages for working out the liability.
(4) In this section—

Part 10 Transitional provisions for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2011

141. Assessment and payment of payroll tax for shares and options
(1) This section applies to an act or omission of an employer if—
(2) The act or omission is taken to have been valid.

142. Application of pt 2, div 1C for granting of particular shares or options
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Sections 13R and 13U, as in force on the commencement of this section, apply for the share or option.
(3) In this section—

Part 11 Transitional provision for Revenue Amendment and Trade and Investment Queensland Act 2013

143. Exemption under s 14A
Section 14A(4)(b), as amended by the Revenue Amendment and Trade and Investment Queensland Act 2013, is taken to have had effect on and from 16 April 2011.

Part 12 Transitional provision for Payroll Tax Rebate, Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2015

144. Application of s 13B
(1) Section 13B, as amended by the Payroll Tax Rebate, Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2015, applies in respect of work performed on or after the commencement, regardless of when amounts are paid or become payable for the performance of the work.
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that section 13B as in force immediately before the commencement continues to apply in respect of work performed before the commencement, regardless of when amounts are paid or become payable for the performance of the work.

Part 13 Transitional provision for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2018

145. Retrospective application of increased rebate under ss 27A, 35A and 43A
Sections 27A, 35A and 43A as amended by the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2018—

Part 14 Transitional provision for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2018

146. Retrospective operation of amended s 13Y
Section 13Y, as amended by the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2018, is taken to have had effect since 1 July 2016.

Part 15 Transitional provisions for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2022

Division 1 Extension of apprentice and trainee rebate

147. Retrospective application of particular provisions
(1) Sections 27A, 35A and 43A, as amended by the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2022, apply, and are taken to have applied from 1 July 2021, in relation to wages paid or payable in the financial year ending on 30 June 2022.
(2) Schedule, definition eligible year, as amended by the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2022, applies, and is taken to have applied from 1 July 2021, in relation to an assessment of a person’s annual liability or final liability relating to the financial year ending on 30 June 2022 for the purposes of part 2, division 6A.

Division 2 Provisions about changes to deductions for financial year ending 30 June 2023

Subdivision 1 Preliminary

148. Purpose of division
This division provides for transitional arrangements, for the financial year ending on 30 June 2023, in relation to the amendment of this Act by the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2022, part 8, division 3.

148A. Definitions for division
In this division—

Subdivision 2 Working out payroll tax for transitional financial year

148B. Working out fixed periodic deductions for transitional financial year
(1) This section applies for working out a fixed periodic deduction under section 17 or 23 for the transitional financial year.
(2) A calculation day under sections 18 and 24 is taken to include 1 January in that year.

148C. Working out annual deduction for transitional financial year—employer other than the DGE for a group
(1) This section applies to an employer—
(2) Despite section 29, definition annual deduction, the annual deduction for the employer for the transitional financial year is the greater of zero and the amount worked out by adding the deduction (first half) and deduction (second half) for the employer.
(3) For subsection (2), the employer’s deduction (first half) is the amount worked out using the following formula—
(3) where—
(4) Also, for subsection (2), the employer’s deduction (second half) is the amount worked out using the following formula—
(4) where—
(5) For subsections (3) and (4), the amount for X is to be worked out using the following formula—
(5) where—
(6) In this section—

148D. Working out annual deduction for transitional financial year—DGE for a group
(1) This section applies to an employer if on 30 June 2023 the employer is the DGE for a group.
(2) Despite section 33, definition annual deduction, the annual deduction for the DGE for the transitional financial year is the greater of zero and the amount worked out by adding the deduction (first half) and deduction (second half) for the DGE.
(3) For subsection (2), the DGE’s deduction (first half) is the amount worked out using the following formula—
(3) where—
(4) For subsection (2), the DGE’s deduction (second half) is the amount worked out using the following formula—
(4) where—
(5) For subsections (3) and (4), the amount for X is to be worked out using the following formula—
(5) where—
(6) In this section—

148E. Working out final deduction for transitional financial year—employer other than the DGE for a group
(1) This section applies to an employer if—
(2) Despite section 37, definition final deduction, the final deduction for the employer for the final period is the greater of zero and the amount worked out by adding the deduction (first half) and deduction (second half) for the employer.
(3) For subsection (2), the employer’s deduction (first half) is the amount worked out using the following formula—
(3) where—
(4) Also, for subsection (2), the employer’s deduction (second half) is the amount worked out using the following formula—
(4) where—
(5) For subsections (3) and (4), the amount for X is to be worked out using the following formula—
(5) where—
(6) In this section—

148F. Working out final deduction for transitional financial year—DGE for a group
(1) This section applies to an employer if—
(2) Despite section 41, definition final deduction, the final deduction for the DGE for the final period is the greater of zero and the amount worked out by adding the deduction (first half) and deduction (second half) for the DGE.
(3) For subsection (2), the DGE’s deduction (first half) is the amount worked out using the following formula—
(3) where—
(4) Also, for subsection (2), the DGE’s deduction (second half) is the amount worked out using the following formula—
(4) where—
(5) For subsections (3) and (4), the amount for X is to be worked out using the following formula—
(5) where—
(6) In this section—

Subdivision 3 Provisions for returns

148G. Additional information required for particular annual returns
(1) This section applies in relation to an annual return for the transitional financial year if a provision under subdivision 2, or the repealed Payroll Tax (Transitional) Regulation 2022, part 2, applies for working out the annual deduction for the taxable wages the subject of the annual return.
(2) In addition to the requirements under section 63(3), the return must also state—
(3) In this section—

148H. Additional information required for particular final returns
(1) This section applies in relation to a final return for the transitional financial year if a provision under subdivision 2, or the repealed Payroll Tax (Transitional) Regulation 2022, part 2, applies for working out the final deduction for taxable wages the subject of the final return.
(2) In addition to the requirements under section 64(3), the return must also state—
(3) In this section—

Part 16 Transitional provisions for Betting Tax and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2022

149. Imposition and calculation of mental health levy for 2022–23 financial year
(1) The mental health levy is not imposed on taxable wages paid or payable before 1 January 2023.
(2) A reference in part 2, division 5A to 5C to taxable wages or interstate wages paid or payable by a person for a financial year is, for the financial year ending 30 June 2023, taken to be a reference to taxable wages or interstate wages paid or payable by a person for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2023.
(3) For the application of part 2, division 5A to the financial year ending 30 June 2023, 1 January 2023 is taken to be a calculation day under section 43EB.
(4) For the application of part 2, division 5A to 5C to the financial year ending 30 June 2023—

150. Notification requirements for groups in January 2023
(1) An employer who is a non-DGE group member on 1 January 2023 must, on or before 9 January 2023, give the following information to the DGE for the group—
(2) An employer who is the DGE for a group on 9 January 2023 must, on or before 30 January 2023, give the following information to each employer who was a non-DGE group member on 1 January 2023—
(3) The information given under subsection (2) may be determined from the information received under subsection (1).
(4) A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with subsection (1) or (2).

151. Notification requirements under s 88A for 2022–23 financial year
Section 88A applies to the financial year ending 30 June 2023 as a relevant financial year as follows—

Schedule Dictionary
