library_id: 500000000
citation: Acts Interpretation Act 1954
type: primary_legislation
version_id: sha256:6b48cbe7a240957877fbe578ce74072ae4d09e47d57c18f507207662969a3123
jurisdiction: queensland
url: https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-1954-003
content_format: xml
source: sha256

Part 1 Preliminary

1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Acts Interpretation Act 1954.

2. Act applies to all Acts
This Act applies to all Acts (including this Act).

3. Act applies to statutory instruments

4. Displacement of Act by contrary intention
The application of this Act may be displaced, wholly or partly, by a contrary intention appearing in any Act.

5. Act binds Crown
This Act binds the Crown.

Part 2 Meaning of Act

6. References to Act
(1) In an Act—
(2) In an Act, a reference to ‘an Act’ includes the Act in which the reference is.

7. Act includes statutory instruments under Act etc.
(1) In an Act, a reference (either generally or specifically) to a law (including the Act), or a provision of a law (including the Act), includes a reference to the statutory instruments made or in force under the law or provision.
(2) In subsection (1)—

8. References to the Act in statutory instrument

Part 3 General provisions applying to Acts

9. Interpretation of Act in relation to Parliament’s legislative power
(1) An Act is to be interpreted as operating—
(1A) Without limiting subsection (1)(a), it is declared that subsection applies (and always applied) to the legislative power conferred on Parliament under the Coastal Waters (State Powers) Act 1980 (Cwlth), section 5 and the Coastal Waters (State Title) Act 1980 (Cwlth), section 4.
(1B) Subsection (1A) does not apply in relation to the substantive criminal law, and the law of criminal investigation, procedure and evidence, under the cooperative scheme as defined under the Crimes at Sea Act 2001, section 3.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), if a provision of an Act would, apart from this section, be interpreted as exceeding power—
(3) Without limiting subsection (1), if the application of a provision of an Act to a person, matter or circumstance would, apart from this section, be interpreted as exceeding power, the provision’s application to other persons, matters or circumstances is not affected.
(4) This section applies to an Act in addition to, and without limiting, any provision of the Act.

9A. Declaration of validity of certain laws
Each provision of an Act enacted, or purporting to have been enacted, before the commencement of the Australia Acts has (and always has had) the same effect as it would have had, and is (and always has been) as valid as it would have been, if the Australia Acts had been in operation at the time of its enactment or purported enactment.

10. Section has effect as substantive enactment
Every section of an Act has effect as a substantive enactment without introductory words.

11. Acts to be public Acts
Every Act passed after 26 July 1852 is a public Act unless the Act otherwise expressly provides.

12. Private Acts not to affect rights of others
(1) A private Act does not—
(1) except so far as the Act otherwise expressly provides.
(2) Subsection (1) does not affect rights conferred, or liabilities imposed, on—

12A. Private Acts amended by public Acts do not become public Acts
A private Act does not become a public Act merely because it has been amended by or under a public Act.

13. Future Acts when binding on the Crown
No Act passed after the commencement of this Act shall be binding on the Crown or derogate from any prerogative right of the Crown unless express words are included in the Act for that purpose.

13A. Acts not to affect native title except by express provision
(1) An Act enacted after the commencement of this section affects native title only so far as the Act expressly provides.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an Act affects native title if it extinguishes the native title rights and interests or it is otherwise wholly or partly inconsistent with their continued existence, enjoyment or exercise.

13B. Acts not to affect powers, rights or immunities of Legislative Assembly except by express provision
(1) An Act enacted after the commencement of this section affects the powers, rights or immunities of the Legislative Assembly or of its members or committees only so far as the Act expressly provides.
(2) For subsection (1), an Act affects the powers, rights or immunities mentioned in the subsection if it abolishes any of the powers, rights or immunities or is otherwise wholly or partly inconsistent with their continued existence, enjoyment or exercise.
(3) In this section—

14. Material that is, and is not, part of an Act
(1) A heading to a chapter, part, division or subdivision of an Act is part of the Act.
(2) A heading to a section, subsection or another provision of an Act is part of the Act if—
(3) An example in an Act of the operation of a provision of the Act is part of the Act.
(4) A note in an Act to the Act or to a provision of the Act, as opposed to a footnote, an editor’s note or an endnote mentioned in subsection (7), is part of the Act.
(5) A schedule or appendix of an Act is part of the Act.
(6) Punctuation in an Act is part of the Act.
(7) A footnote or editor’s note to an Act or to a provision of an Act, and an endnote to an Act, are not part of the Act.

14A. Interpretation best achieving Act’s purpose
(1) In the interpretation of a provision of an Act, the interpretation that will best achieve the purpose of the Act is to be preferred to any other interpretation.
(2) Subsection (1) does not create or extend criminal liability, but applies whether or not the Act’s purpose is expressly stated in the Act.
(3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that this section applies to an Act passed after 30 June 1991 despite any presumption or rule of interpretation.

14B. Use of extrinsic material in interpretation
(1) Subject to subsection (2), in the interpretation of a provision of an Act, consideration may be given to extrinsic material capable of assisting in the interpretation—
(2) In determining whether consideration should be given to extrinsic material, and in determining the weight to be given to extrinsic material, regard is to be had to—
(3) In this section—

14C. Changes of drafting practice not to affect meaning
If—
the ideas must not be taken to be different merely because different words are used.

14CA. Other changes that do not affect general law
(1) If—
(1) the absence of an express provision for the obligation in the corresponding provision does not limit or otherwise affect an obligation under the corresponding provision to comply with procedural fairness implied under the general law.
(2) If—
(2) the absence of an express provision for the matter in the corresponding provision does not limit or otherwise affect an obligation under the corresponding provision to perform the function reasonably or exercise the power reasonably implied under the general law.
(3) For this section, a provision of an Act (a former provision) is replaced by a corresponding provision if—
(4) In this section—

14D. Examples
If an Act includes an example of the operation of a provision—

Part 4 Reference to and citation of Acts

14E. References to Acts generally
An Act passed by Parliament, or any earlier legislature empowered to pass laws for Queensland, may be referred to by the word Act alone.

14F. References to particular Acts
(1) An Act may be cited—
(2) A Commonwealth Act may be cited—
(2) together with a reference to the Commonwealth.
(3) An Act of another State or a Territory may be cited—
(3) together with a reference to the State or Territory.
(4) A British Act may be cited—
(4) together with a reference to the United Kingdom or the term ‘UK’, ‘Imperial Act’ or ‘Imp’.

14G. References to enactments
(1) An enactment may be cited by reference to the provision of the Act in which it is contained.
(2) The reference is to be made according to an official copy of—
(3) In this section—

14H. References taken to be included in reference to law
(1) In an Act, a reference to a law (including the Act) includes a reference to the following—
(2) In an Act, a reference to a provision of a law (including the Act) includes a reference to the following—
(3) In this section—

14I. References to changed short titles and citations
(1) If the short title or citation of a law is amended, a reference in an Act to the short title or citation includes a reference to the short title or citation as amended.
(2) In this section—

14J. References to repealed or expired laws
(1) If an Act refers to another law as repealed or expired, the reference is to the other law as in force immediately before it was repealed or expired.
(2) In this section—

Part 5 Commencement of Acts

15. References to enactment etc. of Acts
In an Act, a reference to the enactment of an Act or the passing of an Act is a reference to the fact of the Act’s having received the royal assent.

15A. Commencement of Acts on date of assent
An Act commences on the date of assent except so far as the Act otherwise expressly provides.

15B. Time of commencement of Acts
If an Act or a provision of an Act commences on a day, it commences at the beginning of the day.

15C. Commencement of citation and commencement provisions on date of assent etc.
(1) The provisions of an Act providing for its citation and commencement commence on the date of assent by force of this subsection.
(2) A reference in an Act to the commencement of the Act, or another Act, (the Act concerned), is a reference to—
(3) Subsection (1) applies to an Act despite anything in the Act unless the Act expressly provides that it does not apply.
(4) A reference in this section to the provisions of an Act providing for its citation includes a reference to the Act’s long title.

15D. Commencement by proclamation etc.
(1) If an Act or provisions of an Act is or are expressed to commence on a day to be fixed by proclamation or other instrument—
(2) If the day or time fixed by a proclamation for the commencement of an Act or a provision of an Act happens before the day on which the proclamation is notified (the notification day)—

15DA. Automatic commencement of postponed law
(1) In this section—
(2) If a postponed law has not commenced within 1 year of the assent day, it automatically commences on the next day.
(3) However, within 1 year of the assent day, a regulation may extend the period before commencement under subsection (2) to not more than 2 years of the assent day.
(4) The regulation mentioned in subsection (3) may be made under—
(4) as if the Act mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) included a provision that had commenced and authorised the regulation to be made.
(5) This section—

15DB 15DC

15E. Commencement of paragraphs etc. in amending Act
If an Act amends another Act and the amendment is in the form of—
the amendment may be given a separate commencement.

16 17. Exercise of powers between enactment and commencement
(1) If a provision of an Act (the empowering provision) that does not commence on its enactment would, had it commenced—
(1) then—
(1) before the empowering provision commences.
(2) If—
(2) then—
(3) If an instrument, or a provision of an instrument, is made under subsection (1) that is necessary for the purpose of—
(3) the instrument or provision takes effect—
(4) If—
(4) the appointment, instrument or provision takes effect—
(5) Anything done under subsection (1) does not confer a right, or impose a liability, on a person before the relevant empowering provision commences.
(6) After the enactment of a provision mentioned in subsection (1)(b) but before the provision’s commencement, this section applies as if the references in subsections (1) and (4) to the commencement of the empowering provision were references to the commencement of the provision mentioned in subsection (1)(b) as amended by the empowering provision.

Part 6 Amendment and repeal of Acts

17A. Act may be amended or repealed in same parliamentary session
An Act may be amended or repealed in the session of Parliament in which it is passed.

18. Time of expiry of Act etc.
If an Act or a provision of an Act—
the Act or provision has effect until the end of the day.

19. Repealed and amended Acts not revived on repeal of repealing and amending Acts
(1) In this section—
(2) If an Act (the first Act) is repealed by another Act (the other Act), the first Act is not revived merely because the other Act is repealed.
(3) If an Act (the first Act) is amended by another Act (the other Act), the continuing operation of the amendments made by the other Act is not affected merely because the other Act is repealed and, in particular, the first Act is not revived in the form that it was in before the amendments took effect merely because of the repeal.
(4) This section is in addition to, and does not limit, sections 20 and 20A, or any provision of the law by which the repeal is made.

19A. Commencement not undone if omitted
If a provision of an Act provides for the commencement of a law and the law has commenced, the later omission of the provision does not affect the continuing operation of the law.

20. Saving of operation of repealed Act etc.
(1) In this section—
(2) The repeal or amendment of an Act does not—
(3) The investigation, proceeding or remedy may be started, continued or completed, and the right, privilege or liability may be enforced and the penalty imposed, as if the repeal or amendment had not happened.
(4) Without limiting subsections (2) and (3), the repeal or amendment of an Act does not affect—
(5) This section is in addition to, and does not limit, sections 19 and 20A, or any provision of the law by which the repeal or amendment is made.

20A. Repeal does not end saving, transitional or validating effect etc.
(1) In this section—
(2) If an Act—
(2) the declaratory or validating effect of the Act does not end merely because of the repeal of the Act.
(3) If an Act (the savings law) declares an Act (the declared law) to be a law to which this section applies—
(4) A declaration may be made for subsection (3) about an Act whether or not the Act is a law to which subsection (2) applies.
(5) A declaration made for subsection (3) about an Act does not imply that, in the absence of a declaration about it, another Act is not a law to which this section applies.
(6) This section is in addition to, and does not limit, sections 19 and 20, or any provision of the law by which the repeal is made.

20B. Continuance of appointments etc. made under amended provisions
(1) This section applies if—
(2) An appointment, delegation or other thing mentioned in subsection (1) that was in force immediately before the commencement of the amendment continues to have effect after the commencement as if it had been done under the amended provision.
(3) In this section—

20C. Creation of offences and changes in penalties
(1) In this section—
(2) If an Act makes an act or omission an offence, the act or omission is only an offence if committed after the Act commences.
(3) If an Act increases the maximum or minimum penalty, or the penalty, for an offence, the increase applies only to an offence committed after the Act commences.

21. Continuance of repealed provisions
If an Act repeals some or all of the provisions of an Act and enacts new provisions in substitution for the repealed provisions, the repealed provisions continue in force until the new provisions commence.

22. Act and amending Acts to be read as one
An Act and all Acts amending the Act are to be read as one.

22A. Insertion of provisions by amending Act
(1) If an Act amends a provision of a law by inserting a subsection that is to form part of a series of subsections, and does not specify the position in the provision where it is to be inserted, the subsection is to be inserted in the appropriate numerical or alphanumerical position.
(2) If an Act amends a provision of a law by inserting a paragraph that is to form part of a series of paragraphs, and does not specify the position in the provision where it is to be inserted, the paragraph is to be inserted in the appropriate alphabetical position.
(3) If an Act amends a provision of a law by inserting a subparagraph that is to form part of a series of subparagraphs, and does not specify the position in the provision where it is to be inserted, the subparagraph is to be inserted in the appropriate numerical or alphanumerical position.
(4) If an Act amends a provision of a law by inserting a sub-subparagraph that is to form part of a series of sub-subparagraphs, and does not specify the position in the provision where it is to be inserted, the sub-subparagraph is to be inserted in the appropriate alphabetical position.
(5) If an Act amends a provision of a law by inserting a definition that is to form part of a series of definitions, and does not specify the position in the provision where it is to be inserted, the definition is to be inserted in the appropriate alphabetical position, determined on a letter-by-letter basis.
(6) If an Act otherwise amends a provision of a law by inserting a provision that is to form part of a series of provisions, and does not specify the position in the first provision where it is to be inserted, the second provision is to be inserted in the appropriate numerical or alphanumerical position.
(7) If an Act amends a provision of a law by inserting an example, note or penalty, and does not specify the position in the provision where it is to be inserted, the example, note or penalty is to be inserted at the end of the provision.
(8) In determining the appropriate position in which a provision is to be inserted, regard may be had to current Queensland legislative drafting practice.

22B. Amendment to be made wherever possible in provision
If an Act amends a provision of a law—
the amendment is to be made wherever possible in the provision.

22C. Automatic repeal of amending Act
(1) An amending Act enacted after 30 June 1994 is automatically repealed at the beginning of the day after all of its provisions have commenced.
(2) A repeal under subsection (1) has effect for all purposes, including, for example, sections 19 to 20A.
(3) This section is in addition to, and does not limit the operation of, any other provision of this Act about repeals.
(4) In this section—

Part 7 Functions and powers conferred by Acts

23. Performance of statutory functions etc.
(1) If an Act confers a function or power on a person or body, the function may be performed, or the power may be exercised, as occasion requires.
(2) If an Act confers a function or power on a specified officer or the holder of a specified office, the function may be performed, or the power may be exercised, by the person for the time being occupying or acting in the office concerned.
(3) If an Act confers a function or power on a body (whether or not incorporated), the performance of the function, or the exercise of the power, is not affected merely because of vacancies in the membership of the body.

23A. Conferral of statutory power on another entity
(1) If a provision of an Act, whether expressly or by implication, confers a power (the first power) on an entity to authorise or require another entity to exercise a power (the second power), then, if the first power is exercised, the provision is taken to confer the second power on the other entity.
(2) In this section—

24 24AA. Power to make instrument or decision includes power to amend or repeal
If an Act authorises or requires the making of an instrument or decision—

24A. Appointments may be made by name or office
(1) If an Act authorises or requires a person or body—
(1) the person or body may make the appointment by—
(2) An appointment of a specified officer, or the holder of a specified office, is taken to be the appointment of the person for the time being occupying or acting in the office concerned.

24B. Acting appointments
(1) If an Act authorises a person or body to appoint a person to act in an office, the person or body may, in accordance with the Act, appoint—
(1) to act in the office.
(2) The appointment may be expressed to have effect only in the circumstances specified in the instrument of appointment.
(3) The appointer may—
(3A) If the appointer is a body, the appointment may be made or ended by a resolution of the body.
(4) The appointment, or the ending of the appointment under subsection (3)(b), must be in, or evidenced by, writing, signed by the appointer or, if the appointer is a body, by a person authorised by the body for the purpose.
(5) If the appointee is acting in the office because of a vacancy in the office—
(6) If the appointee is acting in the office otherwise than because of a vacancy in the office and the office becomes vacant, then, subject to subsection (2), the appointee may continue to act until—
(6) whichever happens first.
(6A) Subsection (6)(c) does not prevent a further appointment of the appointee to act for a period ending later than a year from the day of the vacancy.
(7) The appointment ends if the appointee resigns by writing signed and delivered to the appointer.
(7A) If the vacancy in the office in which a person is acting ends, the person’s appointment to act in the office because of the vacancy also ends.
(7B) If the holder of the office in which a person is acting resumes the office, the person’s appointment to act in the office because of the absence of the holder of the office ends.
(7C) Subsections (7A) and (7B) apply even if a contrary intention appears in the instrument of, or evidencing the, appointment to act.
(7D) A person’s substantive appointment to an office does not end merely because the person acts in another office.
(7E) To avoid any doubt, it is declared that subsections (7A) to (7D) do not change the law of Queensland.
(8) While the appointee is acting in the office—
(9) Anything done by or in relation to a person purporting to act in the office is not invalid merely because—
(10) If the Act authorises the appointer to appoint a person to act during a vacancy in the office, an appointment to act in the office may be made by the appointer whether or not an appointment has previously been made to the office.
(11) If—
(11) then—
(12) If—
(12) then—
(13) Writing purporting to be, or to contain, an appointment, or the ending of an appointment under subsection (3)(b), is evidence of the appointment or the ending of the appointment.
(14) A certificate signed by the appointer (or, if the appointer is a body, by a person authorised by the body for the purpose) stating anything in relation to an appointment is evidence of the thing.
(15) A document purporting to be a certificate mentioned in subsection (14) is taken to be the certificate, and to have been properly given, unless the contrary is established.

24C. Acting person nominated by Act etc.
(1) This section applies if an Act provides that a specified officer, or the holder of a specified office, (the nominated person) acts as another specified officer or in another specified office on a specified occasion.
(2) While the nominated person is acting as the other officer or in the other office—
(3) Anything done by or in relation to the nominated person while the nominated person is purporting to act as the other officer or in the other office is not invalid merely because the occasion for the nominated person to act had not happened or had ceased.

25. Powers of appointment imply certain incidental powers
(1) If an Act authorises or requires a person or body to appoint a person to an office—
(2) The power to remove or suspend a person under subsection (1)(b) may be exercised even if the Act under which the person was appointed provides that the holder of the office to which the person was appointed is to hold office for a specified period.
(3) The power to make an appointment under subsection (1)(b) may be exercised as occasion requires.
(4) An appointment under subsection (1)(b) may be expressed to have effect only in the circumstances specified in the instrument of appointment.

26. Appointment not affected by defect etc.
The appointment of a person to an office, to act in an office, to exercise a power or to do anything else is not invalid merely because of a defect or irregularity in relation to the appointment.

27. Power to hear and determine includes power to administer oath
A person or body authorised by law, or by consent of parties, to conduct a hearing for the purpose of the determination (by that or another person or body) of any matter has authority—

27A. Delegation of functions or powers
(1) If an Act authorises a person or body to delegate a function or power, the person or body may, in accordance with the Act and any other applicable law, delegate the function or power to—
(2) The delegation may be—
(3) The delegation, or a revocation of the delegation, must be in, or evidenced by, writing signed by the delegator or, if the delegator is a body, by a person authorised by the body for the purpose.
(3A) If the delegator is a body, the delegation may be made or revoked by a resolution of the body.
(3B) All conditions and preliminary steps required for the exercise of a delegation are presumed to have been satisfied and performed unless the contrary is established.
(3C) Laws apply to the delegate, and to other persons in relationship to the delegate, in the performance of the delegated function or in the exercise of a delegated power as if the delegate were the delegator.
(3D) Anything done by or in relation to the delegate in relation to the delegation is taken to have been done by or in relation to the delegator.
(4) A delegated function or power may be exercised only in accordance with any conditions to which the delegation is subject.
(5) The delegate may, in the performance of a delegated function or in the exercise of a delegated power, do anything that is incidental to the delegated function or power.
(6) A delegated function or power that purports to have been performed or exercised by the delegate is taken to have been properly performed or exercised by the delegate unless the contrary is proved.
(7) A delegated function or power that is properly performed or exercised by the delegate is taken to have been performed or exercised by the delegator.
(8) If, when performed or exercised by the delegator, a function or power is dependent on the delegator’s opinion, belief or state of mind, then, when performed or exercised by the delegate, the function or power is dependent on the delegate’s opinion, belief or state of mind.
(8A) If—
(8A) then—
(8B) If—
(8B) then—
(9) If a function or power is delegated to a specified officer or the holder of a specified office—
(10) A function or power that has been delegated may, despite the delegation, be performed or exercised by the delegator.
(10A) The delegation of a function or power does not relieve the delegator of the delegator’s obligation to ensure that the function or power is properly performed or exercised.
(11) Subject to subsection (12), this section applies to a subdelegation of a function or power in the same way as it applies to a delegation of a function or power.
(12) If an Act authorises the delegation of a function or power, the function or power may be subdelegated only if the Act expressly authorises the function or power to be subdelegated.
(13) Writing purporting to be, or to contain, a delegation, or the revocation of a delegation, is evidence of the delegation or revocation.
(14) A certificate signed by the delegator (or, if the delegator is a body, by a person authorised by the body for the purpose) stating anything in relation to a delegation is evidence of the thing.
(15) A document purporting to be a certificate mentioned in subsection (14) is taken to be the certificate, and to have been properly given, unless the contrary is established.
(15A) Authority to delegate a person’s or body’s powers includes authority to delegate doing an act or making a decision for performing a function of the person or body.
(16) In this section—

27B. Content of statement of reasons for decision
If an Act requires a tribunal, authority, body or person making a decision to give written reasons for the decision (whether the expression ‘reasons’, ‘grounds’ or another expression is used), the instrument giving the reasons must also—

28 28AA
28AB 28AC
28A 29. Legislative Assembly’s resolutions to be interpreted not to exceed authority
(1) A resolution of the Legislative Assembly, or a committee of the Legislative Assembly, made under an Act is to be interpreted as operating—
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), if part of a resolution would, apart from this section, be interpreted as exceeding authority—
(3) Without limiting subsection (1), if the application of part of a resolution to a person, matter or circumstance would, apart from this section, be interpreted as exceeding authority, the part’s application to other persons, matters or circumstances is not affected.
(4) This section applies to an Act in addition to, and without limiting, any provision of the Act.

29A 29B. Working out number of sitting days
In working out a particular number of sitting days of the Legislative Assembly, it does not matter whether the days are within the same or different Parliaments or within different sessions of Parliament.

30

Part 8 Terms and references in Acts

32. Defined terms—other parts of speech and grammatical forms
If an Act defines a word or expression, other parts of speech and grammatical forms of the word or expression have corresponding meanings.

32A. Definitions to be read in context
Definitions in or applicable to an Act apply except so far as the context or subject matter otherwise indicates or requires.

32AA. Definitions generally apply to entire Act
A definition in or applying to an Act applies to the entire Act.

32AB. Terms defined both in this Act and another Act
If—
then, for the purposes of the first Act—

32B. Gender
In an Act, words indicating a gender include each other gender.

32C. Number
In an Act—

32CA. Meaning of may and must etc.
(1) In an Act, the word may, or a similar word or expression, used in relation to a power indicates that the power may be exercised or not exercised, at discretion.
(2) In an Act, the word must, or a similar word or expression, used in relation to a power indicates that the power is required to be exercised.
(3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that this section applies to an Act passed after 1 January 1992 despite any presumption or rule of interpretation.

32CB. Words and expressions used in amending Acts
(1) Words and expressions used in an Act that amends another law have the same meanings as they have in the other law.
(2) Subsection (1) does not limit section 22 (Act and amending Acts to be read as one).

32CC. Words and expressions used in statutory instruments

32D. References to persons generally
(1) In an Act, a reference to a person generally includes a reference to a corporation as well as an individual.
(2) Subsection (1) is not displaced merely because there is an express reference to either an individual or a corporation elsewhere in the Act.

32DA. Meaning of de facto partner
(1) In an Act, a reference to a de facto partner is a reference to either 1 of 2 persons who are living together as a couple on a genuine domestic basis but who are not married to each other or related by family.
(2) In deciding whether 2 persons are living together as a couple on a genuine domestic basis, any of their circumstances may be taken into account, including, for example, any of the following circumstances—
(3) No particular finding in relation to any circumstance is to be regarded as necessary in deciding whether 2 persons are living together as a couple on a genuine domestic basis.
(4) Two persons are not to be regarded as living together as a couple on a genuine domestic basis only because they have a common residence.
(5) For subsection (1)—
(6) In an Act enacted before the commencement of this section, a reference to a spouse includes a reference to a de facto partner as defined in this section unless the Act expressly provides to the contrary.

32E. Production of records kept in computers etc.
If a person who keeps a record of information by way of a mechanical, electronic or other device is required by or under an Act—
then, unless the court, tribunal or person otherwise directs—

32F. References to commencement
(1) In an Act, a reference to commencement for an Act or a provision of an Act is a reference to the time the Act or provision comes into operation.
(2) In a provision of an Act, a reference to the commencement without indicating a particular Act or provision is a reference to the commencement of the provision in which the reference occurs.

33. References to Ministers
(1) In an Act—
(2) In a provision of an Act, a reference to the Minister without specifying a particular Minister by title is a reference to—
(3) If a provision of an Act refers to a Minister and specifies the Minister merely by reference to the fact that the Minister administers a specified Act or enactment, subsection (2) applies as if references in paragraphs (a) to (c) to the provision were references to the specified Act or enactment.
(4) If an Act defines the expression ‘Minister’ or ‘the Minister’ for the purposes of the Act or a provision of the Act in a way that does not specify a particular Minister by title, subsections (2) and (3) apply to the provision despite that definition of the expression.
(5) In an Act, a reference to a specified Minister who no longer exists—

33AA. References to departments
(1) In an Act, a reference to a department is a reference to an entity that is a department of government under the Public Sector Act 2022.
(2) In a provision of an Act, a reference to the department without specifying a particular department of government by name is a reference to—
(3) In an Act, a reference to a specified department of government that no longer exists is a reference to the department specified by notification by the Governor in Council.
(4) If a provision of an Act refers to a department of government and specifies the department by reference to the administration (however described) of a specified Act or enactment, subsection (2) applies as if references in paragraphs (a) and (b) to the provision were references to the specified Act or enactment.

33AB. References to chief executives
(1) In an Act, a reference to a chief executive is a reference to a chief executive of a public sector unit.
(2) In a provision of an Act, a reference to the chief executive without specifying a particular public sector unit by name is a reference to the chief executive of—
(3) If a provision of an Act refers to a chief executive by reference to the administration (however described) of a specified Act or enactment, subsection (2) applies as if references in paragraph (a) or (b) to the provision were references to the specified Act or enactment.

33AC. Provisions administered by 2 or more Ministers
To remove any doubt, it is declared that if—
the provision does not authorise or require it to be done in a particular case by or in relation to more than 1 of the Ministers.

33A. References to States include Territories
(1) In an Act, a reference to a State (other than a reference to Queensland or a particular State by name) includes a reference to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory.
(2) Subsection (1) is not displaced merely because there is an express reference to a Territory elsewhere in the Act.
(3) This section applies to an Act (other than this Act) enacted before 1 July 1994 only if the Act includes a definition to the effect that a reference to a State includes a reference to a Territory.

34. References to officers and holders of offices
In an Act, a reference to a particular officer, or to the holder of a particular office, includes a reference to the person for the time being occupying or acting in the office concerned.

34A. Chair titles
(1) If an Act establishes an office with a chair title (the statutory title), a person holding the office may choose to be referred to by the statutory title or another chair title (the alternative title).
(2) For performing functions and exercising powers, it is irrelevant that the person holding the office uses the alternative title.
(3) In this section—

34B. Deputy chair titles
(1) If an Act establishes an office with a deputy chair title (the statutory title), a person holding the office may choose to be referred to by the statutory title or another deputy chair title (the alternative title).
(2) For performing functions and exercising powers, it is irrelevant that the person holding the office uses the alternative title.
(3) In this section—

35. References to Queensland to be implied
(1) In an Act—
(2) In an Act, a reference to an office or entity established by or under an Act need not include the words ‘Queensland’ or ‘of Queensland’ merely because the words form part of its name or title.

35A. References to person with interest in land includes personal representative etc.
In an Act, a reference to a person as proprietor, transferor, transferee, mortgagor, mortgagee, lessor, lessee, trustee or as having an interest in land includes a reference to the person’s personal representatives, successors and assigns.

35B. References to provisions designated by number without mentioning another Act
(1) In this section—
(2) This section explains the meaning of a reference in an Act (the Act concerned) to a provision, designated by a number, that does not mention another Act.
(3) If a reference in an Act to a provision also mentions the Act or a larger provision unit of the Act, the reference itself indicates the provision of the Act to which it refers.
(4) For subsection (3), a reference in a schedule or appendix of an Act to a provision, designated by a number, together with the words ‘of the Act’ is a reference to the provision, designated by the number, of the body of the Act concerned.
(5) If—
(5) the reference is a reference to the provision, designated by the number, of the body of the Act or, if there are 2 such provisions, the provision, designated by the number, of the next larger, appropriate provision unit where the reference occurs.
(6) If—
(6) the reference is a reference to the provision, designated by the number, of the body of the Act.
(7) If—
(7) the reference is a reference to the provision designated by the number, of the schedule, appendix or preamble or, if there are 2 such provisions, the provision, designated by the number, of the next larger, appropriate provision unit where the reference occurs.

35BA 35BB

35C. Headings part of provision etc.
(1) The heading to a chapter, part, division, subdivision, section, subsection, schedule or another provision of an Act forms part of the provision to which it is a heading.
(2) An example of the operation of a provision of an Act at the end of the provision is part of the provision unless the example relates to a different provision.
(3) A note to a provision of an Act at the end of the provision is part of the provision unless the note relates to a different provision.
(4) A penalty at the end of a subsection of an Act—
(5) A penalty at the end of a section of an Act that is not divided into subsections is part of the section.
(6) The word ‘and’, ‘or’ or ‘but’, or a similar word, at the end of a paragraph, subparagraph, sub-subparagraph or another provision of an Act forms part of the provision concerned.
(7) The word ‘and’, ‘or’ or ‘but’, or a similar word, between paragraphs, subparagraphs, sub-subparagraphs or other provisions of an Act forms part of the first of the provisions.
(8) A provision reference associated with a heading to a schedule is part of the heading.

35CA. References to items at the end of a provision
In an Act, a penalty, example or note (end item) is taken to be at the end of a provision even if there is another end item also at the end of the provision.

35D. Reference to provisions of a law is inclusive
In an Act, a reference to a part of a law (including the Act) is a reference to the following—

35E. Instrument made under the Act
In an Act, a reference to a type of statutory instrument is a reference to an instrument of that type made or in force under the Act in which the reference is used.

36. Meaning of commonly used words and expressions
(1) In an Act, a term defined in schedule 1 has the meaning stated in that schedule.
(2) In an Act, a reference to schedule 1 of this Act includes, if the context permits, a reference to this section.

Part 9 Distance, time and age

37. Measurement of distance
(1) In applying a pre-2023 provision, distance is to be measured along the shortest road ordinarily used for travelling unless there is a contrary intention that distance is to be measured in a straight line on a horizontal plane or in another way.
(2) In applying a post-2023 provision, distance is to be measured in a straight line on a horizontal plane.
(3) In this section—

38. Reckoning of time
(1) If a period beginning on a given day, act or event is provided or allowed for a purpose by an Act, the period is to be calculated by excluding the day, or the day of the act or event, and—
(2) If the time, or last day of a period, calculated forwards that is provided or allowed by an Act for doing anything falls on an excluded day, the time, or last day, is taken to fall on the next day later that is not an excluded day.
(3) If the time, or earliest day of a period, calculated backwards that is provided or allowed by an Act for doing anything falls on an excluded day, the time, or earliest day, is taken to fall on the next day earlier that is not an excluded day.
(4) If no time is provided or allowed for doing anything, the thing is to be done as soon as possible, and as often as the relevant occasion happens.
(5) In this section—

38A. Age
For the purposes of an Act, a person is an age in years at the beginning of the person’s birthday for the age.

Part 10 Service of documents

39. Service of documents
(1) If an Act requires or permits a document to be served on a person, the document may be served—
(2) Subsection (1) applies whether the expression ‘deliver’, ‘give’, ‘notify’, ‘send’ or ‘serve’ or another expression is used.
(3) Nothing in subsection (1)—

39A. Meaning of service by post etc.
(1) If an Act requires or permits a document to be served by post, service—
(2) If an Act requires or permits a document to be served by a particular postal method, the requirement or permission is taken to be satisfied if the document is posted by that method or, if that method is not available, by the equivalent, or nearest equivalent, method provided for the time being by Australia Post.
(3) Subsections (1) and (2) apply whether the expression ‘deliver’, ‘give’, ‘notify’, ‘send’ or ‘serve’ or another expression is used.

40

Part 11 Offences and criminal proceedings

41. Penalty at end of provision
In an Act, a penalty specified at the end of—
indicates that an offence mentioned in the section, subsection or part is punishable on conviction (whether or not a conviction is recorded) or, if no offence is mentioned, a contravention of the section, subsection or part constitutes an offence against the provision that is punishable on conviction (whether or not a conviction is recorded)—

41A. Penalty other than at end of provision
(1) In an Act, a penalty specified for an offence, or a contravention of a provision, indicates that the offence is punishable on conviction (whether or not a conviction is recorded), or the contravention constitutes an offence against the provision that is punishable on conviction (whether or not a conviction is recorded)—
(2) This section does not apply to a penalty to which section 41 applies.

42. Any person may prosecute etc.
Any person may take a proceeding for the imposition or enforcement of a penalty, or the making of a forfeiture order, under an Act.

43. Appropriation of penalties
(1) The following rules apply to an amount recovered because of the imposition of a penalty or the making of a forfeiture order—
(2) The court that imposes the penalty, or makes the forfeiture order, may order that not more than half of the amount recovered be paid to the party prosecuting.
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the party prosecuting is prosecuting as an officer or employee of the State or an officer of the public service.

44. Summary proceedings
(1) In an Act, a provision of the type mentioned in subsection (2) means that a proceeding for an offence, or a specified offence, against the Act is a summary proceeding under the Justices Act 1886.
(2) Subsection (1) applies to provisions of the following type—
(3) In an Act, a provision that provides that another type of proceeding is to be heard and decided summarily, or before justices or a magistrate, means that the proceeding is a summary proceeding under the Justices Act 1886.
(4) A provision providing for the imposition of a penalty or the making of a forfeiture order, without providing how the penalty is to be recovered or the order made, is taken to mean that the penalty may be recovered, or the order made, under the Justices Act 1886.

45. Offence punishable only once
(1) If an act or omission is an offence under each of 2 or more laws, the offender may be prosecuted and punished under any of the laws, but the offender may not be punished more than once for the same offence.
(2) Subsection (1) applies to a law unless an Act otherwise expressly provides.
(3) In this section—

46. Bodies corporate
A provision of an Act relating to offences punishable on indictment or summary conviction applies to bodies corporate as well as individuals.

Part 12 Application of particular State laws to coastal waters

47. Definitions for pt 12
In this part—

47A. Application of laws of the State to coastal waters
The laws of the State apply in and in relation to—
as if the coastal waters of the State, as extending from time to time, were within the limits of the State.

47B. Laws with specific application not to apply
(1) Nothing in this part makes a provision of the laws of the State applicable in or in relation to a particular place—
(2) A provision of the laws of the State is not to be taken to be a provision to which subsection (1) applies merely because it is limited in its application to acts, matters and things within Queensland waters, coastal waters or the adjacent area, however described, of the State.

47C. Extent of jurisdiction in relation to coastal waters
(1) A person who has a function or power conferred on the person under a law for the purposes of or in connection with a provision of the laws of the State has and may perform the function for the purposes of or in connection with that provision, as applying because of this part, as if the coastal waters of the State, as extending from time to time, were within the limits of the State.
(2) All courts of the State are invested with jurisdiction in all matters arising under the provisions of the laws of the State, as applying because of this part, as if the coastal waters of the State, as extending from time to time, were within the limits of the State.

47D. Constitutional basis
In addition to any other power under which the provisions of this part may be enacted, the provisions of this part are enacted under the legislative power of Parliament as extended by the Coastal Waters (State Powers) Act 1980 (Cwlth), section 5 and the Coastal Waters (State Title) Act 1980 (Cwlth), section 4.

47E. Saving
Nothing in this part limits any law, other than this part, that provides for the application of the laws of the State, or any part of those laws, beyond the limits of the State.

47F 47G

Part 12A Forms

48. Forms—notification and availability
(1) This section applies if under an Act (the authorising law) forms are to be approved or made available by an entity.
(2) A form under the authorising law must have a heading stating the name of the authorising law and briefly indicating the form’s purpose.
(3) All forms under the authorising law must be numbered using a system that gives each form a unique number.
(4) All versions of a form under the authorising law must be numbered consecutively using a system that gives each version of the form a unique number.
(5) The approval or availability under the authorising law of a form, or a new version of a form, must be notified in the gazette or on a relevant website.
(6) Subsection (5) may be complied with by—
(7) On the day the approval or availability of the form is notified or as soon as practicable after the day, copies of the form must be available (for purchase or free of charge) at the place, or each of the places, stated in the notice.
(8) Failure to comply with this section does not affect a form’s validity.
(9) In this section—

48A. Compliance with forms
(1) If a form is prescribed or approved under an Act, strict compliance with the form is not necessary and substantial compliance is sufficient.
(2) If a form prescribed or approved under an Act requires—
(2) the form is not properly completed unless the requirement is complied with.
(3) If—
(3) then, if separate forms 1 and 2 are prescribed or approved, a combined form 1 and 2 may be prescribed or approved and used for the purpose or all the purposes.
(4) If a form may be prescribed or approved under an Act for a purpose or 2 or more purposes, the form may only require information or documents to be included in, attached to or given with the form that are reasonably necessary for the purpose or 1 or more of the purposes.

Part 12B Fee units

48B. Value of fee unit
(1) A regulation may prescribe a monetary amount to be the value of a fee unit.
(2) The amount prescribed may include a fraction of a cent.
(3) Without limiting the Statutory Instruments Act 1992, section 25, a regulation may prescribe different amounts for different Acts.
(4) The value of a fee unit for an Act is—

48C. Working out amounts
(1) An Act may express a fee or other matter as a number (whether whole or fractional) of fee units.
(2) The Act may also provide for how an amount is to be rounded for the purpose of subsection (3).
(3) The amount of the fee or other matter is the number of dollars obtained by—

Part 13 Miscellaneous

49. Verification of documents
If an Act requires that, for a purpose of the Act or another law, a document, or information or a document included in, attached to or given with a document, be verified in a specified way, the purpose is not fulfilled unless the requirement is satisfied.

49A. Jurisdiction of courts and tribunals
If a provision of an Act, whether expressly or by implication, authorises a proceeding to be instituted in a particular court or tribunal in relation to a matter, the provision is taken to confer jurisdiction in the matter on the court or tribunal.

50. Making or amendment of subordinate legislation by an Act
(1) The making or amendment of subordinate legislation by an Act does not affect—
(2) In this section—

51. Judges of Supreme Court

51A. References to Acts Shortening Act 1867
In an Act or document, a reference to the Acts Shortening Act or Acts Shortening Act 1867 may, if the context permits, be taken to be a reference to this Act.

52. References to the Crown etc.
In every Act—

52A. Evidentiary provision
(1) A certificate purporting to be signed by or for an approving entity and stating any of the following matters is evidence of the matter—
(2) An approving entity may, in writing, authorise a person to issue certificates under subsection (1) for the entity.
(3) In this section—

52B. Regulation-making power
The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.

Part 14 Transitional provisions

Division 1 Transitional provision for Parliamentary Service and Other Acts Amendment Act 2011

53. Transitional—extrinsic material—speech in Legislative Assembly
(1) This section applies in relation to a Bill introduced in the Legislative Assembly before the commencement of this section.
(2) A reference in section 14B(3), definition extrinsic material, paragraph (f) to a speech made to the Legislative Assembly by the member when introducing the Bill is taken to be a reference to a speech made to the Legislative Assembly by the member in moving a motion that the Bill be read a second time.

Division 2 Transitional provisions for Treasury and Trade and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2013

54. Definitions for div 2
In this division—

55. References to s 36, 48A or 49
(1) This section applies to references made before the commencement in an instrument.
(2) If the context permits, from the commencement—

56. References to gazetted
In an instrument, a reference to gazetted in relation to subordinate legislation is taken to be a reference to—

57. References to notified in the gazette
In an instrument, a reference to notified in the gazette in relation to subordinate legislation is taken to be a reference to—

Division 3 Transitional provision for Court and Civil Legislation Amendment Act 2017

58. Form approved or made available, but not notified in gazette, before commencement
(1) This section applies if before the commencement—
(2) On or after the day of commencement, the entity may notify the approval or availability of the form under amended section 48.
(3) In this section—

Schedule 1 Meaning of commonly used words and expressions
