library_id: 500000003
citation: First Home Owner Grant and Other Home Owner Grants Act 2000
type: primary_legislation
version_id: sha256:454ca7f86635100617447c5ebb9fa8783675545c56be1f0a9879eac9a528b0be
jurisdiction: queensland
url: https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-2000-014
content_format: xml
source: sha256

Part 1 Preliminary

1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the First Home Owner Grant and Other Home Owner Grants Act 2000.

2. Commencement
This Act commences on 1 July 2000.

Part 2 Interpretation

Division 1 General

3. Definitions
The dictionary in the schedule defines particular words used in this Act.

Division 2 Basic concepts for first home owner grants

3A. Application of division
This division applies in relation to first home owner grants.

4. Meaning of eligibility criteria
The eligibility criteria are the criteria, under part 3, division 2, for deciding whether an applicant for a first home owner grant is eligible for the grant.

5. Meaning of eligible transaction
(1) An eligible transaction is—
(2) Also, each of the following is an eligible transaction—
(3) For subsections (1)(a) and (2)(a), a contract is a contract for the purchase of a new home or other home if the contract is a contract for the acquisition of a relevant interest in land—
(4) However, a contract is not an eligible transaction if the commissioner is satisfied it forms part of a scheme to circumvent limitations on, or requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement to a first home owner grant.
(5) Unless satisfied to the contrary, the commissioner must presume the existence of a scheme mentioned in subsection (4) if—
(6) Also, a transaction is not an eligible transaction if the consideration for the transaction is $750,000 or more.
(7) Also, a contract mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (2)(a) is not an eligible transaction if the total of the following—
(7) is $750,000 or more.
(8) Also, a contract mentioned in subsection (1)(b) or (2)(b) to have a new home or other home built on land is not an eligible transaction if the total of the following—
(8) is $750,000 or more.
(9) Also, a transaction mentioned in subsection (1)(c) or (2)(c) is not an eligible transaction if the total of the following—
(9) is $750,000 or more.

6. Meaning of home and new home
(1) A home is a building, fixed to land, that—
(2) A new home is a home that—
(3) For subsection (2)(b), a home is a substantially renovated home if—

7. Meaning of home owner or owner of a home
A person is a home owner or owner of a home if the person has a relevant interest in the land on which the home is built.

8. Meaning of relevant interest
(1) A relevant interest in land is—
(2) However—
(3) A regulation under subsection (1)(i) may declare an interest to be a relevant interest in land even though the interest may not be recognised at law or in equity as an interest in land.
(4) If a person holds an interest in land on trust as guardian for a person under a legal disability and the interest would be a relevant interest if it were not for subsection (2)(b)—

8A. Meaning of unencumbered value
(1) The unencumbered value of property is the value of the property determined without regard to—
(2) Also, the unencumbered value of property held by a person on trust as guardian for another person who is under a legal disability must be determined without regard to the liabilities of the trust, including the liability to indemnify the trustee.
(3) In this section—

9. Meaning of spouse
(1) Subject to subsections (2) to (6), a spouse is a person who is—
(2) A person is a de facto partner of another person only if they are living together as a couple on a genuine domestic basis within the meaning of the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 32DA, and, for at least 2 years, have so lived together as a couple.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if the commissioner is satisfied, when deciding an application for a first home owner grant, that—
(4) The person to whom the applicant is married, or with whom the applicant is in a civil partnership, must not be regarded as the applicant’s spouse.
(5) Subsection (6) applies if the commissioner is satisfied, when deciding an application for a first home owner grant, an applicant for the grant—
(6) The person must be regarded as the applicant’s spouse.
(7) This section applies despite the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 32DA(6).

Part 3 First home owner grants

Division 1A Preliminary

9A. Application of part
This part applies in relation to first home owner grants.

Division 1 Entitlement to grant

10. When grant is payable
(1) A first home owner grant is payable on an application under this Act if—
(2) Despite subsection (1)(a), an applicant need not comply with the eligibility criteria to the extent the applicant is exempted from compliance under this Act.
(3) Only 1 first home owner grant is payable for the same eligible transaction.

Division 2 Eligibility criteria—applicants

11. Criterion 1—Applicant to be a natural person and at least 18 years of age
(1) An applicant for a first home owner grant must be—
(2) The commissioner may exempt an applicant from the requirement in subsection (1)(b) if the commissioner is satisfied—

12. Criterion 2—Applicant to be Australian citizen or permanent resident
(1) Subject to subsection (2), an applicant for a first home owner grant must be an Australian citizen or a permanent resident.
(2) If an application is made by joint applicants and 1 of the applicants is an Australian citizen or a permanent resident, it is not necessary for the other or others to be Australian citizens or permanent residents.

13. Criterion 3—Applicant or applicant’s spouse must not have received an earlier grant
(1) An applicant is ineligible if—
(2) However, an applicant is not ineligible if—

14. Criterion 4—Applicant or applicant’s spouse must not have had relevant interest in residential property
(1) An applicant is ineligible if the applicant or applicant’s spouse has, before 1 July 2000, held—
(2) However, the applicant is not ineligible if—
(3) For subsection (1), in deciding whether an applicant held a relevant interest, under this Act or a corresponding law, in residential property at a particular time, any deferment of the applicant’s right of occupation, because the property was subject to a lease, must be disregarded.
(4) An applicant is ineligible if the applicant or the applicant’s spouse has, on or after 1 July 2000 and before the date on which the application is made, held an interest in property (other than the property to which the application relates) used at any time on or after 1 July 2000 as the residence of the applicant or the applicant’s spouse, being—
(5) However, for subsection (4), the applicant or the applicant’s spouse is taken not to have used the property as the residence of the applicant or the applicant’s spouse if—

15. Criterion 5—Residence requirements
(1) An applicant for a first home owner grant must occupy the home to which the application relates as the applicant’s principal place of residence for a continuous period of at least 6 months.
(2) However, if the commissioner is satisfied there are good reasons to do so, the commissioner may—
(3) The period of occupation required under subsection (1), or the shorter period approved under subsection (2)(a), must start within 1 year after completion of the eligible transaction or a longer period approved by the commissioner.
(4) The commissioner may exempt an applicant from the residence requirement under subsection (3) if—
(5) The commissioner may give an approval or exemption under subsection (2), (3) or (4) at any time, even if the period to which the approval or exemption relates has ended.

Division 3 Application for grant

16. Application for grant
(1) An application for a first home owner grant must be made to the commissioner or an agent of the commissioner.
(2) The application must be—
(3) The application may only be made within a period (the application period)—
(4) However, the commissioner may allow an application to be made before or after the application period.

17. All interested persons to join in application
(1) All interested persons must be applicants.
(2) For subsection (1), an interested person is a person who is, or will be, on completion of the eligible transaction to which the application relates, an owner of the relevant home, other than a person prescribed under a regulation.

18. Application on behalf of person under legal disability
(1) An application may be made on behalf of a person under a legal disability by a guardian.
(2) For deciding eligibility, the person under the legal disability must be regarded as the applicant.

Division 4 Decision on application

19. Commissioner to decide applications
(1) If the commissioner is satisfied a first home owner grant is payable on an application, the commissioner must authorise the payment of the grant.
(2) The commissioner may authorise the payment of the grant before the completion of the eligible transaction if the commissioner is satisfied it is appropriate in particular circumstances.

20. Amount of grant
(1) The amount of a first home owner grant is the lesser of the following—
(2) In this section—

21. Payment of grant
(1) A first home owner grant must be paid by electronic funds transfer, cheque or in any other way the commissioner considers appropriate.
(2) A first home owner grant must be paid to—
(3) If the applicant requests, the commissioner may apply the amount of a first home owner grant, or part of the amount, towards a liability for State taxes, fees or charges.

22. Payment in anticipation of compliance with residence requirements
(1) The commissioner may authorise payment of a first home owner grant in anticipation of compliance with the residence requirements if the commissioner is satisfied each applicant intends to comply with the residence requirements.
(2) If a first home owner grant is paid in anticipation of compliance with the residence requirements, the payment is made on condition that, if the residence requirements are not complied with, the applicants must within 14 days after the relevant date—
(3) For subsection (2), the relevant date is the earlier of the following—
(4) For a joint application, each applicant is individually liable to comply with the requirements under subsection (2)(a) and (b) but compliance by any 1 or more of them must be regarded as compliance by both or all.
(5) A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with a condition mentioned in subsection (2).

22A. Repayment of grant after completion of particular transactions
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The applicant for the grant must within 28 days after completion of the transaction—
(3) For a joint application, each applicant is individually liable to comply with the requirements under subsection (2)(a) and (b), but compliance by any one or more of them must be regarded as compliance by both or all.
(4) In this section—

23. Conditions generally
(1) The commissioner may authorise the payment of a first home owner grant on the reasonable conditions the commissioner considers appropriate.
(2) A condition imposed by the commissioner, under this section or another provision of this Act, may require a person on whose application the first home owner grant is paid—
(3) For a joint application, each applicant is individually liable to comply with a requirement under subsection (2) but compliance by any 1 or more of them must be regarded as compliance by both or all.
(4) A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with a condition imposed by the commissioner, under this section or another provision of this Act.

24. Death of applicant
(1) An application for a first home owner grant does not lapse because an applicant dies before the application is decided.
(2) If an applicant dies before the application is decided, the following provisions apply—
(3) Subsection (4) applies if—
(4) The deceased applicant is taken to have complied with criterion 5.

25. Notice of decision
(1) If the commissioner decides an application, or decides to vary or reverse an earlier decision on an application, the commissioner must give the applicant written notice of the decision.
(2) If the decision authorises the payment of a first home owner grant without conditions, payment of the grant is sufficient notice of the decision.
(3) If the decision is to refuse an application, or to vary or reverse an earlier decision on an application, the notice must state the following—

Division 5 Special and regional eligible transactions

25AA. Definitions for div 5
In this division—

25A. Meaning of new home for div 5

25B. Meaning of special eligible transaction for div 5
(1) A special eligible transaction is an eligible transaction the commencement date for which is between 14 October 2008 and 31 December 2009, both dates inclusive, that is—
(2) However, an eligible transaction mentioned in subsection (1)(a) that is a contract to purchase a new home on a proposed lot on an unregistered plan of subdivision of land is a special eligible transaction only if the contract states the building work must be completed before the prescribed completion date or, if the contract does not state a completion date for the building work, it is completed before the prescribed completion date.
(3) Also, an eligible transaction that is a contract is not a special eligible transaction if the commissioner is satisfied the contract forms part of a scheme to circumvent limitations on, or requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement to a first home owner grant for a special eligible transaction.
(4) Unless satisfied to the contrary, the commissioner must presume the existence of a scheme mentioned in subsection (3) if the contract replaces a contract made before 14 October 2008 that is—
(5) For this section, building work—
(6) In this section—

25BA. Meaning of regional eligible transaction for div 5
(1) A regional eligible transaction is an eligible transaction the commencement date for which is between 1 June 2010 and 30 June 2011, both dates inclusive, if—
(2) However, an eligible transaction that is a contract is not a regional eligible transaction if the commissioner is satisfied the contract forms part of a scheme to circumvent limitations on, or requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement to a first home owner grant for a regional eligible transaction.
(3) Unless satisfied to the contrary, the commissioner must presume the existence of a scheme mentioned in subsection (2) if the contract replaces a contract made before 1 June 2010, and the contract is—
(4) In this section—

25C. Amount of grant
(1) Despite section 20, the amount of a first home owner grant for an eligible transaction that is a special eligible transaction for a new home is the lesser of the following—
(2) Despite section 20, the amount of a first home owner grant for an eligible transaction that is a special eligible transaction for a home, other than a new home, is the lesser of the following—
(3) Despite section 20, the amount of a first home owner grant for an eligible transaction that is a regional eligible transaction is the lesser of the following—

Division 6 Particular eligible transactions—1 July 2016 to 30 June 2018

25D. Meaning of particular eligible transaction for div 6
(1) A particular eligible transaction is an eligible transaction mentioned in section 5(1) the commencement date for which is between 1 July 2016 and 30 June 2018, both dates inclusive.
(2) However, an eligible transaction that is a contract is not a particular eligible transaction if the commissioner is satisfied the contract forms part of a scheme to circumvent limitations on, or requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement to a first home owner grant for a particular eligible transaction.
(3) Unless satisfied to the contrary, the commissioner must presume the existence of a scheme mentioned in subsection (2) if the contract replaces a contract made before 1 July 2016 that is—

25E. Amount of grant
Despite section 20, the amount of a first home owner grant for an eligible transaction that is a particular eligible transaction for a new home is the lesser of the following—

Division 7 Relevant eligible transactions—20 November 2023 to 30 June 2026

25EA. Meaning of relevant eligible transaction
(1) A relevant eligible transaction is an eligible transaction mentioned in section 5(1) that is—
(2) However, an eligible transaction that is a contract is not a relevant eligible transaction if the commissioner is satisfied the contract forms part of a scheme to circumvent limitations on, or requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement to a first home owner grant for a relevant eligible transaction.
(3) Unless satisfied to the contrary, the commissioner must presume the existence of a scheme mentioned in subsection (2) if—

25EB. Amount of grant
Despite section 20, the amount of a first home owner grant for an eligible transaction that is a relevant eligible transaction is the lesser of the following—

Part 3A Regional home building boost grants

Division 1 Preliminary

25F. Application of part
This part applies in relation to regional home building boost grants.

25G. Commissioner’s functions and powers
(1) The commissioner is responsible for administering the RHBBG direction.
(2) The commissioner has the power to do all things necessary or convenient to be done for performing the commissioner’s function under subsection (1).

Division 2 Entitlement to grant

25H. Application for grant and when grant is payable
(1) A person who is eligible to apply for a regional home building boost grant under the RHBBG direction may apply for the grant.
(2) An application for a regional home building boost grant must comply with the RHBBG direction.
(3) An applicant for a regional home building boost grant is entitled to be paid the grant if—
(4) Only 1 regional home building boost grant is payable for the same eligible RHBBG transaction.

Division 3 Decision on application

25I. Commissioner to decide applications
(1) The commissioner must authorise the payment of a regional home building boost grant if the commissioner is satisfied the grant is payable on an application for the grant.
(2) Also, if the RHBBG direction provides for the commissioner to authorise the payment of a regional home building boost grant in anticipation of the applicant for the grant complying with particular stated requirements, the commissioner may authorise the payment as provided for by the direction.

25J. Amount of grant
The amount of a regional home building boost grant is the lesser of the following—

25K. Payment of grant
A regional home building boost grant authorised by the commissioner must be paid—

25L. Conditions
(1) The payment of a regional home building boost grant is subject to—
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), a condition may require a person on whose application the grant was made to—
(3) A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with a condition mentioned in subsection (1) or (2).

25M. Notice of decision
(1) If the commissioner decides an application for a regional home building boost grant, or decides to vary or reverse an earlier decision on an application for a regional home building boost grant, the commissioner must give the applicant written notice of the decision.
(2) If the decision is to refuse an application for a regional home building boost grant, or to vary or reverse an earlier decision on an application for a regional home building boost grant, the notice must state the following—

25N. Investigations and enforcement
(1) The commissioner may carry out an investigation (an authorised investigation) to decide—
(2) Part 4 applies in relation to the investigation and enforcement of a matter relating to a regional home building boost grant as if—

Part 3B Home builder grants

Division 1 Preliminary

25O. Application of part
This part applies in relation to home builder grants.

25P. Commissioner’s functions and powers
(1) The commissioner is responsible for administering the home builder direction.
(2) The commissioner has the power to do all things necessary or convenient to be done for performing the commissioner’s function under subsection (1).

Division 2 Entitlement to grant

25Q. Application for grant and when grant is payable
(1) A person who is eligible to apply for a home builder grant under the home builder direction may apply for the grant.
(2) An application for a home builder grant must comply with the home builder direction.
(3) An applicant for a home builder grant is entitled to be paid the grant if—
(4) Only 1 home builder grant is payable for the same eligible home builder transaction.
(5) In this section—

Division 3 Decision on application

25R. Commissioner to decide applications
(1) The commissioner must authorise the payment of a home builder grant if the commissioner is satisfied the grant is payable on an application for the grant.
(2) Also, if the home builder direction provides for the commissioner to authorise the payment of a home builder grant in anticipation of the applicant for the grant complying with particular stated requirements, the commissioner may authorise the payment as provided for by the direction.

25S. Amount of grant
The amount of a home builder grant is—

25T. Payment of grant
A home builder grant authorised by the commissioner must be paid—

25U. Conditions
(1) The payment of a home builder grant is subject to—
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), a condition may require a person on whose application the grant was made to—
(3) A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with a condition mentioned in subsection (1) or (2).

25V. Notice of decision
(1) If the commissioner decides an application for a home builder grant, or decides to vary or reverse an earlier decision on an application for a home builder grant, the commissioner must give the applicant written notice of the decision.
(2) If the decision is to refuse an application for a home builder grant, or to vary or reverse an earlier decision on an application for a home builder grant, the notice must state the following—

25W. Investigations and enforcement
(1) The commissioner may carry out an investigation (an authorised investigation) to decide—
(2) Part 4, other than section 49, applies in relation to the investigation and enforcement of a matter relating to a home builder grant as if—

Part 4 Authorised officers, investigations and enforcement

Division 1 Authorised officers

26. Appointment
(1) The commissioner may appoint as an authorised officer—
(2) The commissioner may appoint a person as an authorised officer only if the commissioner is satisfied the person has the necessary expertise or experience to be an authorised officer.

27. Limitation of authorised officer’s powers
(1) For this Act, an authorised officer has the powers given under this Act.
(2) An authorised officer is subject to the directions of the commissioner in exercising the powers.
(3) An authorised officer’s powers may be limited—
(4) An authorised officer who is an officer or employee of an authority responsible for the administration of a corresponding law may exercise the powers of an authorised officer under this Act only in relation to a first home owner grant.

28. Authorised officer’s appointment conditions
(1) An authorised officer holds office on the conditions stated in the instrument of appointment.
(2) An authorised officer—

29. Authorised officer’s identity card
(1) The commissioner must give each authorised officer an identity card.
(2) The identity card must—
(3) A person who ceases to be an authorised officer must return the identity card to the commissioner as soon as practicable, but within 21 days, after the person ceases to be an authorised officer, unless the person has a reasonable excuse for not returning it in the 21 days.
(4) This section does not prevent the giving of a single identity card to a person for this Act and other Acts.

30. Production or display of authorised officer’s identity card
(1) An authorised officer may exercise a power in relation to a person only if the authorised officer—
(2) However, if for any reason it is not practicable to comply with subsection (1) before exercising the power, the authorised officer must produce the identity card as soon as it is practicable.

Division 2 Investigations

Subdivision 1 Cross-border investigations

31. Commissioner may carry out investigations under corresponding laws
If asked by an authority responsible for administering a corresponding law, the commissioner may carry out an authorised investigation, to the extent it relates to a first home owner grant, for the corresponding law.

Subdivision 2 General powers on investigations

32. Powers on investigation
(1) For carrying out an authorised investigation, the commissioner may, by written notice, require a person to do one or more of the following—
(2) The commissioner may require information given, or to be given, under this section be verified on oath or by statutory declaration.
(3) A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with a requirement under this section.
(4) A person who, having attended before the commissioner or officer in response to a notice under subsection (1)(b), must not fail to answer a question relevant to the investigation unless the person has a reasonable excuse.
(5) It is a reasonable excuse for a person to fail to comply with a requirement under subsection (3) to give information or produce a document or to answer a question under subsection (4) if complying with the requirement or answering the question might tend to incriminate the person.

Subdivision 3 Entry of places

33. Authorised officer’s power to enter places
(1) An authorised officer may enter a place if—
(2) For the purpose of asking the occupier of a place for consent to enter, an authorised officer may, without the occupier’s consent or a warrant—
(3) For subsection (1)(c), a place of business does not include a part of the place where the person resides.

34. Entry with consent
(1) This section applies if an authorised officer intends to ask an occupier of a place to consent to the authorised officer or another authorised officer entering the place under section 33(1)(a).
(2) Before asking for the consent, the authorised officer must tell the occupier—
(3) If the consent is given, the authorised officer may ask the occupier to sign an acknowledgement of the consent.
(4) The acknowledgement must state—
(5) If the occupier signs the acknowledgement, the authorised officer must immediately give a copy to the occupier.
(6) A court must find the occupier did not consent to an authorised officer entering the place under this subdivision if—

35. Application for warrant
(1) An authorised officer may apply to a magistrate for a warrant for a place.
(2) The application must be sworn and state the grounds on which the warrant is sought.
(3) The magistrate may refuse to consider the application until the authorised officer gives the magistrate all the information the magistrate requires about the application in the way the magistrate requires.

36. Issue of warrant
(1) The magistrate may issue a warrant only if the magistrate is satisfied there are reasonable grounds for suspecting—
(2) The warrant must state the following—

37. Special warrants
(1) An authorised officer may apply for a warrant (a special warrant) by phone, fax, radio or another form of communication if the authorised officer considers it necessary because of—
(2) Before applying for the special warrant, the authorised officer must prepare an application stating the grounds on which the warrant is sought.
(3) The authorised officer may apply for the warrant before the application is sworn.
(4) After issuing the special warrant, the magistrate must immediately fax a copy to the authorised officer if it is reasonably practicable to fax the copy.
(5) If it is not reasonably practicable to fax a copy to the authorised officer—
(6) The facsimile warrant, or the warrant form properly completed by the authorised officer, authorises the entry and the exercise of the other powers stated in the warrant issued by the magistrate.
(7) The authorised officer must, at the first reasonable opportunity, send to the magistrate—
(8) On receiving the documents, the magistrate must attach them to the warrant.
(9) A court must find the exercise of the power by an authorised officer was not authorised by a special warrant if—

38. Warrants—procedure before entry
(1) This section applies if an authorised officer named in a warrant issued under this subdivision for a place is intending to enter the place under the warrant.
(2) Before entering the place, the authorised officer must do or make a reasonable attempt to do the following things—
(3) However, the authorised officer need not comply with subsection (2) if the authorised officer believes on reasonable grounds that immediate entry to the place is required to ensure the effective execution of the warrant is not frustrated.

Subdivision 4 Powers of authorised officers on entry to places

39. General powers for places
(1) An authorised officer who enters a place under subdivision 3 may exercise any of the following powers—
(2) When making a requirement mentioned in subsection (1)(e), the authorised officer must warn the person it is an offence to fail to comply with the requirement unless the person has a reasonable excuse.
(3) A person required to give reasonable help under subsection (1)(e)(i) or answer a question under subsection (1)(e)(ii) must comply with the requirement unless the person has a reasonable excuse.
(4) If a person is required under subsection (1)(e)(i) to give reasonable help by answering a question or producing a document, or under subsection (1)(e)(ii) to answer a question, it is a reasonable excuse if complying with the requirement might tend to incriminate the person.

Subdivision 5 General enforcement matters

40. Notice of damage
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The authorised officer must promptly give written notice of particulars of the damage to the person who appears to the authorised officer to be the owner of the property.
(3) If the authorised officer believes the damage was caused by a latent defect in the property or circumstances beyond the control of the authorised officer, contractor or other person, the authorised officer may state it in the notice.
(4) If, for any reason, it is impracticable to comply with subsection (2), the authorised officer must leave the notice in a conspicuous position and in a reasonably secure way where the damage happened.
(5) This section does not apply to damage the authorised officer reasonably believes is trivial.
(6) In subsection (2)—

41. Compensation
(1) A person may claim from the commissioner the cost of repairing or replacing property damaged because of the exercise or purported exercise of a power under this division.
(2) The cost may be claimed and ordered to be paid in a proceeding—
(3) A court may order an amount be paid only if it is satisfied it is just to make the order in the circumstances of the particular case.
(4) A regulation may prescribe matters that may, or must, be taken into account by the court when considering whether it is just to make the order.

42. False or misleading documents
(1) A person must not give to the commissioner or an authorised officer a document containing information the person knows is false or misleading in a material particular.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who, when giving the document—
(3) In a proceeding for an offence against subsection (1), it is enough for a charge to state that the document was, without specifying which, ‘false or misleading’.

43. False or misleading statements
(1) A person must not state anything to the commissioner or an authorised officer the person knows is false or misleading in a material particular.
(2) In a proceeding for an offence against subsection (1), it is enough for a charge to state that the statement was, without specifying which, ‘false or misleading’.

44. Obstruction of authorised officers
(1) A person must not obstruct an authorised officer in the exercise of a power, unless the person has a reasonable excuse.
(2) If a person has obstructed an authorised officer and the authorised officer decides to proceed with the exercise of the power, the authorised officer must warn the person that—

45. Impersonation of authorised officer
A person must not pretend to be an authorised officer.

46. Access to particular records without fee
For carrying out an authorised investigation, the commissioner may, without payment of a fee, inspect and take copies of any record relevant to the investigation that is kept by a public sector unit or local government.

Division 3 Repayments and penalties

47. Commissioner may require repayment and impose penalty
(1) The commissioner may, by written notice, require an applicant or former applicant for a first home owner grant to repay an amount paid on the application if the amount was paid in error (the error amount).
(2) If the error amount was paid because of a contravention of section 42 or 43 in relation to the application for the grant, the commissioner may, by written notice, impose a penalty of not more than the error amount (a penalty amount).
(3) If an applicant or former applicant for a first home owner grant fails to make a repayment required under subsection (1) or the conditions of the grant, the commissioner may, by written notice impose a penalty of not more than the error amount (also a penalty amount).
(4) If the error amount was paid to a third party, the commissioner, may by written notice, require the third party to repay the amount to the commissioner.
(5) A notice under this section must state the following—

48. Recovery of amount paid in error etc.
(1) This section applies to the following amounts—
(2) The liability arising from a requirement to pay, or repay, an amount to which this section applies is, if the requirement attaches to 2 or more persons, joint and several.
(3) An amount to which this section applies is a debt payable to the commissioner and may be recovered in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(4) The commissioner may enter into an arrangement for payment of a liability outstanding under this section by instalments.
(5) The arrangement may include provision for the payment of interest.

49. Charge over land
(1) This section applies if an applicant or former applicant who is liable to pay an amount to which section 48 applies has an interest in the land on which the home, for which the first home owner grant was sought, is fixed.
(2) The liability is a first charge on the applicant’s interest in the land.
(2A) The charge has priority over all other encumbrances over the applicant’s interest in the land.
(3) The registrar must register the charge over the land if the commissioner lodges with the registrar—
(4) The commissioner must, as soon as practicable after payment of the amount, lodge with the registrar—
(5) The registrar must register the release of the charge over the land.
(6) The fee for registration of the charge, or release of the charge, is payable by the applicant or former applicant mentioned in subsection (1).
(7) If the commissioner pays the fee mentioned in subsection (6), the commissioner may recover the amount of the fee from the applicant or former applicant liable for payment of the fee.

49A. Collection of amounts from a garnishee
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Subsection (1)(b) applies even though the applicant or former applicant’s entitlement to the amount may be subject to unfulfilled conditions.
(3) The commissioner may, by written notice given to the garnishee (the garnishee notice), require the garnishee to pay a stated amount (the garnishee amount) to the commissioner by a stated date.
(4) Without limiting subsection (3), the garnishee notice may require the garnishee to pay to the commissioner an amount out of each payment the garnishee is liable, or from time to time becomes liable, to make to the applicant or former applicant.
(5) However, subsection (6) applies if, on the date for payment under the garnishee notice, the garnishee amount is not held for, or is not liable to be paid to, the applicant or former applicant by the garnishee.
(6) The garnishee notice has effect as if the date for payment were immediately after the date the amount is held for, or is liable to be paid to, the applicant or former applicant by the garnishee.
(7) The garnishee amount must not be more than the applicant’s or former applicant’s debt.
(8) The garnishee must comply with the garnishee notice unless the garnishee has a reasonable excuse.
(9) The commissioner must give to the applicant or former applicant—

49B. Duration of garnishee notice
The garnishee notice has effect until the garnishee amount is paid or the commissioner, by written notice given to the garnishee, withdraws the notice.

49C. Effect of discharge of debt on garnishee notice
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner must give written notice to the garnishee and the applicant or former applicant—

49D. Effect of payment by garnishee
If the garnishee pays an amount to the commissioner under a garnishee notice, the garnishee—

50. Effect of writing off liability
If all or part of an applicant’s liability under section 48, including the applicant’s liability to pay costs ordered by a court or QCAT, is written off under the Financial Accountability Act 2009, section 21, the writing off does not extinguish the applicant’s liability or prevent a later proceeding against the applicant to recover the amount of the liability.

51. Penalty amounts to be alternative to prosecution
(1) This section applies if a penalty amount, including a part of a penalty amount, becomes payable under section 47 by a person because of an act or omission of the person.
(2) If a proceeding is started against the person for an offence against a provision of this Act relating to the act or omission, and the penalty amount has not been paid to the commissioner, the penalty amount is payable only if the commissioner withdraws the proceeding.
(3) If the penalty amount has been paid to the commissioner, but a proceeding is started against the person for an offence against a provision of this Act arising out of the act or omission, the penalty amount must be refunded by the commissioner.
(4) Despite subsection (3), if the commissioner withdraws the proceeding for the offence, the person again becomes liable to pay the penalty amount.

51A. Court may order repayment etc.
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The court may order the person to repay the grant.
(3) Also, the court may order the person to pay the commissioner twice the grant amount if it is satisfied the circumstances of the contravention form part of a scheme to circumvent limitations on, or requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement to a first home owner grant.
(4) This section does not limit the court’s powers under the Penalties and Sentences Act 1992 or any other law.

Division 4 Legal proceedings

52. Statements in complaint
In a complaint starting a proceeding, a statement that the matter of the complaint came to the complainant’s knowledge on a stated day is evidence of the matter.

53. Evidentiary certificates
A certificate purporting to be signed by the commissioner stating any of the following matters is evidence of the matter—

54. Summary proceedings for offences
A proceeding for an offence against this Act must be taken in a summary way under the Justices Act 1886.

55. When proceedings must start
A proceeding for an offence against this Act must start within 5 years after the commission of the offence.

Part 5 Objections and reviews

Division 1 Objections

56. Lodging objection
(1) This section applies to an applicant or former applicant for a first home owner grant, regional home building boost grant or home builder grant who is dissatisfied with a decision of the commissioner—
(1A) The applicant or former applicant may lodge a written objection for the decision with the commissioner.
(2) The grounds of objection must be stated fully and in detail in the notice.
(3) The objection must be lodged within 60 days after the objector receives notice of the decision.
(4) If the commissioner is satisfied an objector has a reasonable excuse for failing to lodge an objection within the 60 day period, the commissioner may extend the time for lodging the objection.

57. Deciding objection
(1) After considering the objection, the commissioner may—
(2) If the decision the subject of the objection was made by a delegate of the commissioner, the delegate must not decide the objection.

58. Notice of decision
(1) The commissioner must give written notice to the objector of the commissioner’s decision on the objection.
(2) The notice must comply with the QCAT Act, section 157(2).

Division 2 Review of decision on objections

59. Right of review by QCAT
An objector who is dissatisfied with the commissioner’s decision on the objection may apply, within 60 days after the objector receives notice of the commissioner’s decision on the objection and as otherwise provided under the QCAT Act, to QCAT for a review of the decision.

60. QCAT to decide review on evidence before the commissioner
(1) This section applies to a proceeding for a review by QCAT of a decision of the commissioner on an objection.
(2) QCAT must—
(3) The grounds on which the application for review is made are limited to the grounds of the relevant objection unless QCAT otherwise orders.
(4) If QCAT decides, under the QCAT Act, section 139, that the proceeding should be reopened, the issues in the proceeding that are reheard must be—
(5) In this section—

61. Representation of parties before QCAT
(1) This section applies to a party in a proceeding before QCAT relating to an application under section 59.
(2) The party may be represented by a lawyer.

62 63
64

Part 6 Miscellaneous provisions

65. Delegations
(1) The commissioner may delegate the commissioner’s powers under this Act to an appropriately qualified officer or employee of the department.
(2) In addition, the commissioner may delegate the commissioner’s powers under part 4 in relation to a first home owner grant to the authority responsible for administering a corresponding law or an appropriately qualified officer or employee of the authority.

66. Administration agreements
(1) The commissioner may, on behalf of the State, enter into an agreement with a financial institution or other person for performing functions related to administering the scheme for payment of first home owner grants established under this Act.
(2) The commissioner may, at any time, revoke the agreement.

67. Protection from liability
(1) An official is not civilly liable for an act done, or omission made, honestly and without negligence under this Act, the RHBBG direction or the home builder direction.
(2) If subsection (1) prevents a civil liability attaching to an official, the liability attaches instead to the State.
(3) In this section—

68. Offence to disclose confidential information
(1) This section applies to a person who—
(2) The person must not disclose confidential information acquired by the person to anyone else other than under subsection (3) or (4).
(3) The person may disclose confidential information—
(4) Also, if the commissioner becomes aware, from information obtained or held by the commissioner in the course of administering this Act, the RHBBG direction or the home builder direction, of a particular offence or suspected offence (whether against this Act or another law), the commissioner may disclose confidential information about the offence or suspected offence to a member of the Queensland Police Service or the Australian Federal Police for an investigation or proceeding (including for starting an investigation or proceeding).
(5) For a proceeding other than a legal proceeding under this Act, the person can not be compelled to disclose to a court or QCAT or to a party—
(6) If, under subsection (3)(c), confidential information is disclosed to another person in connection with the administration or enforcement of a law, the RHBBG direction or the home builder direction, the person must not disclose the information to anyone else other than in connection with that purpose.
(7) In this section—

69. Use of information obtained under taxation laws
The commissioner may use information obtained in the administration or enforcement of a taxation law for the administration or enforcement of this Act.

69A. Disqualifying arrangements for first home owner grants
(1) A disqualifying arrangement exists in relation to an application for a first home owner grant if—
(2) Without limiting subsection (1)(a), any of the following may be taken to be financial help provided by the related person—
(3) A disqualifying arrangement exists in relation to an application for a first home owner grant if the commissioner is satisfied—
(4) For subsection (3), the commissioner must have regard to the following—
(5) Subsection (4) does not limit the matters to which the commissioner may or ought to have regard for subsection (3).
(6) If a disqualifying arrangement exists in relation to an application for a first home owner grant the commissioner may—
(7) The commissioner must give the applicant reasons for taking action under this section.
(8) In this section—

69B. Valuation or evidence of value of property
(1) For determining whether a transaction is an eligible transaction, eligible RHBBG transaction or eligible home builder transaction, the commissioner may—
(2) If the commissioner is not satisfied with the valuation or evidence lodged or provided under subsection (1)(a), the commissioner may—
(3) The commissioner may recover the cost of obtaining a valuation under this section from the relevant person.
(4) In this section—

70. Approved forms
(1) The commissioner may approve forms for use under this Act.
(2) The approved form of application for a first home owner grant, or part of the form, may be required to be completed or signed by the spouse of the applicant.

70A. Commissioner may arrange for use of an approved information system to make particular decisions
(1) The commissioner may approve an information system for this section.
(2) The commissioner may arrange for the use of an approved information system for any purposes for which the commissioner may make a relevant decision under this Act.
(3) A relevant decision made by the operation of an approved information system under an arrangement made under subsection (2) is taken to be a decision made by the commissioner.
(4) In this section—

71. Regulation-making power
(1) The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
(2) A regulation may provide for a maximum penalty of not more than 20 penalty units for a contravention of a regulation.

Part 7 Transitional provisions for First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2003

72. Continuing operation of Act for particular eligible transactions
(1) This Act continues to apply in relation to a relevant application as if this Act had not been amended by the relevant provisions of the amending Act.
(2) In this section—

Part 8 Transitional provisions for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 2008

73. Continuing operation of Act for particular eligible transactions
(1) This Act continues to apply in relation to a relevant application as if this Act had not been amended by part 4 of the amending Act, other than sections 49 to 52, 54 (to the extent it inserts new section 74) and 55 (to the extent it inserts new definitions new home and special eligible transaction).
(2) In this section—

74. Transitional provision for particular approved form
(1) This section applies to the first publication in the gazette, on or after the commencement of this section, of a notice under the Statutory Instruments Act 1992, section 58(6)(a) relating to the approval or availability of a relevant form.
(2) The publication is taken to have been effective on and from 14 October 2008.
(3) In this section—

Part 9 Transitional provisions for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2010

75. Definition for pt 9
In this part—

76. Continuing operation of pre-amended s 5
Section 5 as in force immediately before its amendment by the amending Act continues to apply in relation to an application for a first home owner grant if the commencement date for the eligible transaction to which the application relates is before 31 March 2010.

77. Charge mentioned in s 49
Section 49 as in force immediately before its amendment by the amending Act continues to apply to a liability in relation to a grant the payment of which was authorised before the amendment.

Part 10 Transitional provision for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2011

78. Continuing operation of pre-amended s 55
(1) This section applies to an offence against this Act, if the act or omission constituting the offence happened before the commencement of this section.
(2) Without limiting the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 20, section 55 as in force before the commencement of this section continues to apply in relation to the offence.

Part 11 Transitional provisions for Fiscal Repair Amendment Act 2012

79. Continuing operation of Act for eligible transactions with commencement date before 12 September 2012
(1) This section applies in relation to an eligible transaction if the commencement date for the transaction is a date before 12 September 2012.
(2) This Act continues to apply in relation to the eligible transaction as if this Act had not been amended by the Fiscal Repair Amendment Act 2012, part 3, division 2.

80. Application of s 20(1)(b) to particular contracts
(1) This section applies to an eligible transaction mentioned in section 5(1)(a) or (b) made on or after 12 September 2012 if the commissioner is satisfied the transaction forms part of a scheme to obtain an increased amount of a first home owner grant under section 20 as amended by the Fiscal Repair Amendment Act 2012.
(2) Unless satisfied to the contrary, the commissioner must presume the existence of a scheme mentioned in subsection (1) if the contract that is the eligible transaction replaces a contract to purchase, or a comprehensive home building contract to build, the same or substantially similar new home that was made before 12 September 2012.
(3) Despite section 20, the amount of a first home owner grant for the eligible transaction is the lesser of the following—

81. Continuing operation of Act for particular eligible transactions with commencement date earlier than 11 October 2012
(1) This section applies in relation to an eligible transaction if the commencement date for the transaction is on or after 12 September 2012 but before 11 October 2012.
(2) This Act as in force on 12 September 2012 continues to apply in relation to the eligible transaction as if this Act had not been amended by the Fiscal Repair Amendment Act 2012, part 3, division 3.

Part 12 Transitional provision for Payroll Tax Rebate, Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2015

82. Application of s 15
Section 15(5) applies in relation to an approval or exemption given by the commissioner on or after 4 July 2013.

Part 13 Transitional provisions for Royalty Legislation Amendment Act 2020

83. Application of Act for pre-commencement applications and relevant decisions
(1) This Act applies in relation to a pre-commencement application or relevant decision as if it were an application or decision made under this Act.
(2) However, if it is an offence for a person to contravene a provision of this Act, the provision applies in relation to a pre-commencement application or relevant decision, or the grant to which the application or decision relates, only if the act or omission constituting the offence occurs wholly after the commencement.
(3) For section 56(3), an objection to a relevant decision made before the commencement must be lodged within 60 days after the commencement.
(4) In this section—

84. Protection from liability for particular officials
(1) An official is not civilly liable for an act done, or omission made, honestly and without negligence under the RHBBG direction or home builder direction before the commencement.
(2) In this section—

85. Application of s 68 to particular information
Section 68 applies to information held by the commissioner, whether the information was given before or after the commencement.

86. References to First Home Owner Grant Act 2000
A reference in a document to the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000 may, if the context permits, be taken to be a reference to this Act.

Part 14 Validation provision for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2024

87. Applications made before commencement that relate to relevant eligible transactions
(1) This section applies if—
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that—

Schedule Dictionary
