library_id: 500000001
citation: Duties Act 2001
type: primary_legislation
version_id: sha256:ee077c9c6444a90807708e46e6bf873adcac120ecdcfb31e66d156197f471237
jurisdiction: queensland
url: https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-2001-071
content_format: xml
source: sha256

Chapter 1 Introduction

Part 1 Preliminary

1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Duties Act 2001.

2. Commencement
(1) This Act, other than sections 306(2), 342(2) and 497, commences on a day to be fixed by proclamation.
(2) Sections 306(2), 342(2) and 497 commence on the later of the following—

Part 2 Interpretation

3. Definitions
(1) The dictionary in schedule 6 defines particular words used in this Act.
(2) The definition spouse in schedule 6 applies despite the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 32DA(6).

4 5. Relationship of Act with Administration Act
(1) This Act does not contain all the provisions about duties.
(2) The Administration Act contains provisions dealing with, among other things, the following—

Part 3 Application of Act

6. Act binds all persons
(1) This Act binds all persons, including the State and, as far as the legislative power of the Parliament permits, the Commonwealth and the other States.
(2) Nothing in this Act makes the State liable to be prosecuted for an offence.

7. Extra-territorial application
This Act applies to impose duty on instruments and transactions regardless of whether they are entered into or made in or outside Queensland.

7A. Declaration of excluded matter for Corporations Act
An interest of a person in a registered managed investment scheme is declared to be an excluded matter for the Corporations Act, section 5F, in relation to section 1070A(1)(a), (3) and (4) of that Act.

Chapter 2 Transfer duty

Part 1 Preliminary

8. Imposition of transfer duty
(1) This chapter imposes duty (transfer duty) on dutiable transactions.
(2) Transfer duty is imposed on the dutiable value of a dutiable transaction.

Part 2 Some basic concepts for transfer duty

9. What is a dutiable transaction
(1) Each of the following is a dutiable transaction—
(2) It does not matter whether a dutiable transaction—
(3) Subsection (1) has effect subject to sections 21, 29 and 37.
(4) Without limiting subsection (1)(d), property is vested under statute law if the law vests property in an entity that the law states is the successor in law of, continuation of or same entity as, the entity in which the property was previously vested.
(5) However, property is not vested under statute law, on the registration of a company under the Corporations Act, chapter 5B, part 5B.1.

10. What is dutiable property
(1) Each of the following is dutiable property—
(2) A reference to property in subsection (1) includes a reference to an interest in the property, other than the following—

11. What is the dutiable value of a dutiable transaction
(1) The dutiable value of a statutory dutiable transaction is the amount payable for the transaction.
(2) The dutiable value of a dutiable transaction that is a partition is determined under section 31.
(3) The dutiable value of a dutiable transaction that is the surrender of a lease of land in Queensland is the total of any premium, fine or other consideration payable for the surrender.
(4) The dutiable value of a dutiable transaction that is the acquisition of a new right that is a lease of land in Queensland is the total of any of the following amounts payable for the lease—
(5) The dutiable value of a dutiable transaction that is a partnership acquisition is determined under part 7, division 3.
(6) The dutiable value of a dutiable transaction that is a trust acquisition or trust surrender is determined under part 8, division 5.
(6A) The dutiable value of a dutiable transaction that is an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property that is a farm-in agreement is determined under part 8A.
(7) Subject to section 48, the dutiable value of another dutiable transaction is—
(8) However, the dutiable value of particular dutiable transactions is subject to apportionment under part 4.

11A. References to consideration
To remove any doubt, it is declared that a reference to consideration is not limited to monetary consideration.

12. Consideration for dutiable transactions—general
(1) The consideration for a dutiable transaction includes—
(2) If the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for a dutiable transaction on which duty is imposed consists of an amount payable periodically and the total amount, including any interest, to be paid can be ascertained, the consideration or part of the consideration is the total amount.

13. Consideration for dutiable transaction—transfer by way of security
The consideration for the transfer by way of security of dutiable property that is land is an amount equal to the unencumbered value of the dutiable property when the liability for transfer duty arises.

14. What is the unencumbered value of property
(1) The unencumbered value of property is the value of the property determined without regard to—
(2) Also, the unencumbered value of property held on trust or by a partnership must be determined without regard to the liabilities of the trust or partnership, including for a trust, the liability to indemnify the trustee.
(3) The unencumbered value of property that is the goodwill of a business includes the value of any restraint of trade arrangement entered into by the transferor or a related person of the transferor to protect the value of the goodwill acquired by the transferee.
(4) If, before a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9(1)(a), (b) or (d) for which the dutiable property is land, improvements are made to the land at the transferee’s expense, the unencumbered value of the land must be determined as if the improvements had not been made.

15. When unencumbered value of property is determined
The unencumbered value of dutiable property is determined—

Part 3 Liability for transfer duty

16. When liability for transfer duty arises
A liability for transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction in schedule 2, column 1, arises at the time stated opposite the transaction in schedule 2, column 2.

17. Who is liable to pay transfer duty
(1) Transfer duty imposed on a statutory dutiable transaction must be paid by the statutory entity under the transaction.
(2) Transfer duty imposed on another dutiable transaction must be paid by the parties to the transaction.

18. Need for instrument, ELN transaction document or statement
If a dutiable transaction is not effected or evidenced by an instrument or ELN transaction document, the parties liable to pay transfer duty on the transaction must make a statement in the approved form (a transfer duty statement) within the time stated in section 19 for lodging the statement.

19. Lodging instrument, ELN transaction document or statement
(1) The statutory entity under a statutory dutiable transaction must lodge—
(2) The statutory entity must comply with subsection (1)—
(3) The parties liable to pay transfer duty relating to another dutiable transaction must, within 30 days after the liability arises, lodge—

20. Effect of making or lodging instrument, ELN transaction document or statement by 1 party
The making of a transfer duty statement, or the lodging under section 19 of an instrument, ELN transaction document or transfer duty statement, by 1 of the parties to the dutiable transaction relieves the other parties to the transaction from complying with the requirement to make the statement under section 18 or lodge the instrument, ELN transaction document or transfer duty statement under section 19.

21. No double duty—general
(1) If a transaction for property constitutes more than 1 dutiable transaction for the property and imposition of transfer duty on all of the dutiable transactions for the property would result in transfer duty being imposed more than once on the transaction, the commissioner must decide the dutiable transaction on which transfer duty is imposed.
(2) For subsection (1), the commissioner must decide the dutiable transaction that is the most applicable dutiable transaction having regard to the provisions of this chapter and the primary purpose of the transaction.

22. No double duty—particular dutiable transactions
(1) If transfer duty is imposed on a dutiable transaction for periodical payments of consideration, no duty is imposed under this Act on any agreement securing the periodical payments.
(2) If transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction that is an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property is paid, no transfer duty is imposed on the transfer of the property to the transferee under the agreement.
(2A) Also, if a payment commitment is made for a dutiable transaction that is an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property, no transfer duty is imposed on an ELN transfer of the dutiable property to the transferee under the agreement.
(3) If the commissioner is satisfied—
(3) no transfer duty is imposed on the agency transfer or the trust acquisition or trust surrender by the principal because of the agreement or agency transfer.
(4) For subsection (3)(a), the commissioner must not be satisfied the person was properly appointed as agent unless the original instrument of appointment, or a copy of it, is lodged.
(5) If—
(5) no transfer duty is imposed on the transfers.

23. When credit to be allowed for duty paid
(1) If section 14(1)(c) is applied to determine the value of land because of a lease or occupancy right, in assessing the transfer duty payable for the dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of the land, a credit must be allowed for any lease duty paid under repealed chapter 4 for the lease or right.
(2) Subsection (3) applies if—
(3) In assessing the transfer duty on the later transaction, a credit must be allowed for the transfer duty paid for the first transaction.
(4) In this section—

24. Rates of transfer duty
(1) The rate of transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or an agreement for the transfer, of an existing right of a holder of the following is $5—
(2) The rate of transfer duty imposed on another dutiable transaction is stated in schedule 3, column 2, opposite the dutiable value of the transaction in schedule 3, column 1.

25. Payment of transfer duty for deeds of grant and particular freeholding leases
(1) This section applies if transfer duty is imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—
(2) Within 30 days after the liability for the duty arises, the grantee or lessee must pay the duty to the chief executive of the department in which the Land Act 1994 is administered.

Part 4 Apportionment of consideration or unencumbered value for particular dutiable transactions

26. Apportionment—head office or principal place of business in Queensland
(1) This section applies for determining the consideration for a dutiable transaction for or relating to, or the unencumbered value of, dutiable property that is a Queensland business asset, other than a debt or personal property, of a Queensland business that has its head office or principal place of business in Queensland if, at any time during the 3 financial years preceding the dutiable transaction concerned—
(2) A reference in this chapter to consideration for the transaction or the unencumbered value of the property is taken to be a reference to the amount (the apportioned amount) worked out using the following formula—
(2) where—
(3) However, the commissioner may decide the consideration for the dutiable transaction or the unencumbered value of the dutiable property on another basis if the commissioner is satisfied the other basis would be more appropriate in particular circumstances.

27. Apportionment—head office or principal place of business in another State
(1) This section applies for determining the consideration for a dutiable transaction for or relating to, or the unencumbered value of, dutiable property that is a Queensland business asset, other than a debt or personal property, of a Queensland business that does not have its head office or principal place of business in Queensland if, at any time during the 3 financial years preceding the dutiable transaction concerned—
(2) A reference in this chapter to consideration for the transaction or the unencumbered value of the property is taken to be a reference to the amount (the apportioned amount) worked out using the following formula—
(2) where—
(3) However, the commissioner may decide the consideration for the dutiable transaction or the unencumbered value of the dutiable property on another basis if the commissioner is satisfied the other basis would be more appropriate in particular circumstances.

28. Apportionment of particular dutiable transactions relating to existing and new rights
(1) This section applies for determining—
(2) A reference in this chapter to consideration for the transaction or the unencumbered value of the right is taken to be a reference to the amount that represents the same proportion of the consideration or unencumbered value that the unencumbered value of the right, to the extent it is exercisable or relates to the conduct of a business or activity in Queensland, bears to the total unencumbered value of the right.
(3) However, the commissioner may decide the consideration for the dutiable transaction or the unencumbered value of the right on another basis if the commissioner is satisfied the other basis would be more appropriate in particular circumstances.

Part 5 Dutiable transactions relating to dutiable property

29. When transaction for chattel is not dutiable transaction
(1) If a chattel in Queensland is the subject of a transaction, the transaction is not a dutiable transaction unless—
(2) For subsection (1)(b), section 30 applies as if the transaction were a dutiable transaction.

30. Aggregation of dutiable transactions
(1) This section applies to dutiable transactions that together form, evidence, give effect to or arise from what is, substantially 1 arrangement.
(2) For assessing transfer duty on each of the dutiable transactions, the transactions must be aggregated and treated as a single dutiable transaction.
(3) For subsection (1), all relevant circumstances relating to the dutiable transactions must be taken into account in deciding whether they together form, evidence, give effect to or arise from what is, substantially 1 arrangement.
(4) For subsection (3), relevant circumstances include the following—
(5) Transfer duty imposed on the dutiable transaction aggregated under this section must—
(6) Each party to each of the dutiable transactions must, when lodging the instrument, ELN transaction document or transfer duty statement relating to the transaction, give notice to the commissioner stating details known to the party about—
(7) This section does not apply to a dutiable transaction to the extent that it relates to an exchange of dutiable property.

31. Partitions
(1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction under which the following happens (the partition)—
(2) The dutiable value of the dutiable transaction is the greater of the following—
(3) This section does not apply to a transaction if section 48 applies to the transaction.

32. Transfer by way of security—land
(1) This section applies if the commissioner is satisfied—
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment of transfer duty paid on the original transfer to reduce the duty to the amount that would have been payable if the amount secured by the transfer had been secured by a mortgage for which mortgage duty were imposed.
(3) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction that is the retransfer.
(4) Subsection (2) applies to the reassessment despite the limitation period under the Administration Act for reassessments.

33. Transfer by way of security—other dutiable property
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction if—
(2) Subsection (3) applies if—
(3) The acquisition of the ownership of the dutiable property by the transferee is taken to be a dutiable transaction and transfer duty imposed on the transaction must be reduced by the amount of mortgage duty, if any, paid on the transfer.

Part 6 Special provisions about dutiable transactions relating to Queensland business assets

Division 1 Some basic concepts about Queensland businesses and their assets

34. What is a Queensland business asset
A Queensland business asset is a business asset of a Queensland business.

35. What is a business asset
(1) Each of the following is a business asset—
(2) For subsection (1)—

36. What is a Queensland business
A Queensland business is a business—

Division 2 Transactions for particular assets of Queensland businesses

37. When transaction for particular Queensland business assets not dutiable transaction
(1) If a debt of a business that is evidenced by a negotiable instrument is the subject of a transaction, the transaction is not a dutiable transaction unless—
(2) If a supply right of a business is the subject of a transaction, the transaction is not a dutiable transaction unless—
(3) If intellectual or personal property of a business is the subject of a transaction, the transaction is not a dutiable transaction unless, under section 30, it is aggregated with 1 or more of the following—
(4) For subsections (1)(a), (2)(a) and (3), section 30 applies as if the transaction were a dutiable transaction.

38. When consignment of trading stock of Queensland business is a dutiable transaction
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Without limiting subsection (1)(c), the terms of the consignment include the following—
(3) The placing of the trading stock on consignment is taken to be a transfer of the stock.

39. Surrender of Queensland business asset so replacement asset may be granted
(1) This section applies if a Queensland business asset is surrendered by a person (the owner) so that a similar business asset may be granted, issued, given to or obtained by another person.
(2) For imposing transfer duty—

Part 7 Dutiable transactions relating to partnerships

Division 1 Preliminary

40. Interpretation for property held by partnership or trust
A reference to a partnership or trust holding property is a reference to the holding of the property by the partners for the partnership or trustees on trust.

Division 2 Some basic concepts about partnership acquisitions

41. What is a partnership acquisition
A person makes a partnership acquisition if the person acquires a partnership interest in a partnership that—

42. What is a partner’s partnership interest
(1) A partner’s partnership interest is—
(2) For subsection (1)(a), a partner has a variable partnership entitlement in a partnership if, in the ordinary course of determining the partner’s entitlement to share in the profits or obligation to contribute to the capital or losses of the partnership, the entitlement or obligation varies or may vary from time to time.

43. What is a partnership’s indirect interest in dutiable property
A partnership has an indirect interest in dutiable property if—

44. Acquiring a partnership interest
(1) A person acquires a partnership interest if a partnership is formed or the person’s partnership interest increases.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1)—
(3) However, a partner’s variable partnership entitlement under section 42 does not increase if—

Division 3 Dutiable value of partnership acquisitions

45. What is the dutiable value of a partnership acquisition
The dutiable value of a partnership acquisition is the greater of the following—

46. What is the value of a partnership acquisition—general
(1) Subject to subsections (5) and (6), the value of a partnership acquisition is the total of the amounts worked out by applying the partner’s partnership interest to the unencumbered value, when the liability for transfer duty arises, of—
(2) For subsection (1)(b), the unencumbered value of an indirect interest under section 43(a) of the relevant partnership is the amount worked out by applying to the unencumbered value of the dutiable property held by the entity in which the relevant partnership has a partnership or trust interest, the partnership or trust interest of the relevant partnership in that entity.
(3) For subsection (1)(b), the unencumbered value of an indirect interest under section 43(b) of the relevant partnership is the amount worked out by—
(4) Schedule 4 contains an example of how the value of a partnership acquisition is worked out.
(5) For determining the value of a new partner’s partnership acquisition on formation of a partnership, the value of any dutiable property the partner contributed to the partnership on its formation must be disregarded.
(5A) For subsection (5), a person is a new partner only if—
(5B) However, subsection (5A)(b) does not apply to a person who makes a partnership acquisition in a partnership that was formed because of a change in the membership of the partners of another partnership (the old partnership) if the person had a partnership interest in the old partnership.
(6) For determining the value of a partner’s partnership acquisition that is an increase in the partner’s partnership interest, the partner’s partnership interest is taken to be the increase in the partner’s partnership interest.

47. What is the value of a partnership acquisition—merger of 2 or more partnerships
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The value of the new partnership acquisition must be reduced by the lesser of—

Division 4 Dutiable value of other dutiable transactions for dutiable property of partnership

48. Dutiable value of dutiable transaction reduced for transfer of dutiable property to partner on retirement or dissolution
(1) This section applies if, on a person (the retiring partner) ceasing to be a partner in a partnership because of the retiring partner’s retirement from the partnership or its dissolution, dutiable property of the partnership is transferred or agreed to be transferred to the retiring partner.
(2) The dutiable value of the dutiable transaction for the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of the dutiable property to the retiring partner must be reduced by an amount worked out by applying the retiring partner’s partnership interest in the partnership to the unencumbered value of the dutiable property immediately before the retirement or dissolution.

Part 8 Dutiable transactions relating to trusts

Division 1 Preliminary

49. Application of pt 8
(1) This part applies to all expressly or intentionally created trusts, regardless of how they are created.
(2) However, this part does not apply to a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest in a public unit trust other than a majority trust acquisition in a land holding trust.

50. Joint trustees
If a trust has 2 or more trustees, the trustees are taken to be a single person for this chapter.

Division 2 Some basic concepts about property

51. Interpretation for property held by trust or partnership
A reference to a trust or partnership holding property is a reference to the holding of the property by the trustees on trust or the partners for the partnership.

52. Contracted property and trust interests
(1) For a trust, contracted property is taken to be dutiable property held by the trust.
(1A) If a trust has made a purchase or sale agreement for a trust interest, the trust is taken to have an indirect interest in the trust-related dutiable property.
(2) For determining the dutiable value of a trust creation, trust termination, trust acquisition or trust surrender—
(3) Subsection (3A) applies if—
(3A) The commissioner must make a reassessment as if the contracted property or indirect interest were never held by the trust.
(4) For the reassessment, the parties liable to pay transfer duty on the trust creation, trust termination, trust acquisition or trust surrender must lodge the instruments required for the original assessment.
(5) In this section—

Division 3 Creation and termination of trusts

53. Creating trust of dutiable property
(1) A trust of dutiable property is created if a person, who has acquired property other than as trustee, starts to hold the property as trustee.
(2) Also, a trust of dutiable property is created if all the following apply—

54. Terminating trust of dutiable property
A trust of dutiable property is terminated if a person, having held the property as trustee, starts to hold the property other than as trustee.

Division 4 Some basic concepts about trust acquisitions and trust surrenders

55. What is a trust acquisition
A person makes a trust acquisition if the person acquires a trust interest in a trust that—

56. What is a trust surrender
A person makes a trust surrender if the person surrenders a trust interest in a trust that holds dutiable property or has an indirect interest in dutiable property.

57. What is a trust interest
(1) A trust interest is a person’s interest as a beneficiary of a trust, other than a life interest.
(2) For a trust that is a discretionary trust, only a taker in default of an appointment by the trustee can have a trust interest.
(3) Also, for a trust that is a superannuation fund, a member of the fund has a trust interest in the fund.

58. What is a trust’s indirect interest in dutiable property
A trust has an indirect interest in dutiable property if—

59. Acquiring a trust interest
(1) A person acquires a trust interest if—
(2) If a beneficiary’s trust interest is subject to a prior life interest, the interest does not increase merely because the life tenant dies or, over time, the extent of the life interest reduces.

60. Beneficiary’s trust interest is percentage of or proportionate to property held on trust
(1) A beneficiary’s trust interest is—
(2) For subsection (1)(c), the beneficiary’s entitlement under the trust is—
(3) For subsection (2)(b), the beneficiary’s entitlement under the trust is the maximum interest in the property held on trust that the beneficiary would have on the fulfilment of the condition or contingency or the exercise or non-exercise of the power or discretion.
(4) For a majority trust acquisition, a reference in this section to a beneficiary’s entitlement under the trust includes the entitlement under the trust of related persons of the beneficiary.

61. Who is a related person
(1) A person is a related person of another person if—
(2) Also, a person is a related person of another person if the persons acquire trust interests in a land holding trust and the acquisitions form, evidence, give effect to or arise from what is substantially 1 arrangement.
(3) However, a person is not a related person of another person under subsection (1), other than subsection (1)(d), if the commissioner is satisfied the trust interests of the persons in a land holding trust—

Division 5 Dutiable value of trust acquisitions and trust surrenders

62. What is the dutiable value of a trust acquisition or trust surrender
The dutiable value of a trust acquisition or trust surrender is the greater of the following—

63. What is the value of a trust acquisition or trust surrender
(1) Subject to subsections (6) to (8), the value of a trust acquisition or trust surrender is the total of the amounts worked out by applying the beneficiary’s trust interest to the unencumbered value, when the liability for transfer duty arises, of—
(2) For subsection (1), the beneficiary’s trust interest for a trust surrender is the beneficiary’s trust interest immediately before the surrender.
(3) For subsection (1)(b), the unencumbered value of an indirect interest under section 58(a) of the relevant trust is the amount worked out by applying to the unencumbered value of the dutiable property held by the entity in which the relevant trust has a trust or partnership interest, the trust or partnership interest of the relevant trust in that entity.
(4) For subsection (1)(b), the unencumbered value of an indirect interest under section 58(b) of the relevant trust is the amount worked out by—
(5) Schedule 4 contains an example of how the value of a trust acquisition is worked out.
(6) For determining the value of a beneficiary’s trust acquisition that is an increase in the beneficiary’s trust interest, other than a majority trust acquisition, the beneficiary’s trust interest is taken to be the increase in the beneficiary’s trust interest.
(7) Subsection (8) applies to a majority trust acquisition that is an increase in a beneficiary’s trust interest (the relevant trust acquisition) that has happened in the following circumstances—
(8) For determining the value of the beneficiary’s trust acquisition that is the relevant trust acquisition, the beneficiary’s trust interest is taken to be the increase in the beneficiary’s trust interest.

Division 6 Liability to transfer duty

64. Liability to pay transfer duty on creation or termination of trust
(1) If a trust of dutiable property is created or terminated, the trustee of the trust is the party to the dutiable transaction that is the creation or termination of the trust.
(2) If the trustee of the trust does not pay the transfer duty, the beneficiaries of the trust are jointly and severally liable for the duty.

65. Liability of joint trustees
If a trust has 2 or more trustees, the trustees are jointly and severally liable for any transfer duty imposed.

66. When no transfer duty on trust acquisition or trust surrender
(1) If, because of the creation of a trust of dutiable property, a person acquires a trust interest in the property, transfer duty is not imposed on the acquisition if—
(2) If, because of the acquisition of dutiable property by a trust, a person acquires a trust interest in the property, transfer duty is not imposed on the acquisition of the trust interest if—
(3) If, because of the termination of a trust of dutiable property, a person surrenders a trust interest in the property, transfer duty is not imposed on the surrender if—

67. Parties to trust acquisition and trust surrender
(1) For a trust acquisition, the beneficiary acquiring the trust interest is the party to the dutiable transaction.
(2) For a trust surrender, the trustee and the beneficiary whose trust interest is surrendered are the parties to the dutiable transaction.

Division 7 Public unit trusts

Subdivision 1 Preliminary

68. What is a public unit trust
A public unit trust is—

Subdivision 2 Basic concepts about listed unit trusts

69. What is a listed unit trust
A listed unit trust is a unit trust the units in which are quoted on the market operated by a recognised stock exchange.

Subdivision 3 Basic concepts about widely held unit trusts

70. What is a widely held unit trust
(1) A widely held unit trust is a unit trust, other than a listed unit trust, that is a registered managed investment scheme for which—
(2) However, for a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest in a trust, a unit trust is not a widely held unit trust if subsection (1)(b) and (c) is not satisfied before and after the trust acquisition or trust surrender.
(3) For subsection (2), a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest in a unit trust includes a series of trust acquisitions or trust surrenders under an arrangement.
(4) If subsection (2) applies to a unit trust, the trust is not a widely held unit trust from immediately before the trust acquisition or trust surrender or the first acquisition or surrender under the arrangement.
(5) For subsection (1), a person is taken to be beneficially entitled to all units held by the person and related persons of the person.

71. When unit trust may be treated as widely held unit trust
(1) This section applies if the commissioner is satisfied—
(2) The commissioner may treat the unit trust as a widely held unit trust for the start-up period.
(3) However, if the start-up units are not issued in the way mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or are not the only units issued in the unit trust in the start-up period (the disqualifying circumstances)—

Subdivision 4 Basic concepts about wholesale unit trusts

72. What is a wholesale unit trust
(1) A wholesale unit trust is a unit trust, other than a listed unit trust—
(2) A wholesale unit trust includes a unit trust that holds land in Queensland, or has an indirect interest in land in Queensland, only if the trust was established, and continues, solely for the investment of funds placed with it by wholesale investors using the funds manager’s funds management and investment services.
(3) However, for a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest in a trust, a unit trust is not a wholesale unit trust if—
(4) For subsection (3), a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest in a unit trust includes a series of trust acquisitions or trust surrenders under an arrangement.
(5) If subsection (3) applies to a unit trust, the trust is not a wholesale unit trust from immediately before the trust acquisition or trust surrender or the first acquisition or surrender under the arrangement.

73. What is a funds manager
(1) A funds manager is—
(2) Subsection (3) applies if the commissioner is satisfied a body corporate or corporate group will provide funds management and investment services to wholesale investors to the extent mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b) within the start-up period.
(3) The commissioner may treat the body corporate as a funds manager for the start-up period.
(4) However, if the body corporate or corporate group does not provide funds management and investment services as mentioned in subsection (1) in the start-up period—
(5) In this section—

74. Who is a wholesale investor
A wholesale investor in a wholesale unit trust is—

Subdivision 5 Basic concepts about pooled public investment unit trusts

75. What is a pooled public investment unit trust
(1) A pooled public investment unit trust is a unit trust, other than a listed unit trust, widely held unit trust, wholesale unit trust or declared public unit trust, that is a registered managed investment scheme, exempt managed investment scheme or pooled superannuation trust for which—
(2) However, for a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest in a trust, a unit trust is not a pooled public investment unit trust unless—
(3) For subsection (2), a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest in a unit trust includes a series of trust acquisitions or trust surrenders under an arrangement.
(4) If subsection (2) applies to a unit trust, the trust is not a pooled public investment unit trust from immediately before the trust acquisition or trust surrender or the first acquisition or surrender under the arrangement.

76. Who is a qualified holder and a large qualified holder
(1) A qualified holder of units in a unit trust is—
(2) A large qualified holder of units in a unit trust is a qualified holder with more than 50 members.

76A. Approval of class of foreign unit holders as qualified holders
The commissioner may, by gazette notice, approve a class of persons as qualified holders of units in a unit trust if the commissioner is satisfied persons of that class hold the units in a capacity that, under the law of a foreign country or external Territory, corresponds to—

76B. Approval of particular foreign unit holder as qualified holder
(1) The trustee of a unit trust may apply to the commissioner for the approval, for section 76(1)(f), of a stated person who holds units in the trust (the unit holder).
(2) The application must—
(3) The commissioner may approve the application if satisfied the unit holder holds the units in a capacity that, under the law of a foreign country or external Territory, corresponds to—
(4) If the commissioner reasonably requires advice about a particular matter before deciding the application, the commissioner may refuse to deal further with the application until the applicant pays, or agrees to pay, the reasonable costs of obtaining the advice.
(5) The commissioner may give approval subject to conditions the commissioner considers appropriate.
(6) The commissioner must give notice of the decision on the application to the applicant.
(7) If, because of the decision, the commissioner makes an assessment on the basis that a particular person is not approved, or is approved on stated conditions, an objection to the decision may be made as part of an objection to the assessment.
(8) An approval takes effect on the day it is given or on the later day stated in the notice of the decision to give the approval.

76C. Approval holders must notify commissioner of material changes
(1) This section applies to an approval in force under section 76B if there is a material change in the circumstances existing when the approval was given.
(2) Within 28 days after the approval holder becomes aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, of the change, the approval holder must give the commissioner notice of the change.

76D. Cancellation or variation of approvals
(1) The commissioner may, by notice to the holder of an approval in force under section 76B, cancel the approval or vary it in a stated way if the commissioner considers—
(2) The cancellation or variation has effect on the day stated in the notice (the effective day).
(3) The effective day may be earlier than the day the notice is given but not earlier than the day the condition mentioned in subsection (1)(a) stopped being satisfied or complied with or the day of the material change in the circumstances mentioned in subsection (1)(b).
(4) If, because of the decision to cancel or vary the approval, the commissioner makes an assessment on the basis that, at a particular time, a particular person was not approved or was approved on stated conditions, an objection to the decision may be made as part of an objection to the assessment.

76E. Exempt managed investment schemes
(1) For section 75(1), a unit trust that is a managed investment scheme is taken to be an exempt managed investment scheme, during the deeming period for the trust, if the scheme has been approved under section 76F as a deregistered managed investment scheme.
(2) In this section—

76F. Approval of unit trust as a deregistered managed investment scheme
(1) The trustee of a unit trust that is a managed investment scheme may apply to the commissioner for the approval of the scheme as a deregistered managed investment scheme.
(2) The application must—
(3) The commissioner may give the approval if—
(4) The commissioner must give the applicant notice of the decision on the application.
(5) If, because of the decision on the application, the commissioner makes an assessment on the basis that the scheme is not an exempt managed investment scheme for section 75(1), an objection to the decision may be made as part of an objection to the assessment.
(6) If the approval is given, it takes effect on—
(7) The day mentioned in subsection (6)(b) may be earlier or later than the day the approval is given.

76G. Approval holders must notify commissioner if deeming period ends
(1) This section applies in relation to an approval for a unit trust in force under section 76F if either of the following happens (the notifiable event)—
(2) Within 28 days after the trustee becomes aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, of the notifiable event, the trustee must give the commissioner notice of the notifiable event.

77. Who is holder of units in pooled public investment unit trust
(1) For section 75, a qualified holder is taken to hold the units in a unit trust held for the holder by a custodian.
(2) For section 75(1)(b) and (c)—
(3) For subsection (2)(a), a complying superannuation fund’s interest in a pooled superannuation trust is the proportion that the fund’s investment bears to the total of all investments in the trust expressed as a percentage.
(4) For subsection (2)(b), a member’s interest in a pooled public investment unit trust is the proportion that the value of the member’s entitlement as a member bears to the value of the entitlements of all members in the trust expressed as a percentage.

78. Who is entitled to units in pooled public investment unit trust
(1) For section 75(1)(b) and (c)—
(2) For subsection (1)(a), a member’s interest in a large qualified holder is the proportion that the value of the member’s entitlement as a member bears to the value of the entitlements of all members in the holder expressed as a percentage.
(3) For section 75, a person who is entitled to units in the unit trust is taken to be entitled to all units that, under subsection (1)(a) and (b), the person and related persons of the person are entitled.

Subdivision 6 Basic concepts about declared public unit trusts

79. What is a declared public unit trust
A declared public unit trust is a unit trust declared under a regulation to be a public unit trust for this division.

Subdivision 7 Majority trust acquisitions in land holding trusts

80. What is a majority trust acquisition
A person who makes a trust acquisition in a land holding trust makes a majority trust acquisition if—

81. Interpretation for majority trust acquisitions
(1) This section applies for imposing transfer duty on majority trust acquisitions.
(2) An indirect trust interest in a land holding trust being acquired by a person is taken to be a trust interest in the trust.
(3) Also, an indirect trust interest in a land holding trust already held by an acquirer or related person of the acquirer is taken to be a trust interest in the trust.
(4) For an indirect trust interest in a land holding trust taken to be a trust interest under subsection (2) or (3), the acquirer and any related persons of the acquirer are taken to be beneficiaries.
(5) An indirect trust acquisition is taken to be a trust acquisition in the land holding trust in which the indirect trust interest is acquired.

81A. Particular trust interests disregarded for majority trust acquisitions
(1) This section applies if—
(2) For section 80, the trust interest of a person mentioned in subsection (1)(b) who is a qualified holder must be disregarded.
(3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that section 80 applies to other trust interests, including trust interests held through the qualified holder.

82. Deduction—transfer duty for majority trust acquisition
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The duty mentioned in subsection (1)(b) must be reduced by the amount of the transfer duty paid or payable under subsection (1)(a) to the extent that the indirect trust interests and trust interests were included in working out the dutiable value of the majority trust acquisition.

Subdivision 8 Indirect trust interests

83. Person’s indirect trust interest is proportionate to land holding trust’s dutiable property
A person’s indirect trust interest in a land holding trust is the proportion that the unencumbered value of the person’s entitlement in the land holding trust bears to the unencumbered value of dutiable property held by the land holding trust expressed as a percentage.

84. What is the value of person’s entitlement in land holding trust
(1) The unencumbered value of a person’s entitlement in a land holding trust is the amount worked out by—
(2) For subsection (1)(b)(iii)—

Part 8A Concessions for farm-in agreements

Division 1 Some basic concepts about farm-in agreements

84A. Who is a farmor
(1) A farmor is—
(2) For subsection (1), the relevant Act for an exploration authority is the Act under which the authority is granted.

84B. What is an upfront farm-in agreement
(1) An upfront farm-in agreement is a written agreement entered into by a farmor and another person (the farmee) in relation to an exploration authority, under which—
(2) However, if the farm-in agreement is a 100% transfer farm-in agreement, the last interest in the exploration authority to be transferred under the agreement need not be held by the farmee subject to an obligation mentioned in subsection (1)(b).

84C. What is a deferred farm-in agreement
(1) A deferred farm-in agreement is a written agreement entered into by a farmor and another person (the farmee) in relation to an exploration authority, under which—
(2) However, if the farm-in agreement is a 100% transfer farm-in agreement, the last interest in the exploration authority to be transferred under the agreement need not be subject to an obligation mentioned in subsection (1)(b).

84D. What is a 100% transfer farm-in agreement
A 100% transfer farm-in agreement, for an exploration authority, is a deferred farm-in agreement or upfront farm-in agreement under which, on the completion of all the transfers of interests in the exploration authority that are proposed to be made by the farmor under the agreement, 100% of the interest in the exploration authority will be held by the farmee.

84E. What is the expenditure completion date and an ECD variation
(1) The expenditure completion date for an exploration amount for the transfer of an interest in an exploration authority under a farm-in agreement is—
(2) A variation mentioned in subsection (1)(b) or (c) is an ECD variation.

84F. What is relevant exploration or development
Exploration or development is relevant exploration or development for an exploration amount relating to an interest in an exploration authority the subject of a farm-in agreement if—

Division 2 Transfer duty for farm-in agreements

84G. Farm-in agreement is an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property
(1) A farm-in agreement is an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property mentioned in section 9(1)(b).
(2) Section 21 does not apply in relation to the agreement.

84H. Exemption—particular transfers to farmor under upfront farm-in agreement
If transfer duty imposed on an upfront farm-in agreement is paid, no transfer duty is imposed on a transfer of an interest in the exploration authority from the farmee to the farmor made because of the obligation mentioned in section 84B(1)(c).

84I. Exclusion of s 22(2) for particular dutiable transactions under farm-in agreement
Section 22(2) does not apply to the transfer of an interest in an exploration authority if—

Division 3 Concessions for transfer duty for farm-in agreements

84J. How transfer duty is initially assessed on farm-in agreement
(1) This section applies for assessing liability for transfer duty on a farm-in agreement.
(2) The dutiable value of a farm-in agreement is the consideration paid or payable to the farmor, or a related person of the farmor, for the farmor entering into the agreement, other than an exploration amount.
(3) Section 502(1)(a) and (b) and (2)(a)—

Division 4 Lodgement and notice requirements for upfront farm-in agreements

84K. Lodgement requirement on expenditure of exploration amount
The farmee under an upfront farm-in agreement must, within 14 days after spending the exploration amount for each interest in the exploration authority, lodge—

84L. Notice requirement for farmee in particular circumstances
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The farmee must, within 30 days after the expenditure completion date—
(3) If the original expenditure completion date is varied under the farm-in agreement, the farmee must comply with subsection (2) in relation to a failure to spend an exploration amount on or before each of the following—
(4) In this section—

Division 5 Reassessments

84M. When commissioner must reassess transfer duty
(1) The commissioner must make a reassessment of transfer duty for a farm-in agreement if, under the agreement, either of the following events happen (each a reassessment event)—
(2) However, subsection (1)(a)(ii) does not apply if—
(3) Also, subsection (1) does not apply if—
(4) Subsection (1) applies despite the limitation period under the Administration Act for reassessments.

84N. How transfer duty is reassessed on farm-in agreements
(1) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), for a reassessment under section 84M the dutiable value of the farm-in agreement includes each of the following, other than an exploration amount—
(2) If subsection (1) applies for a reassessment, section 502(1)(a) and (b) and (2)(a)—
(3) Subsection (4) applies to a reassessment for a reassessment event mentioned in section 84M(1)(a)(ii) in relation to an interest if the farmee has failed to transfer the interest back to the farmor under the agreement within the time mentioned in section 84M(2)(a) and—
(4) The commissioner must make the reassessment to impose transfer duty on the transaction that is the agreement mentioned in section 84M(1) as if the transaction were not a farm-in agreement under this part.
(5) This section applies despite section 84J.

Division 6 Miscellaneous

84O. Application of penalty tax under Administration Act
The Administration Act, section 58(1)(c) does not apply in relation to a reassessment made by the commissioner under section 84M, unless—

84P. Exclusion of arrangements to avoid the imposition of transfer duty
(1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction that is a farm-in agreement if the transaction is part of an arrangement to avoid the imposition of transfer duty.
(2) The commissioner must make an assessment to impose transfer duty on the transaction as if the transaction were not a farm-in agreement under this part.
(3) Subsection (2) applies despite the limitation period under the Administration Act for reassessments.

Part 9 Concessions for homes

Division 1 Preliminary

85. Purpose of part
The purpose of this part is to provide for concessions for transfer duty for a dutiable transaction that is—

Division 2 Some basic concepts about concessions for homes

86. What is a home, a first home and a new home
(1) A residence is a person’s home if the person’s occupation date for the residence is within 1 year after the person’s transfer date for the residential land.
(2) A person’s home is the person’s first home if, before acquiring the home—
(3) Subsection (2)(a)(ii) does not apply to the interest in land of a lessee of a lease—
(4) A person’s home is a new home if the home—
(5) For subsection (4)(b), a person’s home is a substantially renovated home if—

86A. What is residential land
Residential land is land, or the part of land, on which a residence is constructed, and includes the curtilage attributable to the residence if the curtilage is used for residential purposes.

86B. What is a first home for a residence to be constructed on vacant land
(1) A residence that is to be constructed on vacant land is a person’s first home if—
(2) Subsection (1)(b)(i)(B) does not apply to the interest in land of a lessee of a lease—

86C. What is vacant land and residential vacant land
(1) A person’s land is vacant land if—
(2) Residential vacant land is vacant land, or the part of vacant land, on which the residence is to be constructed, and includes the curtilage that is to be attributable to the residence if the curtilage is to be used for residential purposes.

86D. What is a vacant land concession beneficiary
(1) A person is a vacant land concession beneficiary in relation to particular land if—
(2) For subsection (1)(b), a transaction that was assessed on the basis of a concession under a concession provision is taken to be a transaction to which a concession under a concession provision applied even if the transaction was reassessed under section 153 or 154.
(3) In this section—

87. What is a residence
A residence is a building, or part of a building, that is—

88. What is a person’s occupation date for a residence
A person’s occupation date for a residence is the date the person, as owner of the residence, starts occupying it as the person’s principal place of residence.

89. What is a person’s transfer date for residential land or vacant land
A person’s transfer date for residential land or vacant land is the date the person is entitled to possession of the land under the dutiable transaction that is—

90. What is the dutiable value of residential land, vacant land or residential vacant land
(1) Subsection (2) applies to a dutiable transaction that is 1 of the following in relation to residential land, vacant land or residential vacant land—
(2) The dutiable value of the land to which the transaction relates is as follows—

Division 3 Concessions for homes, first homes and new homes

91. Concession—home
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The transfer duty imposed on the dutiable transaction is the amount worked out under subsection (3) or (5).
(3) If the dutiable value of the residential land is not more than $350,000, the transfer duty is the total of—
(4) For subsection (3), the relevant rate is the rate of transfer duty stated in schedule 3, column 2, opposite the part of the dutiable value of the dutiable transaction attributable to the dutiable value of the residential land stated in schedule 3, column 1.
(5) If the dutiable value of the residential land is more than $350,000, the transfer duty is the total of—
(6) For subsection (5), the relevant rate is the rate of transfer duty stated in schedule 3, column 2, for $350,000.

92. Concession—first home other than new home—residential land
(1) This section applies if—
(1A) However, if subsection (1)(b)(ii) applies and 1 or more of the beneficiaries is under a legal disability only because the beneficiary is not at least 18 years of age, this section applies in relation to the dutiable transaction only if the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the transaction.
(2) The transfer duty imposed on the dutiable transaction is the amount of transfer duty worked out under section 91 less the concession amount stated in schedule 4A.
(3) The commissioner may exempt a transferee, lessee or vested person from the requirement under subsection (1)(b)(i) that the transferee, lessee or vested person be at least 18 years of age if the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the dutiable transaction.

92A. Concession—first home and new home—residential land
(1) This section applies if—
(2) However, if subsection (1)(c)(ii) applies and 1 or more of the beneficiaries is under a legal disability only because the beneficiary is not at least 18 years of age, this section applies in relation to the dutiable transaction only if the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the transaction.
(3) The transfer duty imposed on the dutiable transaction is the amount worked out by deducting, from transfer duty on the dutiable value of the dutiable transaction, the amount worked out by applying the relevant rate to the dutiable value of the residential land.
(4) For subsection (3), the relevant rate is the rate of transfer duty stated in schedule 3, column 2 opposite the dutiable value of the residential land as stated in schedule 3, column 1.
(5) The commissioner may exempt a transferee, lessee or vested person from the requirement under subsection (1)(c)(i) that the transferee, lessee or vested person be at least 18 years of age if the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the dutiable transaction.

92B. Concession—first home—vacant land
(1) This section applies if—
(2) However, if subsection (1)(b)(ii) applies and 1 or more of the beneficiaries is under a legal disability only because the beneficiary is not at least 18 years of age, this section applies in relation to the dutiable transaction only if the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the transaction.
(3) The transfer duty imposed on the dutiable transaction is the amount worked out by deducting, from transfer duty on the dutiable value of the dutiable transaction, the amount worked out by applying the relevant rate to the dutiable value of the residential vacant land.
(4) For subsection (3), the relevant rate is the rate of transfer duty stated in schedule 3, column 2 opposite the dutiable value of the residential vacant land as stated in schedule 3, column 1.
(5) The commissioner may exempt a transferee, lessee or vested person from the requirement under subsection (1)(b)(i) that the transferee, lessee or vested person be at least 18 years of age if the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the dutiable transaction.

93. Concession—mixed and multiple claims for individuals—home, or first home other than new home
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Also, this section applies if—
(3) In addition, this section applies if a dutiable transaction is a relevant transaction in relation to a part interest in residential land that, if it were in relation to the whole interest in the land, would be a dutiable transaction to which this section applies under subsection (1) or (2), other than the requirement for more than 1 transferee, lessee or vested person for the land.
(3A) However, this section does not apply if—
(4) For subsections (1)(c) and (2)(b), a residence may be treated as the first home of a relevant person only if the relevant person is at least 18 years of age on the day the liability for transfer duty arises.
(5) The commissioner may exempt a relevant person from the requirement that the relevant person be at least 18 years of age if the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the dutiable transaction.
(6) The transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this section applies under subsection (1)(c)(i) or (2) is the total of—
(7) The transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this section applies under subsection (1)(c)(ii) or (3) is the total of—
(8) For subsections (6) and (7)—
(9) For working out the concessional duty under subsection (8)(a) for a relevant person under subsection (2), the residential land mentioned in section 91(3) or (5), and schedule 4A, is the part of the residential land relating to the person’s home or first home.
(10) For a relevant person under subsection (2), the residential land mentioned in subsection (8)(c) is the part of the residential land relating to the person’s home or first home.

93A. Concession—mixed and multiple claims for individuals—first home and new home
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Also, this section applies if—
(3) In addition, this section applies if a dutiable transaction is a relevant transaction in relation to a part interest in residential land that, if it were in relation to the whole interest in the land, would be a dutiable transaction to which this section applies under subsection (1) or (2), other than the requirement for more than 1 transferee, lessee or vested person for the land.
(4) A transferee, lessee or vested person for residential land mentioned in subsection (1) or (2) is a relevant person if the residence is the home or first home of the transferee, lessee or vested person.
(5) For subsections (1)(d) and (2)(b), a residence may be treated as the first home of a relevant person only if the relevant person is at least 18 years of age on the day the liability for transfer duty arises.
(6) The commissioner may exempt a relevant person from the requirement that the relevant person be at least 18 years of age if the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the dutiable transaction.
(7) The transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this section applies under subsection (1)(d)(i) or (2) is the total of—
(8) The transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this section applies under subsection (1)(d)(ii) or (3) is the total of—
(9) For subsections (7) and (8)—
(10) For working out the concessional duty under subsection (9)(a) for a relevant person to whom this section applies under subsection (2), the residential land mentioned in section 91 and schedule 4A is the part of the residential land relating to the person’s home or first home.
(11) For a relevant person to whom this section applies under subsection (2), the residential land mentioned in subsection (9)(c) is the part of the residential land relating to the person’s home or first home.

93B. Concession—mixed and multiple claims for individuals—first home—vacant land
(1) This section applies if—
(2) In addition, this section applies if a dutiable transaction is a relevant transaction in relation to a part interest in vacant land that, if it were in relation to the whole interest in the land, would be a dutiable transaction to which this section applies under subsection (1), other than the requirement for more than 1 transferee, lessee or vested person for the land.
(3) For subsection (1)(c), a residence may be treated as the first home of a relevant person only if the relevant person is at least 18 years of age on the day the liability for transfer duty arises.
(4) The commissioner may exempt a relevant person from the requirement that the relevant person be at least 18 years of age if the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the dutiable transaction.
(5) The transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this section applies under subsection (1) is the amount worked out by deducting, from transfer duty on the dutiable value of the transaction, the total amount worked out by, for each relevant person, applying the relevant person’s interest to transfer duty on the dutiable value of the residential vacant land.
(6) The transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this section applies under subsection (2) is the amount worked out by deducting, from transfer duty on the dutiable value of the transaction, the amount worked out by applying the relevant rate to the relevant person’s interest in the dutiable value of the residential vacant land.
(7) For subsections (5) and (6)—

94. Concession—mixed and multiple claims for trustees—residential land
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Sections 93 and 93A apply to the transaction as if the beneficiaries are the transferees or lessees of, or vested persons for, the residential land.
(3) However, sections 93(4) and (5) and 93A(5) and (6) apply in relation to a beneficiary only if the beneficiary is under a legal disability only because the beneficiary is not at least 18 years of age.

94A. Concession—mixed and multiple claims for trustees—vacant land
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Section 93B applies to the transaction as if the beneficiaries are the transferees or lessees of, or vested persons for, the vacant land.
(3) However, section 93B(3) and (4) apply in relation to a beneficiary only if the beneficiary is under a legal disability only because the beneficiary is not at least 18 years of age.

95. Application for concession
An application for a concession for transfer duty on a dutiable transaction under this division must be made in the approved form.

Division 4 Miscellaneous

95A. Occupation date—particular arrangements for retirement village
(1) This section applies if—
(2) A reference in section 88 to a person occupying a residence as owner of the residence includes the transferee, or the vested person for the land, occupying the unit under the sublease.

Part 10 Concessions for dutiable transactions for particular family businesses

Division 1 Preliminary

96. Purposes of pt 10
The purposes of this part are to—

97. Dutiable transactions to which pt 10 applies
(1) This part applies to each of the following dutiable transactions if the conditions applying to the transaction are satisfied—
(2) For subsection (1)(d)(ii), an indirect interest in dutiable property is a partnership or trust interest in a family partnership, family trust or family unit trust that holds the dutiable property.

98. Conditions for transfer or agreement for transfer of business property
(1) The conditions applying to a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 97(1)(a) are as follows—
(2) For subsection (1)(b)(i)—

99. Conditions for partnership acquisitions
(1) The conditions applying to a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 97(1)(b) are as follows—
(2) For subsection (1)(c)(i)—

100. Conditions for particular trust acquisitions
(1) The conditions applying to a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 97(1)(c) are as follows—
(2) For subsection (1)(c)(i)—

101. Conditions for creation of trusts and particular trust acquisitions
The conditions applying to a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 97(1)(d) are as follows—

102. Conditions for acquisitions of interest in family unit trusts
(1) The conditions applying to a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 97(1)(e) are as follows—
(2) For subsection (1)(c)(i)—

103 104. Dutiable transactions by way of gift
For this part, a dutiable transaction is by way of gift if there is no consideration or the unencumbered value of the dutiable property is greater than the consideration for the transaction.

Division 2 Concessions for transfer duty for dutiable transactions

105. How transfer duty is assessed on dutiable transaction—primary production business
(1) This section applies for assessing transfer duty on a dutiable transaction to which this part applies if business property to which the transaction relates is used to carry on a primary production business.
(2) The dutiable value of the business property is taken to be nil.
(3) In addition, if the dutiable property the subject of the dutiable transaction includes residential land adjacent to land used to carry on the business, the dutiable value of the residential land is taken to be nil.

105A. How transfer duty is assessed on dutiable transaction—prescribed business
(1) This section applies for assessing transfer duty on a dutiable transaction to which this part applies—
(2) The unencumbered value of the business property is limited to the amount by which the value exceeds $500,000.
(3) Subsection (2) has effect subject to section 106.

106. Special provision for assessing transfer duty if total gifts of property used for prescribed business exceed $500,000
(1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction to which this part applies if—
(2) The unencumbered value of the business property to which the transaction relates is limited to the amount by which the total value of the property mentioned in subsection (1)(a) and (e) exceeds $500,000.
(3) Subsection (1)(b) does not apply to a marketable security gifted on or after 1 January 2007.

107. Application for concession for transfer duty under pt 10
An application for a concession for transfer duty on a dutiable transaction under this part must—

Part 11 Concessions for superannuation

108. Dutiable transactions to which pt 11 applies
(1) This part applies to the following dutiable transactions—
(2) However, this part does not apply if the dutiable transaction is part of an arrangement the sole or dominant purpose of which is to avoid duty on the disposition of dutiable property of, or to, a superannuation fund.

109. Concession for transfer duty
Transfer duty imposed on a dutiable transaction to which this part applies is $20.

110. Documents to accompany application
An application for an assessment of duty under this part must be accompanied by the following—

Part 12

111 112
113 114

Part 13 Exemptions for transfer duty

Division 1 Exemptions for cancelled agreements and particular agreements entered into before registration of companies

115. Exemption—cancelled agreements
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property (the cancelled agreement) if—
(2) For subsection (1)(d), an agreement is a resale agreement if—
(3) If, on an assessment, transfer duty has been paid on an agreement that is not liable to transfer duty because of this section, the commissioner must make a reassessment if an application is made within 6 months after the agreement is ended or within the longer period the commissioner allows.
(4) The applicant must lodge the cancelled agreement with the application.

116. Exemption—particular agreements entered into before registration of company
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction that is the first agreement for the transfer of the dutiable property.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if—
(4) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction that is the transfer of the dutiable property to the company if transfer duty imposed on the agreement is paid.
(5) If, on an assessment, transfer duty has been paid on a dutiable transaction that is not liable to transfer duty because of this section, the commissioner must make a reassessment if an application is made within 6 months after the agreement is ended or ratified or the longer period the commissioner allows.
(6) The applicant must lodge the first agreement or transfer with the application.

Division 2 Exemptions for trusts

117. Exemption—change of trustee
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction for the sole purpose of giving effect to a change of a trustee if—
(2) Also, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction for the sole purpose of giving effect to a change of a trustee if—

118. Exemption—trust acquisition or surrender in family trust
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest if—
(2) Also, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a trust acquisition or trust surrender if—
(3) For subsection (1)(a) or (2)(a), a discretionary trust is established and maintained primarily for the benefit of the members of a particular family or a family company if—
(4) However, subsection (3)(b) is taken to be satisfied if the last taker in default of an appointment for capital by the trustee of the trust is—
(5) For subsection (2)(a), a trust other than a discretionary trust is established and maintained primarily for the benefit of the members of a particular family or a family company if at least 90% of the trust interests in the trust are held by members of the family or the family company.
(6) For applying this section, a person (the first person) is a member of the particular family of another person (the other person) if—
(7) In this section—

119. Exemption—trust acquisition or surrender in superannuation fund
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest—

120. Exemption—trust acquisition or surrender for membership of particular unincorporated association
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest of a member of an unincorporated association to which this section applies if—
(2) This section applies to an unincorporated association that—
(3) For subsection (2)(b), an association is not formed or carried on for providing financial gain for its members merely because 1 or more of the circumstances mentioned in the Associations Incorporation Act 1981, section 4, apply to it.

121. Exemption—trust acquisition or surrender for dutiable property comprising only existing rights
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest if—

122. Exemption—restructure of stapled entities
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a trust acquisition or trust surrender of a trust interest in a listed unit trust or a widely held unit trust if—
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply if—
(3) Despite subsection (2)(c), subsection (1) continues to apply if the commissioner is satisfied the interposed trust did not retain all the ownership interests because 1 or more of the stapled entities ceased to exist other than under an arrangement, a significant purpose of which was to avoid the requirement to retain all the ownership interests for at least 3 years.
(4) If subsection (1) does not apply, the commissioner must make a reassessment to impose transfer duty on the transaction as if the exemption from duty had never applied.
(5) Subsection (4) applies to the reassessment despite the limitation period under the Administration Act for reassessments.
(6) If an event mentioned in subsection (2) happens, a party to the transaction must, within 28 days after the event happens—
(7) Without limiting subsection (3), a company registered under the Corporations Act ceases to exist if it is deregistered under that Act.

123. Exemption—particular distribution of dutiable property to a beneficiary
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property to a beneficiary, or the surrender of a trust interest of a beneficiary, to the extent it represents the beneficiary’s trust interest on a distribution by the trustee under a trust.
(2) However, subsection (1) applies only if the commissioner is satisfied—
(3) The trust acquisition of a beneficiary’s trust interest is not exempt from transfer duty for the purposes of subsection (2)(b)(ii) if transfer duty is not imposed on the acquisition because of the operation of section 66(2).
(4) Also, subsection (1) applies only to the extent transfer duty is paid for the distribution of the dutiable property if—

124. Exemption—deceased person’s estate
Transfer duty is not imposed on the following dutiable transactions—

125. Exemption—particular vestings of dutiable property
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is, or arises from—

126. Exemption—transactions for trust created for person under legal disability
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—

126A. Exemption—special disability trusts
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—
(2) In this section—

127. Exemption—declaration of charitable trust
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—

128. Exemption—community purpose associations
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is the creation of a trust of dutiable property or a trust acquisition for which details of the trust are required to be registered under the Land Title Act 1994 if—

Division 3 Exemptions for particular investment schemes

129. Exemption—transfer by direction to primary custodian for responsible entity of registered managed investment scheme
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a transfer of dutiable property from a person as vendor to another person as primary custodian for the responsible entity of a registered managed investment scheme.
(2) However, subsection (1) applies only if—

130. Exemption—other transfers of scheme property of registered managed investment scheme
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on the following dutiable transactions (relevant transactions)—
(2) However, subsection (1) does not apply if the relevant transaction is part of an arrangement under which—
(3) In this section—

Division 3A Exemptions for eligible superannuation entities

130A. Exemption—transfer by direction to custodian for a superannuation entity
(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), transfer duty is not imposed on a transfer of dutiable property from a person as vendor to another person as custodian for the trustee of one of the following entities (each an eligible superannuation entity)—
(2) Subsection (1) applies only if—
(3) If the trustee of the eligible superannuation entity has given a written notice to an entity other than APRA as mentioned in subsection (1)(b), subsection (1) applies only if the transfer of dutiable property is the transfer of an acquirable asset to the custodian to be held on trust for the trustee in compliance with the Superannuation Industry Act, section 67A(1)(b).
(4) In this section—

130B. Exemption—other transfers of fund property of eligible superannuation entities
(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), transfer duty is not imposed on a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of fund property of an eligible superannuation entity from—
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the transfer or agreement is part of an arrangement under which—
(3) If the trustee of the eligible superannuation entity has given a written notice to an entity other than APRA as mentioned in section 130A(1)(b), subsection (1) applies to the transfer or agreement only if—

Division 3B Exemptions for asset-backed securities

Subdivision 1 Some basic concepts for asset-backed securities

130C. What is an asset-backed security
(1) An asset-backed security is—
(2) However, the term does not include—
(3) It does not matter whether an asset-backed security is effected by an instrument or another way.

130D. Who is a financier
A financier is a lender or bailor who provides financial accommodation under a financial asset.

130E. What is a financial asset
(1) A financial asset is any of the following—
(2) In this section—

130F. What is a pool of financial assets
(1) A pool of financial assets is a pool or collection of assets that consists solely of financial assets.
(2) Also, a pool of financial assets is a pool or collection of assets that consists substantially or, if another extent is prescribed under a regulation, to the extent prescribed, of financial assets or amounts paid under financial assets, or a combination of them, if the other assets in the pool or collection are cash or an authorised investment.

130G. What is an authorised investment
An authorised investment, for a pool of financial assets, is any of the following—

Subdivision 2 Exemptions

130H. Exemption—particular transactions for asset-backed securities
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of—
(2) Also, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that—
(3) In addition, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a trust surrender required to give effect to a redemption of an asset-backed security.

Division 3C Exemptions for mortgage-backed securities

130I. Exemption—mortgage-backed securities
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a mortgage or pool of mortgages for creating, issuing, marketing or securing a mortgage-backed security.
(2) Also, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that—
(3) In addition, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a trust surrender required to give effect to a redemption of a mortgage-backed security.

Division 4 Exemptions for dealings under particular Acts

131. Exemption—dealings under Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Land Acts
Transfer duty is not imposed on the following dutiable transactions—

132. Exemption—vesting under boundary adjustment plans
Transfer duty is not imposed on the vesting of land because of the registration of—

133. Exemption—community titles schemes
(1) Subject to subsection (2), transfer duty is not imposed on a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a lot that, under the Body Corporate and Community Management Act 1997, is a lot included in a community titles scheme if—
(2) Subsection (1) applies to the transfer or agreement for the transfer of a lot by a transferor corporation on or after the commencement day only if—
(3) In this section—

134. Exemption—forfeiture orders
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property under—

135. Exemption—industrial organisations
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—

136. Exemption—dealings under Land Act
Transfer duty is not imposed on the following dutiable transactions—

137. Exemption—mining, petroleum and other particular legislation
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—
(2) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—
(3) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—
(4) Subsection (1) applies to a dutiable transaction if liability for transfer duty arose or arises on or after 1 March 2002.

138. Exemption—manufactured homes
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on any of the following dutiable transactions—
(2) In this section—

139. Exemption—dealings under South Bank Corporation Act
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is—

140. Exemption—particular water entitlements
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is the grant of a water entitlement to the extent that it replaces and represents—

141. Exemption—particular statutory bodies
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property to any of the following bodies—
(2) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a gift of dutiable property to the Council of the Queensland Institute of Medical Research continued in existence under the Queensland Institute of Medical Research Act 2025, to which section 46 of that Act applies.

141A. Exemption—mandatory buyback under Retirement Villages Act 1999
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction under the Retirement Villages Act 1999, section 63A.

Division 5 Miscellaneous exemptions

142. Exemption—charitable institutions
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property to—
(2) In this section—

143. Exemption—change of tenure
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on an agreement for a transfer entered into, or a transfer made, solely for the purpose of changing the registered ownership of property—
(2) Subsection (1) applies only if—

144. Exemption—joint tenancy
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that arises by operation of law because of the death of a joint tenant.

145. Exemption—transfer to State for public or community purpose
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a transfer of land to, or vesting of land in a way mentioned in section 9(1)(d)(i) in, the State for—

146. Exemption—leases of particular residences
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on an acquisition of a new right that is a lease of land in Queensland if—
(2) In this section—

147. Exemption—surrender of lease
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a surrender of a lease of land in Queensland if—

148. Exemption—marketable securities etc.
Transfer duty is not imposed on any of the following dutiable transactions—

149. Exemption—debt factoring agreements
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a business asset that is a book debt if the transaction is part of a debt factoring agreement between the parties.
(2) In this section—

150. Exemption—particular chattels
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of any of the following chattels taken under a statutory licence, profit a prendre, sharefarming agreement or other similar arrangement if the condition in subsection (2) for the chattel is complied with—
(2) For subsection (1), the condition is—

151. Exemption—particular residences
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, by way of gift, from 1 party to a subsisting marriage, de facto relationship or civil partnership, to the other party to the marriage, de facto relationship or civil partnership, of an interest in residential land if—
(2) Subsection (1) applies even if liability under a mortgage over the interest in the land, in existence immediately before the transaction, is assumed by the other party under the transaction.

151A. Exemption—indigenous land use agreements
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on the following dutiable transactions, if the dutiable transaction satisfies the requirements stated in subsection (2)—
(2) For subsection (1), the requirements are—
(3) Subsection (4) applies if, after an assessment is made on the basis of an exemption under subsection (1), the commissioner is satisfied the land the subject of the dutiable transaction—
(4) The commissioner must not make a reassessment merely because the land has not been used for an eligible use by the start date if the land starts to be used for the eligible use by the new start date.
(5) In this section—

152. Exemption—to correct clerical error in previous dutiable transaction
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction to correct a clerical error in a previous dutiable transaction about the same property if—
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that an error by a party about the appropriateness of a transaction to achieve a particular intended legal result is not a clerical error in the transaction.
(3) A dutiable transaction to which this section applies is a section 152 exempt transaction.

152A. Exemption—previous dutiable transaction for a section 152 exempt transaction if clerical error is a misdescription of property
(1) Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is the previous dutiable transaction for a section 152 exempt transaction if—
(2) If, under an assessment, transfer duty is imposed on a previous dutiable transaction to which subsection (1) applies, on application in the approved form by a party to the previous dutiable transaction the commissioner must make a reassessment of transfer duty on the basis that transfer duty is not imposed on the previous dutiable transaction.
(3) In this section—

Part 14 Reassessments for transfer duty

Division 1 Reassessments for concessions for homes

153. Reassessment—disposal after occupation date for residence
(1) This section applies if—
(1A) For subsection (1)(b), a transferee, lessee or vested person for land does not dispose of land if—
(1B) Also, for subsection (1)(b), a transferee or vested person for land does not dispose of residential land that is an accommodation unit in a retirement village only by entering into a retirement village leasing arrangement for the unit.
(1C) Also, for subsection (1)(b)(ii), a transferee, lessee or vested person for land does not dispose of land only by entering into a residential lease of part, but not all, of the land.
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose further transfer duty on the dutiable transaction worked out using the following formula—
(2) where—
(3) If—
(3) this section applies to the later disposal as if the transferee, lessee or vested person had not transferred the part of the land to the transferee’s, lessee’s or vested person’s spouse.
(4) In this section—

154. Reassessment—noncompliance with occupancy requirements
(1) This section applies if—
(2) For subsection (1)(b)(i), a transferee, lessee or vested person for land disposes of land if—
(2AA) Subsection (2) does not apply if—
(2A) Also, for subsection (1)(b)(i), a transferee, lessee or vested person for land does not dispose of land if—
(2B) Also, for subsection (1)(b)(i), a transferee or vested person for land does not dispose of residential land that is an accommodation unit in a retirement village only by entering into a retirement village leasing arrangement for the unit.
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose transfer duty on the dutiable transaction as if the concession had never applied to the transferee, lessee or vested person.
(4) If—
(4) this section applies to the later disposal as if the transferee, lessee or vested person had not transferred the part of the land to the transferee’s, lessee’s or vested person’s spouse.
(5) In this section—

154A. Reassessment—decrease in dutiable value of residential vacant land
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose transfer duty on the dutiable transaction on the basis that a reference in section 92B or 93B to residential vacant land were a reference to the residential land.

155. When transferees, lessees and vested persons for land must give notice for reassessment
(1) This section applies if a notifiable event happens after an assessment, on the basis of a concession under section 91, 92, 92A, 92B, 93, 93A or 93B, of transfer duty on a dutiable transaction that is 1 of the following (each a relevant transaction)—
(2) Within 28 days after the notifiable event happens, the notifier for land in relation to the relevant transaction must—
(3) In this section—

Division 2 Reassessments for concessions and exemptions for superannuation

156. Reassessment—noncomplying superannuation fund or public superannuation entity
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Within 28 days after the first anniversary, the trustees of the funds mentioned in subsection (1)(b)(i) or trustees of the fund or trust mentioned in subsection (1)(b)(ii) must—
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose transfer duty on the transaction as if the concession or exemption had never applied.

Division 3 Reassessments for cancelled transfers of dutiable property

156A. Reassessment of duty for cancelled transfer of dutiable property
(1) This section applies if—
(2) For this section, an instrument or ELN transaction document has legal effect if—
(3) For subsection (1)(d)(i), an agreement is a resale agreement if—
(4) The person may lodge an application for a reassessment in the approved form within 6 months after the instrument or ELN transaction document is cancelled.
(5) The person must lodge the instrument, ELN transaction document or a copy of the ELN transaction document with the application, unless the commissioner decides lodgement is unnecessary.
(6) The commissioner must make a reassessment of transfer duty for the transaction on the basis that transfer duty is not imposed on the transaction.

Division 4 Reassessments for exemptions for indigenous land use agreements

156B. Reassessment on application
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment of duty for the transaction on the basis of compliance with section 151A(2)(d) and (e).
(3) Subsection (2) applies to the reassessment despite the Administration Act, section 21.
(4) However, if the application is made by the transferee or acquirer after the limitation period for reassessments under the Administration Act has expired, the application must be made within 6 months after the relevant requirements are satisfied.

156C. Reassessment—noncompliance with particular requirements
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Within 28 days after the event mentioned in subsection (1)(b) happens, the transferee or acquirer must—
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment of duty on the transaction as if the exemption had never applied.
(4) The reassessment must be made within the later of the following—
(5) Subsection (4)(b) applies despite the Administration Act, section 22.

Part 15 Provisions for ELN transfers and ELN lodgements

Division 1 Preliminary

156D. Definitions for part
In this part—

156E. When an ELN transaction document is signed
(1) An ELN transaction document for an ELN transfer is signed when all transfer information in the ELN workspace for the ELN transfer is digitally signed by or for all parties to the ELN transfer.
(2) An ELN transaction document for an ELN lodgement is signed when all lodgement information in the ELN workspace for the ELN lodgement is digitally signed by or for all parties to the ELN lodgement.

156F. When an ELN workspace is locked and unlocked
(1) An ELN workspace for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement is locked when the subscribers to the ELN workspace are unable to amend the transfer information or lodgement information in the ELN workspace.
(2) An ELN workspace for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement is unlocked if, after the ELN workspace has been locked, the subscribers to the ELN workspace are no longer unable to amend the transfer information or lodgement information in the ELN workspace.

156G. When dutiable transactions are related
(1) For this part, an incomplete ELN transfer and a completed transfer, or an incomplete ELN transfer and another incomplete ELN transfer, are related to each other if both are transfers—
(2) Also for this part, an incomplete ELN lodgement and a completed lodgement, or an incomplete ELN lodgement and another incomplete ELN lodgement, are related to each other if—

Division 2 Provisions about liability for transfer duty

Subdivision 1 Preliminary

156H. Effect of multiple locking events for ELN workspace
(1) Each time a multiple locking event happens for the ELN workspace for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement, when the ELN workspace is locked again—
(2) For this section, a multiple locking event happens for the ELN workspace for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement if, after the ELN workspace has been unlocked, the ELN workspace is locked again.

156I. Liability for transfer duty not affected by particular events
(1) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the following events do not affect a liability for transfer duty imposed on an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement—
(2) In this section—

Subdivision 2 No multiple duty for particular incomplete ELN transfers and incomplete ELN lodgements

156J. Application of subdivision
This subdivision applies if—

156K. When liability for transfer duty is imposed
(1) Subsection (2) applies to a liability for transfer duty imposed on each of the following—
(2) The liability is taken to be imposed when the liability for transfer duty is imposed on the first related transfer.
(3) Subsection (4) applies to a liability for transfer duty imposed on each of the following—
(4) The liability is taken to be imposed when the liability for transfer duty is imposed on the first related lodgement.
(5) This section applies despite section 16.
(6) In this section—

156L. Deemed compliance with duty obligation
(1) A duty obligation for an incomplete ELN transfer that is related to the completed transfer is taken to be complied with when the duty obligation under the same provision is complied with in full for the completed transfer.
(2) A duty obligation for an incomplete ELN lodgement that is related to the completed lodgement is taken to be complied with when the duty obligation under the same provision is complied with in full for the completed lodgement.
(3) In this section—

Subdivision 3 Other provisions

156M. Exclusion of ss 21 and 22(2) and (2A)
(1) To remove any doubt, it is declared that section 21 does not apply to the imposition of transfer duty on any of the following—
(2) Section 22(2) or (2A) does not apply to an incomplete ELN transfer that is related to a completed transfer.
(3) The fact that an incomplete ELN transfer is not related to a completed transfer does not affect a liability for transfer duty imposed on the incomplete ELN transfer.
(4) Section 22(2) does not apply to an incomplete ELN lodgement that is related to a completed lodgement and for which there is an agreement that is not a relevant transfer agreement.
(5) The fact that an incomplete ELN lodgement is not related to a completed lodgement does not affect a liability for transfer duty imposed on the incomplete ELN lodgement.
(6) This section does not limit section 156A or 499.

Division 3 Payment commitments

156N. Making of payment commitment for relevant transfer agreement to transfer dutiable property
(1) A payment commitment for an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property that is a relevant transfer agreement is made by the parties to the agreement if—
(2) For subsection (1)(b), an amount is outstanding if it has not been—
(3) A payment commitment made for an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property that is a relevant transfer agreement has effect until the earlier of the following—
(4) In this section—

156O. Payment commitment does not affect liability to pay
To remove any doubt, it is declared that a party’s liability under this Act to pay an amount to the commissioner is not affected by the making of a payment commitment for all or part of the amount.

Division 4 Charge for unpaid transfer duty

156P. Charge over transferee’s interest in land for unpaid transfer duty for ELN transfer
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The outstanding liability is a first charge on the transferee’s interest in the land that is the subject of the ELN transfer.
(3) The charge has priority over all other encumbrances over the transferee’s interest in the land.
(4) Subsection (3) applies—
(5) The commissioner may lodge, under the Administration Act, part 4, division 5, a request to register the charge on the land that is the subject of the ELN transfer.
(6) Despite section 47B of the Administration Act, the registrar must not register the charge if the transferee is no longer the registered owner of the land.
(7) On its registration, the charge is not affected by a disposition of the transferee’s interest in the land.

156Q. Commissioner may apply to Supreme Court for order to sell
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner may apply to the Supreme Court for an order to sell the land stated in the application.
(3) At least 6 months before making the application, the commissioner must give the persons mentioned in subsection (4) notice of the commissioner’s intention to apply to the Supreme Court for an order to sell the land unless the outstanding liability is paid within 6 months after the date of the notice.
(4) The persons to whom notice must be given are—

156R. When court must order sale of land
(1) The court must order the sale of the land if it is satisfied—
(2) However, the court may make an order only for the land the court considers is sufficient to realise proceeds to pay the amounts mentioned in section 156S(a) to (d).

156S. Application of proceeds of sale
The proceeds of the sale of land sold under the order must be applied as follows—

156T. Registration of transfer
(1) If land is sold under the order to sell, the person stated in the order for this section must—
(2) The registrar must register the transfer as if it had been signed by the registered owner of the land.
(3) Subsection (2) applies despite non-production of the relevant instrument of title.

156U. Former owner may recover proceeds of sale as debt
(1) The amount equal to the proceeds of the sale of land under the order to sell less an amount paid under section 156S(d) is a debt payable to the former owner of the land by the persons liable to pay the outstanding liability for which the order was made.
(2) The former owner may recover the debt in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(3) In this section—

Division 5 Miscellaneous

156V. Particular information in ELN workspace taken to be stated to commissioner
(1) For this Act and the Administration Act, each party to an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement, and each relevant subscriber, is taken to have stated to the commissioner information that is—
(2) In this section—

156W. Effect of self assessor’s endorsement of ELN transaction document for incomplete ELN transfer or incomplete ELN lodgement
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) The endorsement is of no effect from the time the ELN workspace for the incomplete ELN transfer is unlocked.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if—
(4) The endorsement is of no effect from the time the ELN workspace for the incomplete ELN lodgement is unlocked.

Chapter 3 Landholder duty and corporate trustee duty

Part 1 Landholder duty

Division 1 Preliminary

157. Imposition of landholder duty
(1) This part imposes duty (landholder duty) on relevant acquisitions.
(2) Landholder duty is imposed—

Division 2 Some basic concepts for landholder duty

Subdivision 1 Some basic concepts about acquiring interests in landholders

158. What is a relevant acquisition
(1) A person makes a relevant acquisition if—
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that for subsection (1)(b), it is not relevant whether, immediately before the person acquires the interest—

159. What are interests and significant interests in a landholder
(1) A person has an interest in a landholder if the person has an entitlement as a shareholder or unit holder to a distribution of the landholder’s property—
(2) A person has a significant interest in a landholder if the person has an interest in the landholder of—

160. Interest in landholder is percentage of distributable property on winding up of a corporation or termination of a listed unit trust
(1) A person’s interest in a landholder is the person’s entitlement expressed as a percentage of the value of all of the landholder’s property that would be distributed if, immediately after the person acquires the interest—
(2) If the landholder’s property includes property held for a partnership of which the landholder is a partner, all of the property held for the partnership is taken for subsection (1) to be property that could be distributed, regardless of the landholder’s interest in the partnership.

161. Entitlement on distribution of corporation’s property
(1) Subject to section 161B, the entitlement of a person on a distribution of a corporation’s property is the greater of the entitlement of the person as a shareholder, based on a distribution carried out—
(2) In this section—

161A. Entitlement on distribution of listed unit trust’s property
(1) Subject to section 161B, the entitlement of a person on a distribution of a listed unit trust’s property is the greater of the entitlement of the person as a unit holder, based on a distribution carried out—
(2) The entitlement of a person under subsection (1) must be worked out without regard to the liabilities of the trust.
(3) In this section—

161B. Matters about applying ss 161 and 161A
(1) If the commissioner considers the application of section 161(1)(b) or 161A(1)(b) would be inequitable, the commissioner may decide the entitlement of a person be based on a distribution carried out under section 161(1)(a) or 161A(1)(a).
(2) Also, if a person makes a relevant acquisition because interests are aggregated under section 158(1)(b)(ii), the entitlements under section 161(1)(b) or 161A(1)(b) of the person and the related persons of the person must not be more than 100%.

162. Acquiring an interest in a landholder
(1) A person acquires an interest in a landholder if the person obtains an interest, or the person’s interest increases, in the landholder regardless of how it is obtained or increased.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), a person may acquire an interest in a landholder in the following ways—
(3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that an acquisition of shares or units is not necessary to acquire an interest in a landholder.

163. When is an interest acquired
(1) This section applies—
(2) The person acquires the interest—
(3) Also, if—
(3) the person acquires an interest in the landholder at the time of the later acquisition.

164. Who is a related person
(1) A person is a related person of another person if—
(2) Also, a person is a related person of another person if the persons acquire interests in a landholder and the acquisitions form, evidence, give effect to or arise from what is substantially 1 arrangement.
(3) However, a person is not a related person of another person under subsection (1), other than subsection (1)(d), if the commissioner is satisfied the interests of the persons—

Subdivision 2 Some basic concepts about entities and their land-holdings and property

165. What is a landholder
A landholder is an entity that has land-holdings in Queensland, the unencumbered value of which are $2,000,000 or more.

165A. What is a private landholder and public landholder
(1) A private landholder is a landholder that is an unlisted corporation.
(2) A public landholder is a landholder that is a listed corporation or listed unit trust.

166. What is a subsidiary
(1) A corporation is a subsidiary of—
(2) Also, each of the following is a subsidiary of the holding entity—
(3) In addition, a corporation or trustee of a trust is a subsidiary of a holding entity if, under subsection (1) or (2), it is a subsidiary of a subsidiary of the holding entity.
(4) For subsection (1)(b), a corporation is a subsidiary of a listed unit trust if it is a subsidiary of the trust under the Corporations Act, chapter 1, part 1.2, division 6, applied—
(5) For deciding whether a trustee of a trust is a subsidiary of a holding entity under subsection (2)—
(6) In this section—

167. What are an entity’s land-holdings
(1) An entity’s land-holdings means the following—
(2) Also, an entity’s land-holdings includes the land-holdings, under subsection (1), held by the entity for a partnership of which the entity is a partner as if a reference in the subsection to land, an interest in land or rights, were a reference to land, an interest in land or rights held by the entity for the partnership.
(3) Also, an entity’s land-holdings includes the land-holdings, under subsection (1) or (2), of a subsidiary of the entity as if a reference in the subsection to an entity were a reference to the subsidiary.
(4) Despite subsections (1) to (3), an entity’s land-holdings do not include—

168. What is an entity’s property
(1) An entity’s property means the entity’s interest in any property other than a security interest or interest in a trust.
(2) Also, an entity’s property includes any property under subsection (1) held by the entity for a partnership of which the entity is a partner.
(3) Also, an entity’s property includes any property under subsection (1) or (2) of a subsidiary of the entity as if a reference in the subsection to an entity were a reference to the subsidiary.
(4) Despite subsections (1) to (3), the entity’s property does not include—

169

Subdivision 3 Some basic concepts about unencumbered values of land-holdings and property

170. Value of co-owned land-holdings
(1) If an entity’s land-holdings include land-holdings in which it has an interest as co-owner, the unencumbered value of the interests of all co-owners in the land-holdings must be included in working out the unencumbered value of the entity’s land-holdings for section 165.
(2) However, subsection (1) does not apply if the commissioner is satisfied that the co-ownership is not intended to avoid the imposition of landholder duty.

171. Value of land-holdings in uncompleted agreement for transfer included
To remove any doubt, it is declared that the unencumbered value of the land the subject of a purchase agreement or sale agreement made by the entity or a subsidiary of the entity must be included in working out the unencumbered value of an entity’s land-holdings.

172. Value of land-holdings held for a partnership
If an entity’s land-holdings include land-holdings held for a partnership of which the entity is a partner, the unencumbered value of those land-holdings must be included in working out the unencumbered value of the entity’s land-holdings regardless of the entity’s interest in the partnership.

173. Value of land-holdings and property—business property disregarded
(1) For an acquisition of an interest in an entity that is a dutiable transaction to which chapter 2, part 10, applies, business property taken to have no value under the part must be disregarded in working out the unencumbered value of the land-holdings or property of the entity.
(2) For subsection (1), a repealed s 97(1)(f) transaction is taken to be a dutiable transaction to which chapter 2, part 10, applies.
(3) A repealed s 97(1)(f) transaction is a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a marketable security in a corporation to which the following applies—
(4) For subsection (3)(d)(i)—
(5) In this section—

Division 3 Liability for landholder duty

174. When liability for landholder duty arises
A liability for landholder duty imposed on a relevant acquisition arises when the acquisition is made.

175. Who is liable to pay landholder duty
(1) Landholder duty imposed on a relevant acquisition must be paid by the acquirer.
(2) However, if a person makes a relevant acquisition because interests are aggregated under section 158(1)(b)(ii), the person and the related persons of the person are jointly and severally liable for the payment of the landholder duty.

176 177. Landholder duty statement
The acquirer under a relevant acquisition, or for a relevant acquisition mentioned in section 175(2), the acquirer or the related persons of the acquirer must within 30 days after the acquisition is made, lodge a statement in the approved form (a landholder duty statement).

178. Effect of lodging landholder duty statement by acquirer or related person
The lodging, under section 177, of a landholder duty statement by the acquirer or a related person of the acquirer relieves the other person from complying with the section.

Division 4 Working out landholder duty for relevant acquisitions

Subdivision 1 Private landholders

178A. Rate of landholder duty
The rate of landholder duty imposed on the dutiable value of a relevant acquisition made in a private landholder is the rate stated in schedule 3, column 2, opposite the dutiable value stated in schedule 3, column 1.

179. Working out dutiable value of relevant acquisition
(1) The dutiable value of a relevant acquisition in a private landholder is the interest in, or total of interests in, the landholder constituting the relevant acquisition, less any excluded interest of the person at the time of the acquisition, multiplied by the unencumbered value of all Queensland land-holdings of the landholder at the time of the acquisition.
(2) Subsection (3) applies to the following relevant acquisitions—
(3) For applying subsection (1) to a relevant acquisition mentioned in subsection (2), the interest is the increased interest in the private landholder that is acquired by the person by the relevant acquisition.
(4) For applying subsection (1) to a relevant acquisition, the interest mentioned in section 409(3) must be disregarded.
(5) This section has effect subject to a deduction allowed under sections 185 to 188.
(6) In this section—

Subdivision 2 Public landholders

179A. Landholder duty
(1) Subject to section 179B, the landholder duty imposed on a relevant acquisition made by a person in a public landholder is 10% of the amount of transfer duty that would be imposed on a dutiable transaction under chapter 2, if a transfer of all the Queensland land-holdings of the landholder had happened at the time of the relevant acquisition.
(2) However, for a relevant acquisition to which section 158(1)(c) applies, no landholder duty is imposed for an increase in the person’s interest if—
(3) This section has effect subject to a deduction allowed under sections 185 to 188.

179B. Dutiable value of dutiable transaction for s 179A
(1) For section 179A, in working out the amount of transfer duty that would be imposed under chapter 2, the dutiable value of the dutiable transaction is the unencumbered value of all Queensland land-holdings of the landholder at the time of the acquisition, reduced by the proportion of the value represented by any excluded interest of the person at the time of the acquisition.
(2) In this section—

Subdivision 3 Other provisions for working out dutiable value

180. Aggregation of particular relevant acquisitions
(1) This section applies for aggregating relevant acquisitions that together form, evidence, give effect to or arise from what is, substantially 1 arrangement if a person makes a relevant acquisition mentioned in section 179(2).
(2) For assessing landholder duty on each of the relevant acquisitions, the acquisitions must be aggregated and treated as a single relevant acquisition.
(3) For subsection (1), all relevant circumstances relating to the relevant acquisitions must be taken into account in deciding whether they together form, evidence, give effect to or arise from what is, substantially 1 arrangement.
(4) For subsection (3), relevant circumstances include the following—
(5) Landholder duty imposed on the relevant acquisition aggregated under this section must—
(6) The acquirer must, when lodging the landholder duty statement relating to the acquisition, give notice to the commissioner stating details known to the acquirer about—

181 182. Unencumbered value of land-holdings of subsidiary of landholder
(1) This section applies for working out the unencumbered value of the Queensland land-holdings of a landholder under section 179 or 179B, to the extent the land-holdings comprise land-holdings of a subsidiary of the landholder.
(2) The unencumbered value of the Queensland land-holdings of the landholder is the proportion of the unencumbered value of the land-holdings in Queensland of all the subsidiaries to which the landholder would be entitled, if the subsidiaries, at the same time and without regard to their liabilities—
(3) For subsection (2), the unencumbered value of the Queensland land-holdings of the subsidiary on the winding up or termination of all the subsidiaries is—
(4) Without limiting subsection (3)(c), land-holdings may be derived by—
(5) If the Queensland land-holdings of a subsidiary of the landholder includes land-holdings held for a partnership of which the subsidiary is a partner, subsection (2) applies to the unencumbered value of the land-holdings held for the partnership regardless of the subsidiary’s interest in the partnership.
(6) To remove any doubt it is declared that land-holdings may be derived by the landholder even if a subsidiary of the landholder is a beneficiary of a trust.
(7) If there is more than 1 subsidiary of the landholder that is a beneficiary of a trust, for subsection (2), the proportion of the unencumbered value of the Queensland land-holdings that may be derived from the trust must not be more than the whole.

183. Land transferred for shares or units to be disregarded
(1) This section applies if the relevant acquisition is the issue of shares or units by a landholder to a person in the following circumstances—
(2) In working out the unencumbered value of the Queensland land-holdings of the landholder, the value of the land must be disregarded.

184. Value of co-owned land-holdings
For sections 179 and 179B, if a landholder has an interest in land-holdings as co-owner, the value of the land-holdings is the unencumbered value of the landholder’s interest in the land-holdings.

Subdivision 4 Deductions

185. Deduction—corporate trustee duty
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Landholder duty imposed on the relevant acquisition must be reduced by the amount of corporate trustee duty paid or payable for the land-holdings to the extent that the land-holdings were included in working out the dutiable value of the relevant acquisition under this part.

186. Deduction—transfer duty for particular trusts
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Landholder duty imposed on the relevant acquisition must be reduced by the amount of transfer duty paid or payable for the land-holdings to the extent that the land-holdings were included in working out the dutiable value of the relevant acquisition under this part.

187. Deduction—transfer duty for marketable securities
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Landholder duty imposed on the relevant acquisition must be reduced by an amount worked out using the following formula—
(2) where—

188. Deduction—mortgage duty
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Also, this section applies if—
(3) For subsection (1), the transferee is taken to have made a relevant acquisition of the shares or units owned by the transferee and related persons of the transferee.
(4) Landholder duty imposed on the relevant acquisition must be reduced by any mortgage duty paid on the transfer or agreement to transfer.

Division 5 Exempt acquisitions

189. Exemption—particular share or unit issues
(1) Landholder duty is not imposed on an acquisition by a person of an interest on the initial allotment of shares or units on the registration of a corporation or the establishment of a listed unit trust.
(2) Also, landholder duty is not imposed on an acquisition by a person if—
(3) In addition, landholder duty is not imposed on an acquisition by a person if—
(4) In this section—

190. Exemption—security interests
Landholder duty is not imposed on an acquisition of a security interest if the commissioner is satisfied the interest was not acquired with the intention of avoiding the imposition of landholder duty.

191. Exemption—change of trustee
Landholder duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition for the sole purpose of giving effect to a change of a trustee if—

192. Exemption—acquisition by liquidator
Landholder duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition by a person if the interest was acquired solely in the person’s capacity as a liquidator.

193. Exemption—compromise or arrangements
Landholder duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition by a person if—

193A. Exemption—restructure of stapled entities
(1) Landholder duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition if—
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply if—
(3) Despite subsection (2)(c), subsection (1) continues to apply if the commissioner is satisfied the interposed trust did not retain all the ownership interests because 1 or more of the stapled entities ceased to exist other than under an arrangement, a significant purpose of which was to avoid the requirement to retain all the ownership interests for at least 3 years.
(4) If subsection (1) does not apply, the commissioner must make a reassessment to impose landholder duty on the relevant acquisition as if the exemption from duty had never applied.
(5) Subsection (4) applies to the reassessment despite the limitation period under the Administration Act for reassessments.
(6) If an event mentioned in subsection (2) happens, the acquirer under the relevant acquisition must, within 28 days after the event happens—
(7) Without limiting subsection (3), a company registered under the Corporations Act ceases to exist if it is deregistered under that Act.

194. Exemption—if transfer duty not imposed
(1) This section applies for a relevant acquisition that would be a dutiable transaction if marketable securities were dutiable property under chapter 2.
(2) Landholder duty is not imposed on the acquisition if transfer duty would not be imposed on the dutiable transaction because of an exemption under any of the following provisions—

194A. Exemption—marketable securities
Landholder duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition that is a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of a marketable security to or from a corporation if—

195. Exemption—no liability for transfer duty on acquisition in other way
Landholder duty is not imposed on an acquisition by a person if—

196. Interests acquired under exempt acquisitions disregarded for particular purposes
An interest acquired under an exempt acquisition, other than an exempt acquisition under section 195, must be disregarded as an interest in a landholder when—

Division 6 Reassessments for landholder duty

197. When commissioner must make reassessment
(1) The commissioner must make a reassessment of landholder duty imposed for a relevant acquisition if—
(2) Also, the commissioner must make a reassessment of landholder duty imposed for a relevant acquisition if at the time of the relevant acquisition a person is taken to have acquired an interest in a landholder under an agreement to acquire the interest but the agreement is not completed.
(3) When reassessing landholder duty under subsection (1), the commissioner must disregard the land mentioned in the subsection in—
(4) When reassessing the landholder duty under subsection (2), the commissioner must disregard the interest mentioned in the subsection.
(5) For a reassessment under subsection (1) or (2), the acquirer under the relevant acquisition must lodge the landholder duty statement for the acquisition.
(6) Subsection (1) or (2) applies to the reassessment despite the limitation period under the Administration Act for reassessments.
(7) In this section—

Division 7 Enforcement

Subdivision 1 Charges

198. Charge over land for unpaid landholder duty
(1) This section applies if landholder duty is not paid by the date by which the duty must be paid.
(2) The liability to pay the outstanding amount of landholder duty is a first charge on land owned by the landholder concerned in the relevant acquisition for which the landholder duty is payable and any subsidiary of the landholder.
(3) The commissioner may lodge, under the Administration Act, part 4, division 5, a request to register the charge over stated land owned by the landholder or its subsidiary.
(4) The charge has priority over all other encumbrances over the land.

199

Subdivision 2 Power of sale

200. Commissioner may apply to Supreme Court for order to sell
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner may apply to the Supreme Court for an order to sell the land stated in the application.
(3) At least 6 months before making the application, the commissioner must give notice to the person liable to pay the landholder duty and the owner of the land of the commissioner’s intention to apply to the Supreme Court for an order to sell the land unless the outstanding amount of landholder duty is paid within 6 months after the date of the notice.

201. When court must order sale of land
(1) The court must order the sale of the land if it is satisfied—
(2) However, the court may make an order only for the land the court considers is sufficient to realise proceeds to pay the amounts mentioned in section 202(a) to (d).

202. Application of proceeds of sale
The proceeds of the sale of land sold under the order must be applied as follows—

203. Registration of transfer
(1) If land is sold under the order to sell, the person stated in the order for this section must—
(2) The registrar must register the transfer as if it had been signed by the registered owner of the land.
(3) Subsection (2) applies despite non-production of the relevant instrument of title.

204. Landholder or subsidiary may recover proceeds of sale as debt
(1) The amount equal to the proceeds of the sale of land under the order less an amount paid under section 202(d) is a debt payable to the entity or subsidiary that previously owned the land by the persons liable to pay the landholder duty for which the order was made.
(2) The entity or subsidiary may recover the debt in a court of competent jurisdiction.

Part 2 Corporate trustee duty

Division 1 Preliminary

205. Imposition of corporate trustee duty
(1) This part imposes duty (corporate trustee duty) on relevant acquisitions.
(2) Corporate trustee duty is imposed on the dutiable value of a relevant acquisition.

206. Interpretation for property held by partnership or trust
A reference to a partnership or trust holding property is a reference to the holding of the property by the partners for the partnership or trustees for the trust.

Division 2 Some basic concepts for corporate trustee duty

207. What is a relevant acquisition
A person makes a relevant acquisition if—

208. What is a share interest
A share interest is a person’s interest as a shareholder in a corporate trustee or relevant corporation for a corporate trustee.

209. What is a corporate trustee
A corporate trustee is an unlisted corporation, other than an authorised trustee corporation, that is the trustee of a discretionary trust that—

210. What is a corporate trustee’s indirect interest in dutiable property
A corporate trustee has an indirect interest in dutiable property if it—

211. What is a relevant corporation for a corporate trustee
(1) A corporation is a relevant corporation for a corporate trustee if the corporation is an unlisted corporation that has an interest in the corporate trustee.
(2) For subsection (1), a corporation has an interest in a corporate trustee if—

212. Acquiring share interest in corporation
(1) A person acquires a share interest in a corporate trustee or relevant corporation for a corporate trustee if—
(2) However, the acquisition of a share interest by a beneficiary from the personal representative in the administration of the estate of a deceased person is not an acquisition for this part.

213. Contracted property and trust interests
(1) For a corporate trustee, contracted property is taken to be dutiable property held by the corporate trustee.
(1A) If a corporate trustee has made a purchase or sale agreement for a trust interest, the corporate trustee is taken to have an indirect interest in the trust-related dutiable property.
(2) For determining the dutiable value of a relevant acquisition—
(3) Subsection (3A) applies if—
(3A) The commissioner must make a reassessment as if the contracted property or indirect interest were never held by the corporate trustee.
(4) For the reassessment, the acquirer under the relevant acquisition must lodge the corporate trustee duty statement for the acquisition.
(5) In this section—

Division 3 Liability for corporate trustee duty

214. When liability for corporate trustee duty arises
A liability for corporate trustee duty imposed on a relevant acquisition arises when the acquisition is made.

215. Who is liable to pay corporate trustee duty
Corporate trustee duty imposed on a relevant acquisition must be paid by the acquirer.

216. Rate of corporate trustee duty
The rate of corporate trustee duty imposed on the dutiable value of a relevant acquisition is the rate stated in schedule 3, column 2, opposite the dutiable value relating to the dutiable property in schedule 3, column 1.

217. Corporate trustee duty statement
The acquirer under a relevant acquisition, must within 30 days after the acquisition is made, lodge a statement in the approved form (a corporate trustee duty statement).

Division 4 Apportionment of unencumbered value for particular relevant acquisitions

218. Apportionment—head office or principal place of business in Queensland
(1) This section applies for determining the unencumbered value of dutiable property that is a Queensland business asset, other than a debt or personal property, of a Queensland business that has its head office or principal place of business in Queensland if, at any time during the 3 financial years preceding the relevant acquisition concerned—
(2) A reference in this chapter to the unencumbered value of the property is taken to be a reference to the amount (the apportioned amount) worked out using the following formula—
(2) where—
(3) However, the commissioner may decide the unencumbered value of the dutiable property on another basis if the commissioner is satisfied the other basis would be more appropriate in particular circumstances.

219. Apportionment—head office or principal place of business in another State
(1) This section applies for determining the unencumbered value of dutiable property that is a Queensland business asset, other than a debt or personal property, of a Queensland business that does not have its head office or principal place of business in Queensland if, at any time during the 3 financial years preceding the relevant acquisition concerned—
(2) A reference in this chapter to the unencumbered value of the property is taken to be a reference to the amount (the apportioned amount) worked out using the following formula—
(2) where—
(3) However, the commissioner may decide the unencumbered value of the dutiable property on another basis if the commissioner is satisfied the other basis would be more appropriate in particular circumstances.

220. Apportionment of particular acquisitions relating to existing rights
(1) This section applies for determining the unencumbered value of dutiable property that is an existing right if the right is exercisable or relates to the conduct of a business or an activity outside Queensland.
(2) A reference in this chapter to the unencumbered value of the right is taken to be a reference to the amount that represents the same proportion of the unencumbered value that the unencumbered value of the right to the extent it is exercisable or relates to the conduct of a business or activity in Queensland bears to the total unencumbered value of the right.
(3) However, the commissioner may decide the unencumbered value of the right on another basis if the commissioner is satisfied the other basis would be more appropriate in particular circumstances.

Division 5 Dutiable value of relevant acquisitions

221. Acquirer’s share interest is proportionate to shares in corporate trustee or relevant corporation
(1) For a relevant acquisition that is an acquisition of a share interest in a corporate trustee, the acquirer’s share interest is the proportion that the number of shares the acquirer has bears to the total issued shares in the corporate trustee expressed as a percentage.
(2) For a relevant acquisition that is an acquisition of a share interest in a relevant corporation for a corporate trustee if the relevant corporation has an interest in the corporate trustee as mentioned in section 211(2)(a), the acquirer’s share interest is worked out by applying the acquirer’s share interest in the relevant corporation to the relevant corporation’s share interest in the corporate trustee.
(3) For a relevant acquisition that is an acquisition of a share interest in a relevant corporation for a corporate trustee if the relevant corporation has an interest in the corporate trustee as mentioned in section 211(2)(b), the acquirer’s share interest is worked out by applying—
(4) For subsections (2) and (3)—
(5) Also, for subsection (3), the relevant corporation’s share interest in the other relevant corporation is the proportion that the number of shares the relevant corporation holds bears to the total issued shares in the other relevant corporation expressed as a percentage.
(6) However, if the commissioner is satisfied the acquirer’s share interest worked out under subsection (1), (2) or (3) does not accurately represent the acquirer’s rights and obligations as a shareholder when compared with the rights and obligations of the other shareholders, the commissioner may decide the acquirer’s share interest.
(7) For applying subsection (1), (2) or (3) to a relevant acquisition that is an increase in the acquirer’s share interest, the acquirer’s share interest is taken to be the increase in the acquirer’s share interest.

222. What is the dutiable value of a relevant acquisition
(1) The dutiable value of the relevant acquisition is the total of the amounts worked out by applying the acquirer’s share interest to the unencumbered value, when the liability for corporate trustee duty arises, of—
(2) For subsection (1)(b), the unencumbered value of an indirect interest of a corporate trustee under section 210(a) is the amount worked out by applying to the unencumbered value of the dutiable property held by the entity in which the corporate trustee has a trust interest or partnership interest the corporate trustee’s trust interest or partnership interest in the entity.
(3) For subsection (1)(b), the unencumbered value of an indirect interest of a corporate trustee under section 210(b) is the amount worked out by—
(4) Schedule 4 contains an example of how the dutiable value of a relevant acquisition is worked out.
(5) If the corporate trustee is trustee of more than 1 discretionary trust, the unencumbered value of the dutiable property of each trust and each indirect interest held on trust by the corporate trustee must be aggregated in working out the dutiable value of the relevant acquisition.

223. Aggregation of particular relevant acquisitions
(1) This section applies for aggregating relevant acquisitions that together form, evidence, give effect to or arise from what is, substantially 1 arrangement.
(2) For assessing corporate trustee duty on each of the relevant acquisitions, the acquisitions must be aggregated and treated as a single relevant acquisition.
(3) For subsection (1), all relevant circumstances relating to the relevant acquisitions must be taken into account in deciding whether they together form, evidence, give effect to or arise from what is, substantially 1 arrangement.
(4) For subsection (3), relevant circumstances include the following—
(5) Corporate trustee duty imposed on the relevant acquisition aggregated under this section must—
(6) The acquirer must, when lodging the corporate trustee duty statement relating to the acquisition, give notice to the commissioner stating details known to the acquirer about—

Division 6 Exempt acquisitions

224. Exemption—change of trustee
Corporate trustee duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition for the sole purpose of giving effect to a change of a trustee if—

225. Exemption—relevant acquisition in family trust
(1) Corporate trustee duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition if—
(2) A trust is established and maintained primarily for the benefit of the members of a particular family or a family company if—
(3) However, subsection (2)(b) is taken to be satisfied if the last taker in default of an appointment for capital by the trustee of the trust is—
(4) For applying this section, a person (the first person) is a member of the particular family of another person (the other person) if—
(5) In this section—

226. Exemption—if transfer duty not imposed
Corporate trustee duty is not imposed on a relevant acquisition that is a dutiable transaction on which transfer duty is not imposed because of an exemption under sections 123 to 126.

Division 7 Deductions and reassessments

227. Deduction—interstate transfer duty for shares
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Corporate trustee duty imposed on the relevant acquisition must be reduced by the amount of the interstate transfer duty.
(3) In this section—

228. Deduction—transfer duty for trust acquisition
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Corporate trustee duty imposed on the relevant acquisition must be reduced by the amount of transfer duty paid or payable.

229. When commissioner must make reassessment
(1) The commissioner must make a reassessment of corporate trustee duty imposed for a relevant acquisition if at the time of the relevant acquisition a person is taken to have acquired a share interest in a corporation under an agreement to acquire the interest but the agreement is not completed.
(2) When reassessing the corporate trustee duty under subsection (1), the commissioner must disregard the interest mentioned in the subsection.
(3) For the reassessment, the acquirer under the relevant acquisition must lodge the corporate trustee duty statement for the acquisition.

Chapter 4 Additional foreign acquirer duty

Part 1 Preliminary

230. Relevant transactions
This chapter applies to the following transactions (relevant transactions)—

231. Imposition of AFAD
(1) This chapter imposes an additional amount of transfer duty, landholder duty or corporate trustee duty on particular relevant transactions.
(2) The additional amount of duty is additional foreign acquirer duty or AFAD.
(3) Part 3 provides for when AFAD is imposed on a relevant transaction.
(4) Part 4 provides for how AFAD is calculated.
(5) The AFAD imposed on a relevant transaction is added to the duty imposed on the transaction under chapter 2 or 3.
(6) To remove any doubt, it is declared that, unless the contrary intention appears—

Part 2 Some basic concepts for AFAD

232. What is AFAD residential land
(1) AFAD residential land is land in Queensland—
(2) For the purpose of imposing AFAD relating to transfer duty, a reference to AFAD residential land includes a reference to a chattel in Queensland if—

233. Who is an acquirer
(1) For the purpose of imposing AFAD relating to transfer duty on a dutiable transaction, a person is an acquirer if the person is—
(2) For the purpose of imposing AFAD relating to landholder duty on a relevant acquisition, a person is an acquirer if the person is—
(3) For the purpose of imposing AFAD relating to corporate trustee duty on a relevant acquisition, a person is an acquirer if the person—
(4) In this section—

234. Who is a foreign person
Each of the following is a foreign person—

235. Who is a foreign individual
A foreign individual is an individual other than an Australian citizen or permanent resident.

236. What is a foreign corporation
(1) Each of the following is a foreign corporation—
(2) A corporation is taken to be a corporation mentioned in subsection (1)(b) if, taking their interests together, 1 or more persons who are foreign persons or related persons of foreign persons—
(3) In this section—

237. What is a foreign trust
(1) A trust is a foreign trust if at least 50% of the trust interests in the trust are foreign interests.
(2) In this section—

238. Who are related persons
Persons are related persons if they are—

239. Property held by partnership or trust
A reference in this chapter to a partnership or trust holding property is a reference to the holding of the property by the partners for the partnership or trustees on trust.

Part 3 Liability for AFAD

240. Conditions for imposing AFAD
(1) AFAD is imposed on a relevant transaction if, at the time the liability for transfer duty, landholder duty or corporate trustee duty on the transaction arises—
(2) Also, AFAD is imposed on a relevant transaction that is an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property if—
(3) For subsection (2)(a)(i), the commissioner must not be satisfied the person was properly appointed as agent unless the original instrument of appointment, or a copy of it, is lodged.

241. Property condition for imposing AFAD
(1) This section states the property condition for section 240.
(2) If the relevant transaction is a dutiable transaction, the property condition is that—
(3) If the relevant transaction is a relevant acquisition, the property condition is that—

241A. Imposition of AFAD—pre-incorporation contracts
(1) This section applies if—
(2) AFAD is imposed on the dutiable transaction that is the agreement.

Part 4 Calculating AFAD

242. Definitions for pt 4
In this part—

242A 243. Non-application of concessions
The following provisions do not apply to the calculation or payment of AFAD imposed under this chapter—

244. AFAD for transfer duty
(1) This section applies if, under part 3, AFAD relating to transfer duty is imposed on a dutiable transaction.
(2) AFAD is imposed at the rate of 8% on the following amount—
(3) However, if AFAD is imposed on a dutiable transaction under section 240(2) or 241A, AFAD is imposed at the rate of 8% on the dutiable value of the transaction to the extent of the acquirer’s interest in—

245. AFAD for landholder duty
(1) This section applies if, under part 3, AFAD relating to landholder duty is imposed on a relevant acquisition.
(2) AFAD is imposed on a relevant acquisition made in a private landholder at the rate of 8% on the dutiable value of the acquisition—
(3) AFAD is imposed on a relevant acquisition made in a public landholder, to the extent of the foreign acquirer’s interest in the relevant acquisition, in the amount calculated in the way landholder duty is calculated under section 179A but with the changes stated in subsection (4).
(4) For subsection (3), in relation to the calculation of transfer duty as mentioned in section 179A—

245A. AFAD for corporate trustee duty
(1) This section applies if, under part 3, AFAD relating to corporate trustee duty is imposed on a relevant acquisition.
(2) AFAD is imposed at the rate of 8% on the dutiable value of a relevant acquisition—

Part 4AA Concessions for eligible BTR developments

Division 1 Preliminary

245B. Application of part
(1) This part applies in relation to a relevant transaction that—
(2) However, this part does not apply in relation to a relevant transaction mentioned in subsection (1) if—

245C. Definitions for part
In this part—

245D. When a person obtains a BTR land tax concession or is ineligible to obtain a BTR land tax concession
(1) A person obtains a BTR land tax concession, in relation to land for a financial year, if the person’s liability under the Land Tax Act 2010 for land tax for the financial year is assessed on the basis that a concession under section 58B of that Act applies in relation to the land.
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that subsection (1) does not apply if the person’s liability for the financial year is later reassessed under the Land Tax Act 2010, part 6A, division 5 on the basis that the concession under section 58B of that Act does not apply in relation to the land.
(3) A person is ineligible to obtain a BTR land tax concession, in relation to land for a financial year, if the person’s liability under the Land Tax Act 2010 for land tax for the financial year would be assessed on the basis that a concession under section 58B of that Act does not apply in relation to the land, whether or not—

245E. Particular references to land, acquirer and land used for an eligible BTR development
(1) In this part—
(2) Also, a reference in this part to land used for an eligible BTR development at a particular time, rather than for a financial year, is a reference to land to which both of the following apply—

Division 2 Concessions

245F. Concession—land to be used for eligible BTR development
(1) This section applies for calculating the amount of AFAD imposed under this chapter on a relevant transaction if—
(2) To the extent of the foreign acquirer’s interest under the relevant transaction, the dutiable value of the dutiable property must be discounted by 100%.

245G. Concession—land used for eligible BTR development
(1) This section applies for calculating the amount of AFAD imposed under this chapter on a relevant transaction if—
(2) To the extent of the foreign acquirer’s interest under the relevant transaction, the dutiable value of the dutiable property must be discounted by 100%.

Division 3 Applications for concessions and rulings

245H. Application for concession
(1) An application for a concession under division 2 for AFAD on a relevant transaction must be made in the approved form.
(2) The application must be made—

245I. Application for ruling about concession
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The person may apply to the commissioner for a ruling on whether, if the proposed development is carried out, the concession under section 245F will apply in relation to the relevant transaction.
(3) The application must—
(4) The commissioner must give the applicant notice of the commissioner’s ruling on the application.

245J. Effect of ruling about concession
(1) This section applies if the commissioner has, on an application for a ruling under section 245I, decided that a relevant transaction will be assessed on the basis that the concession under section 245F will apply in relation to the transaction.
(2) The commissioner must, on an application under section 245H for a concession under section 245F, decide to assess the relevant transaction on the basis that the concession under section 245F applies in relation to the transaction.
(3) However, subsection (2) does not apply if—
(4) In this section—

Division 4 Reassessment provisions

245K. Reassessment—application for AFAD concession made with application for land tax concession
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment of the relevant transaction on the basis that the concession is applied in relation to the transaction.
(3) Subsection (2) applies despite the limitation period under the Administration Act for reassessments.

245L. Reassessment—avoidance arrangement
(1) This section applies if the commissioner is satisfied an acquirer under a relevant transaction has entered into an arrangement, whether in writing or otherwise, to circumvent limitations on, or requirements affecting, eligibility for a concession under division 2.
(2) The commissioner may make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the relevant transaction, to the extent of the acquirer’s interest in the dutiable property, on the basis that the acquirer was not entitled to the concession.

245M. Reassessment—noncompliance with requirements for AFAD concession under s 245F
(1) This section applies if AFAD is not imposed on a relevant transaction only because a concession under section 245F is applied in relation to the transaction.
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment under subsection (3) if the commissioner is satisfied any of the following circumstances apply in relation to the land—
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the relevant transaction as if, at the time the liability for transfer duty on the transaction arose, the concession did not apply in relation to the transaction.
(4) For subsection (3), the circumstance mentioned in subsection (2)(c) is taken to apply if the acquirer does not make an application under the Land Tax Act 2010, section 58S in relation to the land for the 2032–2033 financial year within the period mentioned in section 58S(2)(b) of that Act.
(5) The reassessment must be made—
(6) This section applies despite the limitation period under the Administration Act for reassessments.

245N. Reassessment—noncompliance with requirements for AFAD concession under s 245G
(1) This section applies if AFAD is not imposed on a relevant transaction only because a concession under section 245G is applied in relation to the transaction.
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment under subsection (3) if the commissioner is satisfied any of the following circumstances apply in relation to the land—
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the relevant transaction as if, at the time the liability for transfer duty on the transaction arose, the concession did not apply in relation to the transaction.
(4) The reassessment must be made—
(5) This section applies despite the limitation period under the Administration Act for reassessments.

Division 5 Notice requirements

245O. Application of division
This division applies if AFAD is not imposed on a relevant transaction because a concession under division 2 is applied in relation to the transaction.

245P. Notice of particular decisions about future use of land
(1) This section applies if the acquirer decides not to use the land for the purpose, or otherwise in the way, proposed when the concession was applied in relation to the relevant transaction.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), each of the following is a decision for this section—
(3) Within 1 month after making the decision, the acquirer must give the commissioner notice in the approved form of the decision.
(4) However, subsection (3) does not apply in relation to a decision mentioned in subsection (2)(d) if, when the decision is made, the acquirer has obtained a BTR land tax concession in relation to the land for at least 5 consecutive financial years.
(5) If the acquirer gives notice under this section of a decision for which the acquirer is also required to give notice under the Land Tax Act 2010, section 58ZA, the acquirer is taken to have complied with that section in relation to the decision.

245Q. Notice of particular circumstances applying to land—concession under s 245F
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Within 1 month after the circumstance starts to apply in relation to the land, the acquirer must—

245R. Notice of particular circumstances applying to land—concession under s 245G
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Within 1 month after the circumstance starts to apply in relation to the land, the acquirer must—

Division 6 Record-keeping requirements

245S. Requirement to keep particular records
(1) This section applies if, on an application under section 245H, the commissioner assesses a relevant transaction on the basis that a concession under division 2 applies in relation to the transaction.
(2) The acquirer must keep records that show—

Part 4A Exemption

246. Exemption—specified foreign retirees
(1) AFAD is not imposed on a relevant transaction to the extent of a relevant acquirer’s interest in dutiable property under the transaction if—
(2) In this section—

Part 5 Reassessments

Division 1 Reassessments—general

246A. Reassessment if corporation or trust becomes foreign
(1) This section applies if AFAD is not imposed on a relevant transaction only because an acquirer under the transaction is not a foreign person.
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment under subsection (3) if—
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the transaction as if, at the time the liability for transfer duty, landholder duty or corporate trustee duty on the transaction arose, the acquirer was a foreign person.
(4) Within 28 days after an event mentioned in subsection (2)(a) or (b)(ii) happens, the corporation or trustee of the trust must—
(5) The commissioner is not required to make a reassessment under subsection (3) if the commissioner is required to make a reassessment under section 246AC.

Division 2 Reassessments relating to agency-related agreements

246AA. Application of division
(1) This division applies if the commissioner is satisfied—
(2) For subsection (1)(a), the commissioner must not be satisfied the person was properly appointed as agent unless the original instrument of appointment, or a copy of it, is lodged.

246AB. Reassessment if principal not foreign person at time of transfer
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The principal may lodge an application for a reassessment in the approved form within 6 months after the dutiable property is later transferred to the principal.
(3) The principal must lodge the agreement with the application.
(4) The commissioner must make a reassessment of transfer duty on the agreement as if, at the time the liability for transfer duty arose, the acquirer was not a foreign person.

246AC. Reassessment if agent or principal becomes foreign person before transfer
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment under subsection (3) if any of the following events happen—
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the agreement as if, at the time the liability for transfer duty on the agreement arose—
(4) Within 28 days after an event mentioned in subsection (2)(a) to (d) happens, the corporation or trustee of the trust must—

246AD. Reassessment if principal becomes foreign person after transfer
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment under subsection (3) if—
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the agreement as if, at the time the liability for transfer duty on the agreement arose, the agent was not a foreign person but the principal was a foreign person.
(4) Within 28 days after an event mentioned in subsection (2)(a) or (b)(ii) happens, the corporation or trustee of the trust must—

Division 3 Reassessments relating to pre-incorporation contracts

246AE. Reassessment of pre-incorporation contract—company is foreign corporation when property is transferred
(1) If section 241A applies, the commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the dutiable transaction that is the agreement for the transfer of the dutiable property.
(2) Within 28 days after the dutiable property is transferred to the company, the company must—

246AF. Reassessment of pre-incorporation contract—company becomes foreign corporation within 3 years
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment under subsection (3) if, within 3 years after the dutiable property is transferred to the company, the company becomes a foreign corporation.
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the agreement as if the company were a foreign corporation.
(4) Within 28 days after the event mentioned in subsection (2) happens, the company must—

Division 4 Reassessments of AFAD exemption

246AG. Definitions for division
In this division—

246AH. Reassessment of AFAD exemption for not occupying residence
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Subject to section 246AJ, the commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the relevant transaction to the extent of the relevant acquirer’s interest in dutiable property under the transaction as if the AFAD exemption did not apply to the relevant acquirer.

246AI. Reassessment of AFAD exemption for disposal after occupation
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Subject to section 246AJ, the commissioner must make a reassessment to impose AFAD on the relevant transaction to the extent of the relevant acquirer’s interest in dutiable property under the transaction, worked out using the following formula—
(2) where—

246AJ. When reassessment is not required
(1) This section applies if section 246AH or 246AI (each the relevant section) applies in relation to a relevant transaction to the extent of a relevant acquirer’s interest in dutiable property that is AFAD residential land under the transaction.
(2) Despite the relevant section, the commissioner is not required to make a reassessment to impose AFAD under the section if—
(3) However, subsection (4) applies if AFAD is not reassessed under subsection (2) because—
(4) The relevant section applies to the later disposal as if the relevant acquirer had not transferred the part of the land to the acquirer’s spouse.

246AK. Notification of commissioner for reassessment
(1) This section applies if a notification event happens in relation to a relevant acquirer’s interest in dutiable property under a relevant transaction.
(2) Within 28 days after the notification event happens, the relevant acquirer must—

Part 6 Charge for unpaid transfer duty

246B. Charge over interest in land for unpaid transfer duty
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The outstanding liability is a first charge on the interest of the following person (the chargee) in the AFAD residential land that is the subject of the transaction—
(3) The charge has priority over all other encumbrances over the chargee’s interest in the land other than a charge under section 156P or 246V.
(4) Subsection (3) applies—
(5) The commissioner may lodge, under the Administration Act, part 4, division 5, a request to register the charge on the land that is the subject of the transaction.
(6) Despite the Administration Act, section 47B, the registrar must not register the charge if the chargee is no longer the registered owner of the land.
(7) On its registration, the charge is not affected by a disposition of the chargee’s interest in the land.

246C. Commissioner may apply to Supreme Court for order to sell
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner may apply to the Supreme Court for an order to sell the land stated in the application.
(3) At least 6 months before making the application, the commissioner must give the persons mentioned in subsection (4) notice of the commissioner’s intention to apply to the Supreme Court for an order to sell the land unless the outstanding liability is paid within 6 months after the date of the notice.
(4) The persons to whom notice must be given are—

246D. When court must order sale of land
(1) The court must order the sale of the land if it is satisfied—
(2) However, the court may make an order only for the land the court considers is sufficient to realise proceeds to pay the amounts mentioned in section 246E(a) to (d).

246E. Application of proceeds of sale
The proceeds of the sale of land sold under the order must be applied as follows—

246F. Registration of transfer
(1) If land is sold under the order to sell, the person stated in the order for this section must—
(2) The registrar must register the transfer as if it had been signed by the registered owner of the land.
(3) Subsection (2) applies despite non-production of the relevant instrument of title.

246G. Former owner may recover proceeds of sale as debt
(1) The amount equal to the proceeds of the sale of land under the order to sell less an amount paid under section 246E(d) is a debt payable to the former owner of the land by the persons liable to pay the outstanding liability for which the order was made.
(2) The former owner may recover the debt in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(3) In this section—

Part 7 Miscellaneous

246H. Acquirer must lodge AFAD statement
(1) The acquirer under a relevant transaction on which AFAD is imposed, or to which an AFAD exemption or an AFAD concession applies, must, within 30 days after the date of the transaction, lodge a statement in the approved form.
(2) In this section—

246I. Recovery of transfer duty payment from foreign persons
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The person is entitled to recover the amount from a following person as a debt, to the extent the amount exceeds the amount that would have been payable if AFAD had not been imposed on the transaction—

Chapter 4A Windfall duty

Part 1 Preliminary

246J. Application of chapter
(1) This chapter applies if—
(2) Subsection (1)(d) is taken to be satisfied if a corresponding provision is to any extent invalid or inoperative under the Commonwealth Constitution, section 109.
(3) AFAD described in subsection (1) is invalid AFAD.
(4) For subsection (1)(c), the decision day is the earlier of the following days—
(5) In this section—

246K. Commissioner must publish decision day
The commissioner must, within 5 business days after the commissioner becomes aware the decision day has happened, give notice of the decision day by publishing it on the commissioner’s website.

246L. Imposition of windfall duty
(1) This chapter imposes duty (windfall duty) on a claim for an AFAD windfall.
(2) Windfall duty is imposed on the amount of an AFAD windfall.

Part 2 Some basic concepts for windfall duty

246M. What is an AFAD windfall
An AFAD windfall, in relation to a relevant transaction on which invalid AFAD is purportedly imposed, is an amount equal to the total of the following—

246N. What is a claim for an AFAD windfall
(1) A person makes a claim for an AFAD windfall if the person, on or after the decision day, gives notice to the commissioner that the person disputes the person’s liability for invalid AFAD purportedly imposed on a relevant transaction, including, for example, by—
(2) Also, a person is taken to have made a claim for an AFAD windfall if—
(3) Subsection (2)(a) applies in relation to a proceeding started before or after the commencement of this section.

Part 3 Liability for windfall duty

246O. When liability for windfall duty arises
(1) A person’s liability for windfall duty arises when the person makes a claim for an AFAD windfall.
(2) For subsection (1), a claim is made by a person on the following day—

246P. Who is liable to pay windfall duty
Windfall duty must be paid by—

246Q. Rate of windfall duty
The rate of windfall duty imposed on a claim for an AFAD windfall is 100% of the amount of the AFAD windfall.

246R. Commissioner must apply amounts paid for invalid AFAD to liability for windfall duty
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Despite the Administration Act, section 37(1)(a), the person is not entitled to a refund of the amount.
(3) The commissioner must apply the amount to the person’s liability for windfall duty in the following order—
(4) If the commissioner is required, because of an order of a court or tribunal, to repay an amount to a person for an amount paid in relation to invalid AFAD, the commissioner is taken to have complied with the order if the commissioner applies the amount under subsection (3).
(5) To remove any doubt, it is declared that this section does not affect the operation of the Administration Act, section 42 in relation to payments received by the commissioner for windfall duty.

Part 4 Reassessment of windfall duty

246S. Reassessment of windfall duty
(1) This section applies if—
(2) If a reassessment would have been required for the AFAD, the commissioner must make a reassessment of the windfall duty.
(3) If a reassessment would have been permitted for the AFAD, the commissioner may make a reassessment of the windfall duty.
(4) For reassessing the windfall duty—

Part 5 Provisions for administering windfall duty

246T. Limitation period does not apply for particular reassessments
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Despite the Administration Act, section 21, a reassessment to decrease the person’s liability for the invalid AFAD to nil may be made at any time.

246U. Unpaid tax interest
For applying the Administration Act, section 54 to an amount of unpaid windfall duty for an AFAD windfall—

246V. Charge over interest in land for unpaid windfall duty relating to dutiable transaction
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The outstanding liability is a first charge on the person’s interest in AFAD residential land the subject of the dutiable transaction.
(3) The charge has priority over all other encumbrances over the person’s interest in the AFAD residential land other than a charge under section 156P.
(4) Subsection (3) applies—
(5) The commissioner may lodge, under the Administration Act, part 4, division 5, a request to register the charge on the land that is the subject of the transaction.
(6) Despite the Administration Act, section 47B, the registrar must not register the charge if the person is no longer the registered owner of the land.
(7) On its registration, the charge is not affected by a disposition of the person’s interest in the land.

246W. Application of ss 246C–246G in relation to charge
Sections 246C to 246G apply in relation to a charge on land registered under section 246V as if—

Part 6 Miscellaneous

246X. Duty validly imposed under chs 2 and 3 not affected by invalid AFAD
(1) This section applies in relation to assessments of duty for a relevant transaction if invalid AFAD was purportedly imposed on the transaction.
(2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that—

246Y. Right to recovery of transfer duty payment under s 246I not affected by invalid AFAD
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The person’s entitlement to recover the amount is not affected merely because the amount is invalid AFAD.
(3) The person may recover the amount from the person as a debt as if the invalid AFAD had been validly imposed.

246Z. No payment of interest by commissioner for payment in relation to purported liability for invalid AFAD
A reference in the Administration Act, section 61(1) to a refund of tax or late payment interest does not include a reference to a refund of an amount paid to the commissioner because of the purported imposition of invalid AFAD on a relevant transaction.

Chapter 5 Mortgage duty

Part 1 Preliminary

247. Imposition of mortgage duty
(1) This chapter imposes duty (mortgage duty) on instruments that are mortgages, particular caveats claiming an interest under mortgages and particular releases of mortgages.
(2) Mortgage duty is imposed on the amount secured by a mortgage.

247A. Abolition of mortgage duty from 1 July 2008
(1) Despite anything to the contrary in this chapter, mortgage duty is not imposed—
(2) This section is subject to chapter 17, part 9, division 1.

Part 2 Some basic concepts for mortgage duty

248. What is a mortgage
(1) An instrument is a mortgage if it is—
(2) However, for this chapter, an instrument mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is a mortgage only if it is a security by way of mortgage or charge over property wholly or partly in Queensland at the liability date.
(3) For sections 262, 268, 269, 276 and 281, a reference to a mortgage or previous mortgage includes a reference to a mortgage first signed before the repeal of the repealed Act.

249. What is an advance
(1) An advance is the provision or obtaining of funds by way of financial accommodation by—
(2) Subsection (1)(b) applies whether or not the funds are obtained from—
(3) An advance includes a contingent liability under section 259.
(4) However, the term does not include an amount provided or obtained on the security of a mortgage for—

250. What is a loan
Each of the following is a loan—

251. Location of property
(1) For this chapter, the following property is taken to be located in the place stated—
(2) Subsection (1)(a) is declared to be a Corporations legislation displacement provision for the Corporations Act, section 5G, in relation to section 1070A(4) of that Act.

251A. Treatment of mortgages affecting property in Victoria or Tasmania
(1) For this chapter, a mortgage or mortgage package affecting property located in Victoria is taken to have been properly stamped, stamped with similar duty, duly stamped or exempt from duty under the Duties Act 2000 (Vic) only to the extent the mortgage or mortgage package was properly stamped, stamped with similar duty, duly stamped or exempt from duty under that Act before 1 July 2004.
(2) For this chapter, a mortgage or mortgage package affecting property located in Tasmania is taken to have been properly stamped, stamped with similar duty, duly stamped or exempt from duty under the Duties Act 2001 (Tas) only to the extent the mortgage or mortgage package was properly stamped, stamped with similar duty, duly stamped or exempt from duty under that Act before 1 July 2007.

Part 3 Liability for mortgage duty

252. When liability for mortgage duty arises
(1) A mortgage is liable to mortgage duty when it is first signed.
(2) A mortgage is liable to mortgage duty on the making of an advance or further advance that results in the total amount secured by the mortgage exceeding the amount secured by it for which it has been properly stamped, or is exempt from duty, under this or a corresponding Act.
(3) Subsection (4) applies to an instrument of security if—
(4) The instrument of security is liable for mortgage duty when it first affects the property or land unless it is stamped with, or is exempt from, similar duty under a corresponding Act.
(5) An instrument that, on the deposit of instruments of title to property in Queensland, becomes a mortgage or evidences the terms of a mortgage is liable to mortgage duty on the deposit of the instruments.

253. Who is liable to pay mortgage duty
Mortgage duty imposed on a mortgage must be paid by the mortgagor.

254. Rate of mortgage duty
The rate of mortgage duty imposed on a mortgage is 20c for each $100, or part of $100, of the amount secured by the mortgage as determined under part 4.

255. Lodging mortgage
The mortgagor or mortgagee under a mortgage must, within 30 days after the liability for mortgage duty arises, lodge the mortgage.

256. Effect of lodging mortgage by mortgagor or mortgagee
The lodging, under section 255, of a mortgage by the mortgagor or mortgagee relieves the other person from complying with the section.

257. Stamping before advance
(1) A mortgage may be stamped before an advance whether or not an earlier advance has been made.
(2) A mortgage mentioned in section 260 or 261 may be stamped to secure any amount exceeding that to which it is already stamped based on the dutiable proportion for the mortgage when it is stamped.

Part 4 Amount secured by a mortgage

258. What is the amount secured by a mortgage
(1) The amount secured by a mortgage is the amount of advances actually secured by it and recoverable under it.
(2) However, if—
(2) the amount secured by the mortgage is, for section 247(2), the excess amount mentioned in paragraph (c).

259. Contingent liabilities
(1) This section applies to a mortgage securing or capable of securing, whether directly or indirectly, an amount contingently payable (the secured amount) in connection with an advance (the primary advance)—
(2) Mortgage duty must be assessed on the secured amount as if it were a separate advance secured by the mortgage.
(3) For subsection (2), the contingent liability is limited to the amount of the primary advance.
(4) This section—

260. Mortgage over property not wholly in Queensland
(1) Mortgage duty must be assessed for a mortgage over property that is partly in and partly outside Queensland as if the amount secured by it were only the dutiable proportion.
(2) For subsection (1), the dutiable proportion is the proportion of the amount secured by the mortgage on which mortgage duty is imposed that, at the liability date, the value of property in Queensland affected by the mortgage bears to the value of all property affected by it, other than property located outside Australia or in a Territory or in Victoria or Tasmania.
(3) The dutiable proportion must be worked out by reference to the property values according to a referable point.
(4) For subsection (3), a referable point is any of the following prepared in the year before the liability date for the mortgage—
(5) However, if there is more than 1 referable point for a mortgage, the referable point is the later or latest of the referable points.
(6) Also, the acceptable referable point must be the same acceptable referable point used to determine liability to duty under a corresponding Act.

261. Advances secured by mortgage package
(1) If—
(1) the instruments are a mortgage package.
(2) Also, a mortgage package includes—
(3) Mortgage duty must be assessed under this part on the mortgage package as if the instruments comprising the mortgage package were 1 mortgage, first signed on the day the last of the signed instruments was signed.
(4) One of the mortgages in the mortgage package must be stamped with the mortgage duty paid in Queensland for the mortgage package and all other mortgages in the mortgage package must be stamped as a collateral mortgage.

262. Collateral mortgage
(1) Mortgage duty is not imposed on the part of the amount secured by a collateral mortgage that is secured by—
(1A) However, a mortgage (a secondary mortgage) that secures all or part of the same amount as another mortgage, security instrument or mortgage package that affects property located in Victoria or Tasmania and has been properly stamped under this Act or a corresponding Act is taken not to be a collateral mortgage if the commissioner is satisfied there was an arrangement to avoid the imposition of mortgage duty on the secondary mortgage.
(2) A collateral mortgage that no longer secures an amount secured by a mortgage, instrument or mortgage package mentioned in subsection (1) is not security for another advance unless mortgage duty for the amount of the other advance is paid.

263. Extent mortgage is enforceable
(1) A mortgage or mortgage package for which mortgage duty is imposed or a similar duty is chargeable under a corresponding Act is enforceable only to the extent of the amount secured by the mortgage or mortgage package for which duty has been paid, or the mortgage or mortgage package is exempt from duty, under this Act or the corresponding Act.
(2) For subsection (1), mortgage duty has been paid on a mortgage or mortgage package affecting property that is partly in and partly outside Queensland if—
(3) For subsection (1), if an advance is made on or after 1 July 2004 under a mortgage or mortgage package that, before 1 July 2004, affected property located in Victoria and was properly stamped under the Duties Act 2000 (Vic), the mortgage or mortgage package is taken to be a mortgage or mortgage package for which a similar duty is chargeable under a corresponding Act.
(4) For subsection (1), if an advance is made on or after 1 July 2007 under a mortgage or mortgage package that, before 1 July 2007, affected property located in Tasmania and was properly stamped under the Duties Act 2001 (Tas), the mortgage or mortgage package is taken to be a mortgage or mortgage package for which a similar duty is chargeable under a corresponding Act.

264. Limit on security provided by stamped and collateral mortgages
(1) A stamped or collateral mortgage that was, but is no longer, part of the same mortgage package and no longer secures the same amount secured by the package is not security for another advance unless mortgage duty for the amount of the other advance is paid.
(2) The fact that the stamped or collateral mortgage is no longer part of the mortgage package does not affect the amounts for which the remaining mortgages in the mortgage package provide security.

265. Multi-jurisdictional statement
(1) If mortgage duty is imposed on the dutiable proportion of a mortgage, (whether for a mortgage over property not wholly in Queensland, a mortgage package or on original or subsequent advances), the mortgagor or mortgagee must make a statement in the approved form about the location and value of the secured property.
(2) The making of a statement under subsection (1) by the mortgagor or mortgagee relieves the other person from complying with the subsection.
(3) The statement may be taken to be the mortgage, or mortgages comprising the mortgage package.

Part 5 Mortgage duty on particular debenture issues, caveats and releases of mortgages

266. Mortgage duty associated with particular debenture issues
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Mortgage duty must be assessed on the mortgage for the offer of debentures as if it were a mortgage securing the payment of an amount equal to the total amount of debentures, other than exempt short-term debentures, subscribed for by the public in Queensland from time to time.
(3) On or before 31 July in each year, the trustee under the instrument of trust must—
(4) If mortgage duty is paid under subsection (3), the instrument of trust and debentures are not liable to duty under this Act.
(5) In this section, a reference to an amount subscribed for relating to debentures does not include an amount represented by debentures issued on the conversion or renewal of an existing holding of debentures or other marketable securities.

267. What is an exempt short-term debenture
(1) A debenture issued by a public company is an exempt short-term debenture if—
(2) If a debenture is reissued or renewed, the combined terms of debentures is taken into account when deciding when the amount under the debenture is repayable for subsection (1).
(3) Also, for subsection (1), debentures subscribed for by a corporation include debentures subscribed for by a related body corporate unless the commissioner decides otherwise.

268. Caveats
(1) Mortgage duty is imposed on a caveat claiming an interest in land, or a water allocation, under a mortgage if mortgage duty is imposed, but not paid, on the mortgage.
(2) The amount of mortgage duty imposed on the caveat is the amount of mortgage duty that would be imposed on the mortgage.
(3) The mortgagor must pay the duty as if it were assessed on the mortgage.
(4) To the extent that mortgage duty is paid on the caveat, mortgage duty is not imposed on the mortgage.

269. Releases of mortgages
(1) Mortgage duty is imposed on a release of mortgage to the extent that mortgage duty is imposed, but not paid, on the mortgage.
(2) Immediately after the release, the mortgagor must—

Part 6 Concessions for home mortgages and first home mortgages

Division 1 Preliminary

270. Purpose of pt 6
The purpose of this part is to provide for concessions for mortgage duty on home mortgages and home refinance mortgages.

Division 2 Concessions for mortgage duty for home mortgages

Subdivision 1 Some basic concepts about concessions for mortgage duty for home mortgages

271. What is a home mortgage
(1) A home mortgage is a mortgage given by a person to the extent that the mortgage secures an advance to the person to finance the purchase or construction of the person’s home or a further interest in the person’s home.
(2) A home mortgage or, if there is more than 1 home mortgage, at least 1 of them, must be over the residential land.

272. What is a home and first home for div 2
(1) For this division—
(2) For subsection (1), section 86(2)(b) does not apply.
(3) For subsection (1)(b), section 86 applies as if the reference to a period of 1 year after the person’s transfer date for the residential land were a reference to a period of 2 years after the date the mortgage was first signed.

273. Who is a home borrower and a first home borrower
(1) A person is a home borrower if the person is the mortgagor under a home mortgage.
(2) A home borrower is a first home borrower if—
(3) The commissioner may exempt an individual from the requirement that the individual be at least 18 years of age if the commissioner is satisfied there is no avoidance scheme in relation to the home mortgage.

Subdivision 2 Concessions for home mortgages

274. Concession for mortgage duty—home mortgage
(1) If all owners of a home are home borrowers, mortgage duty is not imposed on the part of the amount secured by the home mortgage that is the lesser of the following—
(2) For owners who are home borrowers to which subsection (1) does not apply, mortgage duty is not imposed on the part of the amount secured by the home mortgage that is the lesser of the following—
(3) The total amount of concessions for mortgage duty on all home mortgages must not be more than the maximum amount of concessions applicable to the borrowers under subsection (1)(b) or (2)(a).
(4) For subsection (2), a home borrower or first home borrower’s interest is the proportion that the value of the borrower’s interest in the residential land bears to the value of the land.
(5) Also, for subsections (1) and (2), the qualifying amount is the proportion of—
(5) that corresponds to the part of the advances secured by the mortgage that are used or to be used to finance the purchase or construction of the home by the borrowers to whom the concession relates.
(6) For subsection (5), advances used to refinance an existing home mortgage for the home must be disregarded in working out the advances that are used or to be used to finance the purchase or construction of the home.

275. Concession for mortgage duty—particular trusts
(1) This section applies if—
(2) This division applies as if—
(3) However, section 273(2)(b) and (3) applies in relation to a beneficiary only if the beneficiary is under a legal disability only because the beneficiary is not at least 18 years of age.

Division 3 Concessions for mortgage duty for home refinance mortgages

Subdivision 1 Some basic concepts about concessions for mortgage duty for home refinance mortgages

276. What is a home refinance mortgage
(1) A home refinance mortgage is a mortgage securing advances to the person, all or part of which are used or to be used to repay the balance outstanding under a previous mortgage over the person’s home.
(2) A home refinance mortgage, or if there is more than 1 home refinance mortgage, at least 1 of them must be over the person’s home.

277. What is a home for div 3
For this division, a person’s home is a residence the person has occupied as the person’s principal place of residence for whichever is the shorter of the following—

278. Who is a home refinance borrower
A person is a home refinance borrower if the person is the mortgagor under a home refinance mortgage.

Subdivision 2 Concessions for home refinance mortgages

279. Concession for mortgage duty—home refinance mortgage
(1) If all of the owners of a home are home refinance borrowers, mortgage duty is not imposed on the part of the amount secured by the home refinance mortgage that is the lesser of the following—
(2) If all of the owners of a home are not home refinance borrowers, mortgage duty is not imposed on the part of the amount secured by the home refinance mortgage up to the amount that is the lesser of the following—
(3) The total amount of concessions for mortgage duty on all home refinance mortgages must not be more than the maximum amount of concessions applicable to the borrowers under subsection (1)(b) or (2)(a).
(4) For subsection (2), a home refinance borrower’s interest is the proportion that the value of the home refinance borrower’s interest in the residential land bears to the value of the land.
(5) Also, for subsections (1) and (2), the refinance qualifying amount is the proportion of—
(5) that corresponds to the part of the advances secured by the mortgage that are used or to be used to repay the balance outstanding on the previous mortgage by the borrowers to whom the concession relates.
(6) For subsection (5), advances used to finance the acquisition of a home or first home must be disregarded in working out the advances that are used or to be used to repay the balance outstanding under the previous mortgage.

280. Concession for mortgage duty—particular trusts
(1) This section applies if—
(2) This division applies as if—

Division 4 Miscellaneous provisions

281. Further concession for particular home refinance mortgages
(1) This section applies if the amount secured by a home refinance mortgage, or the dutiable proportion of a home refinance mortgage, is more than—
(2) The non-concessional balance for the home refinance mortgage is reduced by the amount by which the amount secured for which duty has been paid in Queensland under the previous mortgage is more than—
(3) For subsection (2), the non-concessional balance for the home refinance mortgage is—

282. Application for concession for mortgage duty
An application for a concession for mortgage duty on a home mortgage or home refinance mortgage must be made in the approved form.

Part 7 Exemptions for mortgage duty

Division 1 Particular debentures and instruments of trust, transfer of land by security and mortgages under particular Acts

283. Exemption—particular debentures and instruments of trust
(1) Mortgage duty is not imposed on an exempt short-term debenture.
(2) Mortgage duty is not imposed on a mortgage that is—
(3) Mortgage duty is not imposed on a mortgage given by a financial corporation or a related corporation of a financial corporation to secure the repayment of debentures issued by the financial corporation or related corporation.
(4) This section applies to debentures issued, a mortgage given or an instrument of trust signed, by a related corporation of a financial corporation only so far as the debentures are issued, the mortgage is given or the instrument of trust is signed, for raising funds to be used by the financial corporation.
(5) In this section—

284. Exemption—transfer of land by way of security
Mortgage duty is not imposed on a mortgage that is a transfer of land by way of security if transfer duty is paid on the dutiable transaction that is the transfer.

285. Exemption—mortgages under particular Acts
Mortgage duty is not imposed on the following instruments—

Division 2 Asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities

Subdivision 1 Some basic concepts for mortgage-backed securities

286. What is a mortgage-backed security
(1) A mortgage-backed security is—
(2) However, the term does not include—
(3) It does not matter whether a mortgage-backed security is effected by an instrument or another way.

287. What is a mortgage
A mortgage is a mortgage of, or charge over, land regardless of whether the land is situated in Queensland or elsewhere.

288. What is a pool of mortgages
(1) A pool of mortgages is a pool or collection of assets that consists solely of mortgages.
(2) Also, a pool of mortgages is a pool or collection of assets that consists substantially or, if another extent is prescribed under a regulation, to the extent prescribed, of mortgages or amounts paid under mortgages, or a combination of them, if the other assets in the pool or collection are cash or an authorised investment.

289. What is an authorised investment
An authorised investment, for a pool of mortgages, is any of the following—

Subdivision 2 Exemption

289A. Exemption—asset-backed security
Mortgage duty is not imposed on the following—

290. Exemption—mortgage-backed security
Mortgage duty is not imposed on the following—

Part 8 Reassessments for mortgage duty

290A. Reassessment—stamping before advance—Victorian property
(1) This section applies in relation to a mortgage mentioned in section 260 or 261 if—
(2) Section 257(1) and (2) are taken not to have authorised the stamping of the mortgage and the commissioner must make a reassessment to impose mortgage duty on the mortgage based on the dutiable proportion at the liability date.
(3) The mortgagor or mortgagee must, within 28 days of the Victorian duty being refunded—
(4) Compliance with subsection (3) by the mortgagor or mortgagee relieves the other person from complying with the subsection.

290B. Reassessment—stamping before advance—Tasmanian property
(1) This section applies in relation to a mortgage mentioned in section 260 or 261 if—
(2) Section 257(1) and (2) are taken not to have authorised the stamping of the mortgage and the commissioner must make a reassessment to impose mortgage duty on the mortgage based on the dutiable proportion at the liability date.
(3) The mortgagor or mortgagee must, within 28 days of the Tasmanian duty being refunded—
(4) Compliance with subsection (3) by the mortgagor or mortgagee relieves the other person from complying with the subsection.

291. Reassessment—concession under pt 6
(1) This section applies if mortgage duty on a home mortgage is assessed on the basis of a concession under part 6 and one of the following events happen other than because of an intervening event—
(1A) For subsection (1)(a) or (c), a home borrower does not dispose of land if—
(1AB) Also, for subsection (1)(a) or (c), a home borrower does not dispose of land that is an accommodation unit in a retirement village only by entering into a retirement village leasing arrangement for the unit.
(1B) For subsection (1)(b), the prescribed period is—
(2) Within 28 days after the event happens, each home borrower under the mortgage must—
(3) If subsection (1)(a) or (b) applies, the commissioner must make a reassessment to impose mortgage duty on the mortgage as if the concession for mortgage duty had never applied.
(4) If subsection (1)(c) applies, the commissioner must make a reassessment to impose further mortgage duty on the mortgage worked out using the following formula—
(4) where—
(5) If—
(5) this section applies to the later disposal as if the home borrower had not transferred the part of the land to the home borrower’s spouse.

292. Reassessment—noncomplying use by co-operatives
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Within 28 days after starting to use the advance or part of it for the noncomplying use, the co-operative must—
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose mortgage duty on the mortgage as if the exemption from duty had never applied.
(4) Subsection (3) applies to the reassessment despite the limitation period under the Administration Act for reassessments.

Chapter 6

Part 1

293 294

Part 2

295 296
297 298
299 300

Part 3

301 302
303

Part 4

304 305
306 307
308

Part 5

309 310
311 312
313 314
315 316
317 318
319 320
321 322
323 324

Chapter 7

Part 1

325 326

Part 2

327 328
329 330
331 332
333 334

Part 3

335 336
337

Part 4

338 339

Part 5

340 341
342 343
344

Part 6

345 346
347

Part 7

348

Chapter 8 Insurance duty

Part 1 Preliminary

349. Imposition of insurance duty
(1) This chapter imposes duty (insurance duty) on each of the following—
(2) Insurance duty is imposed on the following—

Part 2 Some basic concepts for insurance duty

350. What is general insurance
(1) General insurance is any kind of insurance that is applicable to either or both of the following—
(2) However, the term does not include the following—

351. What is life insurance
Life insurance is insurance applying to a life or lives, or any event or contingency relating to or depending on a life or lives, of a person or persons whose place of residence is in Queensland when the policy effecting the insurance is issued.

352. What is accident insurance
Accident insurance is accident insurance under the Workers’ Compensation and Rehabilitation Act 2003.

353. What is a premium
(1) A premium for general insurance or life insurance is the total consideration given to an insurer by or for the insured person to effect the insurance without deductions for any amounts paid or payable, allowed or allowable, by way of commission or discount to an insurance intermediary.
(2) However, a premium does not include—
(3) It is immaterial where the amount is paid or where the insurance is effected.

354. Who is a general insurer
(1) A general insurer is a person who writes general insurance whether or not the person is authorised under the Insurance Act 1973 (Cwlth) to carry on an insurance business.
(2) An insurance intermediary is not a general insurer.

355. Who is a life insurer
(1) A life insurer is a person who writes life insurance whether or not the person is registered under the Life Insurance Act 1995 (Cwlth).
(2) An insurance intermediary is not a life insurer.

356. What are net premiums charged
Net premiums charged, for accident insurance, are all amounts charged to policy holders under the Workers’ Compensation and Rehabilitation Act 2003 for premiums after any adjustments are made for any previous period.

Part 3 Liability for insurance duty

357. Who is liable to pay insurance duty
(1) Insurance duty imposed on general insurance must be paid by the insurer.
(2) Insurance duty imposed on life insurance must be paid by the insurer.
(3) Insurance duty imposed on accident insurance must be paid by WorkCover Queensland.

358. When insurance duty is payable—general insurance
Insurance duty must be paid each time a premium is paid for a contract of general insurance.

359. When premium is paid—general insurance
(1) For this chapter, a premium is paid when the first of the following happens—
(2) For subsection (1), a premium or part of a premium is taken to be received by an insurer if—

360. When insurance duty is payable—life insurance
Insurance duty must be paid each time an insurer writes a contract of life insurance.

361. When insurance duty is payable—accident insurance
Insurance duty must be paid each time net premiums are charged for accident insurance.

362. Rate of insurance duty—general and accident insurance
(1) The rate of insurance duty imposed on a premium for general insurance or, if section 349(2)(a)(i) applies, the part of the premium, is—
(2) The rate of insurance duty imposed on a premium for CTP insurance is 10c.
(3) The rate of insurance duty imposed on net premiums charged for accident insurance is 5%.
(4) This section has effect subject to part 4.

363. Rate of insurance duty—life insurance
(1) The rate of insurance duty imposed on a contract of life insurance that effects temporary or term insurance is 5% of the first year’s premium.
(2) The rate of insurance duty imposed on another contract of life insurance is—

Part 4 Apportionment of premiums

Division 1 Apportionment between States

364. Application of div 1
(1) This division applies to a contract of general insurance that insures either or both of the following—
(2) Also, this division applies to a contract of life insurance that insures lives, or any event or contingency relating to or depending on lives, of persons resident in Australia, at least one of whom has a place of residence in Queensland when the policy effecting the insurance is issued.

365. Purpose of div 1
The purpose of this division is—

366. Apportionment of premiums
(1) A regulation may state how premiums for insurance are to be apportioned.
(2) A premium or part of a premium must be apportioned under the regulation.
(3) However, the commissioner may, on the written application of an insurer or an insured person, apportion a premium or part of a premium on another basis if the commissioner is satisfied the apportionment on that basis would result in less insurance duty being paid.

Division 2 Other apportionments

367. Apportionment between different types or classes of insurance
If the commissioner is not satisfied a premium paid for a contract of insurance effecting different types or classes of insurance has been properly apportioned for assessing insurance duty, the commissioner may decide the basis of the apportionment.

368. Apportionment of premiums between 2 or more policies
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner may apportion part of the total premiums payable to each of the contracts of insurance as the commissioner considers appropriate.

Part 5 Arrangements applying to insurers and WorkCover Queensland

369. Insurers to be registered
A general insurer or life insurer must not carry on business in Queensland as an insurer unless the insurer is registered under chapter 12, part 1, to carry on the business.

370. Lodging returns and payment of insurance duty
(1) If a registered insurer has a liability to insurance duty for a return period, the insurer must on or before the return date—
(3) If an insurer refunds the whole or part of a premium for a contract of insurance for which insurance duty has been paid, the insurer may deduct from the amount required to be paid under subsection (1) the insurance duty paid on the amount of the premium refunded.
(4) If WorkCover Queensland has a liability to insurance duty for a month, it must—
(5) WorkCover Queensland must comply with subsection (4) within 21 days after the end of the month or the longer period the commissioner allows.
(6) For the Administration Act, the statement is taken to be a return for a self assessment for the accident insurance.

Part 6 Arrangements applying to other persons

371. Application of pt 6
(1) This part applies to a person (the insured person) who effects or renews general insurance or life insurance with a person (the insurer) who is not registered under chapter 12, part 1 or 2.
(2) However, this part does not apply to an insured person who has been charged, by the insurer, an amount for insurance duty in relation to the premium for the insurance.

372. Lodging statement and payment of insurance duty
(1) The insured person must, within 30 days after payment of the premium for the insurance—
(2) For the Administration Act, the statement is taken to be a return for a self assessment for the insurance.

Part 7 Exemptions for insurance duty

373. Exemption—particular marine insurance
Insurance duty is not imposed on a contract of insurance for the physical loss or damage to the hull of a boat used primarily for commercial purposes.

374. Exemption—goods in transit
Insurance duty is not imposed on a contract of insurance for the physical loss or damage to goods in transit or for the loss of freight of goods in transit.

375. Exemption—health insurance
Insurance duty is not imposed on a contract of insurance that—

376. Exemption—reinsurance
Insurance duty is not imposed on a contract of reinsurance between one insurer and another insurer.

Chapter 9 Vehicle registration duty

Part 1 Preliminary

377. Imposition of vehicle registration duty
(1) This chapter imposes duty (vehicle registration duty) on—
(2) Vehicle registration duty is imposed on the dutiable value of the vehicle.
(3) However, the vehicle registration duty imposed on an application for a special vehicle is the amount stated in section 382(2)(a).

Part 2 Some basic concepts for vehicle registration duty

378. What is the dutiable value of a vehicle
(1) The dutiable value of a vehicle that has not previously been registered, whether in Queensland or another State, and for which there is a list price is the total of the following—
(2) The dutiable value of a vehicle that has previously been registered, whether in Queensland or another State, or for which there is no list price is the greater of the following—
(3) However, if a vehicle is modified for a person with a disability, the dutiable value of the vehicle is—

379. What is the market value of a vehicle
The market value of a vehicle is the amount for which the vehicle might reasonably be sold, free of encumbrances, on the open market when the transaction to which an application to register or transfer the vehicle is made.

379A. Who is a relative
A relative of a person is any of the following—

379B. When is a vehicle modified for a person with a disability
A vehicle is modified for a person with a disability if—

Part 3 Liability for vehicle registration duty

380. Who is liable to pay vehicle registration duty
(1) For an application to register a vehicle, the applicant is liable to pay the vehicle registration duty.
(2) For an application to transfer a vehicle, the transferee and the transferor are liable to pay the vehicle registration duty.

381. When vehicle registration duty must be paid
(1) For an application to register a vehicle, the applicant must pay the vehicle registration duty on the application when making it.
(2) For an application to transfer a vehicle, the transferee and the transferor must pay the vehicle registration duty on the application when making it.

382. Assessment of vehicle registration duty
(1) On the making of an application to register or transfer a vehicle—
(2) The liability for the vehicle registration duty on the application is—

383. Rate of vehicle registration duty, other than for a special vehicle
(1) The rate of vehicle registration duty imposed on an application to register or transfer a vehicle, other than a special vehicle, is the total of—
(2) Subsection (1)(b) does not apply to a vehicle that has a GVM under the Vehicle Registration Act of more than 4.5t.

384. Reduction in vehicle registration duty payable
(1) The amount of vehicle registration duty assessed under section 382(2) must be reduced if—
(2) The reduction must be worked out using the following formula—
(2) where—
(3) However, the reduction must not be more than the amount of vehicle registration duty that is otherwise payable under section 382(2).

Part 4 Exemptions for vehicle registration duty

385. Exemption—registration of previously registered vehicle
Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to register a vehicle if—

386. Exemption—registration of interstate registered vehicle or previously registered vehicle
(1) Subject to subsection (3), vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to register a vehicle if—
(2) For subsection (1)(c), the applicant or applicants must be—
(3) Subsection (1) applies only if the registration of the vehicle, or an interest in the vehicle, in the name of a relative of a registered operator constitutes a gift of the vehicle or interest by the operator to the relative.
(4) In this section—

387. Exemption—registration of heavy vehicle
(1) Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to register a vehicle if—
(2) Also, vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to register a heavy vehicle if—
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the application is part of an arrangement the sole or dominant purpose of which is to avoid the imposition of vehicle registration duty on the application.
(4) In this section—

388. Exemption—business name
Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to register or transfer a vehicle if—

389. Exemption—vehicle dealer
Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on—

390. Exemption—particular persons and entities
(1) Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to register a vehicle in the name of, or an application to transfer a vehicle to, any of the following persons—
(2) Also, vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to transfer a vehicle or an interest in a vehicle wholly by way of gift to a relative of the registered operator.

391. Exemption—forfeiture orders
Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to transfer a vehicle under—

392. Exemption—industrial organisations
Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application, under the Industrial Relations Act 2016, chapter 12, part 14, to register a vehicle in the name of, or to transfer a vehicle to, an organisation under that Act.

393. Exemption—disposal under particular Acts
Vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to transfer a vehicle under—

Part 5 Reassessments for vehicle registration duty

393A. Reassessment—noncomplying use by vehicle dealer
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Within 28 days after the event mentioned in subsection (1)(b) happens, the vehicle dealer must give notice in the approved form to the commissioner.
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose vehicle registration duty on the application to register or transfer the vehicle as if the exemption from duty had never applied.
(4) For subsection (1)(b), the vehicle is taken to stop being trading stock, or stop being used as a demonstrator, on the day that is the prescribed period after the registration or transfer mentioned in subsection (1)(a), unless the vehicle dealer sells the vehicle in the ordinary course of business before that day.
(5) In this section—

394. Reassessment—noncomplying use by primary producer
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Within 28 days after the event mentioned in subsection (1)(b) happens, the primary producer must give notice in the approved form to the commissioner.
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose vehicle registration duty on the application to register the vehicle as if the exemption from duty had never applied.

395. Reassessment of vehicle registration duty
(1) This section applies if the commissioner is satisfied that—
(2) On application made by the person who paid the vehicle registration duty on the application to register or transfer the vehicle, the commissioner must make a reassessment of the duty paid as if it were exempt from vehicle registration duty.
(3) An application under subsection (2) must be made within 1 year after the application to register or transfer the vehicle was made.

Part 6 Miscellaneous provisions

396. Obligations of vehicle dealers
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The vehicle dealer must—

Chapter 10 General exemptions

Part 1 Exemptions for particular duties for corporate reconstruction

Division 1 Preliminary

397. Purpose of pt 1
This part provides for exemptions for particular duties on particular transactions carried out for a corporate reconstruction.

Division 2 Some basic concepts about exemptions for duty for corporate reconstructions

Subdivision 1 Basic concepts about corporate reconstructions

398. What is a corporate reconstruction
(1) A corporate reconstruction happens if—
(2) For subsection (1)(b), a transaction that is 1 in a series of transactions is taken to be necessary to give effect to the purpose if it is necessary for an exemption to apply to the transaction.

Subdivision 2 Basic concepts about companies, group companies, parent companies and subsidiaries

399. What is a company
A company is a body corporate other than a corporation sole.

400. What are group companies, a group company and a corporate group
(1) If a company is the subsidiary of another company, the companies are group companies.
(2) Also, if 2 or more companies are the subsidiary of another company, all the companies are group companies.
(3) Each of the group companies is a group company.
(4) All companies that are group companies form a corporate group.

401. What is a parent company
A company is the parent company of another company if—

402. What is a subsidiary
A company (the first company) is a subsidiary of another company if at least 90% of the issued shares in the first company are owned, other than as trustee, and voting control of the first company is held, by 1 or more of the following companies—

403. Example of corporate group structure
(1) Schedule 5 contains an example of a corporate group structure.
(2) The example shows the group companies, the parent companies and subsidiaries in the group.

404. How part applies to particular transactions
For this part—

405

Division 3 Exemptions for corporate reconstructions

406. Exemption—intra-group transfers of property
(1) Transfer duty or vehicle registration duty is not imposed on a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property carried out for a corporate reconstruction if the conditions in subsection (2) are complied with.
(2) For subsection (1), the conditions are as follows—
(3) For subsection (2)(c)(ii), consideration may be provided—

407. Group property for intra-group transfer of property
(1) For section 406(2)(d), property is group property if—
(2) For section 406(2)(d), property is also group property if—
(3) However, for subsection (1)(a) or (b), property that is a lot on a plan of subdivision registered after the transferor and the transferee became group companies is only group property to the extent that the property comprising the lot was group property under subsection (1)(a) or (b) immediately before registration of the plan of subdivision.
(4) For property mentioned in subsection (3), transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable value of the part of the lot that is group property, worked out using the following formula—
(4) where—
(5) In this section—

408. Exemption—trustees
(1) Transfer duty or vehicle registration duty is not imposed on a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of dutiable property carried out for a corporate reconstruction if the following conditions are complied with—
(2) For subsection (1), section 406(2) and division 5 apply as if—

409. Exemption—landholder duty
(1) This section applies if—
(2) This section also applies if, under section 406 or 408, a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of shares is exempt from transfer duty and the acquisition of the shares by the transferee is a relevant acquisition.
(3) Landholder duty is not imposed on the acquisition to the extent of the interest acquired by the new parent company or transferee under the transaction.
(4) For subsection (2), sections 406, 407 and 408 apply as if a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of shares were a dutiable transaction.

Division 4 Applications for rulings and exemptions

410. Application for ruling for proposed dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition
(1) A company that proposes being party to a dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition, may apply to the commissioner for a ruling whether the proposed transaction or acquisition will be exempt from duty under this part.
(2) The application must—
(3) The commissioner must give the applicant notice of the commissioner’s ruling on the application.

411. Application for exemption for dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition
(1) The parties to a dutiable transaction or acquirer under a relevant acquisition may apply to the commissioner for an exemption from duty under division 3.
(2) The application must—
(3) On the application, the commissioner must make an assessment of nil duty for the dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition if—
(4) However, subsection (3)(b) does not apply if—

Division 5 Reassessments for corporate reconstructions

412. Reassessment—exemption for intra-group transfers of property, trustees and landholder duty
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose duty on the dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition as if the exemption from duty had never applied.
(3) Subsection (2) applies to the reassessment despite the following—
(4) However, subsection (2) does not apply—
(5) Without limiting subsection (4)(a), a company registered under the Corporations Act ceases to exist if it is deregistered under that Act.

413. When parties must give notice for reassessment
(1) This section applies if an event mentioned in section 412(1)(b) happens within 3 years after a dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition to which an exemption under this part was applied.
(2) Within 28 days after the event happens, a party to the dutiable transaction or person making the relevant acquisition must—

Part 1A Exemptions for particular duties for small business restructures

Division 1 Some basic concepts for small business restructures

413A. What is a small business entity
(1) A small business entity is an individual, partnership or discretionary trust carrying on a relevant Queensland business with an annual turnover of not more than $5m.
(2) In this section—

413B. What is small business property
(1) Small business property, of a small business entity, is dutiable property that is directly held and used by a person for the purpose of carrying on the business of the entity.
(2) However, small business property does not include dutiable property—

413C. What is a transferee corporation
A transferee corporation is an unlisted corporation to which small business property is, or is agreed to be, transferred that has not, since its registration under the Corporations Act, and before the transfer or agreement—

413D. What is a share interest
(1) The share interest, of a person in a transferee corporation, is the person’s entitlement as a shareholder of the corporation, expressed as a percentage of the total value of the transferee corporation’s property that would be distributed if—
(2) For subsection (1), the entitlement of a person on a distribution of a transferee corporation’s property is taken to be the entitlement of a person on a distribution of a corporation’s property under section 161, as if a reference in that section to a corporation were a reference to a transferee corporation.

413E. Who is a default beneficiary
A default beneficiary of a discretionary trust is a beneficiary who is a taker in default of an appointment by the trustee of the trust, other than a last taker in default of an appointment that is—

Division 2 Exemptions

413F. Exemption—transfer of small business property from individual to transferee corporation
(1) This section applies in relation to a dutiable transaction that is a transfer, or an agreement for the transfer, of small business property if—
(2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction to the extent of the lesser of the following interests—
(3) Also, if the small business property includes a vehicle, vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to transfer the vehicle.
(4) In this section—

413G. Exemption—transfer of small business property from partnership to transferee corporation
(1) This section applies in relation to a dutiable transaction that is a transfer, or an agreement for the transfer, of small business property if—
(2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction to the extent of the lesser of the following interests in relation to each partner—
(3) Also, if the small business property is a vehicle, vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to transfer the vehicle.

413H. Exemption—transfer of small business property from trustee to transferee corporation
(1) This section applies in relation to a dutiable transaction that is a transfer, or an agreement for the transfer, of small business property if—
(2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction to the extent of the lesser of the following interests in relation to each default beneficiary—
(3) For applying subsection (2) in relation to more than 1 default beneficiary of a discretionary trust, the default beneficiaries are taken to hold the trust interests in equal shares if the trust deed does not state the percentage of income or property each beneficiary is to receive from the trust.
(4) Also, if the small business property includes a vehicle, vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to transfer the vehicle.

413I. Exemption—transfer of small business property from trustee to transferee corporation with sole shareholder
(1) This section applies in relation to a dutiable transaction that is a transfer, or an agreement for the transfer, of small business property if—
(2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction.
(3) Also, if the small business property includes a vehicle, vehicle registration duty is not imposed on an application to transfer the vehicle.
(4) In this section—

Part 2 Exemptions for particular duties for charitable institutions

Division 1 Exemptions for charitable institutions

414. Exemption—particular duties for charitable institutions
(1) Duty is not imposed on the following—
(2) Subsection (1) applies only if the use requirements under division 2 are complied with.

Division 2 Use requirements for exemptions

415. Use requirement
(1) Property acquired or insured by, or property held on trust for, a charitable institution must be used solely or almost solely by the institution for 1 or more of the following purposes (a qualifying exempt purpose)—
(2) For subsection (1)(a) to (h), the property acquired, insured or held is not used solely or almost solely for a qualifying exempt purpose if the property is used for an employment or salary package of an officer or employee of the institution.

416. Start of use requirement
(1) For property held on trust for a charitable institution, the commissioner must be satisfied—
(2) For other property, the commissioner must be satisfied—
(3) For subsection (2)(a), the start date is—
(4) For subsection (2)(b), the duration period starts—

417. Commissioner to extend start date and duration period
(1) This section applies if, after an assessment made on the basis of an exemption under division 1, the commissioner is satisfied the property acquired, insured or held—
(2) The commissioner must not make a reassessment merely because the property has not been used solely or almost solely for a qualifying exempt purpose if the property starts to be so used by the new start date.

Division 3 Reassessments for charitable institutions

418. Reassessment on application of charitable institution
(1) This section applies if, under an assessment, duty is imposed on an instrument or transaction because the use requirements under division 2 will not be complied with.
(2) If, on application by the charitable institution concerned, the commissioner is satisfied the property acquired, insured or held has been used solely, or almost solely, for a qualifying exempt purpose from the start date for the duration period, the commissioner must make a reassessment on the basis of compliance with division 2.
(3) For the reassessment, the charitable institution must lodge the instruments required for the original assessment.

419. Reassessment—noncompliance with use requirements
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Within 28 days after the event mentioned in subsection (1)(b) happens, the charitable institution must—
(3) The commissioner must make a reassessment to impose duty on the instrument or transaction as if the exemption had never applied.

Part 3 Exemptions for matrimonial and de facto relationship instruments

Division 1 Some basic concepts for matrimonial and de facto relationship instruments

420. What is a matrimonial instrument
(1) An instrument mentioned in subsection (2) that provides for the transfer of matrimonial property from 1 party to a marriage to only the other party to the marriage is a matrimonial instrument on the dissolution or annulment of the marriage.
(2) For subsection (1), the instruments are the following—

421. What is matrimonial property
Matrimonial property is property of the parties to a marriage or of either of them that is—

422. What is a de facto relationship instrument
A de facto relationship instrument is any of the following instruments to the extent it deals with de facto relationship property—

423. What is de facto relationship property
De facto relationship property is property of the de facto partners of a de facto relationship or of either of them.

Division 2 Exemptions and reassessments

424. Exemption—matrimonial and de facto relationship instruments
Duty is not imposed on a transaction to the extent that it gives effect to a matrimonial instrument or de facto relationship instrument.

425. Reassessment on application
(1) This section applies if—
(2) On application made by a party to the marriage or 1 of the de facto partners, the commissioner must make a reassessment of duty for the transfer as if it were exempt from duty under section 424.
(3) The application must be made within 6 months after—
(4) The applicant must lodge the matrimonial instrument or de facto relationship instrument for the property with the application.

Part 4 Other exemptions

426. Exemption—State
The State is not liable to pay duty unless this Act expressly provides otherwise.

427. Exemption—particular instruments and transactions relating to incorporated associations
(1) Duty is not imposed on an instrument or transaction for a vesting of property in an incorporated association under the Associations Incorporation Act 1981, because of its incorporation under part 2 or part 9, division 2, of that Act.
(2) Duty is not imposed on an instrument or transaction for vesting property in an association incorporated under the Corporations Act if—

428. Exemption—particular instruments and transactions under National Gas (Queensland) Act
Duty is not imposed on—

429. Instruments and transactions under Housing Act 2003
(1) Duty is not imposed on an instrument or transaction entered into or made under the Housing Act 2003 by the housing chief executive on behalf of the State.
(2) However, subsection (1) does not apply to any of the following transactions or an instrument entered into for the transaction—
(3) Subsection (2) does not make the housing chief executive or the State liable to pay duty.
(4) In this section—

430. Exemption—instruments and transactions under other Acts
Duty is not imposed on an instrument or transaction entered into or made—

431. Exemption—Queensland Investment Corporation
Duty is not imposed on an instrument or transaction entered into or made by the Queensland Investment Corporation established under the Queensland Investment Corporation Act 1991.

431A. Exemption—Queensland Treasury Corporation and its affiliates
(1) This section applies to a financial arrangement, or other arrangement, entered into or made by the Queensland Treasury Corporation or an affiliate of the corporation.
(2) Subject to the conditions in subsection (3), duty is not imposed on an instrument or transaction that gives effect to, or is a part of, the arrangement.
(3) The conditions are—
(4) In this section—

431B. Exemption—particular dutiable transactions or relevant acquisitions for Queensland Future (Debt Retirement) Fund
(1) Subsection (2) applies in relation to a dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition that is, or is part of an arrangement that is, intended to advance the purpose of the Queensland Future (Debt Retirement) Fund.
(2) Transfer duty or landholder duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition if the transaction or acquisition is, or is part of an arrangement that is—
(3) Also, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a trust acquisition of a unit in a unit trust if—
(4) In addition, transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction that is a trust surrender of a unit in a unit trust if—
(5) In this section—

Chapter 11 Avoidance schemes

432. Purpose and operation of ch 11
(1) The purpose of this chapter is to deter artificial, blatant or contrived schemes to reduce liability to duty.
(2) Subject to subsection (1), nothing in this Act limits the operation of this chapter.

433. Application of ch 11
(1) This chapter applies if—
(2) It does not matter—
(3) However, despite subsection (1), this chapter does not apply in relation to a duty benefit that is attributable to an exemption or concession under this Act for duty, unless an entity entered into or carried out a scheme or part of a scheme for the sole or dominant purpose of creating a circumstance or state of affairs to which the exemption or concession would apply.
(4) For this section, for deciding what was an entity’s sole or dominant purpose for entering into or carrying out a scheme or part of a scheme, any purpose relating to eliminating, reducing or postponing a liability for a foreign tax is to be disregarded.
(5) In this section—

434. When is a duty benefit obtained
(1) An entity obtains a duty benefit if an amount of duty payable by the entity under this Act apart from this chapter is, or could reasonably be expected to be, less than it would have been apart from the scheme or a part of the scheme.
(2) The amount of the duty benefit is the difference between the amount of duty payable and the amount of duty that would have been payable apart from the scheme or part of the scheme.

435. Matters to be considered in deciding purpose for scheme
(1) For section 433, the following matters must be taken into account in deciding an entity’s purpose in entering into or carrying out the scheme from which the avoider obtained, or would obtain, a duty benefit—
(2) Subsection (1) applies for considering an entity’s purpose in entering into or carrying out part of a scheme from which the avoider obtains, or would obtain, a duty benefit, as if the part were itself the scheme from which the avoider obtains, or would obtain, the benefit.

436. Assessments because of duty benefit from scheme
(1) If a duty benefit has been obtained, or would apart from this chapter be obtained, by the avoider from a scheme, the commissioner may decide that the amount of the duty benefit is payable as duty as decided by the commissioner.
(2) The commissioner must—
(3) Subsection (4) applies if the commissioner—
(4) Despite the limitation period under the Administration Act for reassessments, the commissioner must, for the other person, make a reassessment on the basis that the amount or part of the amount of duty is not payable.
(5) For the reassessment, the other person must lodge the instruments required for the original assessment.

Chapter 12 Registered persons

Part 1 Registration of persons carrying on particular businesses and their registration as self assessors

437. Application for registration to carry on particular businesses
(1) A person may apply to be registered to carry on business in Queensland as an insurer.
(2) The application must be made to the commissioner in the approved form.

438. Registration to carry on business
On receipt of the application, the commissioner must register the person to carry on the business.

439. Registration as self assessor
On registration of the person to carry on the business, the commissioner must also register the person as a self assessor for duty on instruments or transactions to which the person is or becomes a party for carrying on the business.

440. Notice of registration
(1) The commissioner must give notice to the person of the person’s registration to carry on the business and as a self assessor.
(2) The notice must state the following—

Part 2 Registration of parties to instruments and transactions as self assessors

441. Application for registration
(1) A person may apply to the commissioner to be registered as a self assessor for duty on particular instruments or transactions to which the person is or becomes a party.
(2) The application must be in the approved form.

442. Decision on application
The commissioner must approve or refuse the application for registration.

443. Approval of application
If the commissioner approves the application, the commissioner must register the person as a self assessor for duty on the instruments or transactions mentioned in the application.

444. Registration of self assessor without application
The commissioner may, by notice given to a person, register the person as a self assessor for duty on particular instruments or transactions to which the person is or becomes a party.

445. Notice of registration
(1) On registration of a person as a self assessor, the commissioner must give notice to the person of the registration.
(2) The notice must state the following—
(3) However, a matter mentioned in subsection (2) may, instead of being stated in the notice, be stated in a document issued by the commissioner and accompanying the notice.
(4) A matter mentioned in subsection (2) and stated in a document mentioned in subsection (3) is taken to have been stated in the notice.

446. Refusal of application
If the commissioner refuses the application, the commissioner must give the applicant an information notice for the decision.

446A 447. Restriction on assessment by commissioner
(1) A self assessor who, under the self assessor’s notice of registration, is required to lodge returns or transaction statements for particular instruments or transactions, must not lodge an instrument, or an instrument or ELN transaction document for the transaction, of that type for assessment by the commissioner.
(2) This section has effect subject to the Administration Act, section 11(2)(a).

Part 3 Registration of agents as self assessors

448. Application for registration
(1) A person who, in the ordinary course of business, acts as an agent for parties to instruments or transactions on which duty is imposed may apply to be registered as a self assessor for the duty on the instruments or transactions.
(2) The application must be in the approved form.

449. Decision on application
The commissioner must approve or refuse the application.

450. Approval of application
If the commissioner approves the application, the commissioner must register the person as a self assessor for duty on the instruments or transactions mentioned in the application.

451. Registration of self assessor without application
The commissioner may, by notice given to a person who, in the ordinary course of business, acts as an agent for parties to instruments or transactions on which duty is imposed, register the person as a self assessor for the duty on the instruments or transactions.

452. Notice of registration
(1) On registration of a person as a self assessor, the commissioner must give notice to the person of the registration.
(2) The notice must state the following—
(3) However, a matter mentioned in subsection (2) may, instead of being stated in the notice, be stated in a document issued by the commissioner and accompanying the notice.
(4) A matter mentioned in subsection (2) and stated in a document mentioned in subsection (3) is taken to have been stated in the notice.

453. Refusal of application
If the commissioner refuses the application, the commissioner must give the applicant an information notice for the decision.

454. Restriction on assessment by commissioner
(1) A self assessor who, under the self assessor’s notice of registration, is required to lodge returns or transaction statements for particular instruments or transactions, must not lodge an instrument, or an instrument or ELN transaction document for the transaction, of that type for assessment by the commissioner.
(2) This section has effect subject to the Administration Act, section 11(2)(a).

Part 4 Returns, transaction statements and reassessments by self assessors

455. Lodging returns
(1) A self assessor registered under part 2 or 3 must for return self assessments—
(1A) Subsection (1)(c) does not apply if the self assessor’s notice of registration states that no endorsements are required on the instruments.
(2) For subsection (1)(c)—
(3) However, a self assessor registered under part 3, does not have to comply with subsection (1) to the extent that the self assessor has not received payment of duty, assessed interest or penalty tax by the persons liable to pay it.

455A. Lodging transaction statements
(1) A self assessor registered under part 2 or 3 must for a standard self assessment—
(1A) Subsection (1)(b) does not apply if the self assessor’s notice of registration states that no endorsements are required on the instruments or ELN transaction documents.
(2) For subsection (1)(a), if the self assessor is registered under part 2, the self assessor must lodge the transaction statement and documents by the date that is 30 days after the date liability for duty for the instrument or transaction arises.
(3) For subsection (1)(a), if the self assessor is registered under part 3, the self assessor must lodge the transaction statement and documents by the later of the following dates—
(4) For subsection (1)(b)—
(5) Subsection (4)(a)(ii)(F) does not apply to an ELN transaction document.
(6) Subsection (7) applies if—
(7) For subsection (1)(b), the ELN transaction document is taken to have been stamped by the self assessor immediately after the ELN workspace for the ELN transfer or ELN lodgement is locked.
(8) Subsection (7) does not affect the self assessor’s compliance with the requirements mentioned in subsection (4).

456. When self assessor may make reassessments
(1) A self assessor may make a reassessment only if—
(2) A self assessor must not make a self assessment of a reassessment made by the commissioner.

457 458
459 460
461 462
463 463A

Part 5 Amendment, suspension and cancellation of registration of self assessors

464. Amendment of self assessor’s registration
(1) The commissioner may amend a self assessor’s registration by notice given to the self assessor.
(2) The notice must state the particulars of the self assessor’s notice of registration that are amended.
(3) If the commissioner amends a self assessor’s registration, the commissioner must give the self assessor an information notice for the decision.

465. Grounds for suspension or cancellation
Each of the following is a ground for suspending or cancelling a self assessor’s registration—

466. Show cause notice
(1) If the commissioner believes a ground exists to suspend or cancel a self assessor’s registration, the commissioner may give the self assessor a notice under this section (a show cause notice).
(2) The show cause notice must state the following—
(3) The show cause period must be a period ending at least 21 days after the show cause notice is given to the self assessor.

467. Representations about show cause notices
(1) The self assessor may make representations about the show cause notice to the commissioner in the show cause period.
(2) The commissioner must consider all written representations (the accepted representations) made under subsection (1).

468. Ending show cause process without further action
(1) This section applies if, after considering the accepted representations for the show cause notice, the commissioner no longer believes a ground exists to suspend or cancel the self assessor’s registration.
(1A) Also, this section applies if—
(2) The commissioner must not take any further action about the show cause notice.
(3) Notice that no further action is to be taken about the show cause notice must be given to the self assessor by the commissioner.

469. Suspension or cancellation of registration
(1) This section applies if, after considering the accepted representations for the show cause notice, the commissioner—
(2) This section also applies if there are no accepted representations for the show cause notice.
(3) The commissioner may—
(4) The commissioner must immediately give the self assessor an information notice for the decision.
(5) The decision takes effect on—

469A. Immediate suspension
(1) This section applies if the commissioner reasonably believes—
(2) The commissioner may decide to immediately suspend the self assessor’s registration.
(3) The commissioner must give the self assessor an information notice for the decision.
(4) The information notice must include the period of the suspension.
(5) The suspension—
(6) During the period of the suspension, if the commissioner no longer believes subsection (1)(a) or (b) is satisfied, the commissioner must end the suspension by giving notice to the self assessor stating the suspension has ended.
(7) In this section—

470. Suspension or cancellation of registration—ceasing to carry on business
(1) This section applies if a self assessor registered under part 1 or 3 permanently ceases to carry on, in Queensland, the business for which the self assessor is registered.
(2) Also, this section applies if a self assessor registered under part 3 temporarily ceases to carry on, in Queensland, the business for which the self assessor is registered.
(3) Within 14 days after the ceasing to carry on the business, the self assessor must give notice of the ceasing to the commissioner.
(4) If the self assessor is a self assessor mentioned in subsection (2), the notice given under subsection (3) must state the period (the temporary cessation period) for which the self assessor will temporarily cease to carry on the business.
(5) On receiving the notice, the commissioner must give notice to the self assessor stating—
(6) For subsection (5)(b)(ii), the period stated in the notice must not be longer than the temporary cessation period.

470A. Cancellation of registration—type of duty abolished
(1) The commissioner may cancel a self assessor’s registration if the type of duty to which the registration relates is no longer imposed under this Act.
(2) If the commissioner cancels a self assessor’s registration, the commissioner must give notice to the self assessor that the registration is cancelled effective from the date stated in the notice.
(3) Sections 466 to 469 do not apply in relation to the cancellation of a self assessor’s registration under this section.

471

Chapter 12A Provisions for parties to self assessable instruments or transactions

Part 1 Preliminary

471A. Who is a liable party
A party to an instrument or transaction who is liable to pay duty on it is a liable party to the instrument or transaction.

471B. What is a relevant lodgement requirement
(1) A relevant lodgement requirement for an instrument or transaction is a lodgement requirement, within the meaning of the Administration Act, that applies to the instrument or a document for the instrument or transaction.
(2) However, a requirement under this Act to lodge a return or transaction statement for a self assessment for the instrument or transaction is not a relevant lodgement requirement.
(3) For subsection (2), a return for a self assessment does not include another document that is, under a provision of this Act, taken to be a return for a self assessment.

Part 2 Provisions applicable if agent registered as self assessor

471C. Application of pt 2
(1) This part applies to an instrument or transaction for which a liable party engages a self assessor who is—
(2) However, if the self assessor is not permitted to make a reassessment of duty on the instrument or transaction, this part does not apply to the instrument or transaction for the making of the reassessment.

471D. Effect of engagement of self assessor on relevant lodgement requirement
A relevant lodgement requirement for the instrument or transaction does not apply for the instrument or transaction.

471E. Liable party must give documents, and pay duty, to self assessor
(1) A liable party to the instrument or transaction must, not later than the date mentioned in subsection (2)—
(2) For subsection (1), the date is—
(3) The liable party complies with subsection (1)(a) only if—
(4) To remove doubt, it is declared that compliance with subsection (1)(b) does not limit the party’s liability to pay unpaid tax interest on the duty payable on the instrument or transaction.

471EA. Liability not discharged until commissioner receives payment
(1) This section applies to the liability of a liable party to the instrument or transaction to pay an amount of duty, assessed interest or penalty tax on the instrument or transaction.
(2) The liability is not discharged until the amount is paid to the commissioner.
(3) Subsection (2) applies even though the liable party has paid the amount to the self assessor.

471F. Giving documents to self assessor
(1) A document is given by a liable party to a self assessor only if the document is—
(2) A document given to the self assessor in the way mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is taken to be given to the self assessor when it is actually received by the self assessor.

471G. Prohibition on giving false or misleading documents to self assessor
(1) A liable party to the instrument or transaction must not give the instrument or a document relating to the instrument or transaction to the self assessor if the instrument or document contains information the party knows, or should reasonably know, is false or misleading in a material particular.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a liable party who, when giving the instrument or document to the self assessor—
(3) It is enough for a complaint against a person for an offence against subsection (1) to state the instrument or document was ‘false or misleading’, without specifying which.

471H. Prohibition on giving false or misleading information to self assessor
(1) A liable party to the instrument or transaction must not state to the self assessor anything relating to the instrument or transaction that the party knows is false or misleading in a material particular.
(2) It is enough for a complaint against a person for an offence against subsection (1) to state the statement made was ‘false or misleading’, without specifying which.

Part 3 Provisions applicable if party registered as self assessor

471I. Application of pt 3
(1) This part applies to an instrument or transaction for which there is a self assessor who is—
(2) However, if the self assessor is not permitted to make a reassessment of duty on the instrument or transaction, this part does not apply to the instrument or transaction for the making of the reassessment.

471J. Effect of engagement of self assessor on relevant lodgement requirement
A relevant lodgement requirement for the instrument or transaction does not apply for the instrument or transaction if—

Chapter 13 Internal and external reviews

Part 1 Reviews by commissioner

472. Applying for a review of an original decision
(1) A dissatisfied person may apply for a review of an original decision.
(2) The application must—
(3) If the commissioner is satisfied a dissatisfied person has a reasonable excuse for failing to apply for a review within the 28 day period, the commissioner may extend the time for applying for the review.
(4) The application does not stay the original decision.

473. Deciding review
(1) After considering the application, the commissioner may make a decision (the review decision) to—
(2) If the original decision was made by a delegate of the commissioner, the delegate must not decide the application.

474. Notice of review decision
(1) The commissioner must give notice to the applicant of the review decision.
(2) The notice must comply with the QCAT Act, section 157(2).

Part 2 Reviews by QCAT

475. Applying for review by QCAT of a review decision
The applicant for the review of the original decision who is dissatisfied with the review decision may apply, as provided under the QCAT Act, to QCAT for a review of the review decision.

476. QCAT to decide external review on evidence given in the proceeding for the review
(1) This section applies to a proceeding for a review by QCAT of a review decision.
(2) QCAT must—
(3) The grounds for the review by QCAT are limited to the grounds of the review by the commissioner, unless QCAT orders otherwise.
(4) If QCAT decides, under the QCAT Act, section 139, that the proceeding should be reopened, the issues in the proceeding that are reheard must be—
(5) In this section—

477. Representation of parties before QCAT
(1) This section applies to a party in a proceeding before QCAT relating to an application under section 475.
(2) The party may be represented by a lawyer.

478 479

Chapter 14 Enforcement and legal proceedings

480. Offences about self assessments—endorsements of instruments
(1) A self assessor registered under chapter 12, part 2, must not endorse an instrument under section 455 or 455A unless the amount of duty and any assessed interest and penalty tax has—
(2) A self assessor registered under chapter 12, part 3, must not endorse an instrument under section 455 or 455A unless the amount of duty and any assessed interest and penalty tax has been paid to the commissioner or received by the self assessor.

480A. Offences about self assessments—endorsements of ELN transaction documents
(1) A self assessor registered under chapter 12, part 2 or 3 must not endorse an ELN transaction document for an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement under section 455A on the basis that section 22(2) applies to the ELN transfer or ELN lodgement unless the duty amount for the agreement for the transfer of dutiable property has been—
(2) A self assessor registered under chapter 12, part 2 or 3 must not endorse an ELN transaction document for an ELN transfer under section 455A on the basis that section 22(2A) applies to the ELN transfer unless a payment commitment has been made for the relevant transfer agreement.
(3) However, a self assessor does not commit an offence against this section only because—
(4) In this section—

481. Offence for person other than self assessor to endorse instrument or ELN transaction document
(1) A person must not make any notation or endorsement on an instrument or ELN transaction document indicating or implying duty has been paid for the instrument or ELN transaction document unless the person is authorised to do so under this Act.
(2) A person does not commit an offence against subsection (1) if the person makes a notation on an ELN transaction document required under the Electronic Conveyancing National Law (Queensland) for the completion of an ELN transfer or ELN lodgement.
(3) In this section—

481A. Offence to endorse instrument or ELN transaction document incorrectly or illegibly
(1) This section applies if an instrument or ELN transaction document is endorsed—
(2) The person making the endorsement commits an offence if—
(3) However, the person does not commit an offence against subsection (2)(c) in relation to an endorsement made on an ELN transaction document for an ELN transfer only because—

482. Obligations relating to unstamped instruments or ELN transaction documents
(1) A person who acts under an instrument or ELN transaction document that has not been properly stamped must immediately give notice in the approved form to the commissioner.
(2) However, a person does not commit an offence against subsection (1) if the person proves the person did not know and could not reasonably have been expected to have known that—

483. Registration of instruments and transactions
A person must not record an instrument or transaction in a register of interests in property unless the instrument or ELN transaction document that effects or evidences the transaction, or the instrument, is properly stamped.

484. Registration of instrument relating to an interest in a corporation
A person must not enter in the records of a corporation or society an instrument that effects or evidences a relevant acquisition under chapter 3, part 1 or 2, unless the instrument is properly stamped.

485. Registration of instrument disposing of units in unit trust etc.
The trustee or responsible entity of a unit trust must not record in the trust’s records an instrument that effects or evidences a trust acquisition or trust surrender of units in a unit trust, unless the instrument is properly stamped.

486. Saving of title—marketable securities and units in unit trust
The right or title of the transferee or subsequent holder of a marketable security or unit in a unit trust, other than a public unit trust, is not invalidated merely because the instrument that effects or evidences the transaction, acquisition or surrender was recorded in contravention of section 484 or 485.

487. Receipt of instruments or ELN transaction documents in evidence
(1) Unless an instrument or ELN transaction document is properly stamped, it—
(2) However, a court may receive an instrument or ELN transaction document in evidence if—
(3) A court may receive in evidence an unsigned copy of an instrument or ELN transaction document that is imposed with duty or effects or evidences a transaction that is imposed with duty if the court is satisfied—

487A. Limitation on use of ELN transaction document endorsed on basis of payment commitment
(1) This section applies if an ELN transaction document has been endorsed under section 455A on the basis that section 22(2A) applies to the ELN transfer to which the document relates.
(2) Until the ELN transaction document is registered under the Land Title Act 1994, a person must not use the endorsed ELN transaction document for a purpose other than the completion of the ELN transfer.

488. Commissioner may require payment of penalty
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The commissioner may, by notice given to the person, require the person to pay a penalty (the penalty amount) of the greater of the following—
(3) The notice must state the following—
(4) The commissioner must give the person an information notice for the requirement to pay the penalty amount.
(5) The commissioner may enter into an arrangement for payment of the penalty amount by instalments.
(6) The arrangement may include provision for the payment of interest calculated at the rate for unpaid tax interest for the period starting on the start date and ending on the date the penalty amount is paid in full, both dates inclusive.
(7) For subsection (6), the start date is the day after the failure or contravention mentioned in subsection (1).
(8) In this section—

489. Penalty amounts to be alternative to prosecution
(1) This section applies if a penalty amount, including a part of a penalty amount, becomes payable by a person because of the person’s contravention of a provision mentioned in section 488(1).
(2) If a proceeding is started against the person for an offence against the provision for the contravention and the penalty amount has not been paid to the commissioner, the penalty amount is payable only if the proceeding is withdrawn.
(3) If the penalty amount has been paid to the commissioner, but a proceeding is started against the person for an offence against the provision for the contravention, the penalty amount must be refunded by the commissioner.
(4) Despite subsection (3), if the commissioner withdraws the proceeding for the offence, the person again becomes liable to pay the penalty amount.

Chapter 15 Signing and stamping of instruments

490. When is an instrument first signed
(1) An instrument is first signed the first time it is signed by a party to it.
(2) However, an agreement made by acceptance of an offer contained in an instrument is first signed when the offer is accepted.

491. When is an instrument or ELN transaction document properly stamped
(1) An instrument is properly stamped if it is stamped under section 455(1)(c), 455A(1)(b) or 492.
(1A) An ELN transaction document is properly stamped if it is stamped under section 455A(1)(b).
(2) An application to register or transfer a vehicle is taken to be properly stamped if—
(3) Also, a mortgage, security instrument or mortgage package is taken to be properly stamped for the following provisions if a self assessor has deferred the endorsement of the instrument under section 455(4) as in force before 1 July 2008—

492. Way instruments are stamped
The commissioner must stamp an instrument that has been lodged—

493. Stamping of instrument dependent on another instrument or transaction
(1) This section applies if—
(2) On application made by the parties liable to pay the duty on the second instrument or transaction, the commissioner may indicate the payment of that duty on the first instrument or the instrument relating to the first transaction in the way the commissioner considers appropriate.

494. Copies of instruments
(1) Duty may be imposed on a copy of an original instrument as if it had been signed in the same way and at the same time as the original instrument, unless the commissioner is satisfied the original instrument has been properly stamped.
(2) A copy of an original instrument may be stamped as if it had been signed in the same way as the original instrument, unless the commissioner is satisfied the original instrument has been properly stamped.
(3) For this section, an original instrument is taken to be properly stamped if a copy of it is properly stamped.
(4) In this section—

495. Instrument must not be delivered until duty or fee paid
(1) If an instrument that is not properly stamped comes into the commissioner’s possession, other than in the circumstances mentioned in subsection (2), the commissioner must keep the instrument until any duty, assessed interest and penalty tax on the instrument or transaction is paid.
(2) Subsection (3) applies if—
(3) The commissioner must keep the instrument until the fee prescribed under a regulation is paid.
(4) However, the commissioner may waive payment of the fee if the commissioner considers it is appropriate having regard to the type of instrument and the circumstances in which the instrument was lodged.

Chapter 16 Miscellaneous provisions

496. Lodging declaration stating facts and circumstances
(1) This section applies if, for the assessment of a person’s liability to duty, the person lodges an instrument or ELN transaction document that does not state all the facts and circumstances affecting the liability to duty or the amount of duty that may be imposed on it or a transaction to which it relates.
(2) The person must lodge a statutory declaration stating the facts and circumstances when lodging the instrument or ELN transaction document.
(3) For determining the person’s liability to duty, the commissioner must take into account the facts and circumstances stated in the declaration as if they were in the instrument or ELN transaction document.

497. Recognition of duty paid for Commonwealth places
If this Act requires regard to be had to duty previously paid or payable, regard must be had to any duty previously paid or payable under the applied Act if regard would have been had under this Act to that duty if that duty were paid or payable under this Act.

498. Special provisions for working out value of particular shares
(1) For chapters 2 to 4, a reference to property in Queensland or dutiable property includes shares in a landholder if, the holder of the shares and all related persons of the holder were to newly acquire the shares in the landholder, a relevant acquisition under the chapter would have been made.
(2) If it is necessary to determine the unencumbered value of the shares for imposing duty, the value is taken to be the amount worked out by applying the interests of the shareholder and related persons, or the total of their interests, in the landholder to the unencumbered value of all the landholder’s Queensland land-holdings.
(3) For chapters 2 to 4, a reference to property in Queensland or dutiable property includes shares in a corporate trustee or relevant corporation for a corporate trustee.
(4) If it is necessary to determine the unencumbered value of the shares for imposing duty, the value is taken to be the dutiable value under section 222 had they been acquired.
(5) This section applies despite any provision of chapter 2, 3 or 4.

498A. Suspension of quotation of securities as part of an avoidance arrangement
(1) This section applies to securities quoted on the market operated by a recognised stock exchange if the quotation of the securities is suspended.
(2) The commissioner may regard the securities as not being quoted on the market during the period of the suspension if the suspension is part of an arrangement to avoid the imposition of duty.
(3) In this section—

499. Reassessments of duty in particular circumstances
(1) This section applies if—
(2) For subsection (1)(b), the events are—
(3) Even though the signing of an instrument or ELN transaction document by the parties is evidence the instrument or ELN transaction document gives effect to the intention of the parties, the instrument or ELN transaction document has an unintended effect for subsection (2)(e) if—
(4) For this section an instrument or ELN transaction document is taken to have legal effect only if—
(5) The person may lodge an application for a reassessment in the approved form within 1 year after the event happens.
(6) The person must lodge the instrument, ELN transaction document or a copy of the ELN transaction document with the application.
(7) The commissioner must make a reassessment of duty for the instrument or transaction to which it relates.
(8) The commissioner may keep or otherwise dispose of the instrument, ELN transaction document or a copy of the ELN transaction document in the way the commissioner considers appropriate.

500. Application of Administration Act, pt 6, to particular decisions
(1) This section applies if—
(2) As soon as practicable after making the decision, the commissioner must give the person notice stating the following—
(3) The Administration Act, part 6, applies for the decision as if—

501. Consideration for instruments and transactions on which duty imposed
(1) It does not matter whether the consideration for an instrument or transaction on which duty is imposed is paid or given or is required to be paid or given.
(2) If the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for an instrument or transaction on which duty is imposed consists of property, other than a security, the consideration or part of the consideration is the unencumbered value of the property when the liability for duty arises.
(3) If the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for an instrument or transaction on which duty is imposed consists of a security, other than a marketable security or debenture issued, or to be issued, by a corporation, the consideration or part of the consideration is the amount of principal and interest owing when the liability for duty arises.
(4) If the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for an instrument or transaction on which duty is imposed is a marketable security or debenture issued, or to be issued, by a corporation, the value of the consideration is the market value of the security or debenture when the liability for duty arises.
(5) However, if the marketable security or debenture has not issued when the liability for duty arises, the value of the consideration is the market value of the security or debenture at the date of issue.

502. Consideration based on contingency
(1) Subsection (2) applies for determining the consideration payable under an instrument or transaction if the consideration payable—
(2) Regardless of whether the thing happens or does not happen, the consideration is—

503. Amounts stated in foreign currency
If, in an instrument or ELN transaction document, an amount is stated in a foreign currency for an instrument or transaction, for imposing duty, the amount is the amount expressed in Australian dollars according to the rate of exchange applicable in Queensland at—

504. Aggregate minimum value and unencumbered value of particular shares
(1) Despite any other provision of this Act, the shares comprising all of the issued capital of a corporation or society are taken to have an aggregate minimum value of $800.
(2) The unencumbered value of each share is taken to be not less than the proportion of $800 that the share bears to the total issued share capital of the corporation or society.

505. Valuation or evidence of value of property
(1) For determining whether a person is liable for duty or a person’s liability for duty, the commissioner may—
(2) If the commissioner is not satisfied with the valuation or evidence lodged or provided under subsection (1)(a), the commissioner may—
(3) The commissioner may recover the cost of obtaining a valuation under this section from the person or persons liable for the duty.
(4) The commissioner may assess duty on the basis of a valuation or evidence obtained under this section.

506. Requirement to keep particular instruments
(1) The trustee of a unit trust must keep an instrument that effects or evidences—
(2) A corporation or society must keep an instrument that effects or evidences an acquisition of an interest in the corporation or society.
(3) For subsections (1)(b) and (2), an acquisition of an interest in a corporation, society or listed unit trust includes an acquisition of an interest to which section 162 would apply if the reference in that section to a landholder were a reference to a corporation, society or listed unit trust.

506A. Refunding stamp duty
(1) This section applies to a stamp duty refund that, on or after the commencement of this section, the State is required to, or may, make to a person.
(2) The State must not make the refund unless the commissioner is satisfied—
(3) A court or QCAT must not make an order relating to the refund that is inconsistent with subsection (2).
(4) If subsection (2)(b) applies, the person must—
(5) Also, if subsection (2)(b) applies and the person does not, within the relevant period, reimburse the other person for the amount received, the person must, within 7 days after the relevant period—
(6) An amount payable under subsection (5)(b) is a debt payable by the person to the State.
(7) In this section—

507. Approved forms
(1) The commissioner may approve forms for use under this Act.
(2) A form may be approved for use under this Act that is combined with, or is to be used together with, an approved form under another Act.

508. Regulation-making power
(1) The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
(2) A regulation may—
(3) A regulation may exempt from the imposition of duty an instrument or transaction for a financial arrangement entered into by a statutory body as defined in the Statutory Bodies Financial Arrangements Act 1982 as provided in that or another Act.

508A

Chapter 17 Repeal, savings and transitional provisions

Part 1 Repeal of Stamp Act 1894

509. Act repealed
The Stamp Act 1894 is repealed.

Part 2 Savings and transitional provisions for repeal of Stamp Act 1894

Division 1 Interpretation

510. Definition for pt 2
In this part—

Division 2 Application of this Act and repealed Act

511. Application of this Act
(1) This Act applies to instruments signed, and transactions entered into, on or after the commencement day.
(2) Subsection (1) has effect subject to the following provisions—

512. Continued application of repealed Act
(1) Despite its repeal, the repealed Act continues to apply in relation to instruments signed, and transactions entered into, before the commencement day.
(2) This section has effect subject to the following provisions—

513. Delegations
A delegation under the repealed Act and in force immediately before the commencement day continues in force.

Division 3 Provisions for transfer duty

Subdivision 1 Provisions for continuing repealed Act for particular transactions

514. Repealed Act applies to particular agreements to transfer
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) The repealed Act applies to the transfer of the property to the transferee.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if—
(4) The repealed Act applies to the transfer of the property to the other person.

515. Repealed Act applies to particular acquisitions after transfer by way of security of other property
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) The repealed Act applies to the acquisition.

516. Repealed Act applies to particular dealings with statutory business licences
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) The repealed Act applies to the grant, extension or renewal of the licence.

517. Repealed Act applies to particular dispositions of units in unit trust schemes
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) The repealed Act applies to the disposition.

Subdivision 2 Provisions for applying this Act for transactions before commencement day

518. Aggregation of dutiable transactions
(1) An instrument of conveyance as defined in section 53(1) of the repealed Act that was made or entered into before the commencement day is taken to be a dutiable transaction for section 30.
(2) For applying section 30, a reference to the dutiable value of the dutiable transaction is taken to be a reference to the full unencumbered value, under the repealed Act, of the property the subject of the transaction.

519. Transfers by way of security—land
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) Section 32 applies to the retransfer as if—

520. Particular transfers for deceased persons’ estates not dutiable transactions
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the transfer.

Subdivision 3 Provisions for public unit trusts

521. Repealed Act applies to particular trust acquisitions and trust surrenders in widely held unit trusts
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) The repealed Act applies to the disposition that is the trust acquisition or trust surrender.

522. Repealed Act applies to issue of particular units in widely held unit trusts
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) The repealed Act applies to the issue of units during the start-up period.

Division 4 Provisions for land rich duty

523. Aggregations for land rich duty
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) The acquisition of the interest is an acquisition of an interest in the corporation for chapter 3, part 1.
(3) However, section 158(1)(b)(iii) applies only to aggregate interests of persons who become related persons on or after the commencement day.
(4) If an option mentioned in section 158(2) is exercised on or after the commencement day, chapter 3, part 1, applies to the preliminary acquisition to which the option relates.
(5) Subsection (4) applies regardless of whether the option or preliminary acquisition was given or made before or after the commencement day.
(6) For section 179(2)(b)(ii), the reference to interests previously aggregated includes a reference to interests aggregated under the repealed Act.

524. References to majority interests in land rich corporations
For chapter 3, part 1—

525. Particular acquisitions included as exempt acquisitions
For section 163(2), the reference to an exempt acquisition under section 190 includes a reference to a transfer by way of security mentioned in the repealed Act, section 56FA(1), definition acquire, paragraph (e).

526. Application of ch 3, pt 1, to particular acquisitions of security interests
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) Chapter 3, part 1, applies to the acquisition mentioned in paragraph (a).

527. Application of ch 3, pt 1, div 7, to particular amounts
(1) This section applies if, before the commencement day, the commissioner may have requested registration of a charge, under section 56FD(1) of the repealed Act, for an amount of stamp duty chargeable, or penalty payable, on or in relation to a statement mentioned in the section.
(2) Chapter 3, part 1, division 7, applies to the amount of stamp duty or penalty as if it were an outstanding amount of land rich duty.

Division 5 Provisions for corporate trustee duty

528. Repealed Act applies to particular dispositions of shares
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) The repealed Act applies to the disposition.

529. Aggregation of relevant acquisitions for corporate trustee duty
(1) An acquisition made before the commencement day that was chargeable with stamp duty under section 56C of the repealed Act is taken to be a relevant acquisition for section 223.
(2) For applying section 223, a reference to the dutiable value of the relevant acquisition is taken to be a reference to the value of the acquisition on which duty was calculated under the repealed Act.

Division 6 Provisions for lease duty

530. Repealed Act applies to particular leases and agreements for leases
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) The repealed Act applies to the lease.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if—
(4) The repealed Act applies to the lease or agreement for lease mentioned in subsection (3)(b).
(5) Also, the repealed Act applies to a lease entered into in substantial conformity with an agreement for lease to which the repealed Act applies under subsection (4).

530A. Repealed Act applies to instruments increasing rent in relation to particular leases etc.
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The repealed Act applies to the instrument mentioned in subsection (1)(b).

531. Credit allowed for particular leases
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) For assessing lease duty imposed on the new lease, a credit must be allowed for stamp duty paid on the lease mentioned in subsection (1)(b) for the option period.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if—
(4) For assessing lease duty imposed on the new lease, a credit must be allowed for stamp duty paid on the lease mentioned in subsection (3)(a) for the option period.

532. Credit or refund for termination of particular leases etc.
(1) This section applies if, before the commencement day, stamp duty under the repealed Act was paid for any of the following—
(2) If the lease, transaction, contract or agreement is terminated on or after the commencement day, section 242 applies to the termination as if it were the termination of a lease or occupancy right.
(3) Subsection (4) applies if, on or after the commencement day—
(4) Section 243(2) applies to the replacement lease or right.

532A. Ending of application of div 6
This division stops applying on 1 January 2006.

Division 7 Provisions for mortgage duty

533. Liability for mortgage duty for particular mortgages first signed before commencement day
(1) This section applies if—
(1A) To remove any doubt, it is declared that the mortgage is a mortgage for section 248 and section 252(2) applies to it.
(2) Section 261 applies as if a reference to liability to duty arising under this Act were a reference to liability to stamp duty arising under the repealed Act.

534. Credit allowed for particular agreements for mortgage
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) For assessing mortgage duty imposed on the mortgage, a credit must be allowed for stamp duty paid on the agreement to grant the mortgage.

535. Particular mortgages imposed with mortgage duty on commencement day
(1) A mortgage, as defined in section 248(1), that was first signed before the commencement day and had not been duly stamped under the repealed Act immediately before that day is, on that day, taken to be imposed with mortgage duty under chapter 5.
(2) Despite subsection (1), for a mortgage that is over property partly in and partly outside Queensland, mortgage duty is worked out in the way stamp duty on the mortgage would have been worked out under the repealed Act.

Division 8

536

Division 9 Provisions for vehicle registration duty

537. Reduction in vehicle registration duty
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) Section 384(2) and (3) apply for reducing the vehicle registration duty assessed under section 382(2) as if—

Division 10 Provisions for corporate reconstructions

538. Repealed Act applies to particular agreements
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) The repealed Act applies to the conveyance, transfer or assignment.

539. Group property for intra-group transfers of property
For section 407(1)(c)—

Division 11 Provisions for approved and registered persons

540. Approved persons
A person who, immediately before the commencement day, was an approved person under section 13A of the repealed Act is taken to be a self assessor registered under—

541 542

543. Approved insurers
(1) A person who, immediately before the commencement day, was an approved insurer under section 46F of the repealed Act is taken to be—
(2) Also, the person is taken to be a self assessor, registered under chapter 12, part 1.

544. Effect of continued registration of persons
(1) This section applies to a person who, under sections 540 to 543, is taken to be registered under chapter 12, parts 1 to 3.
(2) The person’s date of registration is the commencement day.
(3) Subject to section 464, the matters required to be stated in a notice of registration for a self assessor are, for the person, the matters applying to the person immediately before the commencement day.

545. Exempt charitable institutions
(1) An institution that before the commencement day received an exemption from stamp duty under the repealed Act because it was an exempt charitable institution is taken to be an exempt institution.
(2) The institution’s date of registration is the commencement day.
(3) As soon as practicable after the commencement, the commissioner must give a notice of registration to the institution.

546. Registration of particular institutions following reassessment
(1) This section applies if, before the commencement day, the commissioner had given a notice under section 59E(8), 69A(2) or 72(4) of the repealed Act to an institution stating a later time to decide whether an instrument would be exempt from stamp duty under that Act and the later time is after the commencement day.
(2) If, at the later time, the commissioner is satisfied the institution is an exempt institution, the commissioner must register the institution under chapter 12, part 5, and give the institution a notice of registration.

Division 12 Miscellaneous provisions

547. Particular references to related persons
(1) Subsection (2) applies if, for imposing duty on an instrument or transaction, it is necessary to take into account a transaction or other arrangement entered into before the commencement day by or in relation to a related person of another person.
(2) A reference in this Act to a related person of another person is taken to be a reference to a related person of the other person within the meaning of section 56FA(3) of the repealed Act.

548. Instruments stamped under repealed Act
An instrument that has been stamped under the repealed Act is taken to have been properly stamped to the extent it is duly stamped under that Act.

549. References in Acts or documents
(1) In an Act or document—
(2) A reference in this Act to a particular type of duty for the imposition or assessment of, or a deduction or credit for, the duty includes a reference to stamp duty under the repealed Act.
(3) Also, a reference in another Act to duty, or a particular type of duty, is, if the context permits, taken to be a reference to stamp duty under the repealed Act.
(4) A reference in this Act to a dutiable transaction or relevant acquisition is, if the context permits, taken to be a reference to an instrument chargeable with or exempt from stamp duty under the repealed Act that gives effect to or evidences an equivalent transaction or acquisition.

550

Part 3 Transitional provision for Duties Amendment Act 2004

551. Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty or mortgage duty for first home
(1) Chapter 2, part 9, division 3 and chapter 5, part 6, division 2 as in force on 1 May 2004 apply to dutiable transactions and mortgages only if liability for transfer duty or mortgage duty arises on or after 1 May 2004.
(2) However, chapter 2, part 9, division 3, as in force immediately before 1 May 2004, applies to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of residential land made on or after 1 May 2004 if—

Part 4 Transitional provisions for Duties Amendment Act (No. 2) 2004

552. Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty for home
(1) Chapter 2, part 9, division 3 as in force on 1 August 2004 applies to dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty arises on or after 1 August 2004.
(2) However, the division as in force immediately before 1 August 2004 applies to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of residential land made on or after 1 August 2004 if—

553. Application of amendments about credit card duty
(1) Chapter 6, part 2 as in force immediately before 1 August 2004 applies in relation to credit card transactions in a partial period.
(2) For subsection (1), a partial period is taken to be a billing period.
(3) A term used in this section and defined in chapter 6, part 2 as in force immediately before 1 August 2004 has the meaning given by the part as in force immediately before 1 August 2004.
(4) In this section—

Part 5 Transitional and savings provisions for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2005

Division 1 Provisions for ending of credit business duty

554. Meaning of particular terms used in div 1
(1) In this division—
(2) A term used in this division and defined in repealed chapter 6 has the meaning given to it under repealed chapter 6.

555. Savings provision for pre-repeal credit transactions
(1) The credit business duty provisions continue to apply for rights, privileges and liabilities that would have been acquired, accrued or incurred on or after 1 January 2006 in relation to a relevant credit amount for a pre-repeal credit transaction if the provisions had not been repealed.
(2) Subsection (1) applies subject to section 556.
(3) In this section—

556. Cash price for particular credit arrangements not included in credit amount
Repealed section 303(4) does not apply under section 555(1) to the extent it would otherwise provide that the cash price for a credit arrangement that is a pre-repeal credit transaction is an amount debited under the arrangement if—

557. Ending of registration of credit providers
(1) This section applies to a registered credit provider.
(2) The following are cancelled on 1 January 2006—
(3) However, subsection (2) does not affect—

Division 2 Provisions for ending of lease duty

558. Meaning of particular terms used in div 2
(1) In this division—
(2) A term used in this division and defined in repealed chapter 4 has the meaning given to it under repealed chapter 4.

559. Savings provision for particular leases and occupancy rights
(1) Repealed chapter 4 continues to apply for rights, privileges and liabilities that would have been acquired, accrued or incurred on or after 1 January 2006 in relation to a lease or occupancy right for which there is a pre-repeal lease duty liability if chapter 4 had not been repealed.
(2) Subsection (1) applies subject to section 560 and 561.

560. Application of repealed s 241
(1) Repealed section 241(2) and (4) applies under section 559(1) only if the relevant event happened before 1 January 2006.
(2) Repealed section 241(9) does not apply under section 559(1) in relation to an agreement increasing the cost of a lease or occupancy right that is made on or after 1 January 2006.
(3) In this section—

561. Reassessments under repealed s 242
(1) Repealed section 242 applies under section 559(1) only for a lease or occupancy right that is terminated before 1 January 2016.
(2) Repealed section 242 also applies, despite its repeal, to a section 532 instrument that is terminated before 1 January 2016.
(3) For subsection (2), repealed section 242 applies with any necessary changes to the termination of the instrument as if it were the termination of a lease or occupancy right.
(4) In this section—

562. Saving of particular provisions for exempt institutions
(1) This section applies if an assessment for lease duty was made before 1 January 2006.
(2) If the assessment was made on the basis that an exemption under chapter 10, part 2, division 1, applied, previous sections 417 and 419 continue to apply in relation to the lease.
(3) For subsection (2), a reassessment made as required under previous section 419(3) imposing duty on the lease must be made as if chapter 4 had not been repealed.
(4) If duty was imposed on the lease because the use requirements under chapter 10, part 2, division 2 would not be complied with, previous section 418 continues to apply for the lease, even if the duration period ends on or after 1 January 2006.
(5) In this section—

563. Leases etc. to which repealed Act applied
(1) This section applies for the following—
(2) Section 64C of the repealed Act continues to apply for the lease, agreement to lease or instrument.

564. Ending of registration of self assessor
(1) This section applies to a person who is registered, immediately before 1 January 2006, as a self assessor under chapter 12, part 2 or 3.
(2) The registration mentioned in subsection (1) is cancelled on 1 January 2006 to the extent it applies for duty on leases or occupancy rights.
(3) However, subsection (2) does not affect—

565. No refund of lease duty merely because lease or occupancy right ends on or after 1 January 2006
(1) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a person is not entitled, under a relevant Act or otherwise, to a refund of lease duty paid for a lease or occupancy right only because the lease or right ends on or after the repeal of chapter 4.
(2) In this section—

Division 3 Provisions for amendments about transfer duty etc.

566. Application of amendments about rates of duty on dutiable transactions and relevant acquisitions for land rich and corporate trustee duty

Schedule 3 as in force on 1 July 2006 applies to dutiable transactions and relevant acquisitions if liability for transfer duty, land rich duty or corporate trustee duty arises on or after 1 July 2006.

567. Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty for home
(1) Chapter 2, part 9, division 3 as in force on 1 July 2006 applies to dutiable transactions if liability for transfer duty arises on or after 1 July 2006.
(2) However, the division as in force immediately before 1 July 2006 applies to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of residential land made on or after 1 July 2006 if—

Part 6 Transitional and savings provisions for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2006

Division 1 Preliminary

568. Definitions for pt 6
In this part—

569. References to terms with omitted definitions
A term used in this part that, immediately before 1 January 2007, was defined in an omitted definition has the meaning given to it under the omitted definition.

Division 2 Transitional provisions for amendment of provisions about concessions for homes and first homes

570. Retrospective operation of new s 92(1)(c)
Section 92(1)(c), as inserted by the amending Act, section 12, applies in relation to a dutiable transaction relating to residential land entered into on or after 1 May 2004.

571. Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty for residential land or vacant land
(1) The relevant provisions, as in force on 1 January 2007, apply to dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty arises on or after 1 January 2007.
(2) The relevant provisions, as in force immediately before 1 January 2007, apply to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of residential land or vacant land made on or after 1 January 2007 if—
(3) In this section—

Division 3 Savings and transitional provisions for amendments relating to Queensland marketable securities

572. Meaning of pre-repeal marketable security transaction
A transaction is a pre-repeal marketable security transaction if—

573. Savings provision for pre-repeal marketable security transactions
This Act, as in force immediately before 1 January 2007, continues to apply for powers, rights, privileges and liabilities that would have been exercisable, acquired, accrued or incurred on or after 1 January 2007 in relation to a pre-repeal marketable security transaction if the amendments in the amending Act had not commenced.

574. Deduction relating to transfer duty for marketable securities
Section 227, as in force immediately before 1 January 2007, continues to apply in relation to transfer duty that was paid or payable, before 1 January 2007, for a transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of shares of a corporate trustee or relevant corporation for a corporate trustee.

575. Saving of particular provisions for exempt institutions
(1) This section applies to an assessment for transfer duty made in relation to a pre-repeal marketable security transaction.
(2) If the assessment was made on the basis of an exemption under chapter 10, part 2, division 1, then previous sections 417 and 419 continue to apply in relation to the transaction.
(3) For subsection (2), a reassessment made as required under previous section 419(3) imposing duty on the transaction must be made as if the amending Act had not commenced.
(4) If duty was imposed on the transaction because the use requirements under chapter 10, part 2, division 2 would not be complied with, previous section 418 continues to apply for the transaction.
(5) In this section—

576. Ending of registration as self assessors
(1) This section applies to a person who, immediately before 1 January 2007, was registered as a self assessor under chapter 12, part 2 or 3.
(2) On 1 January 2007, the person’s registration is cancelled to the extent it applied for transfer duty on transactions relating to Queensland marketable securities.
(3) Subsection (2) does not affect—

577. Transitional provision for s 484
Section 484, as in force immediately before 1 January 2007, continues to apply to an instrument that effects or evidences a dutiable transaction for a share or right relating to a share entered into before 1 January 2007.

Division 4 Savings and transitional provisions for ending of hire duty

578. Definitions for div 4
In this division—

579. Savings provision for pre-repeal hires
(1) The hire duty provisions continue to apply for powers, rights, privileges and liabilities that would have been exercisable, acquired, accrued or incurred on or after 1 January 2007 in relation to a pre-repeal hiring charge if the hire duty provisions had not been repealed.
(2) In this section—

580. Duty payable for pre-repeal hire relating to a period ending on or after 1 January 2007
(1) To remove any doubt, it is declared that a person is not entitled, under a relevant Act or otherwise, to a refund of hire duty paid on a pre-repeal hire only because the period for which the pre-repeal hire was made or effected ends on or after 1 January 2007.
(2) In this section—

581. Ending of registration of commercial hirers
(1) This section applies to a person who, immediately before 1 January 2007, was a registered commercial hirer.
(2) The following are cancelled on 1 January 2007—
(3) Subsection (2) does not affect—

582. Saving of particular provisions for exempt institutions
(1) This section applies to an assessment for hire duty made in relation to a pre-repeal hire.
(2) If the assessment is or was made on the basis of an exemption under chapter 10, part 2, division 1, then previous sections 417 and 419 continue to apply in relation to the hire.
(3) For subsection (2), a reassessment made as required under previous section 419(3) imposing duty in relation to the pre-repeal hiring charges must be made as if chapter 7 had not been repealed.
(4) If duty is or was imposed on the hire because the use requirements under chapter 10, part 2, division 2 would not be complied with, previous section 418 continues to apply for the hire, even if the duration period ends on or after 1 January 2007.

Division 5 Transitional provisions for amendment of provisions about mortgage duty

583. Application of amendments about concession for mortgage duty for home or first home

Chapter 5, part 6 as in force on 1 January 2007 applies to mortgages only if liability for mortgage duty arises on or after 1 January 2007.

Part 7 Transitional and savings provisions for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2007

584. Application of amendment about rate of mortgage duty
(1) Section 254, as in force on 1 January 2008, applies to a mortgage only if the liability date for the mortgage is on or after 1 January 2008.
(2) However, section 254, as in force immediately before 1 January 2008, applies to a mortgage if an arrangement was made before 1 January 2008 the sole or main purpose of which was to defer a liability date for the mortgage until 1 January 2008 or later so the rate of mortgage duty under section 254, as in force on or after 1 January 2008, would apply in relation to the liability date.
(3) Also, a person is not entitled, under a relevant Act or otherwise, to a refund of mortgage duty paid before 1 January 2008 only because a liability date for the mortgage is on or after 1 January 2008.
(4) In this section—

585. Mortgage duty associated with debenture subscriptions in financial year ending 30 June 2008
(1) This section applies in relation to mortgage duty payable under section 266(3) on the amount subscribed for, in the financial year ending 30 June 2008, for debentures.
(2) The rate of mortgage duty is—
(3) The rate of mortgage duty under subsection (2)(a) applies to an amount subscribed for debentures if an arrangement was made before 1 January 2008 the sole or main purpose of which was to defer the subscription until 1 January 2008 or later so the rate of mortgage duty under subsection (2)(b) would apply in relation to the subscription.

586. Mortgage duty associated with caveats and releases of mortgage
(1) This section applies in relation to—
(2) To the extent an amount of mortgage duty imposed on the relevant mortgage is calculated by reference to the rate under pre-amended section 254, the amount of mortgage duty imposed on the caveat or release is also calculated under pre-amended section 254, even if the caveat or release is effected on or after 1 January 2008.
(3) In this section—

Part 8 Savings and transitional provisions for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 2007

587. Definitions for pt 8
In this part—

588. Delayed application of amendments to agent self assessors
For the period up to and including 2 March 2008—

589. Savings provision about properly stamped instruments
(1) A reference in this Act to an instrument that is properly stamped includes—
(2) In this section—

Part 9 Transitional provisions for the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2008, part 2, division 2

Division 1 Transitional provisions for abolition of mortgage duty

590. Definition for div 1
In this division—

591. Requirement to lodge mortgage
On and from 1 July 2008, section 255 continues to apply to a mortgage if the liability for mortgage duty on the mortgage arose before 1 July 2008.

592. Mortgage packages
(1) Subsection (2) applies if—
(2) Mortgage duty must be assessed on the mortgage package—

593. Reassessment—stamping before advance
(1) This section applies if—
(2) The mortgagor may apply to the commissioner for a reassessment of mortgage duty paid in relation to the advances not made before 1 July 2008.
(3) The application must—
(4) The commissioner must make the reassessment.

594. Mortgage duty on caveats
(1) This section applies if—
(2) On and from 1 July 2008, section 268 continues to apply to impose mortgage duty on the caveat.
(3) Mortgage duty is imposed on the caveat at the rate applicable at the time the duty was imposed on the mortgage.

595. Mortgage duty on releases of mortgages
(1) This section applies if—
(2) On and from 1 July 2008, section 269 continues to apply to impose mortgage duty on the release of the mortgage.
(3) Mortgage duty is imposed on the release at the rate applicable at the time the duty was imposed on the mortgage.

596. Reassessment—Victorian and Tasmanian property
(1) This section applies if, before 1 July 2008, the commissioner was required under section 290A or 290B to make a reassessment to impose mortgage duty on a mortgage.
(2) Sections 290A and 290B apply to require the reassessment to impose duty based on the dutiable proportion at the liability date.

597. Reassessment—concessions for home mortgages and first home mortgages
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Section 291(2) to (4) applies to enable the commissioner to make a reassessment to impose mortgage duty on the mortgage at the rate applicable at the time that, but for the concession, the liability for mortgage duty would have arisen.

598. Reassessment—concessions for cooperatives
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Section 292(2) to (4) applies to enable the commissioner to make a reassessment to impose mortgage duty on the mortgage at the rate applicable at the time that, but for the exemption, the liability for mortgage duty would have arisen.

599. Saving of previous provisions for exempt institutions
(1) This section applies to an assessment for mortgage duty on a mortgage given to secure an advance made—
(2) On and after 1 July 2008, previous sections 417 and 419 continue to apply in relation to the advance.
(3) For subsection (2), a reassessment made as required under previous section 419(3) imposing duty in relation to the advance must be made as if the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2008, part 2 had not commenced.
(4) If mortgage duty was imposed in relation to the advance because the use requirements under chapter 10, part 2, division 2 would not be complied with, previous section 418 continues to apply in relation to the advance.

600. Cancellation of registration to defer endorsement—s 446A
(1) This section applies if, immediately before 1 July 2008, a self assessor was registered under previous section 446A to defer endorsement, under section 455(1)(c), of mortgages for further advances under the mortgages.
(2) On 1 July 2008, the registration is cancelled.
(3) However, the self assessor must, by 1 January 2009, comply with section 455(1)(c) in relation to any endorsement deferred under previous section 455(4).

601. Lapsing of application for registration to defer endorsement
(1) This section applies to an application to be registered under previous section 446A made but not finally decided before 1 July 2008.
(2) On 1 July 2008, the application lapses.

602. Requirement to lodge returns
On and from 1 July 2008, section 455 continues to apply, to a self assessor registered under part 2 or 3 for mortgage duty, in relation to a return period that started before 1 July 2008.

603. Reassessment of duty in particular circumstances
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Section 499(5) to (8) continues to apply in relation to a reassessment of the duty paid.

604. Impact of div 1
The inclusion in this division of a provision affecting the application of a provision of chapter 5 or chapter 10 following the abolition of mortgage duty on 1 July 2008 does not by implication limit the continuing application of another provision of the chapter.

Division 2 Other transitional provisions

605. Application of amendments about rates of transfer duty, land rich duty and corporate trustee duty

Schedule 3 as in force on 1 July 2008 applies to dutiable transactions and relevant acquisitions if liability for transfer duty, land rich duty or corporate trustee duty arises on or after 1 July 2008.

606. Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty—residential land
(1) The relevant provisions, as in force on 1 July 2008, apply to dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty arises on or after 1 July 2008.
(2) The relevant provisions, as in force immediately before 1 July 2008, apply to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of residential land made on or after 1 July 2008 if—
(3) In this section—

Part 10 Transitional provision for the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2008, section 24

607. Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty—residential land
(1) The relevant provisions, as in force on 1 September 2008, apply to dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty arises on or after 1 September 2008.
(2) The relevant provisions, as in force immediately before 1 September 2008, apply to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of residential land made on or after 1 September 2008 if—
(3) In this section—

Part 11 Savings and transitional provisions for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 2008

608. Meaning of commencement day
In this part—

609. Limitation period—particular retirement village arrangements
(1) This section applies to duty imposed before the commencement day if—
(2) The limitation period for a reassessment of the duty does not apply.

610. Application of amendment about concession for transfer duty—first home
A reference in section 607 to a relevant provision as in force on 1 September 2008 includes section 92, as amended by the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 2008, as in force on 1 September 2008.

611. Reassessment of vehicle registration duty under s 393A
Section 393A does not apply in relation to an application to register a vehicle in the name of a vehicle dealer, or to transfer a vehicle to a vehicle dealer, made before the commencement day.

612. Non-application of s 471EA to liabilities arising before commencement day
Section 471EA does not apply to a liability to pay an amount of duty, assessed interest or penalty tax that arose before the commencement day.

Part 12 Transitional provision for Fuel Subsidy Repeal and Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2009

613. Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty—vacant land
(1) The relevant provisions, as in force on 1 July 2009, apply to dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty arises on or after 1 July 2009.
(2) The relevant provisions, as in force immediately before 1 July 2009, apply to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of vacant land made on or after 1 July 2009 if—
(3) In this section—

Part 13 Transitional provisions for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2010

614. References to an acquisition mentioned in s 85(b)
A provision in either of the following that, on the commencement of this section, includes a reference to an acquisition mentioned in section 85(b) is taken to have included that reference on and from 1 December 2003—

615. Exemption under s 117
Section 117(2) as in force on the commencement of this section is taken to have had effect on and from 13 August 2004.

616. Exemption under s 151
Section 151(2) as in force on the commencement of this section is taken to have had effect on and from 2 May 2003.

617. Charge mentioned in s 198
(1) Section 198 as in force immediately before its amendment by the amending Act continues to apply to a relevant acquisition made before the amendment.
(2) In this section—

618. Registered general insurers and registered life insurers
A person who, immediately before 14 January 2010, was a registered general insurer or registered life insurer is, on and from 14 January 2010, taken to be a registered insurer.

619. Date of effect of particular provisions
The following provisions as in force on the commencement of this section are taken to have had effect on and from 14 January 2010—

620. Start of use requirement under s 416
Section 416(1)(a) and (3)(a) as in force on the commencement of this section is taken to have had effect on and from 1 March 2002.

Part 14 Transitional provision for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2011

621. Dutiable value of vehicles modified for a person with a disability
The following provisions as in force on the commencement of this section are taken to have had effect on and from 4 March 2009—

Part 15 Transitional provisions for Community Ambulance Cover Levy Repeal and Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2011

Division 1 Transitional provisions for Community Ambulance Cover Levy Repeal and Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2011

622. Definition for pt 15
In this part—

623. Particular references to landholder duty, majority interests and relevant acquisitions
(1) In the provisions mentioned in subsection (2)—
(2) For subsection (1), the provisions are the following—

624. Relevant acquisitions made in a land rich corporation before 1 July 2011
(1) This section applies if, before 1 July 2011, a person made a relevant acquisition in a land rich corporation under previous section 158.
(2) Previous chapter 3, part 1 and chapter 10, part 1 continue to apply in relation to the relevant acquisition as if the Community Ambulance Cover Levy Repeal and Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2011 had not commenced.

625. Interests acquired before 1 July 2011 included for s 158
(1) This section applies if—
(2) To avoid any doubt, it is declared that for section 158, the original interest is an interest held by the person or related person in the entity.

626. Particular interests taken to be excluded interests for s 179
(1) This section applies if—
(2) For working out the dutiable value of the relevant acquisition under section 179, the interest acquired before 1 July 2011 is taken to be an excluded interest.
(3) Section 163(2) applies for working out when the interest was acquired.

627. Application of s 412
A reference in section 412(1)(a) to duty assessed on the basis of an exemption under section 409 includes a reference to duty assessed on the basis of an exemption under previous section 409.

Division 2 Savings provision for repeal

628. Pre-amended home concession provisions continue to apply for particular transactions
(1) This section applies to each of the following dutiable transactions for which liability for transfer duty arose before the commencement—
(2) The following pre-amended provisions continue to apply to the assessment of transfer duty in relation to the transaction—
(3) This section does not limit the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 20.
(4) In this section—

Part 16 Transitional provision for Treasury (Cost of Living) and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2012

629. Application of amendments about concession for transfer duty—home
(1) The relevant provisions, as in force on 1 July 2012, apply to dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty arises on or after 1 July 2012.
(2) The relevant provisions, as in force immediately before 1 July 2012, apply to a dutiable transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for the transfer, of residential or vacant land made on or after 1 July 2012 if—
(3) In this section—

Part 17 Transitional and declaratory provisions for Fiscal Repair Amendment Act 2012

Division 1 Preliminary

630. Definitions for pt 17
In this part—

Division 2 Declaratory provision

631. Declaratory provision—effect of amending Act on meaning of land
(1) For deciding whether a resource authority, other than an exploration authority, was land under the pre-amended Act, the amendment of schedule 6 by the amending Act is to be disregarded.
(2) In this section—

Division 3 Provisions for exploration authorities

Subdivision 1 Preliminary

632. Purpose of div 3
The purpose of this division is to provide for the imposition of duty in relation to exploration authorities during the retrospectivity period.

Subdivision 2 Liability for duty

633. Meaning of land for retrospectivity period
(1) During the retrospectivity period, this Act is taken to have applied as if schedule 6, definition land had provided as follows—
(2) For subsection (1), schedule 6, definition exploration authority, as inserted by section 8 of the amending Act, is taken to have had effect on and from the start time.

634. Meaning of statutory licence for retrospectivity period
During the retrospectivity period, this Act is taken to have applied as if schedule 6, definition statutory licence had provided as follows—

635. Exemption from transfer duty for exploration authority granted during retrospectivity period
Transfer duty is not imposed on a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9(1)(f) that is the grant of an exploration authority if liability for transfer duty arose during the retrospectivity period.

636. Exemption from transfer duty for transfer of exploration authority under particular agreements
(1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 9(1)(a) that is the transfer, on or after the start time, of an exploration authority if—
(2) Transfer duty is not imposed on the dutiable transaction.

637. Particular exploration land-holdings not to be taken into account for working out landholder duty
(1) This section applies if—
(2) Exploration land-holdings must be excluded from the Queensland land-holdings of the landholder for the purposes of—
(3) In this section—

Subdivision 3 Obligations of parties—transfer duty

638. Transfer duty—transactions previously not dutiable
(1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction for which liability for transfer duty arose during the retrospectivity period, if—
(2) The period within which the parties liable to pay transfer duty relating to the dutiable transaction must comply with section 19(3) is taken to be 30 days after the commencement day.
(3) For a standard self assessment of duty on the dutiable transaction—

639. Transfer duty—dutiable transactions not assessed before commencement day
(1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction for which liability for transfer duty arose during the retrospectivity period, if—
(2) Section 638(2) and (3) applies in relation to the dutiable transaction.
(3) However, to the extent unpaid primary tax relating to the dutiable transaction is attributable to dutiable property other than an exploration authority, section 638(2) and (3) does not affect—

640. Transfer duty—dutiable transactions assessed before commencement day
(1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction for which liability for transfer duty arose during the retrospectivity period, if—
(2) Transfer duty for the dutiable transaction must be reassessed.
(3) Within 30 days after the commencement day, a party liable for transfer duty on the dutiable transaction must—
(4) If a party complies with subsection (3) for the dutiable transaction, the party is not liable for penalty tax under the Administration Act, section 58(2)(c) to the extent the difference between the transfer duty assessed on the original assessment, and on the reassessment, is attributable to dutiable property that is an exploration authority.
(5) Subsection (6) applies to unpaid tax interest that is payable on unpaid primary tax for the dutiable transaction, to the extent the tax is attributable to dutiable property that is an exploration authority.
(6) For the Administration Act, section 54(2) and (2A), the start date is—

Subdivision 4 Obligations of parties—landholder duty and corporate trustee duty

641. Landholder duty and corporate trustee duty—acquisitions not previously dutiable
(1) This section applies to a relevant acquisition in a landholder or corporate trustee for which liability for duty arose during the retrospectivity period, if—
(2) The period within which the acquirer must comply with section 177 or 217 is taken to be 30 days after the commencement day.

642. Landholder duty and corporate trustee duty—relevant acquisitions not assessed before commencement day
(1) This section applies to a relevant acquisition in a landholder or corporate trustee for which liability for duty arose during the retrospectivity period, if—
(2) Section 641(2) applies in relation to the relevant acquisition.
(3) However, to the extent unpaid primary tax relating the relevant acquisition is attributable to land-holdings or dutiable property other than an exploration authority, section 641(2) does not affect—

643. Landholder duty and corporate trustee duty—relevant acquisition assessed before commencement day
(1) This section applies to a relevant acquisition in a landholder or corporate trustee for which liability for duty arose during the retrospectivity period, if—
(2) Landholder duty or corporate trustee duty for the relevant acquisition must be reassessed.
(3) Within 30 days after the commencement day, the acquirer must—
(4) If the acquirer complies with subsection (3), the acquirer is not liable for penalty tax under the Administration Act, section 58(2)(c) to the extent the difference between the duty assessed on the original assessment, and on the reassessment, is attributable to a land-holding or dutiable property that is an exploration authority.
(5) Subsection (6) applies to unpaid tax interest that is payable on unpaid primary tax for the relevant acquisition, to the extent the tax is attributable to a land-holding or dutiable property that is an exploration authority.
(6) For the Administration Act, section 54(2) and (2A), the start date is—

Subdivision 5 Obligations of other parties

644. Obligation for self assessor
(1) This section applies to a self assessor registered under chapter 12, part 3 if—
(2) The self assessor must, within 30 days after the commencement day, give notice to the commissioner that the transaction statement was lodged.
(3) Section 488 applies to a failure by a self assessor to comply with subsection (2).

645. Obligation for other persons in relation to registration of particular instruments
(1) This section applies if, during the retrospectivity period—
(2) The person, trustee or responsible entity must, within 30 days after the commencement day, give notice to the commissioner that the record or entry was made.

Subdivision 6 Miscellaneous provisions

646. Offences during retrospectivity period
(1) A person can not be prosecuted under this Act or the Administration Act for an act or omission done or omitted to be done during the retrospectivity period if, when the act or omission occurred, it would not have constituted an offence but for this division.
(2) Subsection (1) does not limit the Criminal Code, section 11.

647. Properly stamped instruments not affected
(1) This section applies to an instrument that was stamped during the retrospectivity period.
(2) If, at the time the instrument was stamped, it was properly stamped under section 491 but for this division, the instrument is taken to have been properly stamped despite this division.

Division 4 Transitional provisions for other matters

648. Application of s 167
Section 167, as amended by the amending Act, section 5 applies to a relevant acquisition made on or after the commencement day.

649. Application of amended sch 3

Schedule 3 as in force on the commencement day applies to dutiable transactions and relevant acquisitions if liability for transfer duty, landholder duty or corporate trustee duty arises on or after the commencement day.

Part 18 Transitional provisions for Revenue Amendment and Trade and Investment Queensland Act 2013

650. Application of s 152A
Section 152A is taken to apply to a previous dutiable transaction within the meaning of section 152A(3) that happens before the commencement of this section, if the third dutiable transaction under section 152A(1)(c) to correct the clerical error in the previous dutiable transaction is entered into on or after 4 February 2012.

651. Application of amendment of s 155
(1) Section 155, as in force on the commencement of this section, applies to a dutiable transaction only if liability for transfer duty for the transaction arises on or after the commencement of this section.
(2) Section 155, as in force before the commencement of this section, continues to apply to a dutiable transaction if liability for transfer duty for the transaction arose before the commencement of this section.

652. Application of new rate of insurance duty under s 362
(1) The new rate of insurance duty applies to a premium paid for general insurance on or after the commencement of this section only if the contract that effects the general insurance is entered into on or after the commencement of this section.
(2) In this section—

Part 19 Transitional provisions for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2014

653. Application of amended ch 2, pt 10 and related provisions
(1) The relevant provisions, as in force on the commencement, apply to dutiable transactions only if liability for transfer duty arises on or after the commencement.
(2) In this section—

654. Application of existing s 123 concession
(1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction to which section 123 applies if, before the day this section commences, a concession for transfer duty has been provided under chapter 2, part 10 for the dutiable property the subject of the distribution.
(2) Section 123, as in force immediately before the day this section commences, continues to apply in relation to the dutiable transaction.

Part 20 Transitional provisions for Payroll Tax Rebate, Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2015

655. Definitions for pt 20
In this part—

656. Retrospective operation of s 145
Section 145, as amended by the Payroll Tax Rebate, Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2015, applies to a vesting of land in the State made on or after 25 February 2014.

657. Retrospective operation of ch 2, pt 8A
(1) Chapter 2, part 8A and any ancillary provision, as inserted or amended by the Payroll Tax Rebate, Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2015, is taken to have had effect on and from the start time.
(2) In this section—

658. Particular matters relating to upfront farm-in agreements for retrospectivity period
(1) If, during the retrospectivity period, the farmee for an upfront farm-in agreement has lodged the agreement in compliance with paragraph 12 of the ruling the farmee is taken to have complied with section 84K.
(2) Also, if, during the retrospectivity period, the farmee for an upfront farm-in agreement has notified the commissioner in compliance with paragraph 14 of the ruling, the farmee is taken to have complied with section 84L.
(3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that if subsection (2) applies, the commissioner or an investigator under the Administration Act may, under that Act, require a person liable for transfer duty for the agreement to give the commissioner or investigator the agreement, or a transfer duty statement for the agreement, on or after the commencement.
(4) If, during the retrospectivity period, a person to whom paragraph 12 of the ruling applied did not comply with that paragraph, section 84K applies as if the person were required to lodge the information and agreement or a transfer duty statement for the agreement under that section within 14 days after the commencement.
(5) If, during the retrospectivity period, a person to whom paragraph 14 of the ruling applied did not comply with that paragraph, section 84L applies as if the person were required to give the notice and lodge the agreement or a transfer duty statement for the agreement under section 84L(2) within 30 days after the commencement.

659. Application of Administration Act, pt 6—farm-in agreements
(1) This section applies if liability for transfer duty arose and was assessed during the retrospectivity period for a dutiable transaction that was—
(2) Despite the Administration Act, section 65(1)(d), the person liable for transfer duty on the agreement may object to the assessment within 30 days after the commencement.

660. Application of start of use requirement under s 416
(1) This section applies to a dutiable transaction that is an application to register or transfer a vehicle in the name of a charitable institution—
(2) Section 416(4)(d) as in force on the commencement applies in relation to the application to register or transfer the vehicle.

Part 21 Transitional provisions for Duties and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2016

661. Application of amendments relating to s 105
(1) Sections 105 and 105A as amended or inserted by the Duties and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2016 apply to a dutiable transaction only if liability for transfer duty arises on or after the commencement.
(2) Section 105 as in force before the commencement continues to apply to a dutiable transaction for dutiable property used to carry on particular family businesses of primary production if the liability for transfer duty arose before the commencement.

662. Application of ch 4

Chapter 4 applies to a relevant transaction if liability for transfer duty, landholder duty or corporate trustee duty arises on or after 1 October 2016.

Part 22 Transitional provisions for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2016

663. Application of s 154
(1) Section 154(2) and (2AA) apply to a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 154(1)(a) only if liability for transfer duty on the transaction arises on or after the commencement.
(2) Section 154(2) as in force before the commencement continues to apply to a dutiable transaction mentioned in section 154(1)(a) if liability for transfer duty on the transaction arose before the commencement.

664. Continuing application of pre-amended s 154 for s 291
Section 154(2) as in force before the commencement continues to apply for the purposes of section 291(1)(a).

665. Retrospective operation of s 375
Section 375, as amended by the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2016, applies to a contract of insurance for which insurance duty would otherwise be payable on or after 14 October 2014.

666. Retrospective operation of s 404
Section 404, as amended by the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2016, applies to a vesting of dutiable property that takes place on or after 30 November 2015.

Part 23 Transitional provision for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2017

667. Application of amendments applying AFAD to particular agreements
Sections 240(2), 241A, and chapter 4, part 5, divisions 2 and 3, apply in relation to an agreement for the transfer of dutiable property if liability for transfer duty arises on or after the commencement.

Part 24 Transitional provisions for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2018

668. Definition for part
In this part—

669. Application of amendments increasing the rate of AFAD
Sections 244 to 246 as amended by the amending Act apply in relation to a relevant transaction within the meaning of section 230 if liability for transfer duty, landholder duty or corporate trustee duty arises on or after the commencement.

670. Application of amendments about rate of vehicle registration duty
Section 383 as amended by the amending Act applies in relation to an application to register or transfer a vehicle if the application is made on or after the commencement.

Part 25 Transitional provisions for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2018

671. Meaning of amending Act
In this part—

672. Retrospective effect of ss 76E–76G
(1) This Act applies, and is taken to have applied since 9 August 2017, to a trust acquisition or trust surrender happening on or after that day, as if sections 76E to 76G were in force from 9 August 2017.
(2) However, to remove any doubt, it is declared that a person can not be prosecuted under this Act or the Administration Act for a contravention of section 76G before the commencement.
(3) A pre-commencement approval has effect, and is taken to have had effect since it was given, to the extent it would have had effect if sections 76E to 76G were in force from 9 August 2017.
(4) In this section—

673. Retrospective effect of amended s 179(4)
(1) The amended provision applies, and is taken to have applied since 22 August 2017, to a relevant acquisition for which a liability for landholder duty arose on or after that day.
(2) In this section—

674. Retrospective effect of amended definition business property
(1) The amended definition applies, and is taken to have applied since 12 October 2016, in relation to a dutiable transaction entered into on or after that day.
(2) In this section—

Part 26 Transitional provision for Royalty Legislation Amendment Act 2020

675. Retrospective effect of definition defined relative
(1) The new definition applies, and is taken to have applied, in relation to a dutiable transaction for which liability for transfer duty arose on or after 23 May 2018.
(2) Subsection (3) applies in relation to a dutiable transaction for which liability for transfer duty arose on or after 23 May 2017 but before 23 May 2018 (the relevant period).
(3) The former definition is, in relation to a person, taken to have included—
(4) In this section—

Part 27 Transitional provisions for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2022

676. Retrospective effect of new s 124
(1) New section 124(d) applies, and is taken to have applied from 3 April 2017, in relation to a vesting of dutiable property, on or after that date, under the Succession Act 1981, section 45.
(2) New section 124(e) applies, and is taken to have applied from 6 August 2019, in relation to a vesting of dutiable property, on or after that date, under the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Land Holding Act 2013, section 69A.
(3) In this section—

677. Retrospective effect of ss 413F–413H
(1) Sections 413F to 413H apply, and are taken to have applied, in relation to a dutiable transaction for which liability for transfer duty or vehicle registration duty arose from 7 September 2020.
(2) For subsection (1), words defined in chapter 10, part 1A, division 1 and used in sections 413F to 413H are also taken to apply, and have applied, from 7 September 2020.

678. Retrospective effect of s 413I
(1) Section 413I applies, and is taken to have applied, in relation to a dutiable transaction for which liability for transfer duty or vehicle registration duty arose from 28 June 2021.
(2) For subsection (1), words defined in chapter 10, part 1A, division 1 and used in section 413I are also taken to apply, and have applied, from 28 June 2021.

679. Application of AFAD exemption under s 246
(1) Section 246 applies in relation to a relevant transaction that is the transfer, or agreement for transfer, of dutiable property only if the property is transferred, or the agreement is entered into, from the commencement.
(2) However, section 246 does not apply in relation to a transfer or agreement mentioned in subsection (1) if—

Part 28 Transitional provision for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2023

680

Part 29 Transitional provisions for Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2024

681. Definitions for part
In this part—

682. References to former or new provisions
(1) A reference in a provision of this part (the transitional provision) to a former provision of this Act is a reference to the provision as in force from time to time before the commencement of the transitional provision.
(2) A reference in a provision of this part (the transitional provision) to a new provision of this Act is a reference to the provision as in force from the commencement of the transitional provision.

683. Application of concession provisions generally
(1) The former concession provisions apply in relation to a dutiable transaction if liability for transfer duty arose before 9 June 2024.
(2) Subject to section 684, the new concession provisions apply in relation to a dutiable transaction if liability for transfer duty arises on or after 9 June 2024.

684. Application of concession provisions to particular transactions
Despite the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2024, the former concession provisions apply in relation to a dutiable transaction if—

685. Application of AFAD provisions
(1) Former sections 244, 245 and 245A apply in relation to a relevant transaction for which liability for transfer duty, landholder duty or corporate trustee duty arose before 1 July 2024.
(2) New sections 244, 245 and 245A apply in relation to a relevant transaction for which liability for transfer duty, landholder duty or corporate trustee duty arises on or after 1 July 2024.
(3) In this section—

Part 30 Transitional provisions for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2025

686. Non-application of amendments of s 153 to residential leases entered into before commencement
To remove any doubt, it is declared that a reference in section 153(1C) to a residential lease does not include a reference to a lease entered into, or other exclusive possession granted, before the commencement.

687. Application of concession provisions to transactions
(1) The former concession provisions apply in relation to a dutiable transaction if liability for transfer duty arose before 1 May 2025.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), the new concession provisions apply in relation to a dutiable transaction if liability for transfer duty arises on or after 1 May 2025.
(3) Despite the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2025, the former concession provisions apply in relation to a dutiable transaction if—
(4) In this section—

Part 31 Imposition of AFAD in particular circumstances

688. Imposition of AFAD payable 1 January 2018 to 8 April 2024
(1) This section applies if—
(2) AFAD is imposed on the relevant transaction.
(3) The liability for AFAD imposed under subsection (2) is taken to have arisen, and to have always arisen, at the same time as liability for the purported duty would have arisen if the purported duty had been validly imposed.
(4) AFAD imposed under subsection (2) is payable by, and is taken to have always been payable by, the person who would have been liable for the purported duty if the purported duty had been validly imposed.
(5) The amount of AFAD payable under subsection (2) is the same amount, and is taken to have always been the same amount, as the amount of AFAD that would have been payable if the purported duty had been validly imposed.
(6) The rights and liabilities of a person in relation to AFAD imposed under subsection (2) are taken to be, and to have always been, the same as the rights and liabilities that the person would have had in relation to the purported duty if the purported duty had been validly imposed.
(7) Anything done or omitted to be done by a person in relation to the purported duty has, and is taken to have always had, the same force and effect as if it were done or omitted to be done in relation to AFAD imposed under subsection (2).
(8) In this section—

Schedule 2 When liability for transfer duty on dutiable transaction arises

Schedule 3 Rates of duty on dutiable transactions and relevant acquisitions for landholder and corporate trustee duty

Schedule 4 Example for partnership and trust acquisitions and relevant acquisitions for corporate trustees

Schedule 4A Amount of concession for transfer duty—first home other than new home—residential land

Schedule 4B

Schedule 4C Rate of vehicle registration duty other than for special vehicles

Schedule 5 Example for corporate reconstruction

Schedule 6 Dictionary
