ACTS INTERPRETATION ACT 1954 - As at 1 February 2024 - Act 3 of 1954
 
TABLE OF PROVISIONS

**** TABLE OF PROVISIONS ****

PART 1 - PRELIMINARY
      1.  Short title

      2.  Act applies to all Acts

      3.  (Repealed)

      4.  Displacement of Act by contrary intention

      5.  Act binds Crown

PART 2 - MEANING OF ACT
      6.  References to Act

      7.  Act includes statutory instruments under Act etc.

      8.  (Repealed)

PART 3 - GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLYING TO ACTS
      9.  Interpretation of Act in relation to Parliament’s legislative power

     9A.  Declaration of validity of certain laws

     10.  Section has effect as substantive enactment

     11.  Acts to be public Acts

     12.  Private Acts not to affect rights of others

    12A.  Private Acts amended by public Acts do not become public Acts

     13.  Future Acts when binding on the Crown

    13A.  Acts not to affect native title except by express provision

    13B.  Acts not to affect powers, rights or immunities of Legislative
Assembly except by express provision

     14.  Material that is, and is not, part of an Act

    14A.  Interpretation best achieving Act’s purpose

    14B.  Use of extrinsic material in interpretation

    14C.  Changes of drafting practice not to affect meaning

   14CA.  Other changes that do not affect general law

    14D.  Examples

PART 4 - REFERENCE TO AND CITATION OF ACTS
    14E.  References to Acts generally

    14F.  References to particular Acts

    14G.  References to enactments

    14H.  References taken to be included in reference to law

    14I.  References to changed short titles and citations

    14J.  References to repealed or expired laws

PART 5 - COMMENCEMENT OF ACTS
     15.  References to enactment etc. of Acts

    15A.  Commencement of Acts on date of assent

    15B.  Time of commencement of Acts

    15C.  Commencement of citation and commencement provisions on date of
assent etc.

    15D.  Commencement by proclamation etc.

   15DA.  Automatic commencement of postponed law

   15DB.  (Expired)

   15DC.  (Expired)

    15E.  Commencement of paragraphs etc. in amending Act

     16.  (Repealed)

     17.  Exercise of powers between enactment and commencement

PART 6 - AMENDMENT AND REPEAL OF ACTS
    17A.  Act may be amended or repealed in same parliamentary session

     18.  Time of expiry of Act etc.

     19.  Repealed and amended Acts not revived on repeal of repealing and
amending Acts

    19A.  Commencement not undone if omitted

     20.  Saving of operation of repealed Act etc.

    20A.  Repeal does not end saving, transitional or validating effect etc.

    20B.  Continuance of appointments etc. made under amended provisions

    20C.  Creation of offences and changes in penalties

     21.  Continuance of repealed provisions

     22.  Act and amending Acts to be read as one

    22A.  Insertion of provisions by amending Act

    22B.  Amendment to be made wherever possible in provision

    22C.  Automatic repeal of amending Act

PART 7 - FUNCTIONS AND POWERS CONFERRED BY ACTS
     23.  Performance of statutory functions etc.

    23A.  Conferral of statutory power on another entity

     24.  (Repealed)

   24AA.  Power to make instrument or decision includes power to amend or
repeal

    24A.  Appointments may be made by name or office

    24B.  Acting appointments

    24C.  Acting person nominated by Act etc.

     25.  Powers of appointment imply certain incidental powers

     26.  Appointment not affected by defect etc.

     27.  Power to hear and determine includes power to administer oath

    27A.  Delegation of functions or powers

    27B.  Content of statement of reasons for decision

     28.  (Repealed)

   28AA.  (Repealed)

   28AB.  (Repealed)

   28AC.  (Repealed)

    28A.  (Repealed)

     29.  Legislative Assembly’s resolutions to be interpreted not to exceed
authority

    29A.  (Repealed)

    29B.  Working out number of sitting days

     30.  (Repealed)

PART 8 - TERMS AND REFERENCES IN ACTS
     32.  Defined terms—other parts of speech and grammatical forms

    32A.  Definitions to be read in context

   32AA.  Definitions generally apply to entire Act

   32AB.  Terms defined both in this Act and another Act

    32B.  Gender

    32C.  Number

   32CA.  Meaning of may and must etc.

   32CB.  Words and expressions used in amending Acts

   32CC.  (Repealed)

    32D.  References to persons generally

   32DA.  Meaning of de facto partner

    32E.  Production of records kept in computers etc.

    32F.  References to commencement

     33.  References to Ministers

   33AA.  References to departments

   33AB.  References to chief executives

   33AC.  Provisions administered by 2 or more Ministers

    33A.  References to States include Territories

     34.  References to officers and holders of offices

    34A.  Chair titles

    34B.  Deputy chair titles

     35.  References to Queensland to be implied

    35A.  References to person with interest in land includes personal
representative etc.

    35B.  References to provisions designated by number without mentioning
another Act

   35BA.  (Repealed)

   35BB.  (Repealed)

    35C.  Headings part of provision etc.

   35CA.  References to items at the end of a provision

    35D.  Reference to provisions of a law is inclusive

    35E.  Instrument made under the Act

     36.  Meaning of commonly used words and expressions

PART 9 - DISTANCE, TIME AND AGE
     37.  Measurement of distance

     38.  Reckoning of time

    38A.  Age

PART 10 - SERVICE OF DOCUMENTS
     39.  Service of documents

    39A.  Meaning of service by post etc.

     40.  (Repealed)

PART 11 - OFFENCES AND CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS
     41.  Penalty at end of provision

    41A.  Penalty other than at end of provision

     42.  Any person may prosecute etc.

     43.  Appropriation of penalties

     44.  Summary proceedings

     45.  Offence punishable only once

     46.  Bodies corporate

PART 12 - APPLICATION OF PARTICULAR STATE LAWS TO COASTAL WATERS
     47.  Definitions for pt 12

    47A.  Application of laws of the State to coastal waters

    47B.  Laws with specific application not to apply

    47C.  Extent of jurisdiction in relation to coastal waters

    47D.  Constitutional basis

    47E.  Saving

    47F.  (Repealed)

    47G.  (Repealed)

PART 12A - FORMS
     48.  Forms—notification and availability

    48A.  Compliance with forms

PART 12B - FEE UNITS
    48B.  Value of fee unit

    48C.  Working out amounts

PART 13 - MISCELLANEOUS
     49.  Verification of documents

    49A.  Jurisdiction of courts and tribunals

     50.  Making or amendment of subordinate legislation by an Act

     51.  (Repealed)

    51A.  References to Acts Shortening Act 1867

     52.  References to the Crown etc.

    52A.  Evidentiary provision

    52B.  Regulation-making power

PART 14 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
Division 1 - Transitional provision for Parliamentary Service and Other Acts
Amendment Act 2011
     53.  Transitional—extrinsic material—speech in Legislative Assembly

Division 2 - Transitional provisions for Treasury and Trade and Other
Legislation Amendment Act 2013
     54.  Definitions for div 2

     55.  References to s 36, 48A or 49

     56.  References to gazetted

     57.  References to notified in the gazette

Division 3 - Transitional provision for Court and Civil Legislation Amendment
Act 2017
     58.  Form approved or made available, but not notified in gazette, before
commencement

SCHEDULE 1
 
- LONG TITLE
An Act to assist in the shortening and interpretation of Queensland Acts
 
Short title
*** 1 Short title ***
This Act may be cited as the Acts Interpretation Act 1954.
 
Act applies to all Acts
*** 2 Act applies to all Acts ***
This Act applies to all Acts (including this Act).
     Note—
          For the application of this Act to statutory instruments,
          see the Statutory Instruments Act 1992, part 4, divisions 1
          and 2.
 
Displacement of Act by contrary intention
*** 4 Displacement of Act by contrary intention ***
The application of this Act may be displaced, wholly or partly, by a contrary
intention appearing in any Act.
 
Act binds Crown
*** 5 Act binds Crown ***
This Act binds the Crown.
 
References to Act
*** 6 References to Act ***
     (1) In an Act—

     "Act" means an Act of the Queensland Parliament, and includes—
          (a) a British or New South Wales Act that is in force in
          Queensland; and
          (b) an enactment of an earlier authority empowered to pass
          laws in Queensland that has received assent.
     (2) In an Act, a reference to ‘an Act’ includes the Act in which
     the reference is.
 
Act includes statutory instruments under Act etc.
*** 7 Act includes statutory instruments under Act etc. ***
     (1) In an Act, a reference (either generally or specifically) to a
     law (including the Act), or a provision of a law (including the Act),
     includes a reference to the statutory instruments made or in force
     under the law or provision.
     (2) In subsection (1) —

     "law" includes a law of the Commonwealth, another State or a
     Territory.
 
Interpretation of Act in relation to Parliament’s legislative power
*** 9 Interpretation of Act in relation to Parliament’s legislative power ***
     (1) An Act is to be interpreted as operating—
          (a) to the full extent of, but not to exceed,
          Parliament’s legislative power; and
          (b) distributively.
     (1A) Without limiting subsection (1) (a), it is declared that
     subsection applies (and always applied) to the legislative power
     conferred on Parliament under the Coastal Waters (State Powers) Act
     1980 (Cwlth), section 5 and the Coastal Waters (State Title) Act 1980
     (Cwlth), section 4.
     (1B) Subsection (1A) does not apply in relation to the substantive
     criminal law, and the law of criminal investigation, procedure and
     evidence, under the cooperative scheme as defined under the Crimes at
     Sea Act 2001, section 3.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1), if a provision of an Act would,
     apart from this section, be interpreted as exceeding power—
          (a) the provision is valid to the extent to which it does
          not exceed power; and
          (b) the remainder of the Act is not affected.
     (3) Without limiting subsection (1), if the application of a
     provision of an Act to a person, matter or circumstance would, apart
     from this section, be interpreted as exceeding power, the
     provision’s application to other persons, matters or circumstances
     is not affected.
     (4) This section applies to an Act in addition to, and without
     limiting, any provision of the Act.
 
Declaration of validity of certain laws
*** 9A Declaration of validity of certain laws ***
Each provision of an Act enacted, or purporting to have been enacted, before
the commencement of the Australia Acts has (and always has had) the same effect
as it would have had, and is (and always has been) as valid as it would have
been, if the Australia Acts had been in operation at the time of its enactment
or purported enactment.
 
Section has effect as substantive enactment
*** 10 Section has effect as substantive enactment ***
Every section of an Act has effect as a substantive enactment without
introductory words.
 
Acts to be public Acts
*** 11 Acts to be public Acts ***
Every Act passed after 26 July 1852 is a public Act unless the Act otherwise
expressly provides.
 
Private Acts not to affect rights of others
*** 12 Private Acts not to affect rights of others ***
     (1) A private Act does not—
          (a) affect pre-existing rights in a way prejudicial to the
          Crown or another person; or
          (b) impose liabilities on the Crown or another person in
          relation to previous acts or omissions;
     except so far as the Act otherwise expressly provides.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not affect rights conferred, or liabilities
     imposed, on—
          (a) a person at whose instance, or for whose special
          benefit, the Act is passed; or
          (b) another person claiming by, through or under such a
          person.
 
Private Acts amended by public Acts do not become public Acts
*** 12A Private Acts amended by public Acts do not become public Acts ***
A private Act does not become a public Act merely because it has been amended
by or under a public Act.
 
Future Acts when binding on the Crown
*** 13 Future Acts when binding on the Crown ***
No Act passed after the commencement of this Act shall be binding on the Crown
or derogate from any prerogative right of the Crown unless express words are
included in the Act for that purpose.
 
Acts not to affect native title except by express provision
*** 13A Acts not to affect native title except by express provision ***
     (1) An Act enacted after the commencement of this section affects
     native title only so far as the Act expressly provides.
     (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an Act affects native title
     if it extinguishes the native title rights and interests or it is
     otherwise wholly or partly inconsistent with their continued
     existence, enjoyment or exercise.
 
Acts not to affect powers, rights or immunities of Legislative Assembly except
by express provision
*** 13B Acts not to affect powers, rights or immunities of Legislative Assembly
except by express provision ***
     (1) An Act enacted after the commencement of this section affects the
     powers, rights or immunities of the Legislative Assembly or of its
     members or committees only so far as the Act expressly provides.
     (2) For subsection (1), an Act affects the powers, rights or
     immunities mentioned in the subsection if it abolishes any of the
     powers, rights or immunities or is otherwise wholly or partly
     inconsistent with their continued existence, enjoyment or exercise.
     (3) In this section—

     "rights" includes privileges.
 
Material that is, and is not, part of an Act
*** 14 Material that is, and is not, part of an Act ***
     (1) A heading to a chapter, part, division or subdivision of an Act
     is part of the Act.
     (2) A heading to a section, subsection or another provision of an Act
     is part of the Act if—
          (a) the Act is enacted after 30 June 1991; or
          (b) the heading is amended or inserted after 30 June 1991.
     (3) An example in an Act of the operation of a provision of the Act
     is part of the Act.
     (4) A note in an Act to the Act or to a provision of the Act, as
     opposed to a footnote, an editor’s note or an endnote mentioned in
     subsection (7), is part of the Act.
          Example of a note—
               See the note to section 2.
     Example of a footnote—
          See the footnote to schedule 1, definition
          "Acting Governor".
     (5) A schedule or appendix of an Act is part of the Act.
     (6) Punctuation in an Act is part of the Act.
     (7) A footnote or editor’s note to an Act or to a provision of an
     Act, and an endnote to an Act, are not part of the Act.
 
Interpretation best achieving Act’s purpose
*** 14A Interpretation best achieving Act’s purpose ***
     (1) In the interpretation of a provision of an Act, the
     interpretation that will best achieve the purpose of the Act is to be
     preferred to any other interpretation.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not create or extend criminal liability, but
     applies whether or not the Act ’s purpose is expressly stated in
     the Act.
     (3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that this section applies to
     an Act passed after 30 June 1991 despite any presumption or rule of
     interpretation.
          Example—
               There is judicial authority for a rule of
               interpretation that taxing legislation is to be
               interpreted strictly and in a taxpayer’s favour
               (for example, see Partington v AG (1869) LR 4 HL
               100 at 122). Despite such a possible rule, this
               section requires a provision imposing taxation to
               be interpreted in the way that best achieves the
               Act ’s purpose, whether or not to do so would
               be in a taxpayer’s favour.
 
Use of extrinsic material in interpretation
*** 14B Use of extrinsic material in interpretation ***
     (1) Subject to subsection (2), in the interpretation of a provision
     of an Act, consideration may be given to extrinsic material capable
     of assisting in the interpretation—
          (a) if the provision is ambiguous or obscure—to provide
          an interpretation of it; or
          (b) if the ordinary meaning of the provision leads to a
          result that is manifestly absurd or is unreasonable—to
          provide an interpretation that avoids such a result; or
          (c) in any other case—to confirm the interpretation
          conveyed by the ordinary meaning of the provision.
     (2) In determining whether consideration should be given to extrinsic
     material, and in determining the weight to be given to extrinsic
     material, regard is to be had to—
          (a) the desirability of a provision being interpreted as
          having its ordinary meaning; and
          (b) the undesirability of prolonging proceedings without
          compensating advantage; and
          (c) other relevant matters.
     (3) In this section—

     "extrinsic material" means relevant material not forming part of the
     Act concerned, including, for example—
          (a) material set out in an official copy of the Act; and
          (b) a report of a royal commission, law reform commission,
          commission or committee of inquiry, or a similar body, that
          was laid before the Legislative Assembly before the
          provision concerned was enacted; and
          (c) a report of a committee of the Legislative Assembly
          that was made to the Legislative Assembly before the
          provision was enacted; and
          (d) a treaty or other international agreement that is
          mentioned in the Act; and
          (e) an explanatory note or memorandum relating to the Bill
          that contained the provision, or any other relevant
          document, that was laid before, or given to the members of,
          the Legislative Assembly by the member bringing in the Bill
          before the provision was enacted; and
          (f) the speech made to the Legislative Assembly by the
          member when introducing the Bill; and
               Note—
                    See section 53 in relation to Bills
                    introduced before the commencement of
                    that section.
     (g) material in an official record of proceedings in the Legislative
     Assembly; and
     (h) a document that is declared by an Act to be a relevant document
     for the purposes of this section.

"ordinary meaning" means the ordinary meaning conveyed by a provision having
regard to its context in the Act and to the purpose of the Act.
 
Changes of drafting practice not to affect meaning
*** 14C Changes of drafting practice not to affect meaning ***
If—
     (a) a provision of an Act expresses an idea in particular words; and
     (b) a provision enacted later appears to express the same idea in
     different words for the purpose of implementing a different
     legislative drafting practice, including, for example—
          (i) the use of a clearer or simpler style; or
          (ii) the use of gender-neutral language;
the ideas must not be taken to be different merely because different words are
used.
 
Other changes that do not affect general law
*** 14CA Other changes that do not affect general law ***
     (1) If—
          (a) a provision of an Act expressly provides for an
          obligation to comply with the principles of natural
          justice; and
          (b) the provision is replaced by a corresponding provision
          that does not expressly provide for the obligation;
     the absence of an express provision for the obligation in the
     corresponding provision does not limit or otherwise affect an
     obligation under the corresponding provision to comply with
     procedural fairness implied under the general law.
     (2) If—
          (a) a provision of an Act expressly provides for a function
          to be performed reasonably or a power to be exercised
          reasonably; and
          (b) the provision is replaced by a corresponding provision
          that does not expressly provide for the function to be
          performed reasonably or the power to be exercised
          reasonably;
     the absence of an express provision for the matter in the
     corresponding provision does not limit or otherwise affect an
     obligation under the corresponding provision to perform the function
     reasonably or exercise the power reasonably implied under the general
     law.
     (3) For this section, a provision of an Act (a
     "former provision") is replaced by a corresponding provision if—
          (a) an amendment of the Act omits the former provision and
          inserts a corresponding provision, whether in the same or a
          different location; or
          (b) the former provision is amended and the amended
          provision is a corresponding provision; or
          (c) the Act is repealed by an Act that includes a
          corresponding provision to the former provision.
     (4) In this section—

     "corresponding provision", to another provision, means a provision
     that is substantially the same as, or substantially equivalent to,
     the other provision.
 
Examples
*** 14D Examples ***
If an Act includes an example of the operation of a provision—
     (a) the example is not exhaustive; and
     (b) the example does not limit, but may extend, the meaning of the
     provision; and
     (c) the example and the provision are to be read in the context of
     each other and the other provisions of the Act, but, if the example
     and the provision so read are inconsistent, the provision prevails.
 
References to Acts generally
*** 14E References to Acts generally ***
An Act passed by Parliament, or any earlier legislature empowered to pass laws
for Queensland, may be referred to by the word
"Act" alone.
 
References to particular Acts
*** 14F References to particular Acts ***
     (1) An Act may be cited—
          (a) by its short title; or
          (b) by reference to the year in which it was passed and its
          number.
          Examples of citations—
                    1 Statutory Instruments Act 1992
                    2 Statutory Instruments Act 1992, No.
                    22
                    3 Act No. 22 of 1992
                    4 1992 Act No. 22
     (2) A Commonwealth Act may be cited—
          (a) by its short title; or
          (b) in another way sufficient in a Commonwealth Act for the
          citation of such an Act;
     together with a reference to the Commonwealth.
     (3) An Act of another State or a Territory may be cited—
          (a) by its short title; or
          (b) in another way sufficient in an Act of the State or
          Territory for the citation of such an Act;
     together with a reference to the State or Territory.
     (4) A British Act may be cited—
          (a) by its short title; or
          (b) in another way sufficient in a British Act for the
          citation of such an Act;
     together with a reference to the United Kingdom or the term ‘UK’,
     ‘Imperial Act’ or ‘Imp’.
 
References to enactments
*** 14G References to enactments ***
     (1) An enactment may be cited by reference to the provision of the
     Act in which it is contained.
     (2) The reference is to be made according to an official copy of—
          (a) the Act; or
          (b) the Act as amended.
     (3) In this section—

     "Act" includes Commonwealth Act, Act of another State, Territory Act
     or British Act.

     "enactment" includes any portion of an Act.

     "official copy" —
          (a) of an Act of Queensland or an Act of Queensland as
          amended—see schedule 1, definition official copy; or
          (b) of an Act of another jurisdiction or an Act of another
          jurisdiction as amended—means a copy, including a
          reproduction in electronic form, of the Act or the Act as
          amended that, under a law of the jurisdiction, is presumed
          to be a correct copy of the Act or the Act as amended, in
          the absence of evidence to the contrary.
 
References taken to be included in reference to law
*** 14H References taken to be included in reference to law ***
     (1) In an Act, a reference to a law (including the Act) includes a
     reference to the following—
          (a) the law as originally made, and as amended from time to
          time since it was originally made;
          (b) if the law has been repealed and remade (with or
          without modification) since the reference was made—the
          law as remade, and as amended from time to time since it
          was remade;
          (c) if a relevant provision of the law has been omitted and
          remade (with or without modification) in another law since
          the reference was made—the other law as in force when the
          provision was remade, and as amended from time to time
          since the provision was remade.
     (2) In an Act, a reference to a provision of a law (including the
     Act) includes a reference to the following—
          (a) the provision as originally made, and as amended from
          time to time since it was originally made;
          (b) if the provision has been omitted and remade (with or
          without modification and whether in the law or another law)
          since the reference was made—the provision as remade, and
          as amended from time to time since it was remade.
     (3) In this section—

     "law" includes a law of the Commonwealth, another State or a
     Territory.

     "make" includes enact.
 
References to changed short titles and citations
*** 14I References to changed short titles and citations ***
     (1) If the short title or citation of a law is amended, a reference
     in an Act to the short title or citation includes a reference to the
     short title or citation as amended.
     (2) In this section—

     "law" includes a law of the Commonwealth, another State or a
     Territory.
 
References to repealed or expired laws
*** 14J References to repealed or expired laws ***
     (1) If an Act refers to another law as repealed or expired, the
     reference is to the other law as in force immediately before it was
     repealed or expired.
          Example—
               The ‘repealed ABC Act 1950 ’ is a reference
               to the ABC Act 1950 as in force immediately
               before it was repealed.
     (2) In this section—

     "law" includes a law of the Commonwealth, another State or a
     Territory.
 
References to enactment etc. of Acts
*** 15 References to enactment etc. of Acts ***
In an Act, a reference to the enactment of an Act or the passing of an Act is a
reference to the fact of the Act ’s having received the royal assent.
 
Commencement of Acts on date of assent
*** 15A Commencement of Acts on date of assent ***
An Act commences on the date of assent except so far as the Act otherwise
expressly provides.
 
Time of commencement of Acts
*** 15B Time of commencement of Acts ***
If an Act or a provision of an Act commences on a day, it commences at the
beginning of the day.
 
Commencement of citation and commencement provisions on date of assent etc.
*** 15C Commencement of citation and commencement provisions on date of assent
etc. ***
     (1) The provisions of an Act providing for its citation and
     commencement commence on the date of assent by force of this
     subsection.
     (2) A reference in an Act to the commencement of the Act, or another
     Act, (the
     "Act concerned"), is a reference to—
          (a) if the provisions of the Act concerned (other than
          those providing for its citation and commencement)
          commence, or are required to commence, on a single day or
          at a single time—the commencement of the remaining
          provisions; or
          (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply and the reference is in
          a provision of the Act concerned—the commencement of the
          provision; or
          (c) in any other case—the commencement of the relevant
          provision of the Act concerned.
     (3) Subsection (1) applies to an Act despite anything in the Act
     unless the Act expressly provides that it does not apply.
     (4) A reference in this section to the provisions of an Act providing
     for its citation includes a reference to the Act ’s long title.
 
Commencement by proclamation etc.
*** 15D Commencement by proclamation etc. ***
     (1) If an Act or provisions of an Act is or are expressed to commence
     on a day to be fixed by proclamation or other instrument—
          (a) a single day or time may be fixed; or
          (b) different days or times may be fixed for different
          provisions.
     (2) If the day or time fixed by a proclamation for the commencement
     of an Act or a provision of an Act happens before the day on which
     the proclamation is notified (the
     "notification day")—
          (a) the proclamation is valid; but
          (b) the Act or provision commences on the notification day.
 
Automatic commencement of postponed law
*** 15DA Automatic commencement of postponed law ***
     (1) In this section—

     "assent day" means the date of assent of—
          (a) if the postponed law is an Act—the Act; or
          (b) if the postponed law is a provision of an Act—the Act
          that enacts the provision.

     "postponed law" means an Act or provision of an Act that does not
     commence on the assent day because a provision of an Act postpones
     its commencement until a day fixed under an instrument.
     (2) If a postponed law has not commenced within 1 year of the assent
     day, it automatically commences on the next day.
     (3) However, within 1 year of the assent day, a regulation may extend
     the period before commencement under subsection (2) to not more than
     2 years of the assent day.
     (4) The regulation mentioned in subsection (3) may be made under—
          (a) the Act that is the postponed law; or
          (b) the Act of which the postponed law is a provision; or
          (c) an Act that the postponed law amends;
     as if the Act mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) included a
     provision that had commenced and authorised the regulation to be
     made.
     (5) This section—
          (a) only applies to a postponed law enacted after 31
          December 1994; and
          (b) applies to a postponed law unless an Act expressly
          states it does not apply.
          Example—
               The Hypothetical Act 1995 was assented to on 5
               April 1995 and was expressed to commence on a day
               to be fixed by proclamation. If the Act was not
               commenced by 5 April 1996, it would commence on 6
               April 1996 under subsection (2) unless a
               regulation had been made under subsection (3)
               extending time for commencement.
 
- SECT 15DB
*** 15DB ***
 
- SECT 15DC
*** 15DC ***
 
Commencement of paragraphs etc. in amending Act
*** 15E Commencement of paragraphs etc. in amending Act ***
If an Act amends another Act and the amendment is in the form of—
     (a) a paragraph, or subparagraph, of a section or subsection of the
     amending Act; or
     (b) any other provision that is not self-contained;
the amendment may be given a separate commencement.
 
Exercise of powers between enactment and commencement
*** 17 Exercise of powers between enactment and commencement ***
     (1) If a provision of an Act (the
     "empowering provision") that does not commence on its enactment
     would, had it commenced—
          (a) confer a power—
               (i) to make an appointment; or
               (ii) to make a statutory instrument of a
               legislative or administrative character; or
               (iii) to do any other thing; or
          (b) amend a provision of another Act so that the other Act
          would confer such a power;
     then—
          (c) the power may be exercised; and
          (d) anything may be done for the purpose of—
               (i) enabling the exercise of the power; or
               (ii) bringing the appointment, instrument or
               other thing into effect;
     before the empowering provision commences.
     (2) If—
          (a) an Act that has commenced confers a power to make a
          statutory instrument (the
          "basic instrument-making power"); and
          (b) a provision of an Act that does not commence on its
          enactment would, had it commenced, amend the Act mentioned
          in paragraph (a) so as to confer additional power to make a
          statutory instrument (the
          "additional instrument-making power");
     then—
          (c) the basic instrument-making power and the additional
          instrument-making power may be exercised by making a single
          instrument; and
          (d) any provision of the instrument that required an
          exercise of the additional instrument-making power is to be
          treated as made under subsection (1).
     (3) If an instrument, or a provision of an instrument, is made under
     subsection (1) that is necessary for the purpose of—
          (a) enabling the exercise of a power mentioned in
          subsection (1) (a); or
          (b) bringing an appointment, instrument or other thing made
          or done under such a power into effect;
     the instrument or provision takes effect—
          (c) on the making of the instrument; or
          (d) if the instrument or provision is expressed to take
          effect at a later time—the later time.
     (4) If—
          (a) an appointment is made under subsection (1); or
          (b) an instrument, or provision of an instrument, made
          under subsection (1) is not necessary for a purpose
          mentioned in subsection (3);
     the appointment, instrument or provision takes effect—
          (c) on the commencement of the relevant empowering
          provision; or
          (d) if the appointment, instrument or provision is
          expressed to take effect at a later time—the later time.
     (5) Anything done under subsection (1) does not confer a right, or
     impose a liability, on a person before the relevant empowering
     provision commences.
     (6) After the enactment of a provision mentioned in subsection (1)
     (b) but before the provision’s commencement, this section applies
     as if the references in subsections (1) and (4) to the commencement
     of the empowering provision were references to the commencement of
     the provision mentioned in subsection (1) (b) as amended by the
     empowering provision.
 
Act may be amended or repealed in same parliamentary session
*** 17A Act may be amended or repealed in same parliamentary session ***
An Act may be amended or repealed in the session of Parliament in which it is
passed.
 
Time of expiry of Act etc.
*** 18 Time of expiry of Act etc. ***
If an Act or a provision of an Act—
     (a) expires on a day; or
     (b) is expressed to remain or continue in force, or otherwise have
     effect, until a day;
the Act or provision has effect until the end of the day.
 
Repealed and amended Acts not revived on repeal of repealing and amending Acts
*** 19 Repealed and amended Acts not revived on repeal of repealing and
amending Acts ***
     (1) In this section—

     "Act" includes a provision of an Act.

     "repeal" includes expiry.
     (2) If an Act (the
     "first Act") is repealed by another Act (the
     "other Act"), the first Act is not revived merely because the other
     Act is repealed.
          Examples—
                    1 Act A repeals Act B. Act A is
                    repealed. The repeal of Act A does not
                    revive Act B.
                    2 Act A repeals Act B. Act A is
                    automatically repealed under section
                    22C. The repeal of Act A does not
                    revive Act B.
     (3) If an Act (the
     "first Act") is amended by another Act (the
     "other Act"), the continuing operation of the amendments made by the
     other Act is not affected merely because the other Act is repealed
     and, in particular, the first Act is not revived in the form that it
     was in before the amendments took effect merely because of the
     repeal.
          Examples—
                    1 Act A amends Act B. Act A is repealed
                    after it has commenced by a later Act
                    C. The amendments made by Act A
                    continue to operate, even though Act A
                    has been repealed.
                    2 Act A amends Act B. Act A is
                    automatically repealed under section
                    22C. The amendments made by Act A
                    continue to operate, even though Act A
                    has been repealed.
     (4) This section is in addition to, and does not limit, sections 20
     and 20A, or any provision of the law by which the repeal is made.
 
Commencement not undone if omitted
*** 19A Commencement not undone if omitted ***
If a provision of an Act provides for the commencement of a law and the law has
commenced, the later omission of the provision does not affect the continuing
operation of the law.
 
Saving of operation of repealed Act etc.
*** 20 Saving of operation of repealed Act etc. ***
     (1) In this section—

     "Act" includes a provision of an Act.

     "repeal" includes expiry.
     (2) The repeal or amendment of an Act does not—
          (a) revive anything not in force or existing at the time
          the repeal or amendment takes effect; or
          (b) affect the previous operation of the Act or anything
          suffered, done or begun under the Act; or
          (c) affect a right, privilege or liability acquired,
          accrued or incurred under the Act; or
          (d) affect a penalty incurred in relation to an offence
          arising under the Act; or
          (e) affect an investigation, proceeding or remedy in
          relation to a right, privilege, liability or penalty
          mentioned in paragraph (c) or (d).
     (3) The investigation, proceeding or remedy may be started, continued
     or completed, and the right, privilege or liability may be enforced
     and the penalty imposed, as if the repeal or amendment had not
     happened.
     (4) Without limiting subsections (2) and (3), the repeal or amendment
     of an Act does not affect—
          (a) the proof of anything that has happened; or
          (b) any right, privilege or liability saved by the
          operation of the Act; or
          (c) any repeal or amendment made by the Act; or
          (d) any savings, transitional or validating effect of the
          Act.
     (5) This section is in addition to, and does not limit, sections 19
     and 20A, or any provision of the law by which the repeal or amendment
     is made.
 
Repeal does not end saving, transitional or validating effect etc.
*** 20A Repeal does not end saving, transitional or validating effect etc. ***
     (1) In this section—

     "Act" includes a provision of an Act.

     "repeal" includes expiry.
     (2) If an Act—
          (a) declares a thing for a saving or transitional purpose
          (whether or not the Act is expressed to be made for a
          purpose of that type); or
          (b) validates a thing that may otherwise be invalid; or
          (c) declares a thing for a purpose that is consequential on
          a declaration mentioned in paragraph (a) or a validation
          mentioned in paragraph (b) (whether or not the Act is
          expressed to be made for a purpose of that type);
     the declaratory or validating effect of the Act does not end merely
     because of the repeal of the Act.
          Example of paragraph (a)—
               a provision stating that an existing licence
               under a repealed law is taken to be a licence of
               a particular kind under another law and
               authorising the imposition of conditions under
               the other law
     Example of paragraph (b)—
          a provision declaring an instrument to have been validly
          made and acts done in reliance on the instrument to have
          been validly done
     Examples of paragraph (c)—
               1 a provision stating that a matter that is
               declared valid is not justiciable
               2 a provision stating that an instrument that is
               declared valid is taken to have been amended in a
               particular way
     (3) If an Act (the
     "savings law") declares an Act (the
     "declared law") to be a law to which this section applies—
          (a) the effect of the declared law does not end merely
          because of its repeal; and
          (b) the effect of the savings law does not end merely
          because of its repeal.
     (4) A declaration may be made for subsection (3) about an Act whether
     or not the Act is a law to which subsection (2) applies.
     (5) A declaration made for subsection (3) about an Act does not imply
     that, in the absence of a declaration about it, another Act is not a
     law to which this section applies.
     (6) This section is in addition to, and does not limit, sections 19
     and 20, or any provision of the law by which the repeal is made.
 
Continuance of appointments etc. made under amended provisions
*** 20B Continuance of appointments etc. made under amended provisions ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a provision of a law expressly or impliedly authorises
          or requires—
               (i) the making of an appointment; or
               (ii) the delegation of a function or power; or
               (iii) the doing of anything else (other than the
               making of a statutory instrument); and
          (b) the provision is amended by an Act; and
          (c) under the amended provision—
               (i) the appointment may be made; or
               (ii) the function or power may be delegated; or
               (iii) the thing may be done.
     (2) An appointment, delegation or other thing mentioned in subsection
     (1) that was in force immediately before the commencement of the
     amendment continues to have effect after the commencement as if it
     had been done under the amended provision.
     (3) In this section—

     "amend" includes omit and re-enact in the same law (with or without
     modification), but does not include omit and re-enact in another law.
 
Creation of offences and changes in penalties
*** 20C Creation of offences and changes in penalties ***
     (1) In this section—

     "Act" includes a provision of an Act.
     (2) If an Act makes an act or omission an offence, the act or
     omission is only an offence if committed after the Act commences.
     (3) If an Act increases the maximum or minimum penalty, or the
     penalty, for an offence, the increase applies only to an offence
     committed after the Act commences.
 
Continuance of repealed provisions
*** 21 Continuance of repealed provisions ***
If an Act repeals some or all of the provisions of an Act and enacts new
provisions in substitution for the repealed provisions, the repealed provisions
continue in force until the new provisions commence.
 
Act and amending Acts to be read as one
*** 22 Act and amending Acts to be read as one ***
An Act and all Acts amending the Act are to be read as one.
 
Insertion of provisions by amending Act
*** 22A Insertion of provisions by amending Act ***
     (1) If an Act amends a provision of a law by inserting a subsection
     that is to form part of a series of subsections, and does not specify
     the position in the provision where it is to be inserted, the
     subsection is to be inserted in the appropriate numerical or
     alphanumerical position.
     (2) If an Act amends a provision of a law by inserting a paragraph
     that is to form part of a series of paragraphs, and does not specify
     the position in the provision where it is to be inserted, the
     paragraph is to be inserted in the appropriate alphabetical position.
     (3) If an Act amends a provision of a law by inserting a subparagraph
     that is to form part of a series of subparagraphs, and does not
     specify the position in the provision where it is to be inserted, the
     subparagraph is to be inserted in the appropriate numerical or
     alphanumerical position.
     (4) If an Act amends a provision of a law by inserting a sub-
     subparagraph that is to form part of a series of sub-subparagraphs,
     and does not specify the position in the provision where it is to be
     inserted, the sub-subparagraph is to be inserted in the appropriate
     alphabetical position.
     (5) If an Act amends a provision of a law by inserting a definition
     that is to form part of a series of definitions, and does not specify
     the position in the provision where it is to be inserted, the
     definition is to be inserted in the appropriate alphabetical
     position, determined on a letter-by-letter basis.
     (6) If an Act otherwise amends a provision of a law by inserting a
     provision that is to form part of a series of provisions, and does
     not specify the position in the first provision where it is to be
     inserted, the second provision is to be inserted in the appropriate
     numerical or alphanumerical position.
     (7) If an Act amends a provision of a law by inserting an example,
     note or penalty, and does not specify the position in the provision
     where it is to be inserted, the example, note or penalty is to be
     inserted at the end of the provision.
     (8) In determining the appropriate position in which a provision is
     to be inserted, regard may be had to current Queensland legislative
     drafting practice.
 
Amendment to be made wherever possible in provision
*** 22B Amendment to be made wherever possible in provision ***
If an Act amends a provision of a law—
     (a) by omitting a word; or
     (b) by omitting a word and inserting another word; or
     (c) by inserting a word before or after a particular word;
the amendment is to be made wherever possible in the provision.
 
Automatic repeal of amending Act
*** 22C Automatic repeal of amending Act ***
     (1) An amending Act enacted after 30 June 1994 is automatically
     repealed at the beginning of the day after all of its provisions have
     commenced.
     (2) A repeal under subsection (1) has effect for all purposes,
     including, for example, sections 19 to 20A.
     (3) This section is in addition to, and does not limit the operation
     of, any other provision of this Act about repeals.
     (4) In this section—

     "amending Act" means an Act that consists only of provisions of the
     following types—
          (a) the Act ’s long title;
          (b) the Act ’s preamble (if any);
          (c) a provision about the Act ’s citation;
          (d) a provision (if any) about the Act ’s commencement;
          (e) a provision providing for the amendment or repeal of an
          Act or other instrument (including a provision identifying
          the amended or repealed instrument);
          (f) a provision providing for the extension of the period
          before commencement, under section 15DA (2), of an Act or a
          provision of an Act that has not commenced within 1 year of
          the assent day;
          (g) a provision declaring an Act or a provision of an Act
          to be a law to which section 20A applies.
               Example 1—
                    The Hypothetical Amending Act 1995
                    amends the ABC Act and the LMN Act. It
                    also repeals a list of Acts set out in
                    a schedule. Apart from—
                         • a long title
                         • a provision about the Act
                         ’s citation (that is, the
                         Act ’s short title)
                         • a provision about the Act
                         ’s commencement
                         • amending provisions (that
                         is, provisions stating that
                         the ABC Act and the LMN Act
                         are amended and the
                         provisions amending the Act
                         s)
                         • repealing provisions
                         (that is, a provision stating
                         that the Act s set out in the
                         schedule are repealed and a
                         schedule)
                         • a provision about the
                         application of section 20A to
                         a provision being repealed;
                    the Hypothetical Amending Act 1995
                    contains no other provisions. Its
                    repealing provisions commence on
                    assent, 21 March 1995. Its amending
                    provisions commence on proclamation, 12
                    April 1995. Under subsection (1), the
                    Hypothetical Amending Act 1995 is
                    automatically repealed at the beginning
                    of 13 April 1995.
     Example 2—
          The Example Act 1995 contains provisions establishing a new
          scheme. It also amends several Acts and repeals others.
          Because it contains the scheme provisions, it is not an
          amending Act covered by subsection (1).

"assent day" means the date of assent of—
     (a) if the provision provides for the extension of the period before
     commencement, under section 15DA (2), of an Act—the Act; or
     (b) if the provision provides for the extension of the period before
     commencement, under section 15DA (2), of a provision of an Act—the
     Act that enacts the provision.
 
Performance of statutory functions etc.
*** 23 Performance of statutory functions etc. ***
     (1) If an Act confers a function or power on a person or body, the
     function may be performed, or the power may be exercised, as occasion
     requires.
     (2) If an Act confers a function or power on a specified officer or
     the holder of a specified office, the function may be performed, or
     the power may be exercised, by the person for the time being
     occupying or acting in the office concerned.
     (3) If an Act confers a function or power on a body (whether or not
     incorporated), the performance of the function, or the exercise of
     the power, is not affected merely because of vacancies in the
     membership of the body.
 
Conferral of statutory power on another entity
*** 23A Conferral of statutory power on another entity ***
     (1) If a provision of an Act, whether expressly or by implication,
     confers a power (the
     "first power") on an entity to authorise or require another entity to
     exercise a power (the
     "second power"), then, if the first power is exercised, the provision
     is taken to confer the second power on the other entity.
     (2) In this section—

     "power" includes doing an act or making a decision for the purpose of
     performing a function.
 
Power to make instrument or decision includes power to amend or repeal
*** 24AA Power to make instrument or decision includes power to amend or repeal
***
If an Act authorises or requires the making of an instrument or decision—
     (a) the power includes power to amend or repeal the instrument or
     decision; and
     (b) the power to amend or repeal the instrument or decision is
     exercisable in the same way, and subject to the same conditions, as
     the power to make the instrument or decision.
 
Appointments may be made by name or office
*** 24A Appointments may be made by name or office ***
     (1) If an Act authorises or requires a person or body—
          (a) to appoint a person to an office; or
          (b) to appoint a person or body to exercise a power; or
          (c) to appoint a person or body to do another thing;
     the person or body may make the appointment by—
          (d) appointing a person or body by name; or
          (e) appointing a specified officer, or the holder of a
          specified office, by reference to the title of the office
          concerned.
     (2) An appointment of a specified officer, or the holder of a
     specified office, is taken to be the appointment of the person for
     the time being occupying or acting in the office concerned.
 
Acting appointments
*** 24B Acting appointments ***
     (1) If an Act authorises a person or body to appoint a person to act
     in an office, the person or body may, in accordance with the Act,
     appoint—
          (a) a person by name; or
          (b) a specified officer, or the holder of a specified
          office, by reference to the title of the office concerned;
     to act in the office.
     (2) The appointment may be expressed to have effect only in the
     circumstances specified in the instrument of appointment.
     (3) The appointer may—
          (a) determine the terms and conditions of the appointment,
          including remuneration and allowances; and
          (b) end the appointment at any time.
     (3A) If the appointer is a body, the appointment may be made or ended
     by a resolution of the body.
     (4) The appointment, or the ending of the appointment under
     subsection (3) (b), must be in, or evidenced by, writing, signed by
     the appointer or, if the appointer is a body, by a person authorised
     by the body for the purpose.
     (5) If the appointee is acting in the office because of a vacancy in
     the office—
          (a) the term of the appointment may not be more than 1
          year; and
          (b) the appointee may be reappointed to act in the office,
          but the term of each reappointment may not be more than 1
          year.
     (6) If the appointee is acting in the office otherwise than because
     of a vacancy in the office and the office becomes vacant, then,
     subject to subsection (2), the appointee may continue to act until—
          (a) the appointer otherwise directs; or
          (b) the vacancy ends; or
          (c) the end of a year from the day of the vacancy;
     whichever happens first.
     (6A) Subsection (6) (c) does not prevent a further appointment of the
     appointee to act for a period ending later than a year from the day
     of the vacancy.
     (7) The appointment ends if the appointee resigns by writing signed
     and delivered to the appointer.
     (7A) If the vacancy in the office in which a person is acting ends,
     the person’s appointment to act in the office because of the
     vacancy also ends.
     (7B) If the holder of the office in which a person is acting resumes
     the office, the person’s appointment to act in the office because
     of the absence of the holder of the office ends.
     (7C) Subsections (7A) and (7B) apply even if a contrary intention
     appears in the instrument of, or evidencing the, appointment to act.
     (7D) A person’s substantive appointment to an office does not end
     merely because the person acts in another office.
     (7E) To avoid any doubt, it is declared that subsections (7A) to (7D)
     do not change the law of Queensland.
     (8) While the appointee is acting in the office—
          (a) the appointee has all the functions and powers of the
          holder of the office; and
          (b) laws apply to the appointee, and to other persons in
          relationship to the appointee, as if the appointee were the
          holder of the office.
     (9) Anything done by or in relation to a person purporting to act in
     the office is not invalid merely because—
          (a) the occasion for the appointment had not arisen; or
          (b) the appointment had ended; or
          (c) the occasion for the person to act had not arisen or
          had ended.
     (10) If the Act authorises the appointer to appoint a person to act
     during a vacancy in the office, an appointment to act in the office
     may be made by the appointer whether or not an appointment has
     previously been made to the office.
     (11) If—
          (a) the appointer is a specified officer or the holder of a
          specified office; and
          (b) the person who was the specified officer or holder of
          the specified office when the appointment was made ceases
          to be the officer or holder of the office;
     then—
          (c) the appointment continues in force; and
          (d) the person for the time being occupying or acting in
          the office concerned is taken to be the appointer for the
          purposes of this section.
     (12) If—
          (a) the appointer is a body; and
          (b) there is a change in the membership of the body;
     then—
          (c) the appointment continues in force; and
          (d) the body as constituted for the time being is taken to
          be the appointer for the purposes of this section.
     (13) Writing purporting to be, or to contain, an appointment, or the
     ending of an appointment under subsection (3) (b), is evidence of the
     appointment or the ending of the appointment.
     (14) A certificate signed by the appointer (or, if the appointer is a
     body, by a person authorised by the body for the purpose) stating
     anything in relation to an appointment is evidence of the thing.
     (15) A document purporting to be a certificate mentioned in
     subsection (14) is taken to be the certificate, and to have been
     properly given, unless the contrary is established.
 
Acting person nominated by Act etc.
*** 24C Acting person nominated by Act etc. ***
     (1) This section applies if an Act provides that a specified officer,
     or the holder of a specified office, (the
     "nominated person") acts as another specified officer or in another
     specified office on a specified occasion.
     (2) While the nominated person is acting as the other officer or in
     the other office—
          (a) the nominated person has all the functions and powers
          of the officer or holder of the office; and
          (b) laws apply to the nominated person, and to other
          persons in relationship to the nominated person, as if the
          nominated person were the officer or holder of the office.
     (3) Anything done by or in relation to the nominated person while the
     nominated person is purporting to act as the other officer or in the
     other office is not invalid merely because the occasion for the
     nominated person to act had not happened or had ceased.
 
Powers of appointment imply certain incidental powers
*** 25 Powers of appointment imply certain incidental powers ***
     (1) If an Act authorises or requires a person or body to appoint a
     person to an office—
          (a) the power may be exercised as occasion requires; and
          (b) the power includes—
               (i) power to remove or suspend, at any time, a
               person appointed to the office; and
               (ii) power to appoint another person to act in
               the office if a person appointed to the office is
               removed or suspended; and
               (iii) power to reinstate or reappoint a person
               removed or suspended; and
               (iv) power to appoint a person to act in the
               office if it is vacant (whether or not the office
               has ever been filled); and
               (v) power to appoint a person to act in the
               office if the person appointed to the office is
               absent or is unable to discharge the functions of
               the office (whether because of illness or
               otherwise); and
          (c) the power also includes power to reappoint a person to
          the office if the person is eligible to be appointed to the
          office.
     (2) The power to remove or suspend a person under subsection (1) (b)
     may be exercised even if the Act under which the person was appointed
     provides that the holder of the office to which the person was
     appointed is to hold office for a specified period.
     (3) The power to make an appointment under subsection (1) (b) may be
     exercised as occasion requires.
     (4) An appointment under subsection (1) (b) may be expressed to have
     effect only in the circumstances specified in the instrument of
     appointment.
 
Appointment not affected by defect etc.
*** 26 Appointment not affected by defect etc. ***
The appointment of a person to an office, to act in an office, to exercise a
power or to do anything else is not invalid merely because of a defect or
irregularity in relation to the appointment.
 
Power to hear and determine includes power to administer oath
*** 27 Power to hear and determine includes power to administer oath ***
A person or body authorised by law, or by consent of parties, to conduct a
hearing for the purpose of the determination (by that or another person or
body) of any matter has authority—
     (a) to receive evidence; and
     (b) to examine witnesses, and to administer oaths to witnesses, who
     have been lawfully called before the person or body.
 
Delegation of functions or powers
*** 27A Delegation of functions or powers ***
     (1) If an Act authorises a person or body to delegate a function or
     power, the person or body may, in accordance with the Act and any
     other applicable law, delegate the function or power to—
          (a) a person or body by name; or
          (b) a specified officer, or the holder of a specified
          office, by reference to the title of the office concerned.
     (2) The delegation may be—
          (a) general or limited; and
          (b) made from time to time; and
          (c) revoked, wholly or partly, by the delegator.
     (3) The delegation, or a revocation of the delegation, must be in, or
     evidenced by, writing signed by the delegator or, if the delegator is
     a body, by a person authorised by the body for the purpose.
     (3A) If the delegator is a body, the delegation may be made or
     revoked by a resolution of the body.
     (3B) All conditions and preliminary steps required for the exercise
     of a delegation are presumed to have been satisfied and performed
     unless the contrary is established.
     (3C) Laws apply to the delegate, and to other persons in relationship
     to the delegate, in the performance of the delegated function or in
     the exercise of a delegated power as if the delegate were the
     delegator.
     (3D) Anything done by or in relation to the delegate in relation to
     the delegation is taken to have been done by or in relation to the
     delegator.
          Example—
               Under an Act an evidentiary certificate
               purporting to be signed by an office holder is
               evidence of the content in any proceeding (the
               "facilitation provision"). The Act confers a
               general power of delegation on the office holder.
               The office holder uses the power to delegate the
               function of issuing the certificate to someone
               else. Under subsections (3C) and (3D) (and (6)
               and (7)), the facilitation provision is taken to
               provide for the certificate purporting to be
               signed by the delegate as having been signed by
               the delegator.
     (4) A delegated function or power may be exercised only in accordance
     with any conditions to which the delegation is subject.
     (5) The delegate may, in the performance of a delegated function or
     in the exercise of a delegated power, do anything that is incidental
     to the delegated function or power.
     (6) A delegated function or power that purports to have been
     performed or exercised by the delegate is taken to have been properly
     performed or exercised by the delegate unless the contrary is proved.
     (7) A delegated function or power that is properly performed or
     exercised by the delegate is taken to have been performed or
     exercised by the delegator.
     (8) If, when performed or exercised by the delegator, a function or
     power is dependent on the delegator’s opinion, belief or state of
     mind, then, when performed or exercised by the delegate, the function
     or power is dependent on the delegate’s opinion, belief or state of
     mind.
     (8A) If—
          (a) the delegator is a specified officer or the holder of a
          specified office; and
          (b) the person who was the specified officer or holder of
          the specified office when the delegation was made ceases to
          be the officer or holder of the office;
     then—
          (c) the delegation continues in force; and
          (d) the person for the time being occupying or acting in
          the office concerned is taken to be the delegator for the
          purposes of this section.
     (8B) If—
          (a) the delegator is a body; and
          (b) there is a change in the membership of the body;
     then—
          (c) the delegation continues in force; and
          (d) the body as constituted for the time being is taken to
          be the delegator for the purposes of this section.
     (9) If a function or power is delegated to a specified officer or the
     holder of a specified office—
          (a) the delegation does not cease to have effect merely
          because the person who was the specified officer or the
          holder of the specified office when the function or power
          was delegated ceases to be the officer or the holder of the
          office; and
          (b) the function or power may be performed or exercised by
          the person for the time being occupying or acting in the
          office concerned.
     (10) A function or power that has been delegated may, despite the
     delegation, be performed or exercised by the delegator.
     (10A) The delegation of a function or power does not relieve the
     delegator of the delegator’s obligation to ensure that the function
     or power is properly performed or exercised.
     (11) Subject to subsection (12), this section applies to a
     subdelegation of a function or power in the same way as it applies to
     a delegation of a function or power.
     (12) If an Act authorises the delegation of a function or power, the
     function or power may be subdelegated only if the Act expressly
     authorises the function or power to be subdelegated.
     (13) Writing purporting to be, or to contain, a delegation, or the
     revocation of a delegation, is evidence of the delegation or
     revocation.
     (14) A certificate signed by the delegator (or, if the delegator is a
     body, by a person authorised by the body for the purpose) stating
     anything in relation to a delegation is evidence of the thing.
     (15) A document purporting to be a certificate mentioned in
     subsection (14) is taken to be the certificate, and to have been
     properly given, unless the contrary is established.
     (15A) Authority to delegate a person’s or body’s powers includes
     authority to delegate doing an act or making a decision for
     performing a function of the person or body.
     (16) In this section—

     "power" includes doing an act or making a decision for the purpose of
     performing a function.
 
Content of statement of reasons for decision
*** 27B Content of statement of reasons for decision ***
If an Act requires a tribunal, authority, body or person making a decision to
give written reasons for the decision (whether the expression ‘reasons’,
‘grounds’ or another expression is used), the instrument giving the reasons
must also—
     (a) set out the findings on material questions of fact; and
     (b) refer to the evidence or other material on which those findings
     were based.
 
Legislative Assembly’s resolutions to be interpreted not to exceed authority
*** 29 Legislative Assembly’s resolutions to be interpreted not to exceed
authority ***
     (1) A resolution of the Legislative Assembly, or a committee of the
     Legislative Assembly, made under an Act is to be interpreted as
     operating—
          (a) to the full extent of, but not to exceed, the
          Legislative Assembly’s constitutional powers; and
          (b) subject to the Act; and
          (c) distributively.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1), if part of a resolution would,
     apart from this section, be interpreted as exceeding authority—
          (a) the resolution is valid to the extent to which it does
          not exceed authority; and
          (b) the remainder of the resolution is not affected.
     (3) Without limiting subsection (1), if the application of part of a
     resolution to a person, matter or circumstance would, apart from this
     section, be interpreted as exceeding authority, the part’s
     application to other persons, matters or circumstances is not
     affected.
     (4) This section applies to an Act in addition to, and without
     limiting, any provision of the Act.
 
Working out number of sitting days
*** 29B Working out number of sitting days ***
In working out a particular number of sitting days of the Legislative Assembly,
it does not matter whether the days are within the same or different
Parliaments or within different sessions of Parliament.
 
Defined terms—other parts of speech and grammatical forms
*** 32 Defined terms—other parts of speech and grammatical forms ***
If an Act defines a word or expression, other parts of speech and grammatical
forms of the word or expression have corresponding meanings.
 
Definitions to be read in context
*** 32A Definitions to be read in context ***
Definitions in or applicable to an Act apply except so far as the context or
subject matter otherwise indicates or requires.
 
Definitions generally apply to entire Act
*** 32AA Definitions generally apply to entire Act ***
A definition in or applying to an Act applies to the entire Act.
 
Terms defined both in this Act and another Act
*** 32AB Terms defined both in this Act and another Act ***
If—
     (a) a word or expression is defined non-exhaustively for the purposes
     of an Act other than this Act (the
     "non-exhaustive definition"); and
     (b) the word or expression is also defined in this Act (the
     "Interpretation Act definition");
then, for the purposes of the first Act—
     (c) the non-exhaustive definition does not exclude or limit, but may
     extend, the meaning of the word or expression given by the
     Interpretation Act definition; and
     (d) the non-exhaustive and Interpretation Act definitions are to be
     read in the context of each other and the other provisions of the
     first Act, but, if the definitions so read are inconsistent, the
     Interpretation Act definition is displaced.
 
Gender
*** 32B Gender ***
In an Act, words indicating a gender include each other gender.
 
Number
*** 32C Number ***
In an Act—
     (a) words in the singular include the plural; and
     (b) words in the plural include the singular.
 
Meaning of may and must etc.
*** 32CA Meaning of may and must etc. ***
     (1) In an Act, the word
     "may", or a similar word or expression, used in relation to a power
     indicates that the power may be exercised or not exercised, at
     discretion.
     (2) In an Act, the word
     "must", or a similar word or expression, used in relation to a power
     indicates that the power is required to be exercised.
     (3) To remove any doubt, it is declared that this section applies to
     an Act passed after 1 January 1992 despite any presumption or rule of
     interpretation.
 
Words and expressions used in amending Acts
*** 32CB Words and expressions used in amending Acts ***
     (1) Words and expressions used in an Act that amends another law have
     the same meanings as they have in the other law.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not limit section 22 (Act and amending Acts
     to be read as one).
 
References to persons generally
*** 32D References to persons generally ***
     (1) In an Act, a reference to a person generally includes a reference
     to a corporation as well as an individual.
     (2) Subsection (1) is not displaced merely because there is an
     express reference to either an individual or a corporation elsewhere
     in the Act.
          Examples of references to a person generally—
                    another
                    anyone
                    no-one
                    one
                    party
                    person
                    someone
                    whoever
     Examples of express references to a corporation—
               body corporate
               company
               corporation sole
     Examples of express references to an individual—
               adult
               child
               spouse
 
Meaning of de facto partner
*** 32DA Meaning of de facto partner ***
     (1) In an Act, a reference to a
     "de facto partner" is a reference to either 1 of 2 persons who are
     living together as a couple on a genuine domestic basis but who are
     not married to each other or related by family.
     (2) In deciding whether 2 persons are living together as a couple on
     a genuine domestic basis, any of their circumstances may be taken
     into account, including, for example, any of the following
     circumstances—
          (a) the nature and extent of their common residence;
          (b) the length of their relationship;
          (c) whether or not a sexual relationship exists or existed;
          (d) the degree of financial dependence or interdependence,
          and any arrangement for financial support;
          (e) their ownership, use and acquisition of property;
          (f) the degree of mutual commitment to a shared life,
          including the care and support of each other;
          (g) the care and support of children;
          (h) the performance of household tasks;
          (i) the reputation and public aspects of their
          relationship.
     (3) No particular finding in relation to any circumstance is to be
     regarded as necessary in deciding whether 2 persons are living
     together as a couple on a genuine domestic basis.
     (4) Two persons are not to be regarded as living together as a couple
     on a genuine domestic basis only because they have a common
     residence.
     (5) For subsection (1) —
          (a) the gender of the persons is not relevant; and
          (b) a person is related by family to another person if the
          person and the other person would be within a prohibited
          relationship within the meaning of the Marriage Act 1961
          (Cwlth), section 23B, if they were parties to a marriage to
          which that section applies.
     (6) In an Act enacted before the commencement of this section, a
     reference to a spouse includes a reference to a de facto partner as
     defined in this section unless the Act expressly provides to the
     contrary.
 
Production of records kept in computers etc.
*** 32E Production of records kept in computers etc. ***
If a person who keeps a record of information by way of a mechanical,
electronic or other device is required by or under an Act—
     (a) to produce the information or a document containing the
     information to a court, tribunal or person; or
     (b) to make a document containing the information available for
     inspection by a court, tribunal or person;
then, unless the court, tribunal or person otherwise directs—
     (c) the requirement obliges the person to produce or make available
     for inspection, as the case may be, a document that reproduces the
     information in a form capable of being understood by the court,
     tribunal or person; and
     (d) the production to the court, tribunal or person of the document
     in that form complies with the requirement.
 
References to commencement
*** 32F References to commencement ***
     (1) In an Act, a reference to
     "commencement" for an Act or a provision of an Act is a reference to
     the time the Act or provision comes into operation.
     (2) In a provision of an Act, a reference to
     "the commencement" without indicating a particular Act or provision
     is a reference to the commencement of the provision in which the
     reference occurs.
          Example of subsection (2)—
               If section 24(3) of an Act stated ‘This section
               expires 1 month after the commencement’, ‘the
               commencement’ referred to is the commencement
               of section 24(3).
 
References to Ministers
*** 33 References to Ministers ***
     (1) In an Act—
          (a) a reference to a Minister is a reference to a Minister
          of the State; and
          (b) a reference to a particular Minister by title, or to
          "the Minister" without specifying a particular Minister by
          title, includes a reference to another Minister, or member
          of the Executive Council, who is acting for the Minister.
     (2) In a provision of an Act, a reference to
     "the Minister" without specifying a particular Minister by title is a
     reference to—
          (a) the Minister administering the provision; or
          (b) if, for the time being, different Ministers administer
          the provision in relation to different matters—
               (i) if only 1 Minister administers the provision
               in relation to the relevant matter—the
               Minister; or
               (ii) if 2 or more Ministers administer the
               provision in relation to the relevant
               matter—any 1 of the Ministers; or
          (c) if paragraph (b) does not apply and, for the time
          being, 2 or more Ministers administer the provision—any 1
          of the Ministers.
     (3) If a provision of an Act refers to a Minister and specifies the
     Minister merely by reference to the fact that the Minister
     administers a specified Act or enactment, subsection (2) applies as
     if references in paragraphs (a) to (c) to the provision were
     references to the specified Act or enactment.
     (4) If an Act defines the expression ‘Minister’ or ‘the
     Minister’ for the purposes of the Act or a provision of the Act in
     a way that does not specify a particular Minister by title,
     subsections (2) and (3) apply to the provision despite that
     definition of the expression.
     (5) In an Act, a reference to a specified Minister who no longer
     exists—
          (a) is a reference to the Minister specified by
          notification by the Governor in Council; and
          (b) includes another Minister, or a member of the Executive
          Council, who is acting for the specified Minister.
 
References to departments
*** 33AA References to departments ***
     (1) In an Act, a reference to a department is a reference to an
     entity that is a department of government under the Public Sector Act
     2022.
     (2) In a provision of an Act, a reference to
     "the department" without specifying a particular department of
     government by name is a reference to—
          (a) if, for the time being, different Ministers administer
          the provision in relation to different matters—the
          department of government that—
               (i) deals with the relevant matter; and
               (ii) is administered by the Minister or Ministers
               administering the provision in relation to the
               matter; or
          (b) in any other case—the department of government
          that—
               (i) deals with the matters to which the provision
               relates; and
               (ii) is administered by the Minister or Ministers
               for the time being administering the provision.
     (3) In an Act, a reference to a specified department of government
     that no longer exists is a reference to the department specified by
     notification by the Governor in Council.
     (4) If a provision of an Act refers to a department of government and
     specifies the department by reference to the administration (however
     described) of a specified Act or enactment, subsection (2) applies as
     if references in paragraphs (a) and (b) to the provision were
     references to the specified Act or enactment.
 
References to chief executives
*** 33AB References to chief executives ***
     (1) In an Act, a reference to a chief executive is a reference to a
     chief executive of a public sector unit.
     (2) In a provision of an Act, a reference to the
     "chief executive" without specifying a particular public sector unit
     by name is a reference to the chief executive of—
          (a) if, for the time being, different Ministers administer
          the provision in relation to different matters—the public
          sector unit that—
               (i) deals with the relevant matter; and
               (ii) is administered by the Minister or Ministers
               administering the provision in relation to the
               matter; or
          (b) in any other case—the public sector unit that—
               (i) deals with the matters to which the provision
               relates; and
               (ii) is administered by the Minister or Ministers
               for the time being administering the provision.
     (3) If a provision of an Act refers to a chief executive by reference
     to the administration (however described) of a specified Act or
     enactment, subsection (2) applies as if references in paragraph (a)
     or (b) to the provision were references to the specified Act or
     enactment.
 
Provisions administered by 2 or more Ministers
*** 33AC Provisions administered by 2 or more Ministers ***
To remove any doubt, it is declared that if—
     (a) a provision of an Act is administered by 2 or more Ministers; and
     (b) under any of sections 33 to 33AB, the provision authorises or
     requires anything to be done by or in relation to any 1 of the
     Ministers;
the provision does not authorise or require it to be done in a particular case
by or in relation to more than 1 of the Ministers.
 
References to States include Territories
*** 33A References to States include Territories ***
     (1) In an Act, a reference to a State (other than a reference to
     Queensland or a particular State by name) includes a reference to the
     Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory.
          Examples—
                    1 ‘A law of a State’ includes a law
                    of the Australian Capital Territory and
                    a law of the Northern Territory.
                    2 ‘A law of the Commonwealth or
                    another State’ includes a law of the
                    Australian Capital Territory and a law
                    of the Northern Territory.
     (2) Subsection (1) is not displaced merely because there is an
     express reference to a Territory elsewhere in the Act.
     (3) This section applies to an Act (other than this Act) enacted
     before 1 July 1994 only if the Act includes a definition to the
     effect that a reference to a State includes a reference to a
     Territory.
 
References to officers and holders of offices
*** 34 References to officers and holders of offices ***
In an Act, a reference to a particular officer, or to the holder of a
particular office, includes a reference to the person for the time being
occupying or acting in the office concerned.
 
Chair titles
*** 34A Chair titles ***
     (1) If an Act establishes an office with a chair title (the
     "statutory title"), a person holding the office may choose to be
     referred to by the statutory title or another chair title (the
     "alternative title").
     (2) For performing functions and exercising powers, it is irrelevant
     that the person holding the office uses the alternative title.
     (3) In this section—

     "chair title" means the title of chair, chairperson, chairman or
     chairwoman or another similar title.
 
Deputy chair titles
*** 34B Deputy chair titles ***
     (1) If an Act establishes an office with a deputy chair title (the
     "statutory title"), a person holding the office may choose to be
     referred to by the statutory title or another deputy chair title (the

     "alternative title").
     (2) For performing functions and exercising powers, it is irrelevant
     that the person holding the office uses the alternative title.
     (3) In this section—

     "deputy chair title" means the title of deputy chair, deputy
     chairperson, deputy chairman or deputy chairwoman or another similar
     title.
 
References to Queensland to be implied
*** 35 References to Queensland to be implied ***
     (1) In an Act—
          (a) a reference to an officer, office or entity is a
          reference to such an officer, office or entity in and for
          Queensland; and
          (b) a reference to a locality, jurisdiction or other thing
          is a reference to such a locality, jurisdiction or other
          thing in and of Queensland.
     (2) In an Act, a reference to an office or entity established by or
     under an Act need not include the words ‘Queensland’ or ‘of
     Queensland’ merely because the words form part of its name or
     title.
 
References to person with interest in land includes personal representative
etc.
*** 35A References to person with interest in land includes personal
representative etc. ***
In an Act, a reference to a person as proprietor, transferor, transferee,
mortgagor, mortgagee, lessor, lessee, trustee or as having an interest in land
includes a reference to the person’s personal representatives, successors and
assigns.
 
References to provisions designated by number without mentioning another Act
*** 35B References to provisions designated by number without mentioning
another Act ***
     (1) Definitions In this section—

     "body of the Act" means the Act apart from any preamble, schedule or
     appendix of the Act.

     "provision unit" means—
          (a) the body of the Act or the preamble, a schedule or
          appendix of the Act; or
          (b) a chapter, part, division, subdivision, section,
          subsection, paragraph, subparagraph or sub-subparagraph of
          the body of the Act or a schedule or appendix of the Act;
          or
          (c) another provision of the body of the Act or a schedule
          or appendix of the Act; or
          (d) a provision of a preamble of the Act.
     (2) Purpose of section This section explains the meaning of a
     reference in an Act (the
     "Act concerned") to a provision, designated by a number, that does
     not mention another Act.
          Examples of references to which section applies—
                    1 ‘ chapter 10 ’
                    2 ‘ part 5, division 4 ’
                    3 ‘ section 10 of this Act’
                    4 ‘ paragraph (a) of this
                    subsection’
     (3) References in a provision unit of an Act mentioning the Act or
     larger provision unit of Act If a reference in an Act to a provision
     also mentions the Act or a larger provision unit of the Act, the
     reference itself indicates the provision of the Act to which it
     refers.
          Examples—
                    1 A reference in the body of the Act to
                    ‘ section 10 of this Act’ is a
                    reference to section 10 of the body of
                    the Act concerned.
                    2 A reference in a schedule of an Act
                    to ‘ section 10 of this schedule’
                    is a reference to section 10 of the
                    schedule where the reference occurs.
                    3 A reference to ‘ paragraph (a) of
                    this subsection’ is a reference to
                    paragraph (a) of the subsection where
                    the reference occurs.
     (4) For subsection (3), a reference in a schedule or appendix of an
     Act to a provision, designated by a number, together with the words
     ‘of the Act ’ is a reference to the provision, designated by the
     number, of the body of the Act concerned.
          Example—
               A reference in a schedule of an Act to ‘
               section 10 of the Act ’ is a reference to
               section 10 of the body of the Act.
     (5) Other references in body of Act If—
          (a) the reference is in the body of an Act; and
          (b) subsection (4) does not apply to the reference;
     the reference is a reference to the provision, designated by the
     number, of the body of the Act or, if there are 2 such provisions,
     the provision, designated by the number, of the next larger,
     appropriate provision unit where the reference occurs.
          Examples in the body of an Act—
                    1 A reference in the body of an Act to
                    ‘ chapter 10 ’ is a reference to
                    chapter 10 of the body of the Act.
                    2 A reference to ‘ part 1 ’ is a
                    reference to—
                         (a) if the body of the Act is
                         divided into chapters (that
                         is, at least 2 of the
                         chapters are further divided
                         into parts)— part 1 of the
                         chapter where the reference
                         occurs; or
                         (b) if the body of the Act is
                         not divided into chapters
                         (that is, there is only 1
                         part 1)— part 1 of the body
                         of the Act.
                    3 A reference in the body of an Act to
                    ‘ division 2 ’ is a reference to
                    division 2 of the part of the Act where
                    the reference occurs.
                    4 A reference in the body of an Act to
                    ‘ subdivision 3 ’ is a reference to
                    subdivision 3 of the division of the
                    Act where the reference occurs.
                    5 A reference in the body of an Act to
                    ‘ section 10 ’ is a reference to
                    section 10 of the body of the Act.
                    6 A reference in the body of an Act to
                    ‘ subsection (1) ’ is a reference
                    to subsection (1) of the section of the
                    Act where the reference occurs.
                    7 A reference in the body of an Act to
                    ‘ paragraph (a) ’ is a reference
                    to—
                         (a) if the section where the
                         reference occurs is divided
                         into subsections— paragraph
                         (a) of the subsection where
                         the reference occurs; or
                         (b) if the section where the
                         reference occurs is not
                         divided into subsections—
                         paragraph (a) of the section
                         of the Act where the
                         reference occurs.
                    8 A reference to ‘ subparagraph (i)
                    ’ is a reference to subparagraph (i)
                    of the paragraph where the reference
                    occurs.
     (6) Other references in preamble, schedule or appendix If—
          (a) the reference is in the preamble or a schedule or
          appendix of an Act; and
          (b) subsection (4) does not apply to the reference; and
          (c) the reference is a reference to a provision that does
          not occur in the preamble, schedule or appendix;
     the reference is a reference to the provision, designated by the
     number, of the body of the Act.
          Examples—
                    1 A reference in a schedule that is not
                    divided into chapters to ‘ chapter 10
                    ’ is a reference to chapter 10 in the
                    body of the Act.
                    2 A reference in a dictionary schedule
                    to ‘ section 30 ’ is a reference to
                    section 30 in the body of the Act.
     (7) If—
          (a) the reference is in the preamble or a schedule or
          appendix of an Act; and
          (b) subsection (4) does not apply to the reference; and
          (c) the reference is a reference to a provision that does
          occur in the preamble, schedule or appendix;
     the reference is a reference to the provision designated by the
     number, of the schedule, appendix or preamble or, if there are 2 such
     provisions, the provision, designated by the number, of the next
     larger, appropriate provision unit where the reference occurs.
          Examples—
                    1 A reference in a schedule divided
                    into parts to ‘ part 1 ’ is a
                    reference to—
                         (a) if the schedule is
                         divided into chapters (that
                         is, at least 2 of the
                         chapters are further divided
                         into parts)— part 1 of the
                         chapter where the reference
                         occurs; or
                         (b) if the schedule is not
                         divided into chapters (that
                         is, there is only 1 part
                         1)— part 1 of the schedule.
                    2 A reference in a schedule divided
                    into sections to ‘ section 10 ’ is
                    a reference to section 10 of the
                    schedule.
                    3 A reference in a schedule divided
                    into a single series of items to
                    ‘item 5’ is a reference to item 5
                    of the schedule.
                    4 A reference in a schedule divided
                    into 2 or more series of items to
                    ‘item 5’ is a reference to item 5
                    of the series in which the reference
                    occurs.
 
Headings part of provision etc.
*** 35C Headings part of provision etc. ***
     (1) The heading to a chapter, part, division, subdivision, section,
     subsection, schedule or another provision of an Act forms part of the
     provision to which it is a heading.
     (2) An example of the operation of a provision of an Act at the end
     of the provision is part of the provision unless the example relates
     to a different provision.
          Example of subsection (2)—
               This example forms part of subsection (2) and an
               amendment omitting subsection (2) would omit this
               example.
     (3) A note to a provision of an Act at the end of the provision is
     part of the provision unless the note relates to a different
     provision.
     (4) A penalty at the end of a subsection of an Act—
          (a) is part of the subsection unless the penalty relates to
          other subsections of the section; or
          (b) in any other case—is part of the section.
     (5) A penalty at the end of a section of an Act that is not divided
     into subsections is part of the section.
     (6) The word ‘and’, ‘or’ or ‘but’, or a similar word, at
     the end of a paragraph, subparagraph, sub-subparagraph or another
     provision of an Act forms part of the provision concerned.
     (7) The word ‘and’, ‘or’ or ‘but’, or a similar word,
     between paragraphs, subparagraphs, sub-subparagraphs or other
     provisions of an Act forms part of the first of the provisions.
     (8) A provision reference associated with a heading to a schedule is
     part of the heading.
          Note—
               The provision referred to is the authorising
               provision or another provision relevant to the
               schedule.
 
References to items at the end of a provision
*** 35CA References to items at the end of a provision ***
In an Act, a penalty, example or note (
"end item") is taken to be at the end of a provision even if there is another
end item also at the end of the provision.
 
Reference to provisions of a law is inclusive
*** 35D Reference to provisions of a law is inclusive ***
In an Act, a reference to a part of a law (including the Act) is a reference to
the following—
     (a) the provision of the law that forms the beginning of the part;
     (b) the provision of the law that forms the end of the part;
     (c) any provision of the law between the beginning and end of the
     part.
     Example 1—
          A reference to ‘ sections 5 to 9 ’ includes both
          section 5 and section 9. It is not necessary to refer to
          ‘ sections 5 to 9 (both inclusive)’ to ensure that the
          reference is given an inclusive interpretation.
     Example 2—
          A reference to ‘ sections 260 to 264 ’ includes a
          provision such as a part heading between sections 260 and
          261.
 
Instrument made under the Act
*** 35E Instrument made under the Act ***
In an Act, a reference to a type of statutory instrument is a reference to an
instrument of that type made or in force under the Act in which the reference
is used.
     Example—
          The word ‘by-law’ means a by-law made under the Act in
          which the word is used.
 
Meaning of commonly used words and expressions
*** 36 Meaning of commonly used words and expressions ***
     (1) In an Act, a term defined in schedule 1 has the meaning stated in
     that schedule.
     (2) In an Act, a reference to schedule 1 of this Act includes, if the
     context permits, a reference to this section.
 
Measurement of distance
*** 37 Measurement of distance ***
     (1) In applying a pre-2023 provision, distance is to be measured
     along the shortest road ordinarily used for travelling unless there
     is a contrary intention that distance is to be measured in a straight
     line on a horizontal plane or in another way.
     (2) In applying a post-2023 provision, distance is to be measured in
     a straight line on a horizontal plane.
     (3) In this section—

     "post-2023 provision" means a provision enacted after the
     commencement of the Justice and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2023,
     section 9.

     "pre-2023 provision" means a provision other than a post-2023
     provision.

     "provision" means a provision of an Act.
 
Reckoning of time
*** 38 Reckoning of time ***
     (1) If a period beginning on a given day, act or event is provided or
     allowed for a purpose by an Act, the period is to be calculated by
     excluding the day, or the day of the act or event, and—
          (a) if the period is expressed to be a specified number of
          clear days or at least a specified number of days—by
          excluding the day on which the purpose is to be fulfilled;
          and
          (b) in any other case—by including the day on which the
          purpose is to be fulfilled.
     (2) If the time, or last day of a period, calculated forwards that is
     provided or allowed by an Act for doing anything falls on an excluded
     day, the time, or last day, is taken to fall on the next day later
     that is not an excluded day.
     (3) If the time, or earliest day of a period, calculated backwards
     that is provided or allowed by an Act for doing anything falls on an
     excluded day, the time, or earliest day, is taken to fall on the next
     day earlier that is not an excluded day.
     (4) If no time is provided or allowed for doing anything, the thing
     is to be done as soon as possible, and as often as the relevant
     occasion happens.
     (5) In this section—

     "excluded day" —
          (a) for filing or registering a document—means a day on
          which the office is closed where the filing or registration
          must or may be done; or
          (b) otherwise—means a day that is not a business day in
          the place in which the thing must or may be done.
 
Age
*** 38A Age ***
For the purposes of an Act, a person is an age in years at the beginning of the
person’s birthday for the age.
 
Service of documents
*** 39 Service of documents ***
     (1) If an Act requires or permits a document to be served on a
     person, the document may be served—
          (a) on an individual—
               (i) by delivering it to the person personally; or
               (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post,
               telex, facsimile or similar facility to, the
               address of the place of residence or business of
               the person last known to the person serving the
               document; or
          (b) on a body corporate—by leaving it at, or sending it
          by post, telex, facsimile or similar facility to, the head
          office, a registered office or a principal office of the
          body corporate.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies whether the expression ‘deliver’,
     ‘give’, ‘notify’, ‘send’ or ‘serve’ or another
     expression is used.
     (3) Nothing in subsection (1) —
          (a) affects the operation of another law that authorises
          the service of a document otherwise than as provided in the
          subsection; or
          (b) affects the power of a court or tribunal to authorise
          service of a document otherwise than as provided in the
          subsection.
 
Meaning of service by post etc.
*** 39A Meaning of service by post etc. ***
     (1) If an Act requires or permits a document to be served by post,
     service—
          (a) may be effected by properly addressing, prepaying and
          posting the document as a letter; and
          (b) is taken to have been effected at the time at which the
          letter would be delivered in the ordinary course of post,
          unless the contrary is proved.
     (2) If an Act requires or permits a document to be served by a
     particular postal method, the requirement or permission is taken to
     be satisfied if the document is posted by that method or, if that
     method is not available, by the equivalent, or nearest equivalent,
     method provided for the time being by Australia Post.
     (3) Subsections (1) and (2) apply whether the expression
     ‘deliver’, ‘give’, ‘notify’, ‘send’ or ‘serve’ or
     another expression is used.
 
Penalty at end of provision
*** 41 Penalty at end of provision ***
In an Act, a penalty specified at the end of—
     (a) a section (whether or not the section is divided into
     subsections); or
     (b) a subsection (but not at the end of a section); or
     (c) a section or subsection and expressed in such a way as to
     indicate that it applies only to part of the section or subsection;
indicates that an offence mentioned in the section, subsection or part is
punishable on conviction (whether or not a conviction is recorded) or, if no
offence is mentioned, a contravention of the section, subsection or part
constitutes an offence against the provision that is punishable on conviction
(whether or not a conviction is recorded)—
     (d) if a minimum as well as a maximum penalty is specified—by a
     penalty not less than the minimum and not more than the maximum; or
     (e) in any other case—by a penalty not more than the specified
     penalty.
 
Penalty other than at end of provision
*** 41A Penalty other than at end of provision ***
     (1) In an Act, a penalty specified for an offence, or a contravention
     of a provision, indicates that the offence is punishable on
     conviction (whether or not a conviction is recorded), or the
     contravention constitutes an offence against the provision that is
     punishable on conviction (whether or not a conviction is recorded)—
          (a) if a minimum as well as a maximum penalty is
          specified—by a penalty not less than the minimum and not
          more than the maximum; or
          (b) in any other case—by a penalty not more than the
          specified penalty.
     (2) This section does not apply to a penalty to which section 41
     applies.
 
Any person may prosecute etc.
*** 42 Any person may prosecute etc. ***
Any person may take a proceeding for the imposition or enforcement of a
penalty, or the making of a forfeiture order, under an Act.
 
Appropriation of penalties
*** 43 Appropriation of penalties ***
     (1) The following rules apply to an amount recovered because of the
     imposition of a penalty or the making of a forfeiture order—
          (a) any part of the amount that is ordered under subsection
          (2) to be paid to the party prosecuting must first be paid
          to the party;
          (b) the remaining part of the amount must then be paid to
          the consolidated fund.
     (2) The court that imposes the penalty, or makes the forfeiture
     order, may order that not more than half of the amount recovered be
     paid to the party prosecuting.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the party prosecuting is
     prosecuting as an officer or employee of the State or an officer of
     the public service.
 
Summary proceedings
*** 44 Summary proceedings ***
     (1) In an Act, a provision of the type mentioned in subsection (2)
     means that a proceeding for an offence, or a specified offence,
     against the Act is a summary proceeding under the Justices Act 1886.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies to provisions of the following type—
          (a) a provision to the effect that a proceeding for the
          offence is to be heard and decided summarily;
          (b) a provision to the effect that a proceeding for the
          offence is to be heard and decided by or before justices or
          a magistrate;
          (c) a provision to the effect that the offence is a summary
          offence or is punishable on summary conviction or
          summarily;
          (d) a provision for an offence that does not expressly or
          impliedly make the offence an indictable offence.
     (3) In an Act, a provision that provides that another type of
     proceeding is to be heard and decided summarily, or before justices
     or a magistrate, means that the proceeding is a summary proceeding
     under the Justices Act 1886.
     (4) A provision providing for the imposition of a penalty or the
     making of a forfeiture order, without providing how the penalty is to
     be recovered or the order made, is taken to mean that the penalty may
     be recovered, or the order made, under the Justices Act 1886.
 
Offence punishable only once
*** 45 Offence punishable only once ***
     (1) If an act or omission is an offence under each of 2 or more laws,
     the offender may be prosecuted and punished under any of the laws,
     but the offender may not be punished more than once for the same
     offence.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies to a law unless an Act otherwise expressly
     provides.
     (3) In this section—

     "law" includes the common law.
 
Bodies corporate
*** 46 Bodies corporate ***
A provision of an Act relating to offences punishable on indictment or summary
conviction applies to bodies corporate as well as individuals.
 
Definitions for pt 12
*** 47 Definitions for pt 12 ***
In this part—

"cooperative scheme" means the cooperative scheme as defined under the Crimes
at Sea Act 2001, section 3.

"criminal laws" means the substantive criminal law, and the law of criminal
investigation, procedure and evidence, within the meaning of the cooperative
scheme.

"laws of the State" means the laws, whether written or unwritten and whether
substantive or procedural, that are from time to time in force in the State,
but does not include—
     (a) laws of the Commonwealth; or
     (b) criminal laws.
 
Application of laws of the State to coastal waters
*** 47A Application of laws of the State to coastal waters ***
The laws of the State apply in and in relation to—
     (a) the coastal waters of the State; and
     (b) the seabed and subsoil beneath, and the airspace above, the
     coastal waters of the State;
as if the coastal waters of the State, as extending from time to time, were
within the limits of the State.
 
Laws with specific application not to apply
*** 47B Laws with specific application not to apply ***
     (1) Nothing in this part makes a provision of the laws of the State
     applicable in or in relation to a particular place—
          (a) to the extent the provision is incapable of applying in
          or in relation to that place; or
          (b) if those laws expressly provide that the provision does
          not extend or apply in or in relation to that place; or
          (c) if those laws expressly provide that the provision
          applies only in a stated locality in the State that does
          not include that place.
     (2) A provision of the laws of the State is not to be taken to be a
     provision to which subsection (1) applies merely because it is
     limited in its application to acts, matters and things within
     Queensland waters, coastal waters or the adjacent area, however
     described, of the State.
 
Extent of jurisdiction in relation to coastal waters
*** 47C Extent of jurisdiction in relation to coastal waters ***
     (1) A person who has a function or power conferred on the person
     under a law for the purposes of or in connection with a provision of
     the laws of the State has and may perform the function for the
     purposes of or in connection with that provision, as applying because
     of this part, as if the coastal waters of the State, as extending
     from time to time, were within the limits of the State.
     (2) All courts of the State are invested with jurisdiction in all
     matters arising under the provisions of the laws of the State, as
     applying because of this part, as if the coastal waters of the State,
     as extending from time to time, were within the limits of the State.
 
Constitutional basis
*** 47D Constitutional basis ***
In addition to any other power under which the provisions of this part may be
enacted, the provisions of this part are enacted under the legislative power of
Parliament as extended by the Coastal Waters (State Powers) Act 1980 (Cwlth),
section 5 and the Coastal Waters (State Title) Act 1980 (Cwlth), section 4.
 
Saving
*** 47E Saving ***
Nothing in this part limits any law, other than this part, that provides for
the application of the laws of the State, or any part of those laws, beyond the
limits of the State.
     Note—
          Some Acts have special application provisions, for example,
          the following—
               • Fisheries Act 1994, section 11
               • Offshore Minerals Act 1998, section 16
               • Petroleum Act 1923, section 7A
               • Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1982, section
               14.
 
Forms—notification and availability
*** 48 Forms—notification and availability ***
     (1) This section applies if under an Act (the
     "authorising law") forms are to be approved or made available by an
     entity.
     (2) A form under the authorising law must have a heading stating the
     name of the authorising law and briefly indicating the form’s
     purpose.
     (3) All forms under the authorising law must be numbered using a
     system that gives each form a unique number.
          Examples—
                    1 Forms may be numbered consecutively
                    starting with the number 1.
                    2 Forms may be numbered to reflect the
                    provisions of the Act to which they
                    relate.
     (4) All versions of a form under the authorising law must be numbered
     consecutively using a system that gives each version of the form a
     unique number.
     (5) The approval or availability under the authorising law of a form,
     or a new version of a form, must be notified in the gazette or on a
     relevant website.
     (6) Subsection (5) may be complied with by—
          (a) publishing in the gazette or on a relevant website or a
          website (a
          "related website") accessible through the relevant
          website—
               (i) the form or the new version; or
               (ii) a notice stating—
                    (A) the approval or availability of the
                    form or the new version; and
                    (B) the heading, number and version
                    number of the form or the new version;
                    and
                    (C) a place or places where copies of
                    the form or the new version are
                    available; and
          (b) if the form or the new version, or the notice, is
          published on a relevant website or a related
          website—stating on the website the date on which it is
          first published.
     (7) On the day the approval or availability of the form is notified
     or as soon as practicable after the day, copies of the form must be
     available (for purchase or free of charge) at the place, or each of
     the places, stated in the notice.
     (8) Failure to comply with this section does not affect a form’s
     validity.
     (9) In this section—

     "relevant department", in relation to an entity that approves or
     makes available forms under an authorising law, means the department
     in which the authorising law is administered.

     "relevant website" means—
          (a) for publication in relation to a form, or a new version
          of a form, approved or made available by a local
          government—the local government’s website; or
          (b) for publication in relation to a form, or a new version
          of a form, approved or made available by another entity—
               (i) the whole-of-government website; or
               (ii) the entity’s website; or
               (iii) if the entity does not have a website—
                    (A) the relevant department’s
                    website; or
                    (B) a website identified on the
                    relevant department’s website as a
                    website for this purpose.

     "whole-of-government website" means—
          (a) www.qld.gov.au; or
          (b) another website prescribed by regulation.
 
Compliance with forms
*** 48A Compliance with forms ***
     (1) If a form is prescribed or approved under an Act, strict
     compliance with the form is not necessary and substantial compliance
     is sufficient.
     (2) If a form prescribed or approved under an Act requires—
          (a) the form to be completed in a specified way; or
          (b) specified information or documents to be included in,
          attached to or given with the form; or
          (c) the form, or information or documents included in,
          attached to or given with the form, to be verified in a
          specified way;
     the form is not properly completed unless the requirement is complied
     with.
     (3) If—
          (a) a form (
          "form 1") may be prescribed or approved under an Act for a
          purpose or 2 or more purposes; and
          (b) another form (
          "form 2") may be prescribed or approved under the Act or
          another Act for the same or another purpose or purposes;
     then, if separate forms 1 and 2 are prescribed or approved, a
     combined form 1 and 2 may be prescribed or approved and used for the
     purpose or all the purposes.
     (4) If a form may be prescribed or approved under an Act for a
     purpose or 2 or more purposes, the form may only require information
     or documents to be included in, attached to or given with the form
     that are reasonably necessary for the purpose or 1 or more of the
     purposes.
          Example 1—
               A prescribed or approved form may not require the
               provision of personal information irrelevant to a
               purpose for which the form is required.
     Example 2—
          A prescribed or approved form may not require the provision
          of personal information that has some relevance to a
          purpose for which the form is required, but is excessively
          intrusive to personal privacy.
 
Value of fee unit
*** 48B Value of fee unit ***
     (1) A regulation may prescribe a monetary amount to be the value of a
     fee unit.
     (2) The amount prescribed may include a fraction of a cent.
          Example—
               The amount of $1.015 may be prescribed.
     (3) Without limiting the Statutory Instruments Act 1992, section 25,
     a regulation may prescribe different amounts for different Acts.
     (4) The value of a fee unit for an Act is—
          (a) the amount prescribed under this section; or
          (b) if no amount is prescribed—$1.
 
Working out amounts
*** 48C Working out amounts ***
     (1) An Act may express a fee or other matter as a number (whether
     whole or fractional) of fee units.
     (2) The Act may also provide for how an amount is to be rounded for
     the purpose of subsection (3).
     (3) The amount of the fee or other matter is the number of dollars
     obtained by—
          (a) multiplying the value of a fee unit for the Act by the
          number of fee units; and
          (b) rounding the result—
               (i) if the Act provides for how the result is to
               be rounded—in that way; or
               (ii) otherwise—to the nearest cent (rounding
               one-half upwards).
          Example—
               A regulation under section 48B prescribes $1.015
               to be the value of a fee unit for an Act. The Act
               provides for a licence fee of 120.44 fee units
               and does not provide for how amounts are to be
               rounded for the purpose of this subsection. The
               number of dollars obtained by multiplying $1.015
               by 120.44 is $122.2466. So, after rounding, the
               amount of the licence fee is $122.25.
 
Verification of documents
*** 49 Verification of documents ***
If an Act requires that, for a purpose of the Act or another law, a document,
or information or a document included in, attached to or given with a document,
be verified in a specified way, the purpose is not fulfilled unless the
requirement is satisfied.
     Example—
          If an Act requires a document accompanying an application
          form to be verified by statutory declaration and the
          document is lodged without being verified in this way, the
          document has not been properly lodged for the purposes of
          the Act.
 
Jurisdiction of courts and tribunals
*** 49A Jurisdiction of courts and tribunals ***
If a provision of an Act, whether expressly or by implication, authorises a
proceeding to be instituted in a particular court or tribunal in relation to a
matter, the provision is taken to confer jurisdiction in the matter on the
court or tribunal.
 
Making or amendment of subordinate legislation by an Act
*** 50 Making or amendment of subordinate legislation by an Act ***
     (1) The making or amendment of subordinate legislation by an Act does
     not affect—
          (a) the power of the empowered entity for the subordinate
          legislation to amend or further amend the subordinate
          legislation or to repeal it; or
          (b) for subordinate legislation required under a law to be
          approved by another entity—the power of the other entity
          to approve, or to disapprove, an amendment or further
          amendment of the subordinate legislation or the repeal of
          it.
     (2) In this section—

     "approve" means approve, confirm or otherwise consent to.

     "disapprove" means disapprove or otherwise disallow.

     "empowered entity", for subordinate legislation, means the entity
     empowered under a law to make the subordinate legislation.
 
References to Acts Shortening Act 1867
*** 51A References to Acts Shortening Act 1867 ***
In an Act or document, a reference to the Acts Shortening Act or Acts
Shortening Act 1867 may, if the context permits, be taken to be a reference to
this Act.
 
References to the Crown etc.
*** 52 References to the Crown etc. ***
In every Act—
     (a) reference to the Sovereign reigning at the time of the passing of
     such Act, or to ‘Her Majesty’, ‘His Majesty’, ‘the
     Queen’, ‘the King’, or ‘the Crown’, shall be construed as
     references to the Sovereign for the time being, and, where necessary,
     shall include the heirs and successors of such Queen or King; and
     (b) references to any style or titles appertaining to the Crown at
     the time of the passing of such Act, shall be construed as references
     to the style and titles appertaining to the Crown for the time being
     adopted, with the assent of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of
     Australia, by the Sovereign for the time being for use in relation to
     the Commonwealth of Australia and its Territories.
 
Evidentiary provision
*** 52A Evidentiary provision ***
     (1) A certificate purporting to be signed by or for an approving
     entity and stating any of the following matters is evidence of the
     matter—
          (a) a stated form—
               (i) was approved or made available by the entity
               under a stated authorising law on a stated day;
               and
               (ii) was first notified under section 48 (5) on a
               stated relevant website on a stated day in a
               stated way;
          (b) a stated document is a copy of a stated form that was
          first notified under section 48 (5) on a stated relevant
          website on a stated day in a stated way.
     (2) An approving entity may, in writing, authorise a person to issue
     certificates under subsection (1) for the entity.
     (3) In this section—

     "approving entity" means an entity authorised under an authorising
     law to approve forms or make forms available.

     "authorising law" see section 48 (1).

     "form" includes a new version of a form.
 
Regulation-making power
*** 52B Regulation-making power ***
The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
 
Transitional—extrinsic material—speech in Legislative Assembly
*** 53 Transitional—extrinsic material—speech in Legislative Assembly ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a Bill introduced in the
     Legislative Assembly before the commencement of this section.
     (2) A reference in section 14B(3), definition
     "extrinsic material", paragraph (f) to a speech made to the
     Legislative Assembly by the member when introducing the Bill is taken
     to be a reference to a speech made to the Legislative Assembly by the
     member in moving a motion that the Bill be read a second time.
 
Definitions for div 2
*** 54 Definitions for div 2 ***
In this division—

"commencement" means the commencement of this section.

"subordinate legislation" does not include exempt subordinate legislation.
 
References to s 36, 48A or 49
*** 55 References to s 36, 48A or 49 ***
     (1) This section applies to references made before the commencement
     in an instrument.
     (2) If the context permits, from the commencement—
          (a) a reference to section 36 of this Act is taken to
          include a reference to schedule 1 of this Act; and
          (b) a reference to section 48A of this Act is taken to be a
          reference to section 49 of this Act; and
          (c) a reference to section 49 of this Act is taken to be a
          reference to section 48A of this Act.
 
References to gazetted
*** 56 References to gazetted ***
In an instrument, a reference to gazetted in relation to subordinate
legislation is taken to be a reference to—
     (a) for subordinate legislation notified or published in the gazette
     before the commencement—notified or published in the gazette; or
     (b) otherwise—notified under the Statutory Instruments Act 1992,
     section 47.
 
References to notified in the gazette
*** 57 References to notified in the gazette ***
In an instrument, a reference to notified in the gazette in relation to
subordinate legislation is taken to be a reference to—
     (a) for subordinate legislation notified in the gazette before the
     commencement—notified in the gazette under the Statutory
     Instruments Act 1992, section 47 as in force before the commencement;
     or
     (b) otherwise—notified under the Statutory Instruments Act 1992,
     section 47.
 
Form approved or made available, but not notified in gazette, before
commencement
*** 58 Form approved or made available, but not notified in gazette, before
commencement ***
     (1) This section applies if before the commencement—
          (a) a form was approved or made available by an entity
          under an authorising law; and
          (b) there had been no notification of the approval or
          availability of the form under previous section 48(5).
     (2) On or after the day of commencement, the entity may notify the
     approval or availability of the form under amended section 48.
     (3) In this section—

     "amended section 48" means section 48 as in force after the
     commencement.

     "authorising law" see section 48(1).

     "form" includes a new version of a form.

     "previous section 48(5)" means section 48(5) as in force immediately
     before the commencement.
 
- SCHEDULE 1
*** SCHEDULE 1 - Meaning of commonly used words and expressions ***

"Aboriginal local government"...

"Aboriginal people" means people of the Aboriginal race of Australia.

"Aboriginal tradition" means the body of traditions, observances, customs and
beliefs of Aboriginal people generally or of a particular community or group of
Aboriginal people, and includes any such traditions, observances, customs and
beliefs relating to particular persons, areas, objects or relationships.

"Aborigine" means a person of the Aboriginal race of Australia.

"Act" has the meaning given by sections 6 and 7.

"Acting Governor" means a person administering the Government of the State
under the Constitution of Queensland 2001, section 41.

"additional territorial unit"...

"adjacent area in respect of the State" means the area the boundary of which is
described in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967 (Cwlth), schedule 2, as
in force immediately before the commencement of the Coastal Waters (State
Powers) Act 1980 (Cwlth).

"Administrative Arrangements" means the administrative arrangements made by the
Governor in Council by order under the Constitution of Queensland 2001, section
44.

"Administrator"...

"adult" means an individual who is 18 or more.

"affidavit", in relation to a person allowed by law to affirm, declare or
promise, includes affirmation, declaration and promise.

"AFIC (Queensland) Code"...

"AFIC (Queensland) Regulations"...

"Alien"...

"amend" includes—
     (a) for an Act, instrument or provision of an Act or
     instrument—omit, insert, and omit and insert; and
     (b) for an Act or provision of an Act—amend by implication; and
     (c) for an instrument or provision of an instrument—alter or vary.

"appoint" includes reappoint.

"appropriately qualified" —
     (a) for a function or power—means having the qualifications,
     experience or standing appropriate to perform the function or
     exercise the power; or
     (b) for appointment to an office—means having the qualifications,
     experience or standing appropriate to perform the functions of the
     office.
          Example of standing—
               a person’s classification level in the public
               service

"area"...

"AS" means Australian Standard made or published by Standards Australia.

"ASC Law" has the same meaning as
"ASIC Law".

"ASC Law and ASC Regulations"...

"ASC Regulations" has the same meaning as ASIC Regulations has when ASIC
Regulations is used in relation to the ASIC Law.

"ASIC" means the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.

"ASIC Act" means the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001
(Cwlth).

"ASIC Law" has the meaning given by the Corporations (Queensland) Act 1990,
part 11.

"ASIC Regulations" —
     (a) when used in relation to the ASIC Law, has the meaning given by
     the Corporations (Queensland) Act 1990, part 11; and
     (b) when used in relation to the ASIC Act, means regulations made, or
     that have effect as if they were made, under the ASIC Act.

"asset" includes property of any type.

"Attorney-General"...

"Australia" means the Commonwealth of Australia but, when used in a
geographical sense, does not include an external Territory.

"Australia Acts" means the Australia Act 1986 (Cwlth) and the Australia Act
1986 (UK).

"Australian citizen"...

"Australian Standard" means a standard made or published by Standards
Australia.

"bank" means a financial institution that has a consent under the Banking Act
1959 (Cwlth), section 66, to assume or use—
     (a) the word ‘bank’, ‘banker’ or ‘banking’; or
     (b) any other word (whether or not in English) that is of like import
     to a word covered by paragraph (a).

"basic territorial unit"...

"breach" includes fail to comply with.

"British Act" means an Act of the British Parliament.

"British Parliament" means—
     (a) the Parliament of England; or
     (b) the Parliament of Great Britain; or
     (c) the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
     Ireland; or
     (d) the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
     Northern Ireland;
as the case requires.

"British possession"...

"British subject"...

"building society"...

"burial" includes cremation.

"business day" means a day that is not—
     (a) a Saturday or Sunday; or
     (b) a public holiday, special holiday or bank holiday in the place in
     which any relevant act is to be or may be done.

"by-law"...

"by-laws"...

"calendar month" means a period starting at the beginning of any day of 1 of
the 12 named months and ending—
     (a) immediately before the beginning of the corresponding day of the
     next named month; or
     (b) if there is no such corresponding day—at the end of the next
     named month.

"calendar year" means a period of 12 months beginning on 1 January.

"change" includes change by addition, exception, omission or substitution.

"charge", of an offence, means a charge in any form, including, for example,
the following—
     (a) a charge on an arrest;
     (b) a complaint under the Justices Act 1886;
     (c) a charge by a court under the Justices Act 1886, section 42 (1A)
     or another provision of an Act;
     (d) an indictment.

"cheque" includes payment order.

"chief executive" —
     (a) for a department specified by name—means the chief executive of
     the department; or
     (b) for a public service entity mentioned in the Public Sector Act
     2022, section 9 (b) —means the head of the entity under the Public
     Sector Act 2022, schedule 1; or
     (c) for the police service—the commissioner of the police service;
     or
     (d) for another public sector unit specified by name—means the
     chief executive (however described) in charge of the unit; or
     (e) in any other case—see section 33AB.

"chief executive (corrective services)" means the chief executive of the
department in which the Corrective Services Act 2006 is administered.

"chief executive officer" of a local government includes the town clerk of the
Brisbane City Council.

"child", if age rather than descendancy is relevant, means an individual who is
under 18.

"Childrens Court judge" means—
     (a) a District Court judge appointed as a Childrens Court judge; or
     (b) a District Court judge when constituting a Childrens Court under
     the Childrens Court Act 1992, section 5 (2) (b).

"Childrens Court magistrate" means—
     (a) a magistrate appointed as a Childrens Court magistrate; or
     (b) a magistrate or 2 justices of the peace when constituting a
     Childrens Court under the Childrens Court Act 1992, section 5 (3) (b)
     or (c).

"citation" of an Act includes the Act ’s short title.

"civil partner" means a person who is a party to a civil partnership.

"civil partnership" means a civil partnership registered under the Civil
Partnerships Act 2011.

"coastal waters of the State" means—
     (a) the parts of the territorial sea of Australia that are within the
     adjacent area in respect of the State, other than any part mentioned
     in the Coastal Waters (State Powers) Act 1980 (Cwlth), section 4 (2);
     or
     (b) any sea that is on the landward side of any part of the
     territorial sea of Australia and within the adjacent area in respect
     of the State, but is not within the limits of the State.

"commencement" see section 32F.

"committal proceeding" means an examination of witnesses under the Justices Act
1886 about an indictable offence.

"Commonwealth" means the Commonwealth of Australia but, when used in a
geographical sense, does not include an external Territory.

"Commonwealth Constitution" means the Constitution of the Commonwealth.

"Commonwealth Minister" means a Minister of the Crown in right of the
Commonwealth.

"Commonwealth Parliament"...

"community or group of Aboriginal people" includes—
     (a) the descendants of the community or group; and
     (b) if there is only 1 surviving member of a community or group of
     Aboriginal people—that person.

"community or group of Torres Strait Islanders" includes—
     (a) the descendants of the community or group; and
     (b) if there is only 1 surviving member of a community or group of
     Torres Strait Islanders—that person.

"company GOC"...

"complaint and summons" means a complaint and summons under the Justices Act
1886.
     Note—
          See also the Police Powers and Responsibilities Act 2000,
          section 388.

"confer", in relation to a function, includes impose.

"consolidated fund" means the consolidated fund established under the Financial
Accountability Act 2009, section 16.

"Consolidated Revenue"...

"Consolidated Revenue Fund"...

"Constitution of Queensland" means the following—
     (a) Constitution of Queensland 2001;
     (b) Constitution Act 1867;
     (c) Constitution Act Amendment Act 1934.

"contravene" includes fail to comply with.

"corporation" includes a body politic or corporate.

"Corporations Act" means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cwlth).

"Corporations Law" has the meaning given by the Corporations (Queensland) Act
1990, part 3.

"Corporations Law" and
"Corporations Regulations"...

"Corporations legislation" means the Corporations legislation to which the
Corporations Act, part 1.1 A applies.

"Corporations Regulations" —
     (a) when used in relation to the Corporations Law, has the meaning
     given by the Corporations (Queensland) Act 1990, part 3; and
     (b) when used in relation to the Corporations Act, means regulations
     made, or that have effect as if they were made, under the
     Corporations Act.

"Court of Criminal Appeal"...

"COVID-19 legislation expiry day"...

"COVID-19 public health legislation expiry day"...

"credit union"...

"Crime and Corruption Commission" means the Crime and Corruption Commission
established under the Crime and Corruption Act 2001.

"CSIRO" means the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation.

"date of assent", in relation to an Act, means the day on which the Act
receives the royal assent.

"de facto partner" see section 32DA.

"de facto relationship" means the relationship existing between 2 persons as a
couple because each is the de facto partner of the other.

"definition" means a provision of an Act (however expressed) that—
     (a) gives a meaning to a word or expression; or
     (b) limits or extends the meaning of a word or expression.
     Examples of definitions—
               1 X means Y.
               2 A reference to X is a reference to Y.
               3 Words and expressions used in the XYZ Act have
               the same respective meanings in this Act.
               4 X see section 3.
               5 X see XYZ Act, schedule 3.

"department" see section 33AA.

"Deputy Governor" means a person exercising a power of the Governor under a
delegation under the Constitution of Queensland 2001, section 40.

"descendant" includes—
     (a) in relation to Aboriginal people—a descendant under Aboriginal
     tradition; and
     (b) in relation to Torres Strait Islanders—a descendant under
     Island custom.

"District Court"...

"District Court judge" means a judge of the District Court of Queensland.

"doctor" means medical practitioner.

"document" —
     (a) means a record of information, however recorded; and
     (b) includes—
          (i) a thing on which there is writing; and
          (ii) a thing on which there are marks, symbols or
          perforations having a meaning for persons qualified to
          interpret them; and
          (iii) an electronic document.

"electronic document" means—
     (a) a thing from which sounds, images or writings can be reproduced
     with or without the aid of anything else; or
     (b) a record of information reproduced from a thing mentioned in
     paragraph (a); or
     (c) a record of information that exists in digital form and is
     capable of being reproduced, transmitted, stored or duplicated by
     electronic means.

"enactment", in relation to an Act, has the meaning given by section 15.

"entity" includes a person and an unincorporated body.

"establish" includes constitute and continue in existence.

"estate" includes easement, charge, right, title, claim, demand, lien and
encumbrance, whether at law or in equity.

"Executive Council"...

"exempt subordinate legislation" has the same meaning as in the Legislative
Standards Act 1992.

"expire" includes lapse or otherwise cease to have effect.

"external Territory" means a Territory, other than an internal Territory, for
the government of which as a Territory provision is made by a Commonwealth Act.

"fail" includes refuse.

"Federal Court" means the Federal Court of Australia.

"federal industrial instrument" see the Industrial Relations Act 2016, schedule
5.

"fee unit", for an Act, means a unit of the value prescribed under section 48B
for the Act.

"file" includes lodge.

"financial institution" means an authorised deposit-taking institution within
the meaning of the Banking Act 1959 (Cwlth), section 5.

"Financial Institutions (Queensland) Code"...

"Financial Institutions (Queensland) Regulations"...

"financial year" means a period of 1 year beginning on 1 July.

"finding", in relation to an indictment, includes taking, exhibiting or making.

"fix" includes determine and appoint.

"foreign country" means a country (whether or not an independent sovereign
state) outside Australia and the external Territories.

"freehold land register" means the freehold land register established under the
Land Title Act 1994.

"Friendly Societies (Queensland) Code"...

"Friendly Societies (Queensland) Regulations"...

"function" includes duty.

"fundamental legislative principles" has the meaning given by the Legislative
Standards Act 1992.

"Gas Pipelines Access (Queensland) Law"...

"Gas Pipelines Access (Queensland) Regulations"...

"gazette" means the Queensland Government Gazette.

"gazetted" means published in the gazette.

"gazette notice" means notice published in the gazette.

"GOC" (or
"government owned corporation") has the same meaning as in the Government Owned
Corporations Act 1993.

"Government"...

"Government Gazette" means the Queensland Government Gazette.

"government printer" means the Government Printer of Queensland, and includes
any other person authorised by the Government to print an Act or instrument.

"Governor" —
     (a) for Queensland—has the meaning given by the Constitution Act
     1867, section 11A (3); or
     (b) for another State (other than the Australian Capital Territory or
     the Northern Territory)—means the State’s Governor, and includes
     a person administering the State’s Government; or
     (c) for the Northern Territory—means the Territory’s
     Administrator, and includes a person administering the Territory’s
     Government.

"Governor-General" means the Governor-General of the Commonwealth, and includes
a person for the time being administering the Government of the Commonwealth.

"Governor in Council" means—
     (a) for Queensland—the Governor acting with the advice of Executive
     Council; or
     (b) for another State (other than the Australian Capital
     Territory)—the State’s Governor acting with the advice of the
     State’s Executive Council.

"grant of representation", for a deceased person, means a grant of probate of
the will or letters of administration of the deceased person’s estate, and
includes the grant of an order to administer and the filing of an election to
administer the deceased person’s estate.

"GST" has the same meaning as it has in the A New Tax System (Goods and
Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cwlth) and includes notional GST of the kind for which
payment may be made under the GST and Related Matters Act 2000, section 5.

"Health Practitioner Regulation National Law" means—
     (a) the Health Practitioner Regulation National Law—
          (i) as in force from time to time, set out in the schedule
          of the Health Practitioner Regulation National Law Act
          2009; and
          (ii) as it applies as a law of Queensland or another State,
          with or without modification; or
     (b) the law of a State that substantially corresponds to the law
     mentioned in paragraph (a).

"High Court" means the High Court of Australia.

"Imperial Act" means a British Act.

"Imperial Parliament" means the British Parliament.

"indictable offence" includes an act or omission committed outside Queensland
that would be an indictable offence if it were committed in Queensland.

"indictment" includes information, inquisition and presentment.

"individual" means a natural person.

"industrial commission" means the Industrial Relations Commission.

"Industrial Commission" or
"Industrial Relations Commission"...

"industrial commissioner" means a commissioner under the Industrial Relations
Act 2016.

"industrial court" means the court under the Industrial Relations Act 2016.

"industrial gazette"...

"industrial gazette notice"...

"industrial magistrate" means a magistrate under the Industrial Relations Act
2016.

"Industrial Magistrates Court" means the Industrial Magistrates Court
constituted under the Industrial Relations Act 2016, section 504.

"industrial relations commission" means the commission under the Industrial
Relations Act 2016.

"insert", in relation to a provision of an Act, includes substitute.

"insolvent under administration" see the Corporations Act, section 9.

"instrument" means any document.

"interest", in relation to land or other property, means—
     (a) a legal or equitable estate in the land or other property; or
     (b) a right, power or privilege over, or in relation to, the land or
     other property.

"internal Territory" means the Australian Capital Territory, the Jervis Bay
Territory or the Northern Territory.

"Island custom", known in the Torres Strait as Ailan Kastom, means the body of
customs, traditions, observances and beliefs of Torres Strait Islanders
generally or of a particular community or group of Torres Strait Islanders, and
includes any such customs, traditions, observances and beliefs relating to
particular persons, areas, objects or relationships.

"Jervis Bay Territory" means the Territory referred to in the Jervis Bay
Territory Acceptance Act 1915 (Cwlth).

"joint local government"...

"Judge"...

"justice" means a justice of the peace.

"land" includes messuages, tenements and hereditaments, corporeal or
incorporeal, of any tenure or description, and whatever may be the interest in
the land.

"Land and Resources Tribunal" means the Land and Resources Tribunal established
under the Land and Resources Tribunal Act 1999.

"Land Appeal Court" means the Land Appeal Court established under the Land
Court Act 2000.

"Land Court" means the Land Court established under the Land Court Act 2000.

"land registry" means the land registry established under the Land Title Act
1994.

"law" of a State includes—
     (a) a law of the State; and
     (b) a law in force in the State as part of the law of the State.

"lawyer" means an Australian lawyer within the meaning of the Legal Profession
Act 2007.

"lease" includes demise, tenancy and sublease, whether for a term, for a period
or at will.

"Legislative Assembly"...

"Legislature"...

"lessee" includes tenant.

"lessor" includes landlord.

"liability" means any liability or obligation (whether liquidated or
unliquidated, certain or contingent, or accrued or accruing).

"Lieutenant Governor" means the person for the time being appointed as
Lieutenant Governor.

"local authority"...

"local government" means—
     (a) the Brisbane City Council; or
     (b) a local government under the Local Government Act 2009.

"local government area" means a local government area under the Local
Government Act 2009.

"local law" means a local law made by a local government, and includes a by-law
or ordinance made by a local government.

"local law policy"...

"magistrate" means a magistrate appointed under the Magistrates Act 1991.

"Magistrates Court" means a Magistrates Court established under the Justices
Act 1886.

"make" includes issue and grant.

"medical practitioner" means a person registered under the Health Practitioner
Regulation National Law to practise in the medical profession, other than as a
student.

"midnight", in relation to a particular day, means the point of time at which
the day ends.

"Minister" has the meaning given by section 33.

"minor" means an individual who is under 18.

"modification" includes addition, exception, omission and substitution.

"month" means a calendar month.

"mortgage" includes a charge on a property for securing money or money’s
worth.

"mortgagee"...

"mortgagee in possession" means a mortgagee who in right of a mortgage has
entered into and is in possession of the mortgaged property.

"mortgagor"...

"named month" means 1 of the 12 months of the year.

"National Gas (Queensland) Law" means the provisions applying because of the
National Gas (Queensland) Act 2008, section 7, and includes the National Gas
(Queensland) Regulations.

"National Gas (Queensland) Regulations" means the provisions applying because
of the National Gas (Queensland) Act 2008, section 8.

"native title" means the communal, group or individual rights and interests of
Aboriginal people or Torres Strait Islanders in land or waters if—
     (a) the rights and interests are possessed under the traditional laws
     acknowledged, and the traditional customs observed, by the Aboriginal
     people or Torres Strait Islanders; and
     (b) the Aboriginal people or Torres Strait Islanders, by the laws and
     customs, have a connection with the land or waters; and
     (c) the rights and interests are recognised by the common law of
     Australia.
          Examples of rights and interests—
               hunting, gathering and fishing rights and
               interests

"Northern Territory" means the Northern Territory of Australia.

"notice to appear", in relation to a proceeding for an offence, see the Police
Powers and Responsibilities Act 2000, section 382 (2).

"notified", for subordinate legislation, means notified under the Statutory
Instruments Act 1992, section 47.

"number" means—
     (a) a number expressed in figures or words; or
     (b) a letter; or
     (c) a combination of a number so expressed and a letter.

"oath", in relation to a person allowed by law to affirm, declare or promise,
includes affirmation, declaration and promise.

"oath and affidavit..."

"office" includes position.

"officer", in relation to the public service, see
"public service officer".

"officer of the public service"...

"official copy", in relation to Queensland legislation, means a copy of the
legislation—
     (a) printed by or under the authority of the government printer; or
     (b) authorised by the parliamentary counsel and published on the
     Queensland legislation website.

"of this Act", when used in a schedule or appendix of an Act, means the Act
apart from a schedule or appendix of the Act.

"ombudsman" means the ombudsman under the Ombudsman Act 2001.

"omit", in relation to a provision of an Act, includes repeal.

"order in council" has the meaning given by the Statutory Instruments Act 1992.

"ordinance"...

"Parliament" means—
     (a) for Queensland—the Sovereign and the Legislative Assembly; or
     (b) for another State—the State’s legislature.

"parliamentary counsel" means the Queensland Parliamentary Counsel under the
Legislative Standards Act 1992.

"party" includes an individual and a corporation.

"passing", in relation to an Act, has the meaning given by section 15.

"payable", in relation to GST, includes capable of being paid under the GST and
Related Matters Act 2000, section 5.

"penalty" includes forfeiture and punishment.

"penalty unit" has the meaning given under the Penalties and Sentences Act
1992, section 5.

"person" includes an individual and a corporation.

"person" or
"party"...

"personal representative" of a deceased individual means the executor (whether
original or by representation) or administrator of the individual’s estate.

"Petty sessions"...

"Planning and Environment Court" means the court continued in existence as the
Planning and Environment Court under the Planning and Environment Court Act
2016.

"police commissioner" means the commissioner of the police service under the
Police Service Administration Act 1990.

"police officer" means a police officer within the meaning of the Police
Service Administration Act 1990.

"possession" of land includes the receipt of income from the land.

"power" includes authority.

"prescribed" means prescribed by, or by a statutory rule made or in force
under, the Act in which the word is used.

"printed" includes typewritten, lithographed or produced or reproduced by any
mechanical or electronic means.

"proceeding" means a legal or other action or proceeding.

"proceedings in the Legislative Assembly" means proceedings in the Assembly
within the meaning of the Parliament of Queensland Act 2001.

"proclamation" has the meaning given by the Statutory Instruments Act 1992.

"property" means any legal or equitable estate or interest (whether present or
future, vested or contingent, or tangible or intangible) in real or personal
property of any description (including money), and includes things in action.

"provision", in relation to an Act, means words or other matter that form or
forms part of the Act, and includes—
     (a) a chapter, part, division, subdivision, section, subsection,
     paragraph, subparagraph, sub-subparagraph, of the Act apart from a
     schedule or appendix of the Act; and
     (b) a schedule or appendix of the Act or a section, subsection,
     paragraph, subparagraph, sub-subparagraph, item, column, table or
     form of or in a schedule or appendix of the Act; and
     (c) the long title and any preamble to the Act.

"public holiday" means a day appointed under the Holidays Act 1983 or another
Act as a public holiday.

"public sector unit" means—
     (a) a department or part of a department; or
     (b) a public service entity, or part of a public sector entity,
     mentioned in the Public Sector Act 2022, section 9 (b).

"public service" see the Public Sector Act 2022, section 11.

"public service employee" see the Public Sector Act 2022, section 13.

"public service office"...

"public service officer" see the Public Sector Act 2022, section 14.

"published", in relation to the QIRC website, means published as provided under
the Industrial Relations Act 2016, section 524.

"purpose", for an Act, includes policy objective.

"QCAT" means the Queensland Civil and Administrative Tribunal established under
the QCAT Act.

"QCAT Act" means the Queensland Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2009.

"QIRC website" see the Industrial Relations Act 2016, section 523.

"Queensland Government Gazette"...

"Queensland lawyer" means a barrister or solicitor of the Supreme Court.

"Queensland legislation" means—
     (a) an Act, including an agreement or other instrument in or attached
     to the Act; or
     (b) subordinate legislation, including an agreement or other
     instrument in or attached to the subordinate legislation; or
     (c) an agreement or other instrument not mentioned in paragraph (a)
     or (b) that has the same force of law as an Act or subordinate
     legislation; or
     (d) a reprint.

"Queensland legislation website" means the website with the URL
www.legislation.qld.gov.au or another website authorised by the parliamentary
counsel to provide access to Queensland legislation.

"Queensland waters" means all waters that are—
     (a) within the limits of the State; or
     (b) coastal waters of the State.

"record" includes information stored or recorded by means of a computer.

"regulation"...

"regulations"...

"repeal" includes—
     (a) for a provision of an Act or instrument—repeal the provision by
     omitting it; and
     (b) for an Act, instrument or provision of an Act or
     instrument—abrogate or limit its effect or exclude from its
     application any person, matter or circumstance; and
     (c) for an instrument or a provision of an instrument—revoke or
     rescind it.

"reprint" means—
     (a) a reprint authorised under the Legislative Standards Act 1992,
     section 10A; or
     (b) a pre-1992 reprint within the meaning of the Reprints Act 1992.

"rule"...

"rules"...

"rules of court" has the meaning given by the Statutory Instruments Act 1992.

"see", followed by a reference to, or to a provision of, any Act, law or
document, when used to define a word, entity, thing or matter, means the word,
entity, thing or matter has the same meaning as it has in the provision, Act,
law or document.

"senior executive", in relation to the public service, means a person employed
under the Public Sector Act 2022, section 188 as a senior executive.

"serve" has the meaning given by section 39.

"serve by post" has the meaning given by section 39A.

"sign" includes the attaching of a seal and the making of a mark.

"sitting day", in relation to the Legislative Assembly, means a day on which
the Legislative Assembly actually sits.

"sitting days"...

"Speaker" means the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly.

"spent conviction" means a conviction—
     (a) for which the rehabilitation period under the Criminal Law
     (Rehabilitation of Offenders) Act 1986 has expired under that Act;
     and
     (b) that is not revived as prescribed by section 11 of that Act.

"spouse" includes de facto partner and civil partner.

"Standards Association of Australia", for anything done or to be done on or
after 1 July 1999, includes a reference to Standards Australia Limited ACN 087
326 690.

"Standards Australia" means Standards Australia Limited ACN 087 326 690, and
includes a reference to the Standards Association of Australia as constituted
before 1 July 1999.

"State" means a State of the Commonwealth, and includes the Australian Capital
Territory and the Northern Territory.

"statutory declaration" means—
     (a) a declaration made under the Oaths Act 1867; or
     (b) a declaration made under another Act, or under a Commonwealth Act
     or an Act of another State or a Territory, that authorises a
     declaration to be made otherwise than in the course of a judicial
     proceeding.

"statutory declaration or solemn declaration"...

"statutory GOC"...

"statutory instrument" has the meaning given by the Statutory Instruments Act
1992.

"statutory rule" has the meaning given by the Statutory Instruments Act 1992.

"stipendiary magistrate"...

"subordinate legislation" has the meaning given by the Statutory Instruments
Act 1992.

"subordinate local law" means a subordinate local law made by a local
government.

"summary", for an offence or proceeding, has the meaning given by section 44.

"supply", in relation to GST, has the same meaning as it has in the A New Tax
System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cwlth).

"Supreme Court"...

"Supreme Court judge" or
"judge" means a judge of the Supreme Court.

"swear", in relation to a person allowed by law to affirm, declare or promise,
includes affirm, declare and promise.

"table" in the Legislative Assembly means lay before the Assembly.

"territorial sea of Australia" means the territorial sea of Australia within
the limits mentioned in the Coastal Waters (State Powers) Act 1980 (Cwlth),
section 4 (1).

"territorial unit"...

"Territory" means a Territory of the Commonwealth.

"the Act"...

"the State" means the State of Queensland.

"this Act"...

"Torres Strait Islander" is a person who is a descendant of an Indigenous
inhabitant of the Torres Strait Islands.

"Torres Strait Islander local government"...

"transfer" of an interest in land means the passing of the interest other than
by transmission.

"transmission" of an interest in land means the passing of the interest because
of death or under a law about bankruptcy, insolvency or the liquidation of
corporations.

"under", for an Act or a provision of an Act, includes—
     (a) by; and
     (b) for the purposes of; and
     (c) in accordance with; and
     (d) within the meaning of.

"United Kingdom" means the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland.

"unit of the public sector"...

"valuer-general" means the Valuer-General appointed under the Land Valuation
Act 2010.

"will" includes codicil.

"word" includes any drawing, expression, figure and symbol.

"writing" includes any mode of representing or reproducing words in a visible
form.

"year", without specifying the type of year, means calendar year.
