Duties Regulations 2021

   I, the Governor in and over the State of Tasmania and its Dependencies
   in the Commonwealth of Australia, acting with the advice of the
   Executive Council, make the following regulations under the Duties Act
   2001 .
   7 June 2021

   C. WARNER

   Governor

   By Her Excellency's Command,

   MICHAEL DARREL JOSEPH FERGUSON

   Minister for Finance

   1.   Short title

     These regulations may be cited as the Duties Regulations 2021 .

   2.   Commencement

     These regulations take effect on 29 June 2021.

   3.   Interpretation

     In these regulations -

     Act means the Duties Act 2001 ;

     former Act means the Stamp Duties Act 1931 ;

     prescribed day means 1 July 2001.

   4.   Prescribed fees

     (1)  The fees specified in Schedule 1 are prescribed as the fees
     payable to the Commissioner in respect of the matters to which they
     respectively relate.

     (2)  The fees specified in Schedule 1 are exclusive of GST.

   5.   Savings and transitional provisions

     (1)  An objection made on or after the prescribed day to an
     assessment of duty payable under the former Act is to be determined
     in accordance with section 21 of the former Act.

     (2)  An appeal made on or after the prescribed day in relation to an
     assessment of duty payable under the former Act is to be determined
     in accordance with section 22 of the former Act.

   6.   Prescribed property

     (1)  For the purposes of paragraph (c) of the definition of
     mortgage-backed security in section 3 of the Act, and paragraph (b)
     of the definition of pool of mortgages in section 3 of the Act, the
     following property is prescribed property:

     (a) cash;

     (b) bonds, debentures, stock or Treasury Bills, of a government
     authority;

     (c) debentures, or stock, of a statutory authority constituted under
     the law of a government authority;

     (d) notes or other securities of a government authority;

     (e) deposits with authorised deposit-taking institutions;

     (f) certificates of deposits, or other securities, issued by an
     authorised deposit-taking institution;

     (g) bills of exchange, or promissory notes or other negotiable
     instruments, accepted, drawn or endorsed by an authorised
     deposit-taking institution;

     (h) a guaranteed investment contract, expressed in Australian
     currency, of a type approved by the Commissioner;

     (i) mortgage-backed securities.

     (2)  For the purposes of subregulation (1)  -

     government authority means -

     (a) the Government of the Commonwealth; or

     (b) the Government of Tasmania or another State; or

     (c) the Administration of a Territory;

     statutory authority means a body or authority, whether incorporated
     or not, that is established or constituted under a written law or
     under the royal prerogative, being a body or authority which, or of
     which the governing authority, wholly or partly comprises a person
     or persons appointed by the Governor, a Minister or another
     statutory authority, but does not include an Agency within the
     meaning of the State Service Act 2000 .

     SCHEDULE 1 - Fees

   Regulation 4

   Column 1

   Column 2

   Column 3

   Item

   Section of Act

   Fee (fee units)

   1.

   205(2)(b)

   352

   2.

   210(2)(b)

   314

   Displayed and numbered in accordance with the Rules Publication Act
   1953.

   Notified in the Gazette on 16 June 2021

   These regulations are administered in the Department of Treasury and
   Finance.
