DUTIES ACT 1999 

- TABLE OF PROVISIONS

CHAPTER 1--PRELIMINARY 

1. Name of Act   
2A. Dictionary  
2B. Notes  
2C. Offences against Act--application of Criminal Code etc   
3. Incorporation of Taxation Administration Act   
4. Territory not liable for payment of duty   
5. Duty a debt payable to Territory   

CHAPTER 2--TRANSACTIONS CONCERNING DUTIABLE PROPERTY

PART 2.1--INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW 
6. Definitions--ch 2   
6A. Meaning of commercial lease with premium--ch 2   
7. Imposition of duty on certain transactions concerning dutiable   
8. Imposition of duty on dutiable transactions that are not transfers   
9. Form of a dutiable transaction   
10. Dutiable property   
11. When does a liability for duty arise?   
12. Who is liable to pay the duty?   
13. Liability of joint tenants   
14. Necessity for written instrument or written statement   
15. Lodging instrument etc with commissioner   
16. When does duty become payable?   
17. No double duty   
18. Rate of duty   

PART 2.2--DUTIABLE VALUE
20. What is the dutiable value of dutiable property?   
21. What is the consideration for the transfer of dutiable property?   
22. What is the unencumbered value of dutiable property?   
23. Arrangements that reduce dutiable value   
24. Aggregation of dutiable transactions   
25. Value of goods in certain transactions also involving other   
26. Apportionment--dutiable property and other property   
28. Partnership interests   
29. Partitions  
30. Effect of alteration in purchase price   

PART 2.3--RATES OF DUTY 
31. General rate   
33. Certain business assets   

PART 2.4--SPECIAL PROVISIONS 
50. Cancelled agreements   
50A. Cancelled transfer of dutiable property   
51. Grant of certain Crown leases on surrender of development leases   
52. Refund if Crown lease surrendered   
53. Transfers arising from mortgages of land   

PART 2.5--EXEMPTIONS 

Division 2.5.1--Trusts 

54. Change in trustees   
55. Transfer to custodian of managed investment scheme   
55A. Transfers in relation to managed investment schemes   
55B. Transfers in relation to registered schemes   
56. Property vested in apparent purchaser   
57. Transfers back from trustee   
58. Property passing to beneficiaries   
60. Declaration of trust relating to managed investment scheme   

Division 2.5.2--Superannuation 

62. Transfer of property from one superannuation fund to another   
63. Transfers between trustees and custodians of superannuation funds or   

Division 2.5.2A--Alternative finance transactions

64. Meaning of financial institution--div 2.5.2A   
64A. Land transferred to financial institution and individual then leased and transferred   
64B. Land transferred to financial institution then transferred to   
64C. Land transferred to financial institution then leased and transferred to   
64D. Land transferred to individual with beneficial interest transferred to financial   
64E. Change of financial institution   
64F. Individual dies before arrangement completed   

Division 2.5.3--Miscellaneous 

65. Transfer of land under Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Act 2009   
66. Conveyances to prescribed people   
67. Conversion of property to unit title   
68. Surrender and regrant of Crown lease   
68A. Regrant of lease with additional land   
71. Bankruptcy or insolvency   
72. Transfer to partner of interest in principal place of residence   
73A. Transfers etc to entities for community housing   
73B. Transfers etc to special disability trusts   
74. Transfers relating to mortgages   
74A. Financial and other agreements   

PART 2.6A--DEFERRED PAYMENT OF DUTY

Division 2.6A--.1 First home owner grant scheme and home buyer concession scheme

75. Definitions--div 2.6A.1  
75A. Meaning of eligible property--div 2.6A.1   
75AB. Application to defer payment of duty   
75AC. Approval to defer payment of duty   
75AD. Conditions of deferral arrangement   
75AE. Unpaid duty and interest a debt and charge on property   

Division 2.6A--.2 Other duty deferral schemes

75AF. Definitions--div 2.6A.2  
75AG. Duty deferral schemes--determination   
75AH. Duty deferral schemes--application to defer payment of duty   
75AI. Duty deferral schemes--approval to defer payment of duty   
75AJ. Duty deferral schemes--conditions of deferral arrangement   
75AK. Duty deferral schemes--unpaid duty and interest a debt and charge on   

CHAPTER 3--CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS TREATED AS TRANSFERS

PART 3.1--PRELIMINARY 
76. Meaning of chapter 3 transaction   
76A. Definitions--ch 3   
77. Imposition of duty   

PART 3.2--ACQUISITION OF INTERESTS IN CERTAIN LANDHOLDERS

Division 3.2.1--Preliminary 

77A. Meaning of associated person   
78. Definitions--pt 3.2   

Division 3.2.2--Landholding entities

78A. Meaning of entity--pt 3.2   
79. Meaning of landholder   
80. Meaning of landholding--pt 3.2   
80A. Meaning of land--pt 3.2   
81. Constructive ownership of landholdings--linked bodies   
82. Constructive ownership of landholdings and other property--discretionary   
83. Interest and significant interest in landholders--pt 3.2   
84. How person acquires an interest in a landholder--pt   

Division 3.2.3--Charging of duty

85. When does liability for duty arise?   
86. What is a relevant acquisition?--pt 3.2   
87. Acquisition statements   
88. When must duty be paid?   
89. Who is liable to pay duty on relevant acquisition?   
90. Duty payable on relevant acquisitions--single interest   
90A. Duty payable on relevant acquisitions--aggregated interests   
90B. Duty payable on relevant acquisitions--further interest   
90C. Unencumbered value determination   
90D. Duty payable on relevant acquisitions--combined   

Division 3.2.4--General and supplemental

92. Maximisation of entitlements on distribution of property   
93. Valuation of property   
94. Uncompleted agreements for sale or conveyance of land   
94A. Uncompleted agreements for purchase, allotment or issue of shares or units in   

PART 3.4--ACQUISITION OF LAND USE ENTITLEMENTS BY ALLOTMENT OF SHARES OR ISSUE OF UNITS 
103. When does liability for duty arise?   
104. When must duty be paid?   
105. Who is liable to pay duty?   
106. Acquisition of land use entitlement   
107. What statement under s 106 must contain   
108. Assessment of duty   
109. Disability exemption   

PART 3.6--VOLUNTARY TRANSFERS UNDER FINANCIAL SECTOR (TRANSFER AND RESTRUCTURE) ACT 1999 (CWLTH) 
115A. Definitions--pt 3.6   
115B. Declaration required if business transferred   
115C. When does liability for duty arise?   
115D. When must duty be paid?   
115E. Who is liable to pay duty?   
115F. Assessment of duty   
115G. Exemptions from duty   

PART 3.7--EXEMPTIONS--CH 3 TRANSACTIONS

Division 3.7.1--Exemptions--ch 3 transactions generally

115H. Exemptions--ch 3 transactions   
115HA. Exemption--relevant acquisitions to secure finance   
115HB. Exemption--transactions made on bankruptcy or winding-up   
115HC. Exemption--transactions made due to change in trustees   
115HD. Exemption--transactions in relation to managed investment schemes   
115HE. Exemption--transactions in relation to registered schemes   
115HF. Exemption--ch 3 transactions made by apparent purchaser   
115HG. Exemption--transactions made to return ch 3 property held by trustee   
115HH. Exemption--transactions between superannuation funds   
115HI. Exemption--transactions between trustees and custodians of superannuation funds or   

Division 3.7.2--Exemptions--'top hatting' arrangements

115I. Definitions--div 3.7.2   
115J. Exemption for relevant acquisitions   
115K. Conditions of exemption   
115L. Revocation of exemption   

CHAPTER 7--MORTGAGES 

174. Liability for duty   

CHAPTER 9--MOTOR VEHICLE REGISTRATION

PART 9.1--IMPOSITION AND RATES OF DUTY 
203. Meaning of dutiable value--pt 9.1   
203A. Registration of vehicles in the name of 2 or more people   
204. Imposition of duty   
205. Lodgment of statement of dutiable value   
206. Who is liable to pay duty?   
207. When does duty become payable?   
208. Rate of duty   

PART 9.2--EXEMPTIONS 
208A. Definitions--pt 9.2   
209A. Foreign countries    
209B. International organisations and diplomats   
209C. Status of forces agreements   
211. Certain disabled people   
211A. Partial exemption--modified vehicles for people with   
214. Vehicle dealers--registration of demonstrators and trading   
215. Organisations registered under Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Act   
216. Repossessed motor vehicles   
217. Veteran, vintage and historic vehicles   
218. Avoidance of double duty--duty paid in corresponding Australian   
219. Reassessment of duty--repossession of stolen motor vehicle   

PART 9.3--MISCELLANEOUS 
221. Prerequisites for registration   
223. Returns by road transport authority   
224. Rectification of errors in registration   
225. Refund of duty on cancellation of sale   
226. Certificates as evidence   

CHAPTER 10--MISCELLANEOUS DUTIES 

229. Minimum amount of duty   

CHAPTER 11--GENERAL EXEMPTIONS FROM DUTY

PART 11.1--EXEMPTIONS FROM DUTY--GENERAL
230. Inter-generational rural transfers   
231. Specialised agencies   
232. Charitable organisations   
232A. Corporate reconstruction transactions   
232B. Hospitals and schools   
232C. Commonwealth, States and Territories   
232D. Deceased estates   

PART 11.2--EXEMPTIONS FROM DUTY--CERTAIN PERSONAL RELATIONSHIPS
232E. Definitions--pt 11.2   
232F. Transactions under certain court orders   
232G. Transactions under Family Law Act 1975 (Cwlth), s 90B, s 90C or s 90D   
232H. Transactions under Family Law Act 1975 (Cwlth), pt 8AB financial   
232I. Transactions under Domestic Relationships Act 1994, s 33 (1) (d)   

CHAPTER 12--MISCELLANEOUS 

239. Electronic assessment and payment of duty   
242. Instruments to be separately charged with duty in certain cases   
243. Execution of instruments   
244. Certificate of duty and other charges   
250. Receiving instruments in evidence   
251. Valuation of property   
251A. Valuation of market rent for commercial lease with premium   
252. Objections  
252AA. Review of decisions by ACAT   
252AB. Determination of fees   
253. Regulation-making power   
DICTIONARY
ENDNOTES

DUTIES ACT 1999
- LONG TITLE
An Act to create and charge various duties
       
       

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 1
Name of Act 
This Act is the Duties Act 1999.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 2A
Dictionary
The dictionary at the end of this Act is part of this Act.
Note 1     The dictionary at the end of this Act defines certain terms
used in this Act, and includes references ("signpost definitions")
to other terms defined elsewhere in this Act or other legislation.
For example, the signpost definition 'Crown
lease--see the Land Titles Act 1925 
, dictionary.' means that the term 'Crown lease' is
defined in that dictionary and the definition applies to this Act.
Note 2     A definition in the dictionary applies to the entire Act
unless the definition, or another provision of the Act, provides otherwise or
the contrary intention otherwise appears (see Legislation Act
, s 155 and s 156 (1)).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 2B
Notes
A note included in this Act is explanatory and is not part of this
Act.
Note     See the Legislation Act 
, s 127 (1), (4) and (5) for the legal status of notes.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 2C
Offences against Act--application of Criminal Code etc 
Other legislation applies in relation to offences against this Act.

Note 1     Criminal Code
The Criminal Code 
, ch 2 applies to all offences against this Act (see Code, pt 2.1). 

The chapter sets out the general principles of criminal responsibility
(including burdens of proof and general defences), and defines terms used for
offences to which the Code applies (eg "conduct",
"intention", recklessness and strict
liability).
Note 2     Penalty units
The Legislation Act 
, s 133 deals with the meaning of offence penalties that are expressed in
penalty units.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 3
Incorporation of Taxation Administration Act 
The Taxation Administration Act 
 is incorporated and is to be read as one with this Act.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 4
Territory not liable for payment of duty 
The Territory is not liable to pay duty under this Act.
Note     Prescribed territory entities are not exempt from paying duty
(see Taxation (Government Business Enterprises) Act 2003
, s 9).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 5
Duty a debt payable to Territory 
A duty payable under this Act is, when a liability to pay the duty is
created, a debt due to the Territory.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 6
Definitions--ch 2 
In this chapter:
"cancelled"--
         (a)     means rescinded, annulled or otherwise terminated without completion;
and
         (b)     includes abandoned.
"commercial lease" means a lease granted for--
         (a)     commercial purposes only; or
         (b)     more than 1 purpose including commercial purposes.
"commercial lease" with premium--see section
6A.
"commercial purposes" does not include residential purposes or
the purposes of primary production.
Examples--commercial
purposes
               o      industrial use
               o      business use
               o      retail use
"declaration of trust" means any declaration (other than by a
will or testamentary instrument) that any identified property vested or to be
vested in the person making the declaration is or is to be held in trust for the
person or people, or the purpose or purposes, mentioned in the declaration
although the beneficial owner of the property, or the person entitled to appoint
the property, may not have joined in or assented to the declaration.
"market rent", in relation to a commercial lease, means the
rent (worked out as at the date the lease was granted) that would be charged by
the lessor if the land the subject of the lease was leased by a willing lessor
to a willing lessee--
         (a)     dealing with each other at arm's length; and
         (b)     each of whom had acted knowledgeably, sensibly and without
compulsion.
"premium", in relation to a commercial lease, means any
consideration (being the amount of a monetary consideration or the value of a
non-monetary consideration) that is paid or agreed to be paid in relation to the
lease, other than rent reserved.
"primary production" means--
         (a)     production resulting directly from--
               (i)     cultivation of land; or
               (ii)     keeping animals for their sale, their bodily produce or natural
increase; or
               (iii)     fishing operations; or
               (iv)     forest operations; and
         (b)     the manufacture of dairy produce by the person who produced the raw
material used in that manufacture.
"rent reserved", in relation to a commercial lease,
means--
         (a)     the rent paid or payable during the term of the lease that is market
rent; and
         (b)     any reasonable amount paid or payable for the right to use the land
under the lease.
Examples--payments for right to use
land under commercial lease
               o      rates
               o      maintenance and repairs
               o      services and utilities
               o      legal costs payable by lessee on behalf of lessor in relation to
grant of lease
               o      insurance premiums
               o      car park contributions
               o      turnover rent
               o      fit-out costs
               o      security
               o      land rent
               o      gardening and landscaping
               o      lifts
               o      administration

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 6A
Meaning of commercial lease with premium--ch 2 
     (1)     In this chapter:
"commercial lease with premium" means a commercial lease in
relation to which there is a premium that is more than the amount (if any)
determined by the commissioner.
     (2)     A determination is a disallowable instrument.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 7
Imposition of duty on certain transactions concerning dutiable 
property
     (1)     This chapter charges duty on--
         (a)     a transfer of dutiable property; and
         (b)     the following transactions:
               (i)     an agreement for the sale or transfer of dutiable property;
               (ii)     a declaration of trust over dutiable property;
               (iii)     a grant of a Crown lease;
               (iv)     a grant of a declared land sublease;
               (v)     a grant of a commercial lease with premium.
     (2)     A transfer or transaction mentioned in subsection (1) is a
dutiable transaction for this Act.
     (3)     In this section:
"grant"--
         (a)     of a Crown lease over land, includes the grant of a new lease
following the surrender or determination of the Crown lease over land that
includes part or all of the land over which the new lease is granted;
and
         (b)     of a declared land sublease, includes the grant of a new land sublease
following the surrender or determination of the sublease over land that includes
part or all of the land over which the new sublease is granted.
"transfer "does not include a transaction treated as a transfer
by chapter 3.
Note     Ch 3 treats certain transactions as transfers (eg, acquiring an
interest in a landholder--see s 85 and s 86). Duty may be payable under
ch 3 on those transfers. These may involve the vesting of property under a
court order, which would otherwise be a transfer for s (1) (a) or (b) (i)
(see dict, def "transfer", par (a) (v)).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 8
Imposition of duty on dutiable transactions that are not transfers 
     (1)     The duty payable under this chapter on a dutiable transaction
mentioned in section 7 (1) (b) is payable as if each such dutiable transaction
were a transfer of dutiable property.
     (2)     For the purpose of paying duty under this chapter, in relation to a
dutiable transaction mentioned in column 2 of an item in table 8:
         (a)     the property mentioned in the item, column 3 is taken to be the
property transferred (and a reference in this Act to property
transferred includes a reference to such property);
         (b)     a person mentioned in the item, column 4 is taken to be the transferee
of the dutiable property (and a reference in this Act to a
"transferee" includes a reference to such a person);
         (c)     the transfer of the dutiable property is taken to have happened at the
time mentioned in the item, column 5 (and a reference in this Act to the
"time" when a transfer occurs includes a reference to such a
time).
Table 8

      
      
      
      
      

column 1
item

column 2
dutiable transaction

column 3
property transferred

column 4
transferee

column 5
when transfer happens

1

agreement for sale or transfer

the property agreed to be sold or transferred

the purchaser or transferee

when the agreement is entered into

2

declaration of trust

the property vested or to be vested in the declarant

the person declaring the trust

when the declaration is made

3

grant of a Crown lease (or declared land sublease)

the leasehold interest

the lessee (or for a declared land sublease, the sublessee)

when the lease (or declared land sublease) is granted

4

grant of a commercial lease with premium

the leasehold interest

the lessee

when the lease is granted

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 9
Form of a dutiable transaction 
It is immaterial whether or not a dutiable transaction is effected by an
instrument or by any other means, including electronic means.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 10
Dutiable property 
     (1)     Dutiable property is any of the following:
         (a)     land in the ACT;
         (b)     a Crown lease;
         (c)     a declared land sublease;
         (d)     a land use entitlement;
         (e)     a commercial lease with premium;
         (f)     an interest in a partnership that holds dutiable property mentioned
elsewhere in this section (a "partnership interest");
         (g)     goods in the ACT, if the subject of an arrangement that includes a
dutiable transaction over any dutiable property (other than intellectual
property) elsewhere mentioned in this section, not including the
following:
               (i)     goods that are stock-in-trade;
               (ii)     material held for use in manufacture;
               (iii)     goods under manufacture;
               (iv)     goods held or used in connection with land used for primary
production;
               (v)     livestock;
               (vi)     a registered motor vehicle;
               (vii)     a ship or vessel;
         (h)     an option to purchase land in the ACT or a Crown lease or declared
land sublease over land in the ACT;
               (i)     an interest in any dutiable property mentioned in paragraphs (a)
to (h), except to the extent that--
               (i)     it is, or is attributable to, an option over dutiable property;
or
               (ii)     it is an interest under a commercial lease or a sublease of a
commercial lease, other than a commercial lease with premium.
     (2)     In this section:
"holds"--a partnership holds dutiable
property if (but not only if)--
         (a)     the partners hold the property for the partnership; or
         (b)     the partnership has an indirect interest in the property.
"indirect interest"--a partnership has an indirect
interest in dutiable property if--
         (a)     through a partnership interest or trust interest there is a connection
between the partnership and dutiable property of the other partnership or trust;
or
         (b)     through a series of partnership interests or trust interests, or a
combination of any of them, there is a connection between the partnership and
dutiable property of a partnership in the series.
"intellectual property" means--
         (a)     a business name, trading name, trade mark, industrial design, patent,
registered design or copyright; or
         (b)     a right to use or exploit--
               (i)     a business name, trading name, trade mark or industrial design;
or
               (ii)     a thing, system or process that is the subject of a patent,
registered design or copyright (or an adaptation or modification of such a
thing, system or process).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 11
When does a liability for duty arise? 
     (1)     A liability for duty payable under this chapter
arises--
         (a)     when a transfer of dutiable property occurs; or
         (b)     if a transfer of dutiable property is effected by an instrument--
when the instrument is first executed.
Note     First executed, for an instrument--see s
243.
     (2)     However, a liability for duty payable under this chapter must not be
paid until it becomes payable under section 16 (When does duty become
payable?).
     (3)     To remove any doubt, the commissioner may assess the liability for
duty payable under this chapter before the duty becomes payable under section
16.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 12
Who is liable to pay the duty? 
Duty payable under this chapter is payable by the transferee, unless this
chapter requires another person to pay the duty.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 13
Liability of joint tenants 
For the purpose of assessing duty payable under this chapter, joint tenants
of dutiable property are taken to hold the dutiable property as tenants in
common in equal shares.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 14
Necessity for written instrument or written statement 
     (1)     If a dutiable transaction that is liable to ad valorem duty under this
chapter is not effected by an instrument, the transferee must make a written
statement.
     (2)     The statement must be made within 90 days after the liability
arises.
     (3)     If a dutiable transaction is completed or evidenced by an instrument
within 90 days after the day when the dutiable transaction happens, the
requirement to lodge a statement and pay duty in respect of the statement may be
satisfied by the lodgment of and payment of duty on the instrument within 90
days after the day when the dutiable transaction happens.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 15
Lodging instrument etc with commissioner 
     (1)     A transferee who is liable to pay duty in relation to a dutiable
transaction must, within 90 days after the day the liability arises lodge with
the commissioner--
         (a)     the instrument that effects the dutiable transaction or, if there is
more than 1 instrument that effects the transaction, each of them; or
         (b)     the written statement made in accordance with
section 14.
     (2)     Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to a dutiable transaction
if--
         (a)     the registrar-general must tell the commissioner about the transaction
under the Land Titles Act 1925 
, section 178B (Registrar-general must give information about certain
transactions and instruments to revenue commissioner); or
         (b)     an electronic application for assessment of duty in relation to the
transaction is lodged with the commissioner by a person approved under section
239 (Electronic assessment and payment of duty) within the 90-day
period.
     (3)     If an agreement for the sale or transfer of dutiable property is
cancelled to give effect to a subsale, the purchaser or transferee must, within
14 days after the date the agreement is cancelled (or any longer time determined
by the commissioner), lodge with the commissioner the instrument effecting the
cancelled agreement.
     (4)     A determination is a notifiable instrument.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 16
When does duty become payable? 
     (1)     The duty payable under this chapter in relation to a dutiable
transaction mentioned in column 2 of an item in table 16 becomes payable at the
time mentioned in the item, column 3.
Table 16

      
      
      
      

column 1
item

column 2
dutiable transaction

column 3
when duty becomes payable

column 4
period within which duty must be
paid

1

transfer of dutiable property, other than dutiable property mentioned in
s 10 (1) (h)

when the transfer is registered with the registrar-general

14 days

2

transfer of dutiable property mentioned in s 10 (1) (h)

when the option to purchase is granted

90 days

3

agreement for sale or transfer

when the transfer is registered with the registrar-general after the
agreement is completed

14 days

4

declaration of trust

when the declaration is made

90 days

5

grant of a Crown lease (or declared land sublease)

when the lease (or sublease) is registered with the
registrar-general

14 days

6

grant of a commercial lease with premium

when the lease is granted

90 days

7

cancelled agreement for which duty is payable under s 50

when the cancelled agreement is lodged with the commissioner under s
15 (3)

14 days

Note     Liability for duty payable under pt 3.2 arises when a relevant
acquisition is made (see s 85). Duty must be paid within 90 days after the
relevant acquisition is made (see s 88).
     (2)     A tax default does not happen for the Taxation Administration Act 
 if duty payable under this chapter in relation to a dutiable transaction
mentioned in column 2 of an item in table 16 is paid within the period mentioned
in column 4 of the item, or any longer time determined by the commissioner,
after the duty becomes payable.
     (3)     A determination is a notifiable instrument.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 17
No double duty 
     (1)     If a dutiable transaction is effected by more than 1 instrument, duty
under this chapter--
         (a)     is payable in relation to the first executed instrument effecting the
transaction; but
         (b)     is not payable in relation to the other instruments.
Note     First executed, for an instrument--see s
243.
     (2)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a transfer of
dutiable property made in conformity with an agreement for the sale or transfer
of the property.
     (3)     Subsection (4) applies if--
         (a)     a transfer of dutiable property is not made in conformity with an
agreement for the sale or transfer of the property; and
         (b)     the transfer would be in conformity with the agreement if the
transferee was the purchaser under the agreement; and
         (c)     the purchaser under the agreement and the transferee under the
transfer were related people at the time the agreement was entered
into.
     (4)     Duty under this chapter--
         (a)     is payable in relation to the agreement for the sale or transfer of
the dutiable property; but
         (b)     is not payable in relation to the transfer of the dutiable
property.
     (5)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a transfer to a
trustee of dutiable property subject to a declaration of trust if ad valorem
duty has been paid on the declaration of trust in relation to the same dutiable
property.
     (6)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a declaration of
trust that declares the same trusts as those on and subject to which the same
dutiable property was transferred to the person declaring the trust if ad
valorem duty has been paid on the transfer.
     (7)     A dutiable transaction in respect of an interest in a landholder
conferring a land use entitlement is taken to be a dutiable transaction in
respect of the land use entitlement only and, if duty has been paid on the
dutiable transaction in accordance with a law of another Australian
jurisdiction, the duty payable under this chapter on the dutiable transaction is
to be reduced by the amount of the duty so paid.
     (8)     This section does not apply to a personal relationship financial
agreement if--
         (a)     the agreement provides for a transfer of dutiable property;
and
         (b)     the transfer is not exempt from duty under any of the
following:
               (i)     section 232G (Transactions under Family Law Act 1975 (Cwlth), s 90B, s
90C or s 90D financial agreements);
               (ii)     section 232H (Transactions under Family Law Act 1975 (Cwlth), pt 8AB
financial agreements);
               (iii)     section 232I (Transactions under Domestic Relationships Act 1994,
s 33 (1) (d)).
     (9)     In this section:
"personal relationship financial agreement"
means--
         (a)     a financial agreement made under the Family Law Act 1975 
 (Cwlth), section 90B, section 90C or section 90D that is binding on
the parties under that Act; or
         (b)     a part 8AB financial agreement made under the Family Law Act 1975 
 (Cwlth), section 90UB, section 90UC or section 90UD that is binding
on the parties under that Act; or
         (c)     a domestic relationship agreement or termination agreement under the
Domestic
Relationships Act 1994
.
"related person"--see section 77A (3).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 18
Rate of duty 
Duty is payable on the dutiable value of the dutiable property subject to
the dutiable transaction at the relevant rate set out in
part 2.3.
Note     Exemptions from duty payable under this chapter are dealt with
in pt 2.5.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 20
What is the dutiable value of dutiable property? 
     (1)     The dutiable value of dutiable property that is subject
to a dutiable transaction is the greater of--
         (a)     the consideration (if any) for the dutiable transaction (being the
amount of a monetary consideration or the value of a non-monetary
consideration); and
         (b)     whichever of the following applies:
               (i)     for a land rent lease--the amount that would be the unencumbered
value of the lease if it were a Crown lease that is not a land rent
lease;
               (ii)     for any other dutiable property--the unencumbered value of the
dutiable property.
     (2)     The dutiable value of a dutiable transaction that is the
transfer of a commercial lease with premium is the amount of the
premium.
     (3)     However, if the lease is granted for more than 1 purpose including
commercial purposes, the dutiable value is worked out as follows:
PxDV
"DV "means the dutiable value mentioned in subsection
(2).
"P" means the percentage of the land the subject of the lease,
determined by the commissioner, that is used for commercial purposes.
     (4)     A determination is a disallowable instrument.
     (5)     The dutiable value of a partnership interest mentioned
in section 28 is to be determined in accordance with that section.
     (6)     In this section:
"land rent lease"--see the Land Rent Act 2008
, dictionary.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 21
What is the consideration for the transfer of dutiable property? 
     (1)     The consideration for the transfer of dutiable property is taken to
include the amount or value of all encumbrances, whether certain or contingent,
subject to which the dutiable property is transferred.
     (2)     The consideration for the transfer of the interest of a transferee
under an uncompleted agreement for the sale or transfer of dutiable property is
taken to include the balance of the amount or value of the consideration that
would be required from the transferee under the agreement to complete it in
accordance with its terms.
     (3)     If a Crown lease, or declared land sublease, is granted subject to a
requirement that the lessee, or sublessee, carry out, or cause to be carried
out, works on land other than the land the subject of the lease, or sublease,
the cost of carrying out the works is taken to form part of the consideration
for the lease or sublease.
     (4)     If a Crown lease is granted--
         (a)     for an initial term; and
         (b)     subject to a right provided by the lease for the lessee to be granted
a further term (whether or not the exercise of that right is subject to
conditions);
the lease is taken to be granted for a term equal to the aggregate of the
initial term and the further term, up to a maximum of 99 years, and the
consideration for the lease is taken to be the aggregate of--
         (c)     any lump sum paid for the grant of the lease; and
         (d)     any lump sum payable for renewal of the lease; and
         (e)     the rent payable under the lease during the term for which it is taken
to have been granted; and
         (f)     any costs that are taken to form part of the consideration under
subsection (3).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 22
What is the unencumbered value of dutiable property? 
     (1)     The unencumbered value of dutiable property is the value
of the property determined without regard to any encumbrance to which the
property is subject.
     (2)     If, before land is transferred to a transferee, the transferee has
made improvements to the land, the unencumbered value of the land is to be
determined as if those improvements had not been made.
     (3)     The unencumbered value of a Crown lease at the time it
is granted is, for this chapter, taken to be the amount determined by the
granting body to be that value.
     (4)     However, if the commissioner is not satisfied with the amount
determined by the granting body of a Crown lease to be the unencumbered value of
the lease, the commissioner may--
         (a)     have the Crown lease valued as at the time it was granted;
and
         (b)     determine the unencumbered value of the lease in accordance with the
valuation.
     (5)     If the granting body of a Crown lease did not determine the value of
the lease at the time it was granted, the commissioner may--
         (a)     have the Crown lease valued as at the time it was granted;
and
         (b)     determine the unencumbered value of the lease in accordance with the
valuation.
     (6)     In determining the unencumbered value of a Crown lease at the time it
is or was granted, the granting body or a person making a valuation of the lease
under subsection (4) (a) or (5) (a) must assume--
         (a)     that the consideration for the lease is or was to be paid as a lump
sum; and
         (b)     that the lessee is not obliged by the lease to carry out any works, or
to cause any works to be carried out, on the land leased or elsewhere.
     (7)     The commissioner may recover from the lessee under a Crown
lease--
         (a)     the cost of getting a valuation under subsection (4) if the value of
the Crown lease shown by the valuation was more than the value of the lease
determined by the granting authority; or
         (b)     the cost of getting a valuation under subsection (5).
     (8)     In this section:
"grant", of a Crown lease over a parcel of land, includes the
grant of a second or subsequent lease over the same parcel.
"granting body", in relation to a Crown lease, means the
administrative unit or other entity responsible for arranging the
grant.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 23
Arrangements that reduce dutiable value 
If any arrangement affecting the dutiable value of dutiable property that
was entered into within 12 months before a dutiable transaction was brought
about by any person with the intention of reducing the dutiable value of the
dutiable property, the commissioner may--
         (a)     cause a valuation of the dutiable property to be made; and
         (b)     direct the valuer to disregard the arrangement for the purposes of the
valuation; and
         (c)     assess duty on the basis of the valuation carried out in accordance
with the direction.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 24
Aggregation of dutiable transactions 
     (1)     Dutiable transactions relating to separate items of dutiable property,
or separate parts of, or interests in, dutiable property are to be aggregated
and treated as a single dutiable transaction if--
         (a)     they occur within 12 months; and
         (b)     the transferee is the same or the transferees are associated people;
and
         (c)     the dutiable transactions together form, evidence, give effect to or
arise from what is, substantially, 1 arrangement relating to all of the items or
parts of, or interests in, the dutiable property.
     (2)     Dutiable transactions are not to be aggregated under this section if
the commissioner is satisfied--
         (a)     that the transactions are for the purpose of acquiring 2 or more
blocks of land in the same subdivision for the purpose of developing the blocks
for resale; or
         (b)     that the transactions are for the purpose of purchasing 2 or more
units in the same units plan under the Unit Titles Act 2001
 for the purpose of investment; or
         (c)     that the transactions are for the purpose of acquiring 2 or more
parcels of shares in a company or 2 or more parcels of units in a units trust
scheme which parcels either alone or together with a lease or licence give an
entitlement to occupy 2 or more areas that are on a single parcel of land;
or
         (d)     that it would not be just and reasonable for the transactions to be so
aggregated.
     (3)     The dutiable value of aggregated dutiable property is the sum of the
dutiable values of the items or parts of, or the interests in, the dutiable
property as at the time when each dutiable transaction occurs.
     (4)     The amount of duty payable in accordance with this section is to be
reduced by the amount of any ad valorem duty paid on a prior dutiable
transaction that is, or prior dutiable transactions that are, aggregated in
accordance with this section.
     (5)     Duty may be apportioned to the instruments effecting or evidencing the
dutiable transactions, or may be payable in accordance with section 17 (1), as
determined by the commissioner.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 25
Value of goods in certain transactions also involving other 
property
The commissioner, if satisfied that it would not be just and reasonable in
the circumstances to charge duty on the dutiable value of all the dutiable
property in a dutiable transaction involving goods and other property, may
disregard the value of the goods, or any of them, in determining the dutiable
value of the property involved.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 26
Apportionment--dutiable property and other property 
     (1)     If a dutiable transaction relates to dutiable property and property
that is not dutiable property, duty is payable under this chapter in relation to
the dutiable transaction only to the extent that it relates to dutiable
property.
     (2)     If a dutiable transaction relates to different types of dutiable
property for which different rates of duty are payable under this chapter, duty
is payable under this chapter in relation to the dutiable transaction as if a
separate dutiable transaction had occurred in relation to each such type of
dutiable property.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 28
Partnership interests 
The dutiable value of a partnership interest (DV) is to be
determined in accordance with the following formula:
  

"A" means the value of the partnership interest, or so much of
the consideration for the dutiable transaction as relates to the partnership
interest, whichever is the greater.
"X" means the unencumbered value of all dutiable property of
the partnership.
"Y" means the unencumbered value of all assets of the
partnership.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 29
Partitions
     (1)     For this section, a partition occurs when property (some or all of
which is dutiable property) that is held by people jointly (as joint tenants or
tenants in common) and beneficially is transferred or agreed to be transferred
to 1 or more of those people.
     (2)     For this section, section 15 and section 17, a partition is taken to
be a single dutiable transaction.
     (3)     The dutiable value of a partition (DV) is to be
determined in accordance with the following formula:
  

"A" means the sum of the amounts by which the unencumbered
value of the property transferred or agreed to be transferred to a person
exceeds the unencumbered value of the interest held by the person in that
property immediately before the partition, or the sum of any consideration for
the partition paid by any of the parties, whichever is the greater.
"X" means the unencumbered value of all dutiable property the
subject of the partition.
"Y" means the unencumbered value of all property the subject of
the partition.
     (4)     Duty payable under this section is payable by the people making the
partition or any 1 or more of them.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 30
Effect of alteration in purchase price 
     (1)     If after an agreement for the sale or transfer of dutiable property is
entered into and before the property is transferred--
         (a)     the consideration under the agreement is reduced and the reduced
consideration is not less than the unencumbered value of the dutiable property
when the consideration was reduced; or
         (b)     the consideration under the agreement is reduced because the parties
have agreed not to transfer some of the dutiable property previously agreed to
be transferred and the reduced consideration is not less than the unencumbered
value of the dutiable property that remained to be transferred when the
consideration was reduced; or
         (c)     the consideration under the agreement is increased and the dutiable
value when the consideration was increased is greater than the dutiable value
when the agreement was entered into;
the commissioner must assess or reassess the liability to duty of the
agreement in accordance with the change in the consideration.
     (2)     The liability to pay additional duty arising from an increase in the
consideration occurs on the day when the consideration is agreed to be
increased.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 31
General rate 
Except as provided by this chapter, duty at the determined rate is payable
on a dutiable transaction.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 33
Certain business assets 
     (1)     Duty is payable at the determined rate on a dutiable transaction so
far as it is in relation to--
         (a)     a partnership interest so far as it is not--
               (i)     an interest in property mentioned in section 10 (1) (a), (b)
or (d); or
               (ii)     an interest in property mentioned in section 10 (1) (i)
that is dutiable property mentioned in section 10 (1) (a), (b) or (d);
or
         (b)     an interest in property mentioned in section 10 (1) (i), other than an
interest in dutiable property mentioned in section 10 (1) (a), (b), or
        (d).
     (2)     The proportion of the dutiable value of a partnership interest for
which duty is payable under subsection (1) (a) is--
         (a)     if no interest in property of a kind mentioned in
subsection (1) (a) (i) or (ii) is transferred as a result of the
transfer of the partnership interest--the whole of the value of the
partnership interest; or
         (b)     if an interest in property of a kind mentioned in either of those
subparagraphs is transferred as a result of the transfer of the partnership
interest--the proportion of the value of the partnership interest that is
equal to the proportion of so much of the unencumbered value of all the dutiable
assets of the partnership as is not constituted by the unencumbered value of the
dutiable assets of the partnership that are property of a kind mentioned in
either of those subparagraphs.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 50
Cancelled agreements 
Duty under this chapter is payable in relation to an agreement for the sale
or transfer of dutiable property that is cancelled only if the agreement was
cancelled to give effect to a subsale.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 50A
Cancelled transfer of dutiable property 
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a transfer of
dutiable property by instrument if the commissioner is satisfied
that--
         (a)     the transfer instrument is cancelled and the dutiable property is not
transferred to the transferee; and
         (b)     the transfer was not cancelled to give effect to a subsale.
     (2)     The commissioner must reassess and refund duty paid on a transfer of
dutiable property if--
         (a)     duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to the transfer
because of this section; and
         (b)     an application for a refund is made within 5 years after the initial
assessment.
     (3)     The transfer instrument must be surrendered to the commissioner unless
the commissioner dispenses with that requirement.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 51
Grant of certain Crown leases on surrender of development leases 
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable on the grant of a Crown lease
(the new lease) on the surrender of a development lease
if--
         (a)     the new lease is granted to the person who was the lessee under the
development lease at the time of its surrender; and
         (b)     the whole of the land comprised in the new lease is land that was
comprised in the development lease.
     (2)     If--
         (a)     a Crown lease (the new lease) is granted on the
surrender of a development lease; and
         (b)     the new lease is granted to the person who was the lessee under the
development lease at the time of its surrender; and
         (c)     only part of the land comprised in the new lease is land that was
comprised in the development lease;
the duty payable on the new lease is the amount of duty that would have
been payable on the new lease under part 2.3 less the amount of duty that would
have been payable under part 2.3 on the grant of a Crown lease over the land
that was comprised in the development lease, if the Crown lease had been granted
on the same terms as the new lease.
     (3)     This section applies to a declared land sublease as if it were a Crown
lease.
     (4)     In this section:
"development lease" means a Crown lease or declared land
sublease that is expressed to be granted for the purpose of developing the land
comprised in the lease or sublease for subdivision and resale.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 52
Refund if Crown lease surrendered 
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     an amount of duty has been paid on a grant of a Crown lease;
and
         (b)     the lease is surrendered or terminated; and
         (c)     part or all of the amount paid in relation to the grant of the lease
is refunded under the Planning Act 2023 
, section 364 (Refund on lease surrender or termination).
     (2)     An amount calculated in accordance with the following formula must be
refunded to the person who paid the duty:
 

     (3)     In subsection (2):
"D" means the amount of duty.
"R" means the amount that would be refundable under the Planning Act 2023
, section 364 if no deduction were made for administrative
expenses.
"P" means the amount paid for the grant of the lease.
     (4)     However, a refund of duty is payable to a person only if the person
applies to the commissioner for the refund.
     (5)     An application for a refund of duty must--
         (a)     be in writing; and
         (b)     be made not later than 1 year after the refund mentioned in
subsection (1) (c) is made; and
         (c)     contain the information the commissioner requires to allow the amount
of the refund to be worked out.
     (6)     This section applies to a declared land sublease as
if--
         (a)     it were a Crown lease; and
         (b)     any amount paid to the sublessee by the sublessor under the terms of
the sublease because of the surrender or termination of the sublease were an
amount refunded under the Planning Act 2023
, section 364.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 53
Transfers arising from mortgages of land 
     (1)     The mortgagor and the mortgagee are jointly and severally liable to
pay the duty payable on a transfer by way of mortgage of dutiable property that
is territory land.
     (2)     If the commissioner is satisfied that--
         (a)     duty has been paid in accordance with this section on a transfer of
dutiable property to which this section applies; and
         (b)     the dutiable property has been re-transferred to the mortgagor (or a
person to whom the land has been transmitted by death or bankruptcy) and the
mortgagor (or person) is the registered proprietor of the land;
the commissioner must refund the ad valorem duty paid on the
transfer.
Note     The exemptions from duty provided under this part are in
addition to the exemptions under ch 11 (General exemptions from duty).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 54
Change in trustees 
     (1)     In this section:
"new trustee" means a trustee appointed in substitution for a
trustee or a trustee appointed in addition to a trustee or trustees.
     (2)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a transfer of
dutiable property to a person as a consequence of the retirement of a trustee or
the appointment of a new trustee, if the commissioner is satisfied that, as the
case may be--
         (a)     except for a responsible entity of a managed investment
scheme--none of the continuing trustees remaining after the retirement of a
trustee is or can become a beneficiary under the trust; and
         (b)     except for a responsible entity of a managed investment
scheme--none of the trustees of the trust after the appointment of a new
trustee is or can become a beneficiary under the trust; and
         (c)     except if a responsible entity of a managed investment scheme acquires
a beneficial interest in the managed investment scheme solely as a consequence
of its appointment as the responsible entity--the transfer is not part of a
scheme for conferring an interest, in relation to the trust property, on a new
trustee or any other person, whether as a beneficiary or otherwise, to the
detriment of the beneficial interest or potential beneficial interest of any
person; and
         (d)     the transfer is not made in connection with a tax avoidance
scheme;
and, if the commissioner is not so satisfied, the same duty is payable in
relation to the transfer as a transfer to a beneficiary under and in conformity
with the trusts subject to which the property is held.
     (3)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a transfer of
dutiable property to a responsible entity if the commissioner is satisfied that
the transfer is necessary to enable an undertaking that existed before 1 July
1998 to become a registered scheme.
     (4)     Duty under this chapter is also not payable in relation to a transfer
of dutiable property to a person as a consequence of the retirement of a trustee
or the appointment of a new trustee for a self managed superannuation fund
within the meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993
 (Cwlth).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 55
Transfer to custodian of managed investment scheme 
Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a transfer of
dutiable property if the commissioner is satisfied that the transfer
is--
         (a)     from a responsible entity of a managed investment scheme or a trustee
of the responsible entity; and
         (b)     to a custodian or agent of the responsible entity.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 55A
Transfers in relation to managed investment schemes 
Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a transfer of
dutiable property if the commissioner is satisfied that the transfer
is--
         (a)     from the responsible entity of a managed investment scheme to a
custodian or agent of the responsible entity as custodian or agent of the
scheme; or
         (b)     from a custodian or agent of the responsible entity of a managed
investment scheme as custodian or agent of the scheme to the responsible
entity.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 55B
Transfers in relation to registered schemes 
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a transfer of
dutiable property if the commissioner is satisfied that the transfer is by a
trustee of a registered scheme to a custodian or agent of the responsible entity
of the scheme as custodian or agent of the scheme.
     (2)     However, subsection (1) only applies if the commissioner is satisfied
that--
         (a)     before 1 July 1998 the scheme was a prescribed interest scheme;
and
         (b)     when the scheme became a registered scheme the trustee held the
dutiable property as a trustee of the scheme.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 56
Property vested in apparent purchaser 
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to--
         (a)     a declaration of trust made by an apparent purchaser in relation to
identified dutiable property if the commissioner is satisfied--
               (i)     that the property is vested in the apparent purchaser on trust for the
real purchaser who provided the money for the purchase of the dutiable property;
or 
               (ii)     that--
     (A)     the property is to be vested in the apparent purchaser on trust for
the real purchaser; and
     (B)     the money for the purchase of the dutiable property has been or will
be provided by the real purchaser; or
         (b)     a transfer of dutiable property from an apparent purchaser to the real
purchaser if the commissioner is satisfied that the dutiable property is vested
in an apparent purchaser on trust for the real purchaser who provided the money
for the purchase of the dutiable property.
     (2)     In this section:
"purchase" includes an allotment.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 57
Transfers back from trustee 
     (1)     If--
         (a)     dutiable property that was transferred to a person to be held by that
person as trustee for the transferor is transferred back to the transferor by
the trustee for no consideration; and 
         (b)     no person other than the transferor has had a beneficial interest in
the dutiable property (other than the trustee's right of indemnity)
between its transfer to the trustee and its transfer back to the
transferor;
duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to the transfer of the
dutiable property back to the transferor.
     (2)     If duty is not payable under subsection (1) on the transfer of
dutiable property back from the trustee to the transferor--
         (a)     duty is not payable in relation to the initial transfer from the
transferor to the trustee; and
         (b)     the commissioner must reassess the initial transfer and refund any
duty paid on application for a refund made within 5 years after the initial
assessment, or 12 months after the transfer back to the transferor, whichever is
later.
     (3)     In this section:
"trustee" includes a trustee appointed in substitution for a
trustee or a trustee appointed in addition to a trustee or trustees.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 58
Property passing to beneficiaries 
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a transfer for
no consideration of dutiable property to a beneficiary made under and in
conformity with the trusts contained in a declaration of trust.
     (2)     However, subsection (1) applies--
         (a)     only to the extent that the property being transferred is property
that the commissioner is satisfied is--
               (i)     wholly or substantially the same as the dutiable property the subject
of the declaration and that--
     (A)     duty payable under this Act has been paid in relation to the
declaration of trust over that property; or
     (B)     duty is not payable under this Act in relation to the declaration of
trust; or
               (ii)     dutiable property representing the proceeds of reinvestment of
property mentioned in paragraph (a); or
               (iii)     property to which both paragraphs (a) and (b) apply; and
         (b)     only if the commissioner is satisfied that the transferee was a
beneficiary when the liability for duty in relation to the declaration of trust
arose.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 60
Declaration of trust relating to managed investment scheme 
Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a declaration of
trust if the commissioner is satisfied that the declaration is
made--
         (a)     by a trustee in relation to dutiable property that, immediately before
the trust is declared, is held by the trustee as trustee of the responsible
entity of a managed investment scheme; and
         (b)     for the purpose of holding the dutiable property on trust for the
responsible entity of the managed investment scheme.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 62
Transfer of property from one superannuation fund to another 
     (1)     This section applies to the transfer of dutiable property from one
superannuation fund to another for no consideration if the commissioner is
satisfied that--
         (a)     the transfer is made from a complying superannuation fund or from a
fund that was a complying superannuation fund within the 12 month period before
the transfer was made; and
         (b)     the transfer is made to a complying superannuation fund or to a
superannuation fund that, in the opinion of the trustees, will be a complying
superannuation fund within 12 months after the transfer is made; and
         (c)     the transfer occurs in connection with a person's ceasing to be
a member of, or otherwise ceasing to be entitled to benefits in respect of, the
fund from which the dutiable property is transferred and the person's
becoming a member of, or otherwise becoming entitled to benefits in respect of,
the fund to which the dutiable property is transferred.
     (2)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a transfer to
which this section applies.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 63
Transfers between trustees and custodians of superannuation funds or 
trusts
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to the following
transactions:
         (a)     a transfer of, or an agreement to transfer, dutiable property from a
trustee of a relevant fund or trust to a custodian of the trustee of the fund or
trust, if the commissioner is satisfied that there is no change in the
beneficial ownership of the property;
         (b)     a transfer of, or an agreement to transfer, dutiable property from a
custodian of a trustee of a relevant fund or trust to a trustee of the fund or
trust, if the commissioner is satisfied that there is no change in the
beneficial ownership of the property;
         (c)     a transfer of, or an agreement to transfer, dutiable property from a
custodian of a trustee of a relevant fund or trust to another custodian of the
trustee of the fund or trust, if the commissioner is satisfied that there is no
change in the beneficial ownership of the property.
     (2)     In this section:
"pooled superannuation trust" means an entity that is a pooled
superannuation trust under the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 
 (Cwlth), section 44.
"relevant fund or trust", in relation to the transfer of
dutiable property, means--
         (a)     a complying superannuation fund; or
         (b)     a pooled superannuation trust; or
         (c)     a fund or trust that, in the trustees' opinion, will be a
complying superannuation fund or a pooled superannuation trust within
12 months after the day the transfer takes effect.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 64
Meaning of financial institution--div 2.5.2A 
In this division:
"financial institution" means--
         (a)     an authorised deposit-taking institution; or
         (b)     a co-operative under the Co-operatives National Law (ACT);
or
         (c)     a body prescribed by regulation.
Note     The Co-operatives National Law (ACT) Act 2017 
, s 7 applies the Co-operatives National Law set out in the Co-operatives (Adoption of National Law) Act 2012
 (NSW), appendix as if it were an ACT law called the Co-operatives
National Law (ACT).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 64A
Land transferred to financial institution and individual then leased and transferred 
to individual
     (1)     This section applies if, under a scheme between an individual and a
financial institution--
         (a)     a person transfers land in the ACT to the individual and the financial
institution as co-owners (the first transfer); and
         (b)     at the time of the first transfer, the financial institution leases
the land to the individual for a fixed period; and
         (c)     the financial institution transfers the land to the individual
(the "second transfer") at the end of--
               (i)     the fixed period; or
               (ii)     another period agreed by the financial institution and the
individual.
     (2)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to the second
transfer.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 64B
Land transferred to financial institution then transferred to 
individual
     (1)     This section applies if, under a scheme between an individual and a
financial institution--
         (a)     the individual, acting as an agent for the financial institution,
enters into a contract of sale for land in the ACT with another person;
and
         (b)     the other person transfers the land to the financial institution under
the contract (the first transfer); and
         (c)     at the time of the first transfer, the individual enters into a
contract of sale for the land with the financial institution; and
         (d)     the financial institution transfers the land to the individual under
the contract mentioned in paragraph (c) (the second
transfer).
     (2)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to the second
transfer.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 64C
Land transferred to financial institution then leased and transferred to 
individual
     (1)     This section applies if, under a scheme between an individual and a
financial institution--
         (a)     the individual, acting as an agent for the financial institution,
enters into a contract of sale for land in the ACT with another person;
and
         (b)     the other person transfers the land to the financial institution under
the contract (the first transfer); and
         (c)     at the time of the first transfer, the financial institution leases
the land to the individual for a fixed period under an
agreement--
               (i)     between the financial institution and the individual; and
               (ii)     that gives an option to the individual to purchase the land at the
end of the fixed period or another period agreed by the parties to the
agreement; and
         (d)     at the end of the period--
               (i)     the individual exercises the option to purchase the land under the
agreement; and
               (ii)     the financial institution transfers the land to the individual for
consideration agreed by the parties to the agreement (the second
transfer).
     (2)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to--
         (a)     the agreement; or
         (b)     the second transfer.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 64D
Land transferred to individual with beneficial interest transferred to financial 
institution
     (1)     This section applies if, under a scheme between an individual and a
financial institution--
         (a)     a person transfers land in the ACT to the individual (the first
transfer); and
         (b)     at the time of the first transfer--
               (i)     the individual declares a trust in favour of the financial institution
in relation to the individual's beneficial interest in the land;
and
               (ii)     the financial institution leases the beneficial interest to the
individual for a fixed period; and
         (c)     at the end of the fixed period or another period agreed by the
individual and the financial institution, the beneficial interest is transferred
to the individual (the second transfer).
     (2)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to--
         (a)     the declaration of trust; or
         (b)     the second transfer.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 64E
Change of financial institution 
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     an individual and a financial institution enter into a scheme in
relation to land in the ACT under section 64A, section 64B,
section 64C or section 64D; and
         (b)     the financial institution transfers the land to another financial
institution (the first transfer) on the condition that the other
financial institution will transfer the land to the individual in accordance
with the scheme; and
         (c)     the other financial institution transfers the land to the individual
in accordance with the scheme (the second transfer).
     (2)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to the first
transfer or second transfer.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 64F
Individual dies before arrangement completed 
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     an individual and a financial institution enter into a scheme in
relation to land in the ACT under section 64A, section 64B,
section 64C or section 64D; and
         (b)     the individual dies before a transfer could take place
under--
               (i)     section 64A (1) (c); or
               (ii)     section 64B (1) (d); or
               (iii)     section 64C (1) (d) (ii); or
               (iv)     section 64D (1) (c).
     (2)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to the transfer of
any interest in the land under the scheme from the individual or financial
institution to another individual--
         (a)     in conformity with the trusts contained in the will of the individual
or arising on an intestacy; or
         (b)     because of a right of survivorship; or
         (c)     under the Administration and Probate Act 1929 
--
               (i)     section 38A (Estate to vest in public trustee and guardian until
grant); or
               (ii)     section 39 (Real and personal estate to vest in executor or
administrator).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 65
Transfer of land under Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Act 2009 
(Cwlth)
Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a transfer of land if
the commissioner is satisfied that the transfer is made in accordance with the
Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Act 2009 
 (Cwlth), section 82.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 66
Conveyances to prescribed people 
Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a grant or transfer
of land to a person if the commissioner is satisfied that the person is a
prescribed person.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 67
Conversion of property to unit title 
Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to the transfer of a
unit within the meaning of the Unit Titles Act 2001
 if the commissioner is satisfied that--
         (a)     the transferee, immediately before registration of the units plan,
held a land use entitlement in respect of the land or part of the land the
subject of the units plan; and
         (b)     the transfer is part of an arrangement under which the transferee will
take an interest in the unit similar in effect to and in substitution for the
interest the transferee had under the land use entitlement immediately before
registration of the units plan.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 68
Surrender and regrant of Crown lease 
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable for the grant of a new Crown
lease to the lessee under a previous Crown lease because of the surrender of the
previous lease if the commissioner is satisfied that the surrender was only for
1 or more of the following purposes:
         (a)     changing the purpose for which the land comprised in the lease may be
used;
         (b)     granting the lessee a longer leasehold interest in the land comprised
in the lease;
         (c)     reducing rent to not more than 5 cents a year;
         (d)     correcting errors or omissions.
     (2)     Duty under this chapter is not payable for the grant of new Crown
leases to a lessee under a previous Crown lease because of the surrender of the
previous lease if the commissioner is satisfied that the surrender was only
for--
         (a)     subdividing the land comprised in the surrendered lease; or
         (b)     that purpose and 1 or more of the purposes mentioned in subsection (1)
        (a) to (d).
     (3)     Duty under this chapter is not payable for the grant of a new Crown
lease to a lessee under 2 or more previous Crown leases because of the surrender
of the previous leases if the commissioner is satisfied that the surrender was
only for--
         (a)     consolidating the land comprised in the surrendered leases;
or
         (b)     that purpose and 1 or more of the purposes mentioned in subsection (1)
        (a) to (d).
     (4)     This section applies to a declared land sublease as if it were a Crown
lease.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 68A
Regrant of lease with additional land 
     (1)     If--
         (a)     a Crown lease is granted to a lessee under a previous Crown lease
because of the surrender of the previous lease; and
         (b)     the land comprised in the new lease is all or part of the land
comprised in the surrendered lease and additional land;
duty is payable only on the transfer of the interest in the additional
land.
     (2)     This section applies to a declared land sublease as if it were a Crown
lease.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 71
Bankruptcy or insolvency 
Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a dutiable
transaction if the commissioner is satisfied that--
         (a)     it occurs as a consequence of the appointment of a receiver or trustee
in bankruptcy; or
         (b)     it occurs as a consequence of the appointment of a liquidator;
or
         (c)     it is a transfer of dutiable property for no consideration to a former
bankrupt from the estate of the former bankrupt.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 72
Transfer to partner of interest in principal place of residence 
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a transfer by
someone to the person's partner of dutiable property consisting of an
interest in property if the commissioner is satisfied that, at the date of
transfer of the interest, the property is used as their principal place of
residence.
Note     The dictionary defines partner as a
person's spouse or someone with whom the person has a domestic
relationship. Domestic relationship is defined in the dictionary
to have the same meaning as in the Domestic Relationships Act 1994
, s 3.
     (2)     However, subsection (1) only applies if the transfer results in the
property being held by the partners as--
         (a)     joint tenants; or
         (b)     tenants in common in equal shares; or
         (c)     tenants in common in shares that are proportionate to the
contributions of the partners towards the purchase and improvement of the
property; or
         (d)     tenants in common in shares that are in proportions prescribed by
regulation.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 73A
Transfers etc to entities for community housing 
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a dutiable
transaction that is a transfer or grant of a residential lease
if--
         (a)     the transfer or grant is to an entity declared by the Minister;
and
         (b)     the commissioner is satisfied that the property the subject of the
transfer or grant is to be used for community housing.
     (2)     A declaration is a disallowable instrument.
     (3)     The Minister may declare an entity only if satisfied that the entity
is a provider of community housing in the ACT.
     (4)     In this section:
"community housing" means housing provided for--
         (a)     people on low and moderate incomes or with special needs; or
         (b)     nonprofit community organisations.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 73B
Transfers etc to special disability trusts 
Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a dutiable
transaction that is a transfer or grant of a residential lease
if--
         (a)     the transfer or grant is to a special disability trust; and
         (b)     the commissioner is satisfied that the property the subject of the
transfer or grant is to be used as the principal place of residence of the
beneficiary of the trust.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 74
Transfers relating to mortgages 
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a dutiable
transaction if it is--
         (a)     a dutiable transaction over dutiable property arising from the
discharge or transfer of a mortgage or declaration of trust over a mortgage;
or
         (b)     a dutiable transaction comprising--
               (i)     a transfer by way of discharge of mortgage; or 
               (ii)     a transfer by way of mortgage (other than a transfer by way of
mortgage of land, or an estate or interest in land, under the Land Titles Act 1925
).
     (2)     In this section:
"mortgage" means any charge on dutiable property created merely
for securing a debt.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 74A
Financial and other agreements 
Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to--
         (a)     a financial agreement made under the Family Law Act 1975 
 (Cwlth), section 90B, section 90C or section 90D that is binding on the
parties under that Act; or
         (b)     a part 8AB financial agreement made under the Family Law Act 1975 
 (Cwlth), section 90UB, section 90UC or section 90UD that is binding
on the parties under that Act; or
         (c)     a domestic relationship agreement, or a termination agreement, under
the Domestic Relationships Act 1994 
.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 75
Definitions--div 2.6A.1
In this division:
"deferral arrangement"--see
section 75AC (2).
"eligible person" means a person who--
         (a)     is an eligible home buyer under the home buyer concession scheme;
or
         (b)     is eligible for a first home owner grant under the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000
; or
         (c)     would be eligible for a first home owner grant under the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000
 apart from the person's home not being a new home under that
Act 
, section 12B.
Note     A reference to an Act includes a reference to the statutory
instruments made or in force under the Act, including any regulation (see Legislation Act 
, s 104).
"eligible property"--see section 75A (1).
"home buyer concession scheme" means a home buyer concession
scheme determined under the Taxation Administration Act
, section 139 (Determination of amounts payable under tax
laws).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 75A
Meaning of eligible property--div 2.6A.1 
     (1)     In this division:
"eligible property" means--
         (a)     for a home buyer concession scheme--property determined under the
scheme as eligible property for the scheme; or
         (b)     in any other case--a residential lease with a value not more
than--
               (i)     $750 000; or
               (ii)     if another amount is determined by the Minister--the amount
determined.
     (2)     A determination under subsection (1) (b) (ii) is a
disallowable instrument.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 75AB
Application to defer payment of duty 
     (1)     An eligible person may apply to the commissioner to defer payment of
duty payable by the person on a dutiable transaction that is--
         (a)     the transfer of an eligible property; or
         (b)     an agreement for the sale or transfer of an eligible
property.
     (2)     The application must be made at the same time as the instrument
effecting the dutiable transaction is lodged with the registrar-general under
the Land
Titles Act 1925
, section 47C (Registration of instruments effecting dutiable
transaction).
     (3)     If there is more than 1 transferee or purchaser of the property, each
transferee or purchaser must be an eligible person.
     (4)     An applicant must provide the commissioner with any information the
commissioner reasonably requires to decide the application.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 75AC
Approval to defer payment of duty 
     (1)     The commissioner must, on receipt of an application under
section 75AB, approve the deferral of payment of duty payable by the
applicant if--
         (a)     the applicant is an eligible person; and
         (b)     the duty is, or would be, payable on--
               (i)     the transfer of an eligible property; or
               (ii)     an agreement for the sale or transfer of an eligible
property.
     (2)     However, an approval under subsection (1) is subject to the person
entering into an arrangement with the commissioner under the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 52 (Arrangements for payment of tax) about payment of the amount
of deferred duty and interest (a deferral arrangement).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 75AD
Conditions of deferral arrangement 
     (1)     The conditions of a deferral arrangement include the
following:
         (a)     that payment, or the first instalment of payment, of the duty may be
deferred for not more than 5 years after the day duty becomes payable in
relation to the dutiable transaction;
         (b)     that the duty, and any accrued interest, must be paid not later than
10 years after the day duty becomes payable in relation to the dutiable
transaction;
         (c)     that the amount of duty deferred must be at least--
               (i)     $1 000; or
               (ii)     if a greater amount is declared under subsection (2) (b)--the
amount declared;
         (d)     any other condition determined under subsection (2).
     (2)     The Minister may determine other conditions, consistent with
subsection (1) (a) to (c), to which a deferral arrangement is subject, including
conditions to fix--
         (a)     the rate of interest charged on the amount payable under the
arrangement; and
         (b)     an amount for subsection (1) (c) (ii).
     (3)     A determination is a disallowable instrument.
     (4)     This section does not limit the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 52 but any arrangement under that section about deferred
payment of duty under this division must not be inconsistent with conditions
under subsection (1).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 75AE
Unpaid duty and interest a debt and charge on property 
     (1)     The amount payable under a deferral arrangement is a debt owing to the
Territory.
     (2)     The liability of a person under a deferral arrangement is a first
charge on the person's interest in the property to which the deferred
payment of duty relates.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 75AF
Definitions--div 2.6A.2
In this division:
"deferral arrangement"--see section
75AI (2).
"duty deferral scheme"--see
section 75AG (1).
"eligible person", for a duty deferral scheme--see
section 75AG (2) (a).
"eligible transaction", for a duty deferral scheme--see
section 75AG (2) (b).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 75AG
Duty deferral schemes--determination 
     (1)     The Minister may determine a scheme for deferring duty (a duty
deferral scheme).
     (2)     A duty deferral scheme must identify the following:
         (a)     who is eligible to participate in the scheme (an eligible
person);
         (b)     the dutiable transactions on which duty may be deferred under the
scheme (an eligible transaction).
     (3)     A duty deferral scheme may provide for--
         (a)     how applications for duty deferral are to be made under the scheme;
and
         (b)     conditions to which a deferral arrangement may be subject, including
conditions to fix--
               (i)     the rate of interest charged on the amount payable under the
arrangement; and
               (ii)     an amount for
section 75AJ (1) (a) (ii).
     (4)     A determination is a disallowable instrument.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 75AH
Duty deferral schemes--application to defer payment of duty 

     (1)     An eligible person for a duty deferral scheme may apply to the
commissioner to defer payment of duty payable by the person on an eligible
transaction for the scheme.
     (2)     The application must be made--
         (a)     in accordance with any requirements under the duty deferral scheme;
and
         (b)     at the same time as the instrument effecting the dutiable transaction
is lodged with the registrar-general under the Land Titles Act 1925
, section 47C (Registration of instruments effecting dutiable
transaction).
     (3)     The eligible person must provide the commissioner with any information
the commissioner reasonably requires to decide the application.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 75AI
Duty deferral schemes--approval to defer payment of duty 
     (1)     The commissioner must approve an application under section 75AH
if--
         (a)     the applicant is an eligible person for a duty deferral scheme;
and
         (b)     duty is, or would be, payable on the eligible transaction for the
scheme.
     (2)     However, an approval under subsection (1) is subject to the
applicant entering into an arrangement under the Taxation Administration Act
, section 52 (Arrangements for payment of tax) about payment of the
amount of the deferred duty and interest (a deferral
arrangement).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 75AJ
Duty deferral schemes--conditions of deferral arrangement 
     (1)     The conditions of a deferral arrangement include the
following:
         (a)     that the amount of duty deferred must be at least--
               (i)     $1 000; or
               (ii)     if a greater amount is required under the duty deferral
scheme--the amount required;
         (b)     any other condition required under the duty deferral scheme.
     (2)     This section does not limit the Taxation Administration Act
, section 52 (Arrangements for payment of tax), but any arrangement
under that section about deferred payment of duty under this division must not
be inconsistent with conditions under subsection (1).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 75AK
Duty deferral schemes--unpaid duty and interest a debt and charge on 
property
     (1)     The amount payable under a deferral arrangement is a debt owing to the
Territory.
     (2)     The liability of a person under a deferral arrangement is a first
charge on the person's interest in the property to which the deferred
payment of duty relates.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 76
Meaning of chapter 3 transaction 
In this Act:
chapter 3 transaction means--
         (a)     an acquisition of an interest in a landholder under part 3.2;
or
         (b)     an acquisition of a land use entitlement under part 3.4;
or
         (c)     a voluntary transfer of a business under part 3.6.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 76A
Definitions--ch 3 
In this chapter:
"acquisition statement"--see section 87 (1).
chapter 3 property, in relation to a chapter 3 transaction,
means--
         (a)     for an acquisition of an interest in a landholder--the interest
in a landholder; or
         (b)     for an acquisition of a land use entitlement--the land use
entitlement; or
         (c)     for a voluntary transfer of business--the business.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 77
Imposition of duty 
Duty is payable under this chapter in relation to certain transactions that
are not dutiable transactions to which chapter 2 applies.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 77A
Meaning of associated person 
     (1)     For this Act, an "associated person" means a person who is
associated with another person in accordance with any of the
following:
         (a)     people are associated people if they are related people;
         (b)     individuals are associated people if they are partners in a
partnership to which the Partnership Act 1963 
 applies;
         (c)     private companies are associated people if--
               (i)     any majority shareholder, or a related person of the shareholder, is a
majority shareholder of each company; or
               (ii)     there are minority shareholders common to each company who, if their
interests in each company were aggregated, would be a majority shareholder of
each company;
         (d)     trustees of trusts are associated people if any person is a
beneficiary common to the trusts (not including a public unit trust
scheme);
         (e)     a private company and a trustee of a trust are associated people if a
related body corporate of the company is a beneficiary of the trust (not
including a public unit trust scheme).
     (2)     Also, a person (person A) is an associated person
of another person (person B) if, under subsection
(1)--
         (a)     person A is an associated person of another person
(person C); and
         (b)     person B is also an associated person of person C.
Example
LMN Pty Ltd is the majority shareholder of XYZ Pty Ltd. John is a director
of XYZ Pty Ltd. John is a related person, and hence an associated person, of XYZ
Pty Ltd under s (1) (a). Under s (2), John is also an associated person of LMN
Pty Ltd.
     (3)     In this section:
"minority shareholder", in relation to a private company, means
a shareholder of the company that is not a majority shareholder.
"related body corporate"--see the Corporations Act 
, section 9.
"related person" means a person who is related to another
person in accordance with any of the following:
         (a)     individuals are related people if--
               (i)     they are partners, or they have been partners and the partnership has
ended (whether in Australia or elsewhere); or
               (ii)     the relationship between them is that of parent and child, brothers,
sisters, or brother and sister;
         (b)     private companies are related people if they are related bodies
corporate;
         (c)     an individual and a private company are related people if the
individual is a majority shareholder or director of the company or of another
private company that is a related body corporate of the company;
         (d)     an individual and a trustee of a trust are related people if the
individual is a beneficiary of the trust (other than a public unit trust
scheme);
         (e)     a private company and a trustee of a trust are related people if the
company, or a majority shareholder or director of the company, is a beneficiary
of the trust (other than a public unit trust scheme).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 78
Definitions--pt 3.2 
In this part:
"acquires", an interest in a landholder--see section
84.
"entity"--see section 78A.
"interest", in a landholder--see section 83.
"land"--see section 80A.
"landholding"--see section 80.
"relevant acquisition", in relation to a person--see
section 86.
"relevant period", for a relevant acquisition,
means--
         (a)     the 3-year period before the relevant acquisition; or
         (b)     if a person makes a relevant acquisition because the person acquires
an interest by exercising a right to acquire the interest--the 3-year
period before the person or an associated person acquired the right to acquire
the interest and ending on the date of the relevant acquisition.
"significant interest", in a landholder--see section
83.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 78A
Meaning of entity--pt 3.2 
     (1)     In this part:
"entity" means--
         (a)     a private company; or
         (b)     a private unit trust scheme.
Note     Private company--see the dictionary.
     (2)     In this section:
"private unit trust scheme" means a unit trust scheme that is
not a public unit trust scheme.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 79
Meaning of landholder 
For this Act, a landholder is an entity that has a
landholding in the ACT.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 80
Meaning of landholding--pt 3.2 
     (1)     For this part, a landholding is any interest in land,
other than the interest of a mortgagee, chargee or other secured creditor or a
profit &agrave; prendre.
Note     Interest--see the dictionary.
     (2)     However, an interest in land is not a landholding
of--
         (a)     a private company unless the interest of the company is a beneficial
interest; or
         (b)     a private unit trust scheme unless the interest is held by the
trustees in their capacity as trustees of the scheme.
     (3)     This section is in aid of, but does not limit, the operation of any
provision of this part providing for constructive ownership of
interests.
     (4)     For this part, the vendor and the purchaser under an uncompleted
agreement for the sale of land are taken to be separately entitled to the whole
of the land.
     (5)     To remove any doubt, an agreement for the sale of land includes an
agreement under which a Crown lease is granted to the purchaser.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 80A
Meaning of land--pt 3.2 
     (1)     For this part, "land" includes anything attached to the
land, whether or not the thing--
         (a)     is a fixture under a law in force in the ACT; or
         (b)     is owned separately from the land; or
         (c)     appears, or is considered to be, separate from the land under a law in
force in the ACT.
     (2)     Without limiting subsection (1), a thing is attached to the land if
the thing is--
         (a)     attached directly to the land itself; or
         (b)     attached to a permanent structure on the land.
     (3)     However, "land" does not include a thing--
         (a)     that is temporarily attached to the land to be used only for
construction; or
         (b)     if the thing is not a fixture under a law in force in the
ACT--
               (i)     that is held or used in relation to primary production; or
               (ii)     that is--
     (A)     a relocatable home attached to a site in a residential park;
or
     (B)     attached to the relocatable home or the site for the use or enjoyment
of the occupier of the relocatable home; or
         (c)     determined by the Minister.
     (4)     A determination under subsection (3) (c) is a disallowable
instrument.
     (5)     In this section:
"primary production"--see section 6.
"relocatable home" means any of the following that can be
parked or erected in a residential park:
         (a)     a manufactured home under the Residential Tenancies Act 1997
;
         (b)     a mobile home under the Residential Tenancies Act 1997
;
         (c)     any other habitable structure.
"residential park"--
         (a)     means a residential park under the Residential Tenancies Act 1997
; and
         (b)     includes a mobile home park under the Residential Tenancies Act 1997
.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 81
Constructive ownership of landholdings--linked bodies 
     (1)     For this part, an entity is taken to hold an interest in land held by
a linked body of the entity (a deemed interest) if, on the
winding-up of all linked bodies of the entity--
         (a)     the entity would be entitled to a distribution of any of the property
held by any of the linked bodies; and
         (b)     either or both of the following apply:
               (i)     any linked body would be entitled to receive at least 50% of the
unencumbered value of all the property held by any other linked body;
               (ii)     if the unencumbered value of all the property held by each linked
body were aggregated, the entity would be entitled to receive at least 50% of
the aggregated unencumbered value.
     (2)     An entity's deemed interest in land is in addition to any
interest in land that the entity holds in its own right.
     (3)     In working out duty payable under this part, the value of an
entity's deemed interest in land held by a linked body is the portion of
the unencumbered value of the property held by the linked body to which the
entity would be entitled to receive on the winding-up of all linked bodies of
the entity.
     (4)     In working out the value of property held by a body that an entity or
linked body is entitled to receive, any liabilities of the first body must be
disregarded.
     (5)     In this section:
"body"--
         (a)     includes--
               (i)     an entity; and
               (ii)     a partnership; and
               (iii)     a trust; but
         (b)     does not include--
               (i)     a discretionary trust; or
               (ii)     an individual; or
               (iii)     a listed company; or
               (iv)     a public unit trust scheme.
"entitled"--an entity or linked body that is a trust or
partnership is taken to be entitled to receive property
if--
         (a)     for a trust--a trustee of the trust is entitled to receive the
property as a trustee; and
         (b)     for a partnership--a partner in the partnership is entitled to
receive the property as a partner.
"linked"--a body is linked to another body
if, on the winding-up of the first body, the other body would be entitled to
receive the first body's property (disregarding any liabilities of the
first body).
"linked body", of an entity, means a body which is part of a
chain of bodies--
         (a)     that includes the entity; and
         (b)     in which each body is linked to the next body in the chain.
"winding-up", of a linked body, means--
         (a)     any process in which any property held by the body is distributed;
and
         (b)     if the linked body is a trust--the vesting of the trust's
property in its beneficiaries.
Note     For working out the entitlement of a person to participate in a
distribution of the property of a landholder, see s 92 (Maximisation of
entitlements on distribution of property).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 82
Constructive ownership of landholdings and other property--discretionary 
trusts
     (1)     For this section, a person is a beneficiary of a
discretionary trust if the person is a person, or a member of a class of people,
in whose favour, by the terms of the trust, capital the subject of the trust may
be applied in the event--
         (a)     of the exercise of a power or discretion in favour of the person or
class; or
         (b)     that a discretion conferred under the trust is not
exercised.
Note     Discretionary trust--see the dictionary.
     (2)     A beneficiary of a discretionary trust is taken to own or to be
otherwise entitled to the property the subject of the trust.
     (3)     For this part, any property that is the subject of a discretionary
trust (the primary trust) is taken to be the subject of any other
discretionary trust--
         (a)     that is a beneficiary of the primary trust; or
         (b)     any trustee of which (in the capacity of trustee) is a beneficiary of
the primary trust. 
     (4)     Subsection (3) extends to apply to property that is the subject of a
discretionary trust only by the operation of that subsection.
     (5)     However, subsection (2) or (3) does not apply in a particular case if
the commissioner--
         (a)     is satisfied that the application of the subsection would be
inequitable; and
         (b)     determines, in writing, that the subsection does not apply.
     (6)     In this section:
"person" includes an entity.
Note     Entity--see s 78A.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 83
Interest and significant interest in landholders--pt 3.2 
     (1)     For this part, a person has an interest in a landholder
if the person has an entitlement (otherwise than as a creditor or other person
to whom the landholder is liable) to a distribution of property from the
landholder on a winding-up of the landholder or otherwise.
     (2)     A person who, under subsection (1), has an interest in a landholder
has a significant interest in the landholder if the person, in the
event of a distribution of all the property of the landholder immediately after
the interest was acquired, would be entitled to at least 50% of the property
distributed.
     (3)     In this section:
"person" includes an entity.
Note     Entity--see s 78A.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 84
How person acquires an interest in a landholder--pt 
3.2
     (1)     For this part, a person acquires an interest in a
landholder if the person obtains an interest, or the person's interest
increases, in the landholder regardless of how it is obtained or
increased.
     (2)     Without limiting subsection (1), a person may acquire an interest in a
landholder--
         (a)     by any of the following: 
               (i)     purchase, gift, allotment, issue or transfer of a share or unit in the
landholder;
               (ii)     variation, abrogation or alteration of a right attaching to any such
share or unit;
               (iii)     cancellation, redemption or surrender of any such share or
unit;
               (iv)     variation, abrogation or alteration of a right of a holder of any
such share or unit;
               (v)     payment of an amount owing for any such share or unit; or
         (b)     by any combination of the means mentioned in paragraph (a);
or
         (c)     if the person holds an interest in the landholder (whether or not as
trustee) and the capacity in which the person holds the interest changes
(including if there is a change in the beneficial ownership of an interest held
by a person as trustee).
Example--par (c)
a person who holds a unit in the landholder declares a trust in relation to
the unit
     (3)     If an acquisition arises from an agreement to purchase, allot or issue
a unit or share, the acquisition is made--
         (a)     if, at any time after the agreement is entered into, the company or
unit trust scheme whose share or unit is being purchased, allotted or issued
ceases to be a landholder--on the day the agreement is entered into;
or
         (b)     in any other case--on the earliest of the following:
               (i)     the day the necessary transfer or title documents are delivered to the
person acquiring the unit or share;
               (ii)     the day the consideration for the purchase, allotment or issue is
paid in full;
               (iii)     the day a benefit is received under the agreement;
               (iv)     the last day of--
     (A)     the 12-month period beginning on the day the agreement is first
executed; or
     (B)     if the commissioner approves a longer period--the longer
period;
Note     First executed, for an instrument--see s
243.
               (v)     the day, in the commissioner's opinion, the agreement is
completed.
     (4)     For subsection (3), it does not matter whether or not the acquisition
or interest acquired is registered.
     (5)     To remove any doubt, a person may acquire an interest in a landholder
without acquiring shares or units in the landholder.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 85
When does liability for duty arise? 
A liability for duty payable under this part arises when a relevant
acquisition is made.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 86
What is a relevant acquisition?--pt 3.2 
     (1)     For this part, a person makes a relevant acquisition
if--
         (a)     the person acquires an interest in a landholder that--
               (i)     is of itself a significant interest in the landholder; or
               (ii)     when aggregated with other interests in the landholder held by the
person or an associated person, results in an aggregation that amounts to a
significant interest in the landholder; or
               (iii)     when aggregated with other interests in the landholder acquired by
the person or other people in an associated transaction, results in an
aggregation that amounts to a significant interest in the landholder;
or
         (b)     the person or an associated person--
               (i)     has an interest in a landholder mentioned in paragraph (a);
and
               (ii)     acquires a further interest in the landholder.
Example--relevant acquisition--par
        (a) (ii) and (b)
Jason and Tom are brothers. On 1 January 2021, Jason acquires a 20%
interest in a landholder. On 1 October 2021, Tom acquires a 40% interest in the
landholder. Tom makes a relevant acquisition under
s 86 (1) (a) (ii) as, when aggregated with Jason's
earlier interest, the total interest in the landholder is 60%.
On 1 June 2022, Jason acquires a further 20% interest in the landholder.
Jason, as an associated person of Tom, makes a relevant acquisition under
s 86 (1) (b).
     (2)     In this section:
"associated transaction", in relation to the acquisition of an
interest in a landholder by a person, means an acquisition of an interest in the
landholder by another person in circumstances in which--
         (a)     those people are acting in concert; or
         (b)     the acquisitions form, are evidence of, give effect to or arise from
substantially 1 arrangement, 1 transaction or 1 series of
transactions.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 87
Acquisition statements 
     (1)     If a person makes a relevant acquisition, the person must prepare a
statement in relation to the relevant acquisition (an acquisition
statement).
     (2)     However, subsection (1) does not apply to a relevant acquisition
prescribed by regulation.
     (3)     The person must give the commissioner the acquisition statement not
later than 90 days after the relevant acquisition is made.
     (4)     The acquisition statement must include the following:
         (a)     the name, address and any email address of the person who made the
relevant acquisition;
         (b)     the day the person made the relevant acquisition;
         (c)     details of the interest in the landholder acquired by the person as
part of the relevant acquisition;
         (d)     details of the total interest in the landholder held by the person and
any associated person on the day the relevant acquisition is made;
         (e)     the unencumbered value of all landholdings in the ACT of the
landholder on--
               (i)     the day the relevant acquisition is made; and
               (ii)     if available--the day any other interest in the landholder is
acquired within the relevant period for the relevant acquisition;
         (f)     any valuation report or other evidence of the unencumbered value of
all landholdings in the ACT of the landholder on a day mentioned in paragraph
        (e);
         (g)     details of any amount of duty paid under this Act in relation to any
other acquisition mentioned in paragraph (e) (ii);
         (h)     the unencumbered value of the property of the landholder on the day
the person made the relevant acquisition;
               (i)     if the person is applying for an exemption from paying duty in
relation to the relevant acquisition--evidence of the person's
eligibility for the exemption;
         (j)     anything else required by the commissioner.
     (5)     In this section:
"valuation report"--see section 90C (4).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 88
When must duty be paid? 
A tax default does not happen for the Taxation Administration Act 
 if duty is paid within 90 days after the liability to pay it
arises.
Note     A reference to an Act includes a reference to the statutory
instruments made or in force under the Act, including regulations (see Legislation Act 
, s 104).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 89
Who is liable to pay duty on relevant acquisition? 
     (1)     Duty payable for a relevant acquisition is jointly and severally
payable by--
         (a)     the person who made the relevant acquisition; and
         (b)     the landholder in which the interest is acquired by the making of the
relevant acquisition; and
         (c)     if the relevant acquisition is made because of an aggregation of
interests under section 86 (1) (a) (ii)--each person whose interest is
included in the aggregation; and
         (d)     if the relevant acquisition is made under
section 86 (1) (b)--each person who has an interest
mentioned in that provision.
     (2)     In this section:
"landholder", for a private unit trust scheme, includes a
trustee of the scheme.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 90
Duty payable on relevant acquisitions--single interest 
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     a person acquires an interest in a landholder; and
         (b)     the person makes a relevant acquisition under
section 86 (1) (a) (i) because the interest is a significant
interest in the landholder; and
         (c)     within the relevant period for the relevant acquisition, no other
interests in the landholder were acquired by--
               (i)     the person; or
               (ii)     an associated person; or
               (iii)     any other person in an associated transaction.
     (2)     The amount of duty payable in relation to the relevant acquisition is
the amount worked out in accordance with the following steps:
         (a)     work out the amount (the dutiable amount) as
follows:
 

         (b)     multiply the dutiable amount by the relevant rate.
     (3)     In this section:
"relevant interest", for a relevant acquisition, means the
interest in a landholder acquired by a person through the relevant acquisition
expressed as a percentage of the total interest in the landholder.
"relevant rate", for a relevant acquisition, means the
determined rate in force on the day the relevant acquisition is made.
"UVL", for a landholder in relation to a relevant acquisition,
means the unencumbered value of all landholdings in the ACT of the landholder on
the day the relevant acquisition is made.
Note     Other provisions may apply in working out duty payable under
this section (see div 3.2.4).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 90A
Duty payable on relevant acquisitions--aggregated interests 
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     a person acquires an interest in a landholder; and
         (b)     when the interest is aggregated with at least 1 other interest in the
landholder, the person makes a relevant acquisition under
section 86 (1) (a) (ii) or (iii).
     (2)     The amount of duty payable in relation to the relevant acquisition is
the amount worked out in accordance with the following steps:
         (a)     work out the amount as follows:

         (b)     for each other interest in the landholder acquired within the relevant
period for the relevant acquisition (another
acquisition)--work out the amount as follows:

         (c)     work out the amount (the dutiable amount) by adding
together the amounts worked out under paragraphs (a)
and (b);
         (d)     multiply the dutiable amount by the relevant rate;
         (e)     subtract any duty paid or payable under this division in relation to
each other acquisition from the amount worked out under
paragraph (d).
     (3)     To remove any doubt, if another acquisition is made on the same day as
a relevant acquisition, the other acquisition is made within the relevant period
for the relevant acquisition, regardless of the time on the day at which the
other acquisition is made.
     (4)     In working out the dutiable amount, the commissioner may decide not to
include an interest of an associated person as another acquisition under
subsection (2) (b) if the commissioner is satisfied that the associated person
acquired their interest independently and for no common purpose.
     (5)     In this section:
"other interest", for another acquisition, means the interest
in a landholder acquired by a person in the other acquisition expressed as a
percentage of the total interest in the landholder.
"relevant interest", for a relevant acquisition--see
section 90 (3).
"relevant rate"--see section 90 (3).
"unencumbered value determination", in relation to another
acquisition--see section 90C (2).
"UVL", for a landholder, means the unencumbered value of all
landholdings in the ACT of the landholder--
         (a)     for a relevant acquisition--on the day the relevant acquisition
is made; or
         (b)     for another acquisition--
               (i)     on the day the relevant acquisition is made; or
               (ii)     if the commissioner makes an unencumbered value determination in
relation to the other acquisition--on the day the other acquisition is
made.
Note     Other provisions may apply in working out duty payable under
this section (see div 3.2.4).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 90B
Duty payable on relevant acquisitions--further interest 
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     a person makes a relevant acquisition under
section 86 (1) (a) by acquiring an interest in a landholder (the
initial acquisition); and
         (b)     the person or an associated person makes a relevant acquisition under
section 86 (1) (b) because the person or an associated person
acquires a further interest in the landholder (the further
acquisition).
     (2)     The amount of duty payable in relation to the further acquisition
is--
         (a)     if the initial acquisition is made within the relevant period for the
further acquisition--the amount worked out in accordance with the following
steps:
               (i)     work out the dutiable amount for the initial acquisition
under--
     (A)     if the initial acquisition is an acquisition mentioned in
section 86 (1) (a) (i)--section 90 (2) (a);
or
     (B)     if the initial acquisition is an acquisition mentioned in
section 86 (1) (a) (ii)
or (iii)--section 90A (2) (a) to (c);
Note     In working out the dutiable amount under s 90A, the
commissioner may decide not to include an interest of an associated person if
satisfied that the associated person acquired their interest independently and
for no common purpose (see s 90A (4)).
               (ii)     work out the amount as follows:
 

               (iii)     add together the amounts worked out under subparagraphs (i)
and (ii);
               (iv)     multiply the amount worked out under subparagraph (iii) by the
relevant rate;
               (v)     subtract any duty paid or payable under this division in relation to
the initial acquisition from the amount worked out under subparagraph (iv);
or
         (b)     if the initial acquisition is not made within the relevant period for
the further acquisition--the amount worked out in accordance with the
following steps:
               (i)     work out the amount as follows:
 

               (ii)     multiply the amount worked out under subparagraph (i) by the
relevant rate.
     (3)     In this section:
"further interest", for a further acquisition, means the
interest in a landholder acquired by a person in the further acquisition
expressed as a percentage of the total interest in the landholder.
"relevant rate", for a further acquisition, means the
determined rate as in force on the day the further acquisition is
made.
"UVL", for a landholder in relation to a further acquisition,
means the unencumbered value of all landholdings in the ACT of the landholder on
the day the further acquisition is made.
Note     Other provisions may apply in working out duty payable under
this section (see div 3.2.4).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 90C
Unencumbered value determination 
     (1)     This section applies in relation to working out the duty payable for a
relevant acquisition under section 90A in relation to an interest in a
landholder.
Note     This section may also apply in relation to working out the
amount of duty payable in relation to a further acquisition under s 90B if
s 90B (2) (a) (i) (B) applies.
     (2)     The commissioner may determine, in writing, the unencumbered value of
all landholdings in the ACT of the landholder on the day another acquisition is
made (an unencumbered value determination).
     (3)     The commissioner may make an unencumbered value determination only if
the commissioner is satisfied that the unencumbered value of all landholdings in
the ACT of the landholder on the day the other acquisition is made is supported
by--
         (a)     a valuation report prepared by an accredited valuer not more than 12
months after the day the other acquisition is made; or
         (b)     any other evidence.
     (4)     In this section:
"accredited valuer"--see the Planning Act 2023
, dictionary.
"another acquisition"--see section 90A (2) (b).
"valuation report", in relation to an interest in a landholder,
means a document setting out the unencumbered value of landholdings in the ACT
of the landholder on a stated day.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 90D
Duty payable on relevant acquisitions--combined 
acquisitions
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     a person acquires an interest in a landholder that is a relevant
acquisition (the previous acquisition); and
         (b)     the person or an associated person acquires an interest in at least
1 other landholder that is also a relevant acquisition (the later
acquisition); and
         (c)     the later acquisition is made within 12 months of the previous
acquisition; and
         (d)     together, the relevant acquisitions form, provide evidence of, give
effect to or arise from a single arrangement to gain effective ownership of a
landholding (the combined acquisition).
     (2)     The amount of duty payable in relation to the combined acquisition is
the amount worked out in accordance with the following steps:
         (a)     work out the amount for each of the relevant acquisitions
under--
               (i)     if the relevant acquisition is an acquisition mentioned in section 86
(1) (a) (i)--section 90 (2) (a); or
               (ii)     if the relevant acquisition is an acquisition mentioned in section 86
(1) (a) (ii) or (iii)--section 90A (2) (a)
to (c);
         (b)     add together each of the amounts worked out under
paragraph (a);
         (c)     multiply the resulting amount worked out under paragraph (b) by
the determined rate as in force on the day--
               (i)     the later acquisition was made; or
               (ii)     if there are 2 or more later acquisitions--the last of the later
acquisitions was made;
         (d)     subtract any duty paid or payable under this division in relation to
the relevant acquisitions from the amount worked out under
paragraph (c).
     (3)     In this section:
"UVL", for a landholder, in relation to a relevant acquisition
that is part of a combined acquisition, means the unencumbered value of all
landholdings in the ACT of the landholder on the day--
         (a)     the later acquisition is made; or
         (b)     if there are 2 or more later acquisitions--the last of the later
acquisitions is made.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 92
Maximisation of entitlements on distribution of property 
     (1)     This section applies to any calculation, for this part, of the
entitlement of a person (the interested person) to participate in
a distribution of the property of a landholder, whether on a winding-up of the
landholder or otherwise.
     (2)     A calculation is to be made based, firstly, on a distribution carried
out in accordance with the constitution of the landholder, and with any law
relevant to the distribution, as in force at the time of distribution, and the
entitlement of the interested person is to be evaluated accordingly.
     (3)     Next, a calculation is to be made based on a distribution carried out
after the interested person, and any other person whom the interested person has
power to direct for such a distribution or who is, in relation to the interested
person, an associated person, had exercised all powers and discretions
exercisable by them because of having acquired an interest in the landholder
concerned--
         (a)     to effect or compel an alteration to the constitution of the
landholder; and
         (b)     to vary the rights conferred by shares or units in the landholder;
and
         (c)     to effect or compel the substitution or replacement of shares or units
in the landholder with other shares or units in it;
in such a way as would maximise the value of the entitlement, and the
entitlement of the interested person is to be evaluated accordingly.
     (4)     The results obtained by an evaluation of the interested person's
entitlement in accordance with subsections (2) and (3) are then to be compared,
and whichever evaluation results in a greater entitlement is the correct
evaluation, for this part, of the entitlement.
     (5)     However, subsection (4) does not apply in a particular case if the
commissioner--
         (a)     is satisfied that the application of the subsection would be
inequitable; and
         (b)     determines, in writing, that the subsection does not apply.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 93
Valuation of property 
     (1)     The provisions of this Act that apply to the ascertainment of the
value of transfers in relation to which ad valorem duty is payable apply in the
same way to a relevant acquisition under this part and the unencumbered value of
landholdings mentioned in it.
     (2)     If any arrangement affecting the unencumbered value of landholdings
that was entered into within 12 months before a relevant acquisition was brought
about by any person with the intention of reducing the unencumbered value of the
landholdings, the commissioner may--
         (a)     cause a valuation of the landholding to be made; and
         (b)     direct the valuer to disregard the arrangement for the purposes of the
valuation; and
         (c)     assess duty on the basis of the valuation carried out in accordance
with the direction.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 94
Uncompleted agreements for sale or conveyance of land 
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     a person acquires an interest in a landholder; and
         (b)     the person makes a relevant acquisition; and
         (c)     at the time the relevant acquisition was made, either--
               (i)     both of the following apply:
     (A)     the landholder was the vendor under an uncompleted agreement for the
sale or conveyance of land;
     (B)     the commissioner is satisfied that the agreement is subsequently
completed; or
               (ii)     both of the following apply:
     (A)     the landholder was the purchaser under an uncompleted agreement for
the sale or conveyance of land;
     (B)     the commissioner is satisfied that the agreement is subsequently
rescinded or terminated.
     (2)     The commissioner must assess or reassess the duty payable in relation
to the relevant acquisition as though the land the subject of the agreement was
not, at the time the acquisition was made, a landholding of the
landholder.
     (3)     In this section:
"landholder" includes a linked body of the
landholder.
"linked body"--see section 81 (5).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 94A
Uncompleted agreements for purchase, allotment or issue of shares or units in 
landholder
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     a person makes a relevant acquisition; and
         (b)     at the time of the relevant acquisition--
               (i)     there is an uncompleted agreement for the purchase, allotment or issue
of a share or unit in a landholder; and
               (ii)     the person is the purchaser or person to whom a share or unit was to
be allotted or issued under the agreement; and
         (c)     the commissioner is satisfied that the agreement is subsequently
rescinded or terminated within 3 years after the relevant acquisition;
and
         (d)     the person does not receive any benefit under the agreement.
     (2)     The commissioner must assess or reassess the duty payable in relation
to the relevant acquisition as though, at the time of the acquisition, the
person did not purchase, or was not allotted or issued, the share or
unit.
     (3)     In this section:
"landholder" includes a linked body of the
landholder.
"linked body"--see section 81 (5).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 103
When does liability for duty arise? 
     (1)     A liability for duty payable under this part arises when a land use
entitlement is acquired by an allotment of shares or an issue of units to anyone
otherwise than in circumstances to which subsection (2) applies.
     (2)     This subsection applies to an allotment of shares by a territory
company that is a private company--
         (a)     at another person's direction; and
         (b)     in discharge of an obligation to the other person, whether the
obligation arises as consideration for the purchase of property by the company
or otherwise.
     (3)     In this section:
"territory company" means--
         (a)     a company incorporated (or taken to be incorporated) under the Corporations Act 
 that is taken to be registered in the ACT; or
         (b)     a corporation that is incorporated under a territory Act.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 104
When must duty be paid? 
A tax default does not happen for the Taxation Administration Act 
 if duty is paid within 90 days after the liability to pay it
arises.
Note     A reference to an Act includes a reference to the statutory
instruments made or in force under the Act, including regulations (see Legislation Act 
, s 104).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 105
Who is liable to pay duty? 
Duty payable under this part is payable by the person who acquires the land
use entitlement.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 106
Acquisition of land use entitlement 
     (1)     A person who acquires a land use entitlement by an allotment of shares
or an issue of units must lodge with the commissioner a statement of the
entitlement.
     (2)     The statement must be lodged within 90 days after the entitlement is
so acquired.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 107
What statement under s 106 must contain 
A statement under section 106 must contain the following
information:
         (a)     the name and address of the person;
         (b)     the name of the relevant company or unit trust;
         (c)     the date when the land use entitlement was acquired;
         (d)     the consideration paid by the person for the relevant shares or
units;
         (e)     the other information that may be required by the
commissioner.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 108
Assessment of duty 
Duty is payable in relation to the share allotment or unit issue by which a
person acquires a land use entitlement at the general rate of duty determined
for section 31 on the dutiable value of the land use entitlement.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 109
Disability exemption 
     (1)     Duty under this part is not payable by a person who acquires a land
use entitlement by an allotment of shares or an issue of units
if-- 
         (a)     each of the following applies:
               (i)     the person receives an NDIS amount as a participant under the National Disability Insurance Scheme Act 2013 
 (Cwlth) or someone else receives the NDIS amount on the person's
behalf;
               (ii)     the person receives or holds 1 of the following and has done so for
at least 1 year immediately before the date of the acquisition of the land use
entitlement:
     (A)     an age pension under the Social Security Act 1991 
 (Cwlth);
     (B)     an age service pension under the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 
 (Cwlth);
     (C)     a disability support pension under the Social Security Act 1991 
 (Cwlth);
     (D)     a current gold card;
               (iii)     the commissioner is satisfied that the land the subject of the land
use entitlement is to be used as the principal place of residence of the person;
or 
         (b)     the land use entitlement--
               (i)     is acquired by a special disability trust; and
               (ii)     the commissioner is satisfied that the land the subject of the land
use entitlement is to be used as the principal place of residence of the
beneficiary of the trust.
     (2)     For subsection (1)--
         (a)     the shares allotted or units issued for the land use entitlement must
be in a corporation or trust that is--
               (i)     a charitable organisation for a tax law, registered as a charity under
the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission Act 2012
 (Cwlth); or 
               (ii)     a not-for-profit housing corporation; and
         (b)     the land the subject of the land use entitlement must be used for
supportive housing; and
         (c)     any other criteria determined under subsection (3) must be
satisfied.
     (3)     The Minister may determine other criteria for an exemption from duty
under this section, including criteria relating to the purpose of the land use
entitlement under subsection (2) (b).
     (4)     A determination is a disallowable instrument.
     (5)     In this section:
"charitable organisation", for a tax law--see section
232.
"gold card" means a card known as the Repatriation Health
Card--For All Conditions that evidences a person's eligibility, under
the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 
 (Cwlth) or the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004
 (Cwlth), to be provided with treatment for all injuries or
diseases.
"NDIS amount"--see the National Disability Insurance Scheme Act 2013 
 (Cwlth), section 9.
"not-for-profit housing corporation"--see the Land Tax Act 2004
, section 11 (2).
"retirement village"--see the Retirement Villages Act 2012
, section 10.
"supportive housing"--
         (a)     means premises used to provide residential accommodation for people
with physical or intellectual disability; but
         (b)     does not include a retirement village or premises used for student
accommodation.
Example--par (a)
housing for people with intellectual disability that fosters independent
living

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115A
Definitions--pt 3.6 
In this part:
"asset"--see the FS (TR) Act 
, section 4 (1).
"business"--see the FS (TR) Act 
, section 4 (1).
"FS (TR) Act" means the Financial Sector (Transfer and Restructure) Act 1999 
 (Cwlth).
"receiving body"--see the FS (TR) Act 
, section 4 (1).
"voluntary transfer" means a transfer under the FS (TR) Act 
, part 3.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115B
Declaration required if business transferred 
     (1)     This section applies to the voluntary transfer of business if the
transfer of the assets of the business would be dutiable under this
Act.
Note     The effect of the FS (TR) Act 
, s 22 is that a voluntary transfer of business, in itself, is not dutiable
under this Act.
     (2)     The receiving body must, within 14 days after the voluntary transfer,
give the commissioner a declaration about the transfer.
Note     For how documents may be given to the commissioner, see the Taxation Administration Act 
, s 127.
     (3)     The declaration must state--
         (a)     the names, addresses and capacities of the parties to the transfer;
and
         (b)     the reason for the transfer; and
         (c)     a description of the dutiable property transferred; and
         (d)     the market value of the property (including the unencumbered value of
any land transferred) on the date when the applicable certificate under the FS (TR) Act 
, section 18 comes into force under that section.
     (4)     The commissioner may require a receiving body that gives a declaration
under subsection (2), or that the commissioner believes is liable to give a
declaration under that subsection, to give to the commissioner, within 14 days
or any longer period allowed by the commissioner, a statement giving specified
information about the transfer.
Note     It is an offence to give false or misleading information to the
commissioner, or to fail to give a declaration or statement required under this
section (see Taxation Administration Act 
, s 66 and s 67).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115C
When does liability for duty arise? 
A liability for duty payable under this part arises when a voluntary
transfer of business is made to a receiving body.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115D
When must duty be paid? 
There is no tax default for the Taxation Administration Act 
 if duty is paid within 90 days after the liability to pay it
arises.
Note     A reference to an Act includes a reference to the statutory
instruments made or in force under the Act, including regulations (see Legislation Act 
, s 104).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115E
Who is liable to pay duty? 
Duty payable under this part is payable by the receiving body.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115F
Assessment of duty 
     (1)     Duty is payable in relation to a declaration to the commissioner under
section 115B (2) at the determined rate on the value of the transferred property
stated in the declaration.
     (2)     For this section, the commissioner may--
         (a)     treat a declaration as having been varied or supplemented by a
statement to the commissioner for section 115B (4) in relation to the
declaration; or
         (b)     if a declaration has not been given to the commissioner under section
115B (2)--treat a statement to the commissioner for section 115B (4) as a
declaration.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115G
Exemptions from duty 
     (1)     The Minister may determine guidelines for exempting from the
assessment of duty under this part property that is the subject of a voluntary
transfer.
     (2)     Section 115F does not apply to property transferred to a receiving
body if, under the guidelines, the transfer is to be exempt from duty under this
part.
     (3)     Section 115F does not apply to property transferred to a receiving
body unless the transfer would have given rise to a liability to duty under this
Act if it had not been a voluntary transfer.
     (4)     A determination under subsection (1) is a disallowable
instrument.
Note     The exemptions from duty provided under this part are in
addition to the exemptions under ch 11 (General exemptions from duty).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115H
Exemptions--ch 3 transactions 
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable in relation to a chapter 3
transaction if--
         (a)     a person is liable to pay duty under this chapter in relation to the
transaction; and
         (b)     the person applies to the commissioner for an exemption from duty
under this division in relation to the transaction; and
         (c)     the commissioner exempts the transaction from duty.
     (2)     An application for exemption from duty must--
         (a)     be in writing; and
         (b)     be made not later than--
               (i)     90 days after the day the chapter 3 transaction is made; or
               (ii)     if the commissioner approves, in writing, a longer period--the
end of the longer period; and
         (c)     state the exemption under this division that is being applied for;
and
         (d)     include any other information required by the commissioner.
Note     A person may apply to extend the time by which an application
for exemption from duty must be made (see Taxation Administration Act
, s 40).
     (3)     The commissioner must exempt a chapter 3 transaction from duty if the
commissioner is satisfied an exemption under this division applies to the
transaction.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115HA
Exemption--relevant acquisitions to secure finance 
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     a person makes a relevant acquisition by acquiring an interest in a
landholder; and
         (b)     the person is providing finance to the person from whom the interest
is acquired (the borrower); and
         (c)     the interest is acquired solely as a security for the finance;
and
Example--finance
a mortgage
         (d)     at the time of the acquisition, the borrower intends to reacquire the
interest during the applicable period.
     (2)     Duty is not payable in relation to the relevant acquisition if the
commissioner is satisfied that--
         (a)     the interest is acquired solely as a security for finance;
and
         (b)     at the time of the acquisition, the borrower intended to reacquire the
interest during the applicable period.
     (3)     However, duty is payable in relation to the relevant acquisition if,
at the end of the applicable period, the interest is not--
         (a)     reacquired by the borrower; or
         (b)     for an acquisition made by way of a mortgage--transferred to
another person in exercise of the mortgagee's power of sale.
     (4)     Also, duty is payable in relation to the relevant acquisition if the
commissioner is satisfied that, at any time within the applicable period, the
borrower intends not to reacquire the interest before the end of the applicable
period.
     (5)     The borrower must give written notice of their intention to not
reacquire the interest to the commissioner as soon as possible after they form
the intention.
Note     The commissioner may require the borrower to provide
information, give evidence or produce a record or other document in relation to
the borrower's intention (see Taxation Administration Act
, s 82).
     (6)     A person who reacquires an interest in a landholder under this section
does not make a relevant acquisition.
     (7)     In this section:
"applicable period", for a relevant acquisition,
means--
         (a)     5 years after the day the acquisition is made; or
         (b)     if the commissioner determines, in writing, a longer period--the
longer period.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115HB
Exemption--transactions made on bankruptcy or winding-up 
The commissioner must exempt a chapter 3 transaction from duty if satisfied
that the transaction is made by operation of law on the bankruptcy of a person
or the winding-up of a company.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115HC
Exemption--transactions made due to change in trustees 
     (1)     This section applies if a chapter 3 transaction is made because
of--
         (a)     the retirement of a trustee; or
         (b)     the appointment of a new trustee.
     (2)     The commissioner must exempt the transaction from duty
if--
         (a)     the trust is a self managed superannuation fund; or
         (b)     the commissioner is satisfied that--
               (i)     on the retirement or appointment, there are no trustees that are, or
can become, a beneficiary under the trust; and
               (ii)     the transaction is not made as part of a scheme to vest, in a person,
an interest in a property of the trust to the detriment of any other
person's beneficial interest or potential beneficial interest;
and
               (iii)     the transaction is not made as part of, or in relation to, a tax
avoidance scheme.
     (3)     This section does not apply to a responsible entity of a managed
investment scheme.
     (4)     In this section:
"new trustee" means a trustee appointed--
         (a)     in substitution for another trustee; or
         (b)     in addition to another trustee.
"self managed superannuation fund"--see the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 
 (Cwlth), section 10 (1).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115HD
Exemption--transactions in relation to managed investment schemes 
The commissioner must exempt a chapter 3 transaction from duty if satisfied
that--
         (a)     the parties to the transaction are--
               (i)     the responsible entity of a managed investment scheme; and
               (ii)     a custodian or agent of the responsible entity acting as custodian or
agent of the scheme; and
         (b)     the beneficial owner of the chapter 3 property, transferred as part of
the transaction, has not changed because of the transaction.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115HE
Exemption--transactions in relation to registered schemes 
     (1)     The commissioner must exempt a chapter 3 transaction from duty if
satisfied that a chapter 3 property is transferred as part of the
transaction--
         (a)     from the responsible entity of a registered scheme; and
         (b)     to a custodian or agent of the responsible entity of the scheme acting
as custodian or agent of the scheme.
     (2)     However, subsection (1) applies only if the commissioner is satisfied
that--
         (a)     the scheme was a prescribed interest scheme before
1 July 1998; and
         (b)     at the time the scheme became a registered scheme, the responsible
entity held the chapter 3 property as a trustee of the scheme.
Note     The term 'prescribed interest' was replaced with
'managed investment' and the term 'trustee' was replaced
with 'responsible entity' by the Managed Investments Act 1998 
 (Cwlth), sch 1 (repealed), which inserted new s 1465 (References to
prescribed interests etc. in existing laws and documents) into the
Corporations Law (Cwlth) (repealed).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115HF
Exemption--ch 3 transactions made by apparent purchaser 
     (1)     The commissioner must exempt a chapter 3 transaction from duty if
satisfied that--
         (a)     a chapter 3 property is transferred as part of the transaction from an
apparent purchaser to the real purchaser; and
         (b)     the property is vested in the apparent purchaser on trust for the real
purchaser; and
         (c)     the real purchaser provided the money for the purchase of the
property.
     (2)     In this section:
"purchase" includes allotment.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115HG
Exemption--transactions made to return ch 3 property held by trustee 
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     a chapter 3 property was transferred from a person
(the transferor) to another person to be held by the other
person as trustee for the transferor; and
         (b)     the property is transferred back to the transferor by the trustee for
no consideration (the chapter 3 transaction).
     (2)     The commissioner must exempt the chapter 3 transaction from duty if
satisfied that, while the trustee was holding the property for the transferor,
the transferor was the only person with a beneficial interest in the
property.
     (3)     In this section:
"beneficial interest" does not include a trustee's right
of indemnity.
"trustee" includes a trustee appointed--
         (a)     in substitution for a trustee; and
         (b)     in addition to a trustee.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115HH
Exemption--transactions between superannuation funds 
     (1)     This section applies to a chapter 3 transaction that transfers a
chapter 3 property from a superannuation fund to another superannuation
fund for no consideration.
     (2)     The commissioner must exempt the transaction from duty if satisfied
that the transfer is made--
         (a)     from--
               (i)     a complying superannuation fund; or
               (ii)     a fund that was a complying superannuation fund within 12 months
before the day the transaction is made; and
         (b)     to vest the property in--
               (i)     another complying superannuation fund; or
               (ii)     a fund that, in the opinion of its trustees at the time of the
transfer, will be a complying superannuation fund within 12 months after the day
the transaction is made; and
         (c)     because a person--
               (i)     has stopped being a member of, or has otherwise stopped having a
beneficial interest in, the fund mentioned in paragraph (a); and
               (ii)     has become a member of, or has otherwise begun having a beneficial
interest in, the fund mentioned in paragraph (b).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115HI
Exemption--transactions between trustees and custodians of superannuation funds or 
trusts
     (1)     The commissioner must exempt a chapter 3 transaction from duty
if--
         (a)     a chapter 3 property is transferred as part of the
transaction--
               (i)     between--
     (A)     a trustee of a relevant fund or trust; and
     (B)     a custodian of the trustee of the fund or trust; or
               (ii)     between--
     (A)     a custodian of a trustee of a relevant fund or trust; and
     (B)     another custodian of the trustee of the fund or trust; and
         (b)     the commissioner is satisfied that the beneficial ownership of the
property has not changed because of the transaction.
     (2)     In this section:
"pooled superannuation trust" means an entity that is a pooled
superannuation trust under the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 
 (Cwlth), section 44.
"relevant fund or trust", in relation to a chapter 3
transaction, means--
         (a)     a complying superannuation fund; or
         (b)     a pooled superannuation trust; or
         (c)     a fund or trust that, in the opinion of its trustees, will be a
complying superannuation fund or pooled superannuation trust within
12 months after the day the transaction is made.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115I
Definitions--div 3.7.2 
In this division:
"exchanging members"--see the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 
 (Cwlth), section 124-1045 (1).
"interposed trust"--see the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 
 (Cwlth), section 124-1045 (1).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115J
Exemption for relevant acquisitions 
     (1)     An exchanging member who makes a relevant acquisition may apply to the
commissioner for an exemption from duty under this Act on the relevant
acquisition.
     (2)     The commissioner must grant the exemption if satisfied
that--
         (a)     the relevant acquisition was made to give effect to a scheme that
would qualify as a roll-over under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 
 (Cwlth), subdivision 124-Q; and
Note     A roll-over involves a scheme for interposing a unit trust
scheme (whether a new or existing unit trust scheme) between people who have an
ownership interest in 2 or more unit trust schemes, or in 1 or more companies
and 1 or more unit trust schemes, and the unit trust schemes or companies in
which they have an ownership interest. The interests of the unit holders or
shareholders are stapled together to form stapled securities and the interposed
unit trust becomes the owner of all the stapled interests.
         (b)     when the scheme is completed, the interposed trust will be a listed
trust, widely held trust or landholder; and
         (c)     the acquisition is not part of a scheme a purpose of which is to
minimise duty otherwise payable under this Act; and
         (d)     the conditions of the exemption, if any, will be met by the
applicant.
     (3)     If duty under this chapter has been paid on the relevant acquisition,
the commissioner must refund any duty paid that is not payable because of the
exemption.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115K
Conditions of exemption 
     (1)     An exemption granted under this division is subject to any conditions
stated by the commissioner.
     (2)     A condition of the exemption is binding on each exchanging
member.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 115L
Revocation of exemption 
     (1)     The commissioner may revoke an exemption granted under this division
if--
         (a)     the interposed trust is not a listed trust, widely held trust or
landholder when the scheme is completed; or
         (b)     the interposed trust ceases to be a listed trust, widely held trust or
landholder within 12 months after the day the scheme is completed; or
         (c)     the commissioner is no longer satisfied of a matter mentioned in
section 115J (2) (a) or (c); or
         (d)     the decision to grant the exemption was based on false or misleading
information in a material particular given to the commissioner in relation to
the application; or
         (e)     a condition of the exemption is not met.
     (2)     If the commissioner revokes an exemption granted under this
division--
         (a)     duty is payable under this chapter on the relevant acquisition as if
the exemption had never been granted; and
         (b)     the exchanging member who made the relevant acquisition must lodge an
acquisition statement with the commissioner not later than 28 days after the day
the exemption is revoked; and
         (c)     the commissioner must make an assessment of duty payable under this
chapter on the relevant acquisition; and
         (d)     a tax default happens for the Taxation Administration Act 
 if the whole of any duty assessed under paragraph (c) is not paid to the
commissioner within 90 days after the assessment.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 174
Liability for duty 
Duty is payable in relation to a mortgage instrument only if it is liable
to duty under another chapter.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 203
Meaning of dutiable value--pt 9.1 
In this part:
"dutiable value", of a motor vehicle, means the greater of the
following amounts, less any premium paid for extended warranty
insurance:
         (a)     the consideration in money (or money's worth) given for the
acquisition of the vehicle;
         (b)     the market value of the vehicle at the time duty is payable.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 203A
Registration of vehicles in the name of 2 or more people 
     (1)     This section applies if a motor vehicle was, is or is to be registered
in the names of 2 or more people.
     (2)     In this chapter, a reference to a person in whose name the vehicle
was, is or is to be registered includes a reference to each person in whose name
the vehicle was, is or is to be registered.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 204
Imposition of duty 
Duty is payable under this chapter in relation to an application to
register a motor vehicle under the Vehicle Registration Act 
 if--
         (a)     the vehicle has not previously been registered under that Act or any
other territory law; or
         (b)     the person in whose name the vehicle is to be registered is not the
person in whose name the vehicle was last registered.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 205
Lodgment of statement of dutiable value 
A person who is required by law to make an application to register a motor
vehicle under the Vehicle Registration Act 
 must lodge with the application for registration a statement of the
dutiable value of the vehicle, unless no duty is payable under this chapter in
relation to the application.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 206
Who is liable to pay duty? 
Duty is payable by the applicant for registration of the motor
vehicle.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 207
When does duty become payable? 
Duty becomes payable when the motor vehicle is registered under the
relevant application.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 208
Rate of duty 
     (1)     Subject to subsection (2), duty in respect of an application to
register a motor vehicle is payable on the dutiable value of the motor vehicle
at the determined rate.
     (2)     Duty payable on an application to register a motor vehicle is payable
on the dutiable value of the vehicle at the determined rate if--
         (a)     the vehicle has a dutiable value of at least--
               (i)     $45 000; or
               (ii)     if an amount is determined under the Taxation Administration Act 1999
, section 139--the amount determined; and
         (b)     the vehicle is not any of the following:
               (i)     a motorcycle (with or without a sidecar);
               (ii)     a large bus (seating 10 or more people, including the
driver);
               (iii)     a hearse;
               (iv)     an invalid conveyance;
               (v)     a trailer;
               (vi)     a vehicle with a gross vehicle mass more than 4.5t;
               (vii)     plant or equipment;
               (viii)     a vehicle prescribed by regulation.
Example--par (vii)
forklift
     (3)     A determination of a determined rate for this section may apply, adopt
or incorporate an instrument as in force from time to time.
Example--instrument
the Green Vehicle Guide for motor vehicles, a copy of which is accessible
at www.greenvehicleguide.gov.au 

Note 1     The text of an applied, adopted or incorporated instrument,
whether applied as in force from time to time or at a particular time, is taken
to be a notifiable instrument if the operation of the Legislation Act
, s 47 (5) or (6) is not disapplied
(see s 47 (7)).
Note 2     A reference to an instrument includes a reference to a
provision of an instrument (see Legislation Act
, s 14 (2)).
Note     The exemptions from duty provided under this part are in
addition to the exemptions under ch 11 (General exemptions from
duty).    

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 208A
Definitions--pt 9.2 
In this part:
"demonstrator" means a new motor vehicle used solely for the
sale of another motor vehicle of the same kind. 
"trading stock "means a motor vehicle offered or exposed for
sale by a licensed vehicle dealer in the course of the dealer's business,
other than a motor vehicle used--
         (a)     personally by the dealer or a member of the dealer's staff or
family; or
         (b)     for the general purposes of the dealer's business.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 209A
Foreign countries  
Duty under this chapter is not payable on an application to register a
motor vehicle if--
         (a)     the applicant is a foreign country; and
         (b)     the vehicle is for the official use of a diplomatic mission of the
foreign country based in the ACT.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 209B
International organisations and diplomats 
Duty under this chapter is not payable on an application to register a
motor vehicle if the application is exempt from duty under the International Organisations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963
 (Cwlth) or the Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities Act 1967
 (Cwlth).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 209C
Status of forces agreements 
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable on an application to register a
motor vehicle if the vehicle is subject to a status of forces
agreement.
     (2)     In this section:
"status of forces agreement" means an agreement between the
Commonwealth and another country allowing for the importation of vehicles by
visiting military personnel.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 211
Certain disabled people 
Duty under this chapter is not payable on an application to register a
motor vehicle if--
         (a)     both the following paragraphs apply:
               (i)     the applicant has served in the Defence Force or in any other armed
forces of the Sovereign and who, because of that service--
     (A)     has lost a leg or both arms or has had a leg, or both arms, rendered
permanently and wholly useless; or
     (B)     receives a pension under the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 
 (Cwlth), part 2 and is a veteran (within the meaning of that part) to whom
that Act, section 24 applies; or
     (C)     receives a special rate disability pension under the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004 
 (Cwlth) or is eligible to make a choice under that Act, section 199;

               (ii)     the vehicle is for the applicant's own transportation;
or
         (b)     both the following paragraphs apply--
               (i)     a doctor has certified that the applicant is permanently unable to use
public transport because of the loss of, or loss of use of, a leg or both
legs;
               (ii)     the vehicle is for use by the person in travelling to and from
gainful employment.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 211A
Partial exemption--modified vehicles for people with 
disabilities
     (1)     This section applies to duty payable on an application to register a
motor vehicle if--
         (a)     modifications have been made to the vehicle for a person with a
disability; and
         (b)     either--
               (i)     the applicant is a person with a disability; or
               (ii)     the motor vehicle is to be used to transport a person with a
disability.
     (2)     For the purposes of duty payable on the application, the dutiable
value of the motor vehicle is the dutiable value of the vehicle apart from this
section reduced by the value of the modifications.
     (3)     In this section:
"modifications", made to a vehicle for a person with a
disability, means modifications made--
         (a)     to enable the person with a disability to drive the vehicle;
or
         (b)     to enable someone else to transport the person with a disability in
the vehicle.
Example
the addition to a vehicle of an hydraulic lift for a wheelchair
"person with a disability" means a person who has a disability
that--
         (a)     is attributable to an intellectual, psychiatric, sensory, physical or
neurological impairment, or acquired brain injury; and
         (b)     is likely to be permanent; and
         (c)     results in substantially reduced capacity in self-care,
self-management, mobility or communication requiring significant ongoing, or
long-term episodic, support.
"value", of modifications, means the consideration (in money or
money's worth) given for the modifications.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 214
Vehicle dealers--registration of demonstrators and trading 
stock
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable on an application by a licensed
vehicle dealer to register a motor vehicle in the dealer's name
if--
         (a)     the vehicle is a demonstrator or trading stock; and
         (b)     the vehicle is not registered in the name of the dealer at the time of
the application.
     (2)     However, if the dealer has not disposed of the vehicle within
12 months after its registration under this section, the dealer becomes
liable to pay the duty on the application for registration that would have been
payable if the exemption under this section had not applied.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 215
Organisations registered under Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Act 
Duty under this chapter is not payable on an application to register a
motor vehicle made by an organisation registered under the Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Act 2009 
 (Cwlth) if the registration is to happen in accordance with that Act,
section 85.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 216
Repossessed motor vehicles 
Duty under this chapter is not payable on an application to register a
motor vehicle if--
         (a)     the applicant is in the business of financing the purchase or use of
motor vehicles; and
         (b)     the vehicle was repossessed by, or voluntarily surrendered to, the
applicant; and
         (c)     the applicant, in the course of that business, does not dispose of a
repossessed or surrendered vehicle except by public tender or public auction or
through a person who is a licensed vehicle dealer.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 217
Veteran, vintage and historic vehicles 
     (1)     Duty under this chapter is not payable on an application to register a
veteran, vintage or historic vehicle if--
         (a)     the vehicle had not been registered under the Vehicle Registration Act 
 or a corresponding law during the 2 years immediately before the
application for registration; and
         (b)     the registration would be the first registration of the vehicle after
its restoration; and
         (c)     on registration the vehicle would be allocated numberplates that carry
the words 'veteran car', 'vintage car' or
'historic car'.
     (2)     If--
         (a)     within the period of 3 years immediately following a registration in
relation to which no duty is payable under subsection (1) a further application
is made for registration of the relevant vehicle under the Vehicle Registration Act 
; and
         (b)     the vehicle is owned by the person who owned it at the time of the
registration referred to in subsection (1); and
         (c)     on the further registration the vehicle would not be allocated
numberplates that carry the words 'veteran car', 'vintage
car' or 'historic car';
there is payable, on the first such further application for registration,
an amount of tax equal to the tax that would have been payable on the first
application for registration of the vehicle after its restoration if subsection
(1) had not been applicable.
     (3)     In this section:
"historic vehicle" means a motor vehicle, other than a veteran
vehicle or a vintage vehicle, built not less than 30 years
before--
         (a)     the day it was last registered; or
         (b)     if it is unregistered and is to be registered--the date of
registration.
"veteran vehicle" means a motor vehicle built before
1919.
"vintage vehicle" means a motor vehicle built after 1918 and
before 1931.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 218
Avoidance of double duty--duty paid in corresponding Australian 
jurisdiction
Duty is not payable on an application to register a motor vehicle in the
ACT if--
         (a)     at the time the application was made, the applicant was recorded as
the registered operator of the vehicle in the register of an Australian
jurisdiction corresponding to the registrable vehicles register within the
meaning of the Road Transport (Vehicle Registration) Act 1999 
; and
         (b)     duty was paid in that jurisdiction in respect of the
registration.
Example
Emmy applies to register her car in the ACT. The car is registered in
Emmy's name in Queensland. Under Queensland law, registration of
Emmy's car is exempt from duty. However, under this Act, registration of
Emmy's car is not exempt from duty. Section 218 does not apply, as Emmy
has not paid duty in Queensland.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 219
Reassessment of duty--repossession of stolen motor vehicle 
     (1)     Duty is not payable on an application for registration of a motor
vehicle that has been repossessed from a person because, before the person
acquired it, it had been stolen.
     (2)     If requested by a person who has paid duty on an application for
registration to which subsection (1) applies, the commissioner must assess or
reassess the duty accordingly.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 221
Prerequisites for registration 
     (1)     Despite anything in the Vehicle Registration Act 
, the road transport authority may register a motor vehicle under that Act
only if--
         (a)     the vehicle had previously been registered under the Vehicle Registration Act 
, any other territory law or a corresponding law and the last previous
registration was solely in the name of the person who is applying for
registration; or
         (b)     for an application for registration that is claimed to be exempt from
duty under part 9.2 (Exemptions)--the commissioner is satisfied that the
application is exempt; or
         (c)     for an application for registration that is claimed to be exempt from
duty under section 214--the application is solely in the name of a person
who certifies in writing that--
               (i)     the person is carrying on business as a licensed vehicle dealer;
and
               (ii)     the vehicle is held by the person as a demonstrator vehicle or
trading stock; or
         (d)     for an application for registration that is claimed to be exempt from
duty under section 217--the application is accompanied by a certificate by
the owner that states--
               (i)     whether the registration is the first registration of the vehicle
after its restoration; and
               (ii)     whether the vehicle has been registered under the Vehicle Registration Act 
 or a corresponding law during the period of 2 years immediately before the
date of the application and, if it has been, the date when the last registration
expired; or
         (e)     the applicant for the registration (other than registration mentioned
in subsection (2)) pays the amount of the duty payable on the application for
registration, and the application is accompanied by a statement by the
applicant, in writing, of--
               (i)     the amount that, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, is or
will be the market value of the vehicle at the time the application is made;
and
               (ii)     the purchase price paid for the vehicle by the applicant;
and
               (iii)     if the stated market price differs from the purchase price--the
reason for the difference.
     (2)     The road transport authority must not--
         (a)     register a vehicle sold by a person who is a licensed vehicle dealer
if the registration would be the first registration of the vehicle after the
sale; or
         (b)     transfer the registration of a vehicle sold by a licensed vehicle
dealer if the transfer would be the first transfer of the registration of the
vehicle after the sale;
unless the dealer's licence code is endorsed on the application for,
or for transfer of, registration.
     (3)     A person claiming exemption of an application for the registration of
a motor vehicle from duty under part 9.2 must give the road transport authority
any relevant information the authority requires.
     (4)     In this section:
"demonstrator"--see section 208A.
"trading stock"--see section 208A.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 223
Returns by road transport authority 
     (1)     As soon as practicable after the end of each month, the road transport
authority must report to the commissioner about applications mentioned in
section 221 decided in the month.
     (2)     If required by the commissioner, the road transport authority must
give the commissioner particulars of all certificates, statements and other
information given for section 221 during the month.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 224
Rectification of errors in registration 
Duty is not payable on an application to register a motor vehicle if the
application is made solely to rectify an error or omission in a previous
registration of the vehicle in the ACT.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 225
Refund of duty on cancellation of sale 
If a person satisfies the commissioner--
         (a)     that duty has been paid on an application to register a motor vehicle
purchased by the person; and
         (b)     that, after the purchase--
               (i)     the transaction by which the purchase was made was cancelled;
and
               (ii)     the motor vehicle has been returned to the person from whom it was
purchased; and
               (iii)     all money refundable on the cancellation (other than on account of
duty) has been refunded to the person who purchased the vehicle;
the commissioner must refund the duty paid on the application.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 226
Certificates as evidence 
A certificate of the road transport authority to the effect that a stated
vehicle was or was not registered in the name of a stated person on a stated
date is evidence of those matters and the facts on which they are
based.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 229
Minimum amount of duty 
     (1)     This section applies to an amount of duty payable under this Act,
other than chapter 9 (Motor vehicle registration), in relation to a transaction
or instrument.
Note     A reference to an Act includes a reference to the statutory
instruments made or in force under the Act, including any regulation (see Legislation Act
, s 104).
     (2)     Despite any other provision of this Act, if the amount of duty payable
under this Act in relation to a transaction or instrument would, apart from this
section, be less than $20, duty under this Act is not payable.
Note     The exemptions from duty provided under this chapter are in
addition to the exemptions under the following provisions:
         (a)     pt 2.5 (Exemptions);
         (b)     pt 3.7 (Exemptions--ch 3 transactions);
         (c)     pt 9.2 (Exemptions).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 230
Inter-generational rural transfers 
     (1)     Duty under this Act is not payable on a transfer or agreement for the
sale or transfer of land, a lease of land, or a transfer or assignment of a
lease or permit in respect of land, used for primary production together with
any other property that is an integral part of the business of primary
production, if the commissioner is satisfied that--
         (a)     the land was land used for primary production by the transferor,
lessor or assignor immediately before the transaction or the date of first
execution of the instrument; and
         (b)     the land will continue to be land used for primary production by the
transferee, lessee or assignee; and
         (c)     the parties are people of a class identified in guidelines determined
by the Minister; and
         (d)     the transaction satisfies the other requirements that may be contained
in the guidelines.
     (2)     The Minister may determine guidelines for subsection (1) (c) or
        (d).
     (3)     A guideline is a disallowable instrument.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 231
Specialised agencies 
Duty under this Act is not payable on any instrument executed by or on
behalf of a Specialised Agency within the meaning of the Convention on the
Privileges and Immunities of the Specialised Agencies that was approved by
the General Assembly of the United Nations on 21 November 1947 in respect of
which instrument the Specialised Agency is the person described in this Act as
the person liable to pay the duty.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 232
Charitable organisations 
     (1)     Duty under this Act is not payable if the duty would be payable by a
charitable organisation.
     (2)     In this section:
"charitable organisation"--
         (a)     for a tax law--see the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 18B; but
         (b)     does not include an organisation that is related to an excluded
organisation unless a beneficial organisation determination is in force for the
excluded organisation.
Note 1     Beneficial organisation determination--see the Taxation Administration Act 
, dictionary.
Note 2     Excluded organisation and
"organisation"--see the Taxation Administration Act 
, pt 3A (Charitable organisations).
     (3)     For subsection (2), an organisation is related to
an excluded organisation if--
         (a)     the organisation holds dutiable property as trustee of a trust;
and
         (b)     the excluded organisation is a beneficiary under the trust, whether it
has a vested share or is contingently entitled or is a potential beneficiary
under the trust.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 232A
Corporate reconstruction transactions 
     (1)     Duty under this Act is not payable on a corporate reconstruction
transaction that is approved by the commissioner in accordance with any
guideline determined under subsection (3).
     (2)     An approval for subsection (1) may be given subject to
conditions.
     (3)     The Minister may determine guidelines for approvals.
     (4)     A determination is a disallowable instrument.
     (5)     In this section:
"corporate reconstruction transaction" means--
         (a)     a dutiable transaction where property is--
               (i)     transferred (or agreed to be transferred) by a member of a group of
corporations to another member of the same group; or
               (ii)     vested in a member of the group, if the property was owned
immediately before the vesting by another member of the same group; or
         (b)     the making of a relevant acquisition, if by the acquisition property
is--
               (i)     transferred (or agreed to be transferred) by a member of a group of
corporations to another member of the same group; or
               (ii)     vested in a member of the group, if the property was owned
immediately before the vesting by another member of the same group; or
         (c)     an application to register a motor vehicle if--
               (i)     the application is made by a member of a group of corporations;
and
               (ii)     immediately before the application was made, the vehicle was
registered in the name of another member of the same group.
"corporation" includes a unit trust scheme.
"relevant acquisition", in relation to a person--see
section 86.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 232B
Hospitals and schools 
     (1)     Duty under this Act is not payable if the commissioner is satisfied
that the duty would be payable by a hospital or school or a trustee who holds
property in trust for the hospital or school.
Note     Hospital--see the dictionary.
     (2)     In this section:
"government school"--see the Education Act 2004
, dictionary.
"property" held by a trustee in trust for a hospital or school
includes the following:
         (a)     land granted or transferred to the trustee;
         (b)     property transferred to the trustee under a chapter 3
transaction;
         (c)     a motor vehicle for which an application to register the vehicle has
been made.
"registered non-government school"--see the Education Act 2004
, dictionary.
"school" means a government school or registered non-government
school.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 232C
Commonwealth, States and Territories 
     (1)     Duty under this Act is not payable if the commissioner is satisfied
the duty would be payable by any of the following:
         (a)     the Commonwealth;
         (b)     a State or another Territory;
         (c)     a prescribed authority of the Commonwealth, a State or another
Territory;
         (d)     a non-commercial Commonwealth authority.
Note     State includes the Northern Territory (see Legislation Act
, dict, pt 1).
     (2)     In this section:
"non-commercial Commonwealth authority "means a body corporate
(other than an incorporated company, society or association)
that--
         (a)     is incorporated for a public purpose by or under a law of the
Territory or the Commonwealth; and
         (b)     does not have as its sole or principal function the carrying on of an
activity in the nature of a business, whether or not for profit.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 232D
Deceased estates 
     (1)     Duty under this Act is not payable in relation to the
following:
         (a)     a transfer of dutiable property not made for valuable consideration by
the legal personal representative of a deceased person to a beneficiary if the
commissioner is satisfied that the transfer is--
               (i)     a transfer made under and in conformity with the trusts contained in
the will of the deceased person or arising on an intestacy; or
               (ii)     a transfer of property the subject of a trust for sale contained in
the will of the deceased person; 
         (b)     a consent by a legal representative of a deceased person if the
commissioner is satisfied that the consent is to a transmission application by a
beneficiary; 
         (c)     a transmission application to a devisee if the commissioner is
satisfied the devisee is also the sole legal representative;
         (d)     a chapter 3 transaction made consequent on the death of a person if
the transferor is the executor of the will of the deceased person, the
administrator of the estate of the deceased person or a beneficiary of the will
or estate of the deceased person; 
         (e)     an application to register a motor vehicle made by--
               (i)     a person in whom an interest in the vehicle has vested as a personal
representative of a deceased person in whose name the vehicle was registered in
the ACT; or
               (ii)     a person who has become beneficially entitled to the vehicle
following the death of a person in whose name the vehicle was registered in the
ACT; or
               (iii)     a person who has become beneficially entitled to the vehicle by a
right of survivorship following the death of a former joint owner if, at the
time of the death of the former joint owner, the vehicle was registered in the
ACT.
     (2)     Subsection (3) applies to a transfer of dutiable property in relation
to which duty is payable under chapter 2 (Transactions concerning dutiable
property) if the commissioner is satisfied that the transfer is made under, but
only partly in conformity with, a trust contained in the will of a deceased
person or arising on an intestacy (the trust).
     (3)     The dutiable value of the property is worked out as follows:
 

"X" means, if all the dutiable property were transferred in
conformity with the trust, the unencumbered value of the property.
"Y" means the unencumbered value of the express beneficial
interest in the property transferred in conformity with the trust.
Example--dutiable
value
Under a will, Brad is entitled to a
2/3 share in a house and
Josh is entitled to a 1/3
share. The unencumbered value of the house is $480 000. Josh and Brad agree that
Brad will buy Josh's share in the house.  With the consent of Josh and
Brad, the legal personal representative of the deceased person under the will
transfers the whole of the interest in the house to Brad. The commissioner
determines that the unencumbered value of the express beneficial interest in the
property transferred to Brad in conformity with the trust under the will is $320
000.  The dutiable value of the transfer is $160 000.
     (4)     For subsection (3), a person does not have an express beneficial
interest in property the subject of a discretionary trust.
     (5)     In this section:
"interest"--
         (a)     means a proprietary interest; and 
         (b)     includes an entitlement to a proprietary interest under the will, or
on the intestacy, of a deceased person.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 232E
Definitions--pt 11.2 
In this part:
"de facto relationship"--see the Family Law Act 1975 
 (Cwlth), section 4AA. 
"motor vehicle transfer application" means an application to
transfer the registration of a motor vehicle.
"spouse party"--see the Family Law Act 1975 
 (Cwlth), section 4.
"transaction" means any of the following:
         (a)     a transfer of dutiable property;
         (b)     a motor vehicle transfer application following a transfer of property
in the vehicle to the applicant;
         (c)     a chapter 3 transaction.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 232F
Transactions under certain court orders 
Duty under this Act is not payable in relation to a transaction made
under--
         (a)     an order of a court under the Family Law Act 1975 
 (Cwlth) or the Married Persons Property Act 1986 
; or
         (b)     any other order of a court for the distribution of property consequent
on the end of the relationship between partners.
Note     The dictionary defines partner as a
person's spouse or someone with whom the person has a domestic
relationship. Domestic relationship is defined in the dictionary
to have the same meaning as in the Domestic Relationships Act 1994
, s 3.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 232G
Transactions under Family Law Act 1975 (Cwlth), s 90B, s 90C or s 90D 
financial agreements
     (1)     Duty under this Act is not payable in relation to a transaction made
under a financial agreement made under the Family Law Act 1975 
 (Cwlth), section 90B, section 90C or section 90D that is binding on
the parties under that Act, if--
         (a)     the commissioner is satisfied that the transaction is consequent on
the dissolution, annulment or irretrievable breakdown of a marriage;
and
         (b)     the property that is the subject of the transaction is matrimonial
property; and
         (c)     for a transfer of dutiable property or property in a motor vehicle,
the transfer is--
               (i)     to the parties to the marriage, or to either of them; or 
               (ii)     to a child or children of either of them, or to a trustee for the
child or children; and
         (d)     for a chapter 3 transaction, the parties to the transaction
are--
               (i)     the parties to the marriage, or either of them; or
               (ii)     a child or children of either of them, or a trustee for the child or
children.
     (2)     For subsection (1) (a), in deciding whether a transaction is
consequent on the irretrievable breakdown of a marriage, the commissioner must
have regard to any statement made by a party to the marriage to the effect
that--
         (a)     the party intends to apply for dissolution or annulment of the
marriage; or
         (b)     the parties to the marriage have separated, and there is no reasonable
likelihood of cohabitation being resumed.
Note 1     The commissioner may require a person to provide
information, attend and give evidence before the commissioner or an authorised
officer and produce a record or other document to the commissioner (see Taxation Administration Act 
, s 82).
Note 2     It is an offence to make a false or misleading
statement, give false or misleading information or produce a false or misleading
document (see Criminal Code 
, pt 3.4).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 232H
Transactions under Family Law Act 1975 (Cwlth), pt 8AB financial 
agreements
     (1)     Duty under this Act is not payable in relation to a transaction made
under, a part 8AB financial agreement made under the Family Law Act 1975 
 (Cwlth), section 90UB, section 90UC or section 90UD that is
binding on the parties under that Act, if--
         (a)     the commissioner is satisfied that the transaction is consequent on
the end of the de facto relationship between the parties; and
         (b)     the property that is the subject of the transaction is relationship
property; and
         (c)     for a transfer of dutiable property or property in a motor vehicle,
the transfer is--
               (i)     to the parties to the relationship, or to either of them; or

               (ii)     to a child or children of either of them, or to a trustee for the
child or children; and
         (d)     for a chapter 3 transaction, the parties to the transaction
are--
               (i)     the parties to the relationship, or either of them; or 
               (ii)     a child or children of either of them, or a trustee for the child or
children.
     (2)     For subsection (1) (a), in deciding whether a transaction under a
part 8AB financial agreement is consequent on the end of a de facto
relationship, the commissioner must have regard to any separation declaration
made by a spouse party to the agreement under the Family Law Act 1975 
 (Cwlth), section 90UF.
Note     The commissioner may require a person to provide information,
attend and give evidence before the commissioner or an authorised officer and
produce a record or other document to the commissioner (see Taxation Administration Act 
, s 82).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 232I
Transactions under Domestic Relationships Act 1994, s 33 (1) (d) 
     (1)     Duty under this Act is not payable in relation to a transaction made
under a domestic relationship agreement or termination agreement under the Domestic Relationships Act 1994
, if--
         (a)     the agreement is in writing and signed by each party; and
         (b)     the agreement is endorsed with, or accompanied by, the certificates
mentioned in that Act, section 33 (1) (d) for each party; and
Note     The certificates relate to independent legal advice about the
agreement.
         (c)     the commissioner is satisfied that the transaction is consequent on
the end of the domestic relationship between the parties; and
         (d)     the property that is the subject of the transaction is relationship
property; and
         (e)     for a transfer of dutiable property or property in a motor vehicle,
the transfer is--
               (i)     to the parties to the relationship, or to either of them; or

               (ii)     to a child or children of either of them, or to a trustee for the
child or children; and
         (f)     for a chapter 3 transaction, the parties to the transaction
are--
               (i)     the parties to the relationship, or either of them; or 
               (ii)     a child or children of either of them, or a trustee for the child or
children.
     (2)     For subsection (1) (c), in deciding whether a transaction under a
domestic relationship agreement is consequent on the end of a relationship, the
commissioner must have regard to any statement made by a party to the
relationship to the effect that--
         (a)     the relationship has ended; or
         (b)     if the relationship is a civil union--the party has given, or
intends to give, a termination notice to the registrar-general under the Civil Unions Act 2012
; or
         (c)     if the relationship is a civil partnership--the party has given,
or intends to give, a termination notice to the registrar-general under the Domestic Relationships Act 1994
.
Note     The commissioner may require a person to provide information,
attend and give evidence before the commissioner or an authorised officer and
produce a record or other document to the commissioner (see Taxation Administration Act 
, s 82).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 239
Electronic assessment and payment of duty 
     (1)     A person may apply to the commissioner, in writing, for approval to
make assessment applications and pay duty electronically.
     (2)     On application under subsection (1), the commissioner
must--
         (a)     approve the application; or 
         (b)     refuse to approve the application.
     (3)     An approval may be given subject to conditions stated in the
approval.
Examples
1     a condition about the kinds of transactions to which the approval
applies
2     a condition about how payment must be made
     (4)     The commissioner may amend, suspend or cancel an approval given to a
person under this section by written notice given to the person.
     (5)     If the commissioner receives an electronic assessment application in
relation to a transaction or instrument in accordance with an approval under
this section, the commissioner must--
         (a)     make an assessment of the duty payable in relation to the transaction
or instrument; and 
         (b)     give the person written notice of the assessment
stating--
               (i)     the amount of duty payable; or
               (ii)     that duty is not payable.
Note     A person given a notice under s (5) (b) must keep the
records required under the Taxation Administration Act 
, s 57 (2).

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 242
Instruments to be separately charged with duty in certain cases 
If an instrument relates to several distinct matters in respect of which
duty is payable, for this Act, each matter must be treated as if it were dealt
with in a separate instrument. 

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 243
Execution of instruments 
     (1)     For this Act, an instrument is taken to be first executed the first
time that it is signed and sealed, or signed (as the case may be) by any party
to it.
     (2)     However, a contract made by acceptance of an offer contained in an
instrument is taken to be first executed when the offer is accepted.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 244
Certificate of duty and other charges 
     (1)     A relevant person for a dutiable transaction may apply to the
commissioner for a certificate of--
         (a)     the duty payable under this Act in relation to the dutiable
transaction, including the amount payable under a deferral arrangement (if any)
under part 2.6A (Deferred payment of duty); and
         (b)     the amount of duty and any other amounts immediately payable to the
Territory under this Act in relation to the dutiable transaction.
     (2)     The commissioner must give the applicant the certificate.
     (3)     The certificate is conclusive proof for an honest buyer for value of
the matters certified.
Note     The certificate may include a certificate of amounts payable
under the Land Tax Act 2004 
 and the Rates Act 2004 
 in relation to the parcel (see Legislation Act
, s 49).
     (4)     For this section, duty and other amounts payable are taken to be
payable immediately even though any necessary time after service of a notice has
not ended.
     (5)     In this section:
"relevant person", for a dutiable transaction, means the
transferor, transferee or mortgagee of the property the subject of the dutiable
transaction.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 250
Receiving instruments in evidence 
     (1)     This section applies to an instrument if--
         (a)     the instrument effects a dutiable transaction; or 
         (b)     duty under this Act is payable in relation to the
instrument.
     (2)     The instrument is available for use in law or equity for any purpose,
and may be presented in evidence in a court or tribunal exercising civil
jurisdiction, if--
         (a)     it is marked by, or in a way approved by, the commissioner;
or
         (b)     any duty payable in relation to the instrument, including any penalty
tax or interest, has been assessed and paid.
     (3)     If the instrument is not marked by, or in a way approved by, the
commissioner, or if any duty payable in relation to the instrument, including
any penalty tax or interest, has been not assessed or paid, a court or tribunal
may admit it in evidence if--
         (a)     the instrument is, after its admission, sent to the commissioner in
accordance with arrangements approved by the court or tribunal; or
         (b)     if the person producing the instrument is not the person liable to pay
the duty in relation to the instrument--the instrument and the name and
address of the person liable to pay the duty are sent to the commissioner in
accordance with arrangements approved by the court or tribunal.
     (4)     A court or tribunal may admit in evidence an unexecuted copy of the
instrument if the court or tribunal is satisfied that--
         (a)     the instrument is marked in a way approved by the commissioner;
or
         (b)     any duty payable in relation to the instrument, including any penalty
tax or interest, has been assessed and paid.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 251
Valuation of property 
     (1)     The commissioner may require a person who is liable to pay duty
determined by reference to the value of property to provide a declaration by a
competent valuer of the value (unencumbered or otherwise) of the property or to
provide the other evidence of that value that the commissioner considers
appropriate.
     (2)     The commissioner may assess duty in accordance with the value so
declared.
     (3)     The commissioner may have property valued if the commissioner is not
satisfied with the value so declared and may assess duty on the basis of the
valuation.
     (4)     The commissioner may recover the cost of obtaining a valuation under
this section.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 251A
Valuation of market rent for commercial lease with premium 
     (1)     The commissioner may require a person who is liable to pay duty
determined by reference to a premium in relation to a commercial lease with
premium to provide a declaration by a competent valuer of the market rent for
the lease or to provide the other evidence of the market rent that the
commissioner considers appropriate.
     (2)     The commissioner may assess duty taking into account the declaration
or other evidence provided under subsection (1).
     (3)     The commissioner may have the market rent valued (the calculated
market rent) if the commissioner is not satisfied with the declaration
or other evidence provided under subsection (1).
     (4)     The commissioner may assess duty taking into account the calculated
market rent.
     (5)     The commissioner may recover the cost of obtaining the valuation under
subsection (3) from the person liable to pay the duty.
Note     An amount owing under a law may be recovered as a debt in a
court of competent jurisdiction or the ACAT (see Legislation Act
, s 177).
     (6)     In this section:
"commercial lease with premium"--see section
6A.
"market rent"--see section 6.
"premium"--see section 6.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 252
Objections
Objection may be made by a taxpayer under the Taxation Administration Act 
, division 10.1 to a decision of the commissioner--
         (a)     under section 23 assessing duty on the basis of a valuation of
dutiable property made under the section; or
         (b)     under section 24 (2) refusing to exempt a transaction from aggregation
under that section; or
         (c)     under section 25 refusing to disregard the value of goods involved in
a dutiable transaction in determining the dutiable value of dutiable property
involved in that transaction; or
         (d)     under section 82 (5) refusing to determine that a beneficiary of a
discretionary trust is not taken to own or to be otherwise entitled to the
property the subject of the trust; or
         (e)     under section 82 (5) refusing to determine that property that is the
subject of a discretionary trust is not taken to be the subject of another
discretionary trust; or
         (f)     under section 90A (4) including an interest of an associated person as
another acquisition under section 90A (2) (b) in working out the dutiable
amount; or
         (g)     under section 92 (5) refusing to determine that a person's
entitlement to participate in a distribution of the property of a landholder is
to be evaluated otherwise than in accordance with whichever of section 92 (2) or
(3) results in a greater entitlement; or
         (h)     under section 115H (3) refusing to exempt a chapter 3 transaction
from duty, other than a determination by the commissioner under
section 115HA (7), definition of "applicable period",
paragraph (b); or
               (i)     under section 115J (2) refusing to grant an exemption from duty;
or
         (j)     under section 115K imposing a condition on an exemption; or
         (k)     under section 115L revoking an exemption; or
         (l)     under section 230 (1) refusing to treat a transfer or agreement for
the sale or transfer of land, a lease of land, or a transfer or assignment of a
lease or permit in respect of land, used for primary production together with
any other property that is an integral part of a business of primary production
as exempt from duty; or
         (m)     under section 232A (2) imposing a condition on an approval made under
section 232A (1); or
         (n)     under section 232G (1) (a) that a transaction is not consequent on the
dissolution, annulment or irretrievable breakdown of a marriage; or
         (o)     under section 232H (1) (a) that a transaction is not consequent on the
end of a de facto relationship; or
         (p)     under section 232I (1) (c) that a transaction is not consequent on the
end of a domestic relationship.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 252AA
Review of decisions by ACAT 
     (1)     This section applies to a determination by the commissioner of an
objection to a decision mentioned in section 252.
     (2)     The determination is prescribed for the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 107A (Meaning of reviewable decision etc--div
10.2).
Note     Applications for review by the ACAT may be made in relation to
a determination by the commissioner of a decision on an objection to an
assessment.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 252AB
Determination of fees 
     (1)     The Minister may determine fees for this Act.
     (2)     A determination is a disallowable instrument.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- SECT 253
Regulation-making power 
     (1)     The Executive may make regulations for this Act.
     (2)     A regulation may prescribe offences for contraventions of a regulation
and prescribe maximum penalties of not more than 10 penalty units for
offences against a regulation.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- NOTES Dictionary

Dictionary
(see s 2A)
Note 1     The Legislation Act 

 contains definitions and other provisions relevant to this Act.
Note 2     For example, the Legislation Act

, dict, pt 1 defines the following terms:
               o      ACAT
               o      ACT
               o      Australia
               o      authorised deposit-taking institution
               o      bankrupt or personally insolvent
               o      child
               o      civil partnership
               o      civil union
               o      commissioner for revenue
               o      Corporations Act
               o      doctor
               o      document
               o      external territory
               o      in relation to
               o      instrument (see s 14)
               o      land.
"acquires", an interest in a landholder, for part 3.2
(Acquisition of interests in certain landholders)--see section
84.
"acquisition statement", for chapter 3 (Certain transactions
treated as transfers)--see section 87 (1).
"Act imposing duty" means--
         (a)     a corresponding Act; or
         (b)     an Act to which the Taxation Administration Act 

 applies.
"application to register a motor vehicle"
means--
         (a)     an application under the Vehicle Registration Act 

 to register a motor vehicle; or
         (b)     an application under the Vehicle Registration Act 

 to transfer the registration of a motor vehicle.
"approved" means approved by the commissioner.
"asset", for part 3.6 (Voluntary transfers under Financial
Sector (Transfer and Restructure) Act 1999 (Cwlth))--see section
115A.
"associated person"--see section 77A.
"Australian Securities Exchange" means ASX Limited
ACN 008 624 691.
"bankrupt "means bankrupt or personally insolvent.
"business", for part 3.6 (Voluntary transfers under Financial
Sector (Transfer and Restructure) Act 1999 (Cwlth))--see section
115A.
"cancelled", for chapter 2 (Transactions concerning dutiable
property)--see section 6.
chapter 3 property, in relation to a chapter 3 transaction,
for chapter 3 (Certain transactions treated as transfers)--see section
76A.
chapter 3 transaction--see section 76.
"charge" includes impose.
"commercial lease", for chapter 2 (Transactions concerning
dutiable property)--see section 6.
commercial lease with premium, for chapter 2
(Transactions concerning dutiable property)--see section
6A.
"commercial purposes", for chapter 2 (Transactions concerning
dutiable property)--see section 6.
"commissioner" means the commissioner for revenue.
"complying approved deposit fund" means an entity that is a
complying approved deposit fund in accordance with the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 

 (Cwlth), section 43.
"complying superannuation fund"--
         (a)     means an entity that is--
               (i)     a complying superannuation fund under the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 

 (Cwlth), section 42 or section 42A; or
               (ii)     an exempt public sector superannuation scheme under the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 

 (Cwlth), section 10 (1); and
         (b)     includes--
               (i)     a complying approved deposit fund; and
               (ii)     an eligible rollover fund.
"consideration"--see section 21.
"corporation" means a body corporate, whether incorporated in
this jurisdiction or elsewhere.
"corresponding Act" means an Act of another Australian
jurisdiction that corresponds to this Act.
"corresponding law", in relation to a territory law, means a
law of a State or another Territory that is similar, or has a similar effect, to
that territory law.
"cost", in relation to a lease--see section 136.
"Crown lease"--see the Land Titles Act 1925

, dictionary.
"declaration of trust", for chapter 2 (Transactions concerning
dutiable property)--see section 6.
"declared" land sublease--see the Planning Act 2023

, section 365 (1).
"de facto relationship", for part 11.2 (Exemptions from
duty--certain personal relationships)--see section 232E.
"deferral arrangement"--
         (a)     for division 2.6A.1 (First home owner grant scheme and home buyer
concession scheme)--see section 75AC (2); or
         (b)     for division 2.6A.2 (Other duty deferral schemes)--see
section 75AI (2).
"demonstrator", for part 9.2 (Exemptions)--see section
208A.
"determined rate", in relation to duty, means a rate determined
by the Minister under the Taxation Administration Act 

, section 139 for the provision where the expression occurs.
"discretionary trust" means a trust under which the vesting of
the whole or any part of the capital of the trust estate, or the whole or any
part of the income from that capital, or both--
         (a)     is required to be determined by a person either in respect of the
identity of the beneficiaries, or the quantum of interest taken, or both;
or
         (b)     will occur if a discretion conferred under the trust is not exercised;
or
         (c)     has occurred but under which the whole or any part of that capital or
the whole or any part of that income, or both, will be divested from the person
or people in whom it is vested if a discretion conferred under the trust is
exercised.
"domestic relationship"--see the Domestic Relationships Act 1994

, section 3.
"dutiable property"--see section 10.
"dutiable transaction"--see section 7 (2).
"dutiable value"--
         (a)     of a motor vehicle for part 9.1 (Imposition and rates of
duty)--see section 203; and
         (b)     of other dutiable property--see section 20.
"duty deferral scheme", for division 2.6A.2 (Other duty
deferral schemes)--see section 75AG (1).
"eligible person"--
         (a)     for division 2.6A.1 (First home owner grant scheme and home buyer
concession scheme)--see section 75; or
         (b)     for a duty deferral scheme, for division 2.6A.2 (Other duty
deferral schemes)--see section 75AG (2) (a).
"eligible property", for division 2.6A.1 (First home owner
grant scheme and home buyer concession scheme)--see
section 75A.
"eligible rollover fund" means an entity that is an eligible
rollover fund in accordance with the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 

 (Cwlth), section 242, and includes an entity the trustee of which is
satisfied will be an eligible rollover fund within 12 months after the date when
a liability to duty arises (or would otherwise arise).
"eligible transaction", for a duty deferral scheme, for
division 2.6A.2 (Other duty deferral schemes)--see
section 75AG (2) (b).
"entity", for part 3.2 (Acquisition of interests in certain
landholders)--see section 78A.
"exchanging members", for division 3.7.2
(Exemptions--'top hatting' arrangements)--see section
115I.
"financial institution", for division 2.5.2A (Alternative
finance transactions)--see section 64.
"financial market"--see the Corporations Act 

, section 9. 
"first executed", for an instrument (including a
contract)--see section 243.
"FS (TR) Act", for part 3.6 (Voluntary transfers under
Financial Sector (Transfer and Restructure) Act 1999
(Cwlth))--see section 115A.
"home buyer concession scheme", for division 2.6A.1 (First home
owner grant scheme and home buyer concession scheme)--see section
75.
"hospital" means a recognised hospital within the meaning of
the Health Insurance Act 1973 

 (Cwlth).
"instrument" includes a document and a written
statement.
"insurance" includes assurance.
"insurance intermediary"--see the Insurance Contracts Act 1984 

 (Cwlth), section 11.
"interest"--
         (a)     for this Act generally--includes an estate, an interest under a
lease or a sublease, a proprietary right and a beneficial interest;
and
         (b)     in a landholder, for part 3.2 (Acquisition of interests in certain
landholders)--see section 83.
"international transport", in relation to freight, means the
transport, in connection with trade or commerce, of the freight
between--
         (a)     a place in a foreign country; and
         (b)     a place in--
               (i)     another foreign country; or
               (ii)     Australia; or
               (iii)     an external Territory.
"interposed trust", for division 3.7.2
(Exemptions--'top hatting' arrangements)--see section
115I.
"land"--
         (a)     for this Act generally--includes a stratum; and
         (b)     for part 3.2 (Acquisition of interests in certain
landholders)--see section 80A.
"landholder"--see section 79.
"landholding", for part 3.2 (Acquisition of interests in
certain landholders)--see section 80.
"land used for primary production" means land used primarily
for--
         (a)     the cultivation of the land for the purpose of selling the produce of
the cultivation; or
         (b)     the maintenance of animals or poultry on the land for the purpose of
selling them or their natural increase or bodily produce; or
         (c)     the keeping of bees on the land for the purpose of selling their
honey; or
         (d)     a plant nursery; or
         (e)     the propagation for sale of mushrooms, orchids or flowers;
or
         (f)     aquaculture.
"land use entitlement" means an entitlement to occupy land
within the ACT conferred through an ownership of shares in a company or an
ownership of units in a unit trust scheme, or a combination of a shareholding or
ownership of units together with a lease or licence.
"lease" means--
         (a)     a lease of land in the ACT or an agreement for a lease of land in the
ACT; or
         (b)     an agreement (for example, a licence) by which a right to use land in
the ACT at any time and for any purpose is given to or acquired by a
person.
"lessee" includes--
         (a)     any assignee for the time being of the rights of the lessee under a
lease; and
         (b)     a person who has a right of the kind mentioned in the definition of
"lease", paragraph (b).
"lessor" includes a person who grants a right of the kind
mentioned in the definition of "lease", paragraph (b).
"licensed vehicle dealer "means a licensed dealer under the Sale of Motor Vehicles Act 1977

, or the holder of a similar licence under a corresponding law.
"life company"--see the Life Insurance Act 1995 

 (Cwlth), schedule.
"listed company" means a company whose shares are quoted on any
of the following exchanges:
         (a)     the Australian Securities Exchange;
         (b)     the London Stock Exchange;
         (c)     the New York Stock Exchange;
         (d)     the New Zealand Exchange;
         (e)     an exchange that is a member of the World Federation of
Exchanges;
         (f)     an exchange prescribed by regulation.
"listed trust" means a unit trust scheme whose units are quoted
on any of the following exchanges:
         (a)     the Australian Securities Exchange;
         (b)     the London Stock Exchange;
         (c)     the New York Stock Exchange;
         (d)     the New Zealand Exchange;
         (e)     a stock exchange that is a member of the World Federation of
Exchanges;
         (f)     an exchange prescribed by regulation.
"majority shareholder", in relation to a private company,
means--
         (a)     for a company the voting shares in which are not divided into
classes--a person entitled to not less than 50% of those shares,
and
         (b)     for a company the voting shares in which are divided into
classes--a person entitled to not less than 50% of the shares in one of
those classes.
"managed investment scheme" means a managed investment scheme
within the meaning of the Corporations Act 

, section 9 that complies with that Act, chapter 5C, and includes a public
unit trust scheme.
"market rent", for chapter 2 (Transactions concerning dutiable
property)--see section 6.
"market value", in relation to a motor vehicle, means the
amount for which the motor vehicle might reasonably be sold, free of
encumbrances, on the open market.
"marriage" includes a void marriage.
"matrimonial property", of a marriage, means property of the
parties to the marriage or of either of them.
"mortgage" means any charge on land created merely for securing
a debt.
"motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle or trailer within the
meaning of the Vehicle Registration Act 

, but does not include a caravan or camper trailer.
"motor vehicle transfer application", for part 11.2 (Exemptions
from duty--certain personal relationships)--see section
232E.
"new motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle that has not
previously been registered under--
         (a)     the Vehicle Registration Act 

 or another territory law; or
         (b)     a law of the Commonwealth, a State or another Territory.
"partner"--a person's partner is
either of the following:
         (a)     the person's spouse;
         (b)     someone with whom the person has a domestic relationship.
"partnership interest"--see section
10 (1) (f).
"party", to a marriage, includes a person who was a party to a
marriage that has been dissolved or annulled, in Australia or
elsewhere.
"premium"--for chapter 2 (Transactions concerning
dutiable property)--see section 6.
"primary production", for chapter 2 (Transactions concerning
dutiable property)--see section 6.
"private company" means a company that is not a listed
company.
"property transferred", by a dutiable transaction--see
section 8 (2).
"public unit trust scheme" means any of the following unit
trust schemes: 
         (a)     a listed trust;
         (b)     a widely held trust.
"receiving body", for part 3.6 (Voluntary transfers under
Financial Sector (Transfer and Restructure) Act 1999 (Cwlth))--see
section 115A.
"registered scheme"--see the Corporations Act 

, section 9.
Note     A registered scheme under the Corporations Act 

 is a managed investment scheme that is registered under that Act, ch
5C.
"relationship property", of a domestic relationship, means
property of the parties to the relationship or of either of them.
"relevant acquisition", in relation to a person, for part 3.2
(Acquisition of interests in certain landholders)--see section
86.
"relevant period", for a relevant acquisition, for part 3.2
(Acquisition of interests in certain landholders)--see section
78.
"rent reserved", for chapter 2 (Transactions concerning
dutiable property)--see section 6.
"residential lease" means a lease granted for residential
purposes only.
"responsible entity"--see the Corporations Act 

, section 9.
"right", in relation to shares or units, means any right
(whether actual, prospective or contingent) of a person to have shares or units
issued by a company or trust to the person, whether or not on payment of money
or for other consideration, but does not include a convertible note.
"scheme" includes--
         (a)     any plan, action or conduct of a person; and
         (b)     any trust, agreement, arrangement or other understanding between
people, whether oral or in writing, whether express or implied and whether or
not it is intended to be legally binding; and
         (c)     any series or combination of schemes mentioned in paragraphs (a)
and (b).
"shares" includes rights to shares.
"significant interest", in a landholder--see section
83.
"special disability trust"--see the Social Security Act 1991 

 (Cwlth), section 1209L.
"spouse party", for part 11.2 (Exemptions from
duty--certain personal relationships)--see section 232E.
"Taxation Administration Act" means the Taxation Administration Act 1999

.
"tax avoidance scheme" means a scheme by which a person obtains
or seeks to obtain a reduction in, or exemption from, tax that would otherwise
be payable and where it would be reasonable to conclude that the person entered
into or carried out the scheme principally for the purpose of obtaining the
reduction or exemption, having regard to--
         (a)     the way in which the scheme was entered into or carried out;
or
         (b)     the form and substance of the scheme; or
         (c)     the time when the scheme was entered into and the length of time
during which it was carried out; or
         (d)     the extent to which the scheme reduces the tax that would be otherwise
payable; or
         (e)     whether the scheme has resulted in, or can reasonably be expected to
result in, a change in any person's financial position, or in any other
consequence for any person; or
         (f)     the nature of any connection (whether of a business, family or any
other nature) between the person and a person mentioned in paragraph
        (e).
"time", of transfer of dutiable property--see section 8
(2).
"trading stock", for part 9.2 (Exemptions)--see section
208A.
"transaction", for part 11.2 (Exemptions from
duty--certain personal relationships)--see section 232E.
"transfer "includes any of the following:
         (a)     assignment;
         (b)     exchange;
         (c)     a buyback of shares in accordance with the Corporations Act 

, division 2J.1.2;
         (d)     vesting of an interest in property under a law of the Territory, the
Commonwealth, a State or another Territory, unless the interest does not exist
before it is vested;
         (e)     vesting of an interest in property under a court order, unless the
interest did not exist before it is vested.
"transferee", of dutiable property--see section 8
(2).
"trustee" includes--
         (a)     a person who is a trustee under an implied or constructive trust;
and
         (b)     in relation to a deceased person--an executor of the will, or an
administrator of the estate, of the deceased person; and
         (c)     a receiver, guardian, committee or manager of the property of a person
under a legal or other disability; and
         (d)     a receiver or manager of the property of a company, or a liquidator of
a company for the purpose of its winding-up; and
         (e)     a person who holds an interest in a landholder for the benefit of
another person; and
         (f)     a person who may be required to exercise his or her voting power in
relation to an interest in a landholder at the direction of another
person.
"unencumbered value"--see section 22.
"unit", in relation to a unit trust scheme,
means--
         (a)     a right or interest (whether described as a unit or a sub-unit or
otherwise) of a beneficiary under the scheme; or
         (b)     a right to any such right or interest.
"unit trust scheme" means any arrangements made for the
purpose, or having the effect, of providing, for people having funds available
for investment, facilities for the participation by them, as beneficiaries under
a trust, in any profits, income or distribution of assets arising from the
acquisition, holding, management or disposal of any property whatever under the
trust.
"Vehicle Registration Act" means the Road Transport (Vehicle Registration) Act 1999

.
Note     A reference to an Act includes a reference to the statutory
instruments made or in force under the Act, including a regulation (see Legislation Act

, s 104).
"voluntary transfer", for part 3.6 (Voluntary transfers under
Financial Sector (Transfer and Restructure) Act 1999 (Cwlth))--see
section 115A.
"widely held trust" means a unit trust scheme that has not less
than 300 unit holders none of whom, individually or with an associated
person, is entitled to more than 20% of the units in the trust, and for the
purposes of this definition--
         (a)     if a registered unit holder in a unit trust scheme holds units as a
trustee for 2 or more trusts the unit holder is treated as a separate registered
unit holder in relation to each of those trusts and the units held under each
trust are to be treated as a separate unit holding; but
         (b)     a trustee is not treated as a separate registered unit holder in
relation to 2 or more trusts if, as separate registered unit holders in relation
to those trusts, they would be associated persons.

DUTIES ACT 1999
- NOTES Endnotes

Endnotes
1     About
the endnotes
Amending and modifying laws are annotated in the legislation history and
the amendment history.  Current modifications are not included in the
republished law but are set out in the endnotes.
Not all editorial amendments made under the Legislation Act 2001
, part 11.3 are annotated in the amendment history.  Full details of any
amendments can be obtained from the Parliamentary Counsel's
Office.
Uncommenced amending laws are not included in the republished law.  The
details of these laws are underlined in the legislation history.  Uncommenced
expiries are underlined in the legislation history and amendment
history.
If all the provisions of the law have been renumbered, a table of
renumbered provisions gives details of previous and current numbering. 

The endnotes also include a table of earlier republications.
2     Abbreviation
key

      
      

A = Act

NI = Notifiable instrument

AF = Approved form

o = order

am = amended

om = omitted/repealed

amdt = amendment

ord = ordinance

AR = Assembly resolution

orig = original

ch = chapter

par = paragraph/subparagraph

CN = Commencement notice

pres = present

def = definition

prev = previous

DI = Disallowable instrument

(prev...) = previously

dict = dictionary

pt = part

disallowed = disallowed by the Legislative

r = rule/subrule

Assembly

reloc = relocated

div = division

renum = renumbered

exp = expires/expired

R[X] = Republication No

Gaz = gazette

RI = reissue

hdg = heading

s = section/subsection

IA = Interpretation Act 1967

sch = schedule

ins = inserted/added

sdiv = subdivision

LA = Legislation Act 2001

SL = Subordinate law

LR = legislation register

sub = substituted

LRA = Legislation (Republication) Act
1996

underlining = whole or part not
commenced

mod = modified/modification

or to be expired

3     Legislation
history
Duties Act 1999 A1999-7 
notified 1 March 1999
s 1, s 2 commenced 1 March 1999 (s 2
(1))
remainder commenced 1 March 1999 (s 2 (2) and Gaz 1999
No S8)
as amended by
Road Transport Legislation Amendment Act 1999
 A1999-79 
notified 23 December 1999
commenced 1 March 2000 (s 2 and Gaz 2000
No S5)
Duties (Transitional Provisions) Regulations 2000
 SL2000-15 (see A2000-46 
 s 25)
notified 28 February 2000
commenced 28 February 2000 (reg 2)
Duties Amendment Act 2000 
 A2000-5 
notified 1 March 2000 (Gaz 2000 No S8)
commenced 1 March 2000 (s 2)
Duties Amendment Act 2000 (No 2) 
 A2000-30 
notified 6 July 2000 (Gaz 2000 No S33)
s 1, s 2 commenced 6 July 2000 (IA s
10B)
remainder commenced 1 July 2000 (s 2)
Financial Relations Agreement Consequential Amendments Act 2000
 A2000-34 
notified 6 July 2000
s 1, s 2 commenced 6 July 2000
ss 3, 18, 24, 25 and pt 4 commenced 1 July 2000 (see
s 2 (1))
remainder commenced 1 July 2001 (see s 2
(2))
Duties Amendment Act 2000 (No 3) 
 A2000-46 pt 2 (ss 3-23) (as am by A2001-55 
)
notified 28 September 2000 (Gaz 2000 No
39)
s 1, s 2 commenced 28 September 2000 (IA s
10B)
s 12 commences 1 July 2001 (s 2 (4))
ss 13, 18-22 taken to have commenced 28 February 2000 (s
2 (3))
s 23 never commenced (amdt ineffective, om by A2001-55 
 amdt 1.8)
pt 2 remainder commenced 28 September 2000 (s
2 (5))
Statute Law Amendment Act 2000 
 A2000-80 amdt 3.4
notified 21 December 2000 (Gaz 2000 No
S69)
commenced 21 December 2000 (s 2)
Unit Titles Consequential Amendments Act 2001
 A2001-17 sch 2
notified 5 April 2001 (Gaz 2001 No 14)
s 1, s 2 commenced 5 April 2001 (IA s
10B)
sch 2 commenced 5 October 2001 (s 2)
Insurance Levy Legislation Repeal Act 2001
 A2001-22 sch 1 pt 1
notified 19 April 2001 (Gaz 2001 No 16)
s 1, s 2 commenced 19 April 2001 (IA s 10B) (s 2
(1))
sch 1 pt 1 commenced 1 September 2001 (s 2
(3))
Duties Amendment Act 2001 
 A2001-40 
notified 29 June 2001 (Gaz 2001 No S36)
s 1, s 2 commence 29 June 2001 (IA s
10B)
remainder commenced 16 July 2001 (s 2)
Legislation (Consequential Amendments) Act 2001
 A2001-44 pt 115 (as am by A2001-40 
 sch 1 pt 4)
notified 26 July 2001 (Gaz 2001 No 30)
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 July 2001 (IA s
10B)
pt 115 commenced 12 September 2001 (s 2 and see Gaz 2001
No S65)
Duties Amendment Act 2001 (No 2) 
 A2001-55 pt 2, pt 3,
sch 1 pt 1
notified 15 August 2001 (Gaz 2001 No
S57)
s 1, s 2 commenced 15 August 2001 (IA s
10B)
amdts 1.1-1.3 taken to have commenced immediately after
the commencement of A2000-80 
 amdt 3.4 on 21 December 2000
(amdts 1.1-1.3)
remainder commenced 15 August 2001 (s
2)
Duties Amendment Act 2002 
 A2002-6 
notified LR 17 April 2002
s 1, s 2 commenced 17 April 2002 (LA s
75)
s 4 commenced 17 April 2002 (s 2 (1))
remainder taken to have commenced 1 March 1999 (s 2
(2))
Duties (Personal Relationship Agreements) Amendment Act 2002
 A2002-14 
notified LR 23 May 2002
s 1, s 2 commenced 23 May 2002 (LA s
75)
remainder commenced 24 May 2002 (s 2)
Duties (Insurance Exemptions) Amendment Act 2002
 A2002-20 
notified LR 13 June 2002
s 1, s 2 commenced 13 June 2002 (LA s
75)
remainder commenced 1 July 2002 (s 2 and see CN2002-6 
)
Duties Amendment Act 2003 
 A2003-1
notified LR 3 March 2003
s 1, s 2 commenced 3 March 2003 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 4 March 2003 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2003 (No 2)
 A2003-29 pt 2
notified LR 30 June 2003
s 1, s 2 commenced 30 June 2003 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 1 July 2003 (s 2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2003 
 A2003-41 sch 3 pt 3.8
notified LR 11 September 2003
s 1, s 2 commenced 11 September 2003 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.8 commenced 9 October 2003 (s 2
(1))
Sexuality Discrimination Legislation Amendment Act 2004
 A2004-2 sch 1 pt 1.6
notified LR 18 February 2004
s 1, s 2 commenced 18 February 2004 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.6 commenced 22 March 2004 (s 2 and CN2004-4 
)
Construction Occupations Legislation Amendment Act 2004
 A2004-13 sch 2 pt 2.8
notified LR 26 March 2004
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 March 2004 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 2 pt 2.8 commenced 1 September 2004 (s 2 and see Construction Occupations (Licensing) Act 2004
 A2004-12, s 2 and CN2004-8 
)
Criminal Code (Theft, Fraud, Bribery and Related Offences) Amendment Act 2004
 A2004-15 sch 2 pt 2.29
notified LR 26 March 2004
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 March 2004 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 2 pt 2.29 commenced 9 April 2004 (s 2
(1))
Statute Law Amendment Act 2005 
 A2005-20 sch 3 pt 3.18
notified LR 12 May 2005
s 1, s 2 taken to have commenced 8 March 2005 (LA s 75
(2))
sch 3 pt 3.18 commenced 2 June 2005 (s 2
(1))
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2005 
 A2005-29 pt 2
notified LR 28 June 2005
s 1, s 2 commenced 28 June 2005 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 1 July 2005 (s 2 (1))
Criminal Code Harmonisation Act 2005 
 A2005-54 sch 1 pt 1.18
notified LR 27 October 2005
s 1, s 2 commenced 27 October 2005 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.18 commenced 24 November 2005 (s
2)
Duties Amendment Act 2006 
 A2006-13
notified LR 6 April 2006
s 1, s 2 commenced 6 April 2006 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 1 July 2006 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2006 
 A2006-19 pt 2
notified LR 17 May 2006
s 1, s 2 commenced 17 May 2006 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 18 May 2006 (s 2 (3))
Civil Unions Act 2006 
 A2006-22 sch 1 pt 1.12
notified LR 19 May 2006
s 1, s 2 commenced 19 May 2006 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.12 never commenced
Note     Act repealed by disallowance 14
June 2006 (see Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2006 (No 2)
 A2006-32 pt 2
notified LR 30 August 2006
s 1, s 2 commenced 30 August 2006 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 31 August 2006 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2006 (No 3)
 A2006-37 pt 2
notified LR 26 September 2006
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 September 2006 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 27 September 2006 (s 2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2006 
 A2006-42 sch 3 pt 3.10
notified LR 26 October 2006
s 1, s 2 taken to have commenced 12 November 2005 (LA s
75 (2))
sch 3 pt 3.10 commenced 16 November 2006 (s 2
(1))
Duties Amendment Act 2006 (No 2) 
 A2006-45
notified LR 28 November 2006
s 1, s 2 commenced 28 November 2006 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 29 November 2006 (s
2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2007 
 A2007-3 sch 3 pt 3.33
notified LR 22 March 2007
s 1, s 2 taken to have commenced 1 July 2006 (LA s 75
(2))
sch 3 pt 3.33 commenced 12 April 2007 (s 2
(1))
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2007 
 A2007-21 pt 2
notified LR 19 June 2007
s 1, s 2 commenced 19 June 2007 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 20 June 2007 (s 2)
Planning and Development (Consequential Amendments) Act 2007
 A2007-25 sch 1 pt 1.9
notified LR 13 September
2007s 1, s 2 commenced 13 September 2007 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.9 commenced 31 March 2008 (s 2 and see Planning and Development Act 2007
 A2007-24, s 2 and CN2008-1 
)
Duties Amendment Act 2007 
 A2007-38
notified LR 4 December 2007
s 1, s 2 commenced 4 December 2007 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 5 December 2007 (s
2)
Civil Partnerships Act 2008 
 A2008-14 sch 1 pt 1.10
notified LR 15 May 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 15 May 2008 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.10 commenced 19 May 2008 (s 2 and CN2008-8 
)
Duties Amendment Act 2008 
 A2008-17
notified LR 30 June 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 30 June 2008 (LA s 75
(1))
s 4 commenced 1 July 2008 (s 2 (2))
remainder commenced 30 June 2008 (s 2
(1))
Statute Law Amendment Act 2008 
 A2008-28 sch 3 pt 3.23
notified LR 12 August 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 12 August 2008 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.23 commenced 26 August 2008 (s
2)
Duties (Landholders) Amendment Act 2008
 A2008-31
notified LR 18 August 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 18 August 2008 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 1 September 2008 (s 2 and CN2008-12 
)
Duties Amendment Act 2008 (No 2) 
 A2008-34
notified LR 2 September 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 2 September 2008 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 3 September 2008 (s
2)
ACT Civil and Administrative Tribunal Legislation Amendment Act 2008 (No 2)
 A2008-37 sch 1 pt
1.32
notified LR 4 September 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 4 September 2008 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.32 commenced 2 February 2009 (s 2 (1) and see
ACT Civil
and Administrative Tribunal Act 2008
 A2008-35, s 2 (1) and CN2009-2 
)
as modified by
Duties (Transitional Provisions) Regulation 2008
 SL2008-38 s 3
notified LR 11 September 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 11 September 2008 (LA s 75
(1))
s 3 commenced 12 September 2008 (s 2)
as amended by
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2009 
 A2009-4 pt 2
notified LR 4 March 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 4 March 2009 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 5 March 2009 (s 2)
Duties Amendment Act 2009 
 A2009-15
notified LR 29 June 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 29 June 2009 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 1 July 2009 (s 2)
Road Transport (Third-Party Insurance) Amendment Act 2009
 A2009-16 sch 3 pt 3.1
notified LR 30 June 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 30 June 2009 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.1 commenced 5 July 2009 (s
2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2009 
 A2009-20 sch 3 pt 3.24
notified LR 1 September 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 1 September 2009 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.24 commenced 22 September 2009 (s
2)
Duties Amendment Act 2009 (No 2) 
 A2009-45
notified LR 24 November 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 24 November 2009 (LA s 75
(1))
s 19, s 20 commenced 16 March 2010 (s 2 (2) and CN2010-3 
)
remainder commenced 25 November 2009 (s 2
(1))
Statute Law Amendment Act 2009 (No 2) 
 A2009-49 sch 3 pt 3.22
notified LR 26 November 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 26 November 2009 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.22 commenced 17 December 2009 (s
2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2010 
 A2010-18 sch 1 pt 1.5
notified LR 13 May 2010
s 1, s 2 commenced 13 May 2010 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.5 commenced 3 June 2010 (s
2)
Duties Amendment Act 2010 
 A2010-19
notified LR 30 June 2010
s 1, s 2 commenced 30 June 2010 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 1 July 2010 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2010 (No 2)
 A2010-20 pt 2
notified LR 6 July 2010
s 1, s 2 commenced 6 July 2010 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 7 July 2010 (s 2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2011 
 A2011-3 sch 3 pt 3.15
notified LR 22 February 2011
s 1, s 2 commenced 22 February 2011 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.15 commenced 1 March 2011 (s
2)
Duties Amendment Act 2012 
 A2012-19
notified LR 17 May 2012
s 1, s 2 commenced 17 May 2012 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 18 May 2012 (s 2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2012 
 A2012-21 sch 3 pt 3.13
notified LR 22 May 2012
s 1, s 2 commenced 22 May 2012 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.13 commenced 5 June 2012 (s 2
(1))
Duties (Landholders) Amendment Act 2012
 A2012-35
notified LR 18 June 2012
s 1, s 2 commenced 18 June 2012 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 1 July 2012 (s 2)
Duties Amendment Act 2012 (No 2) 
 A2012-36
notified LR 18 June 2012
s 1, s 2 commenced 18 June 2012 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 19 June 2012 (s 2)
Civil Unions Act 2012 
 A2012-40 sch 3 pt 3.12
notified LR 4 September 2012
s 1, s 2 commenced 4 September 2012 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.12 commenced 11 September 2012 (s
2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2013 
 A2013-19 sch 3 pt 3.14
notified LR 24 May 2013
s 1, s 2 commenced 24 May 2013 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.14 commenced 14 June 2013 (s
2)
Duties (Duty Deferral) Amendment Act 2013
 A2013-35
notified LR 24 September 2013
s 1, s 2 taken to have commenced 1 September 2013 (LA s
75 (2))
remainder taken to have commenced 1 September 2013 (s
2)
Marriage Equality (Same Sex) Act 2013 
 A2013-39 sch 2 pt 2.12
notified LR 4 November 2013
s 1, s 2 commenced 4 November 2013 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 2 pt 2.12 commenced 7 November 2013 (s 2 and CN2013-11 
)
Note     The High Court held this Act to be
of no effect (see Commonwealth v Australian Capital Territory [2013] HCA
55)
Duties (Commercial Leases) Amendment Act 2014
 A2014-12
notified LR 15 April 2014
s 1, s 2 commenced 15 April 2014 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 29 April 2014 (s 2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2014 (No 2) 
 A2014-44 sch 3 pt 3.2
notified LR 5 November 2014
s 1, s 2 commenced 5 November 2014 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.2 commenced 19 November 2014 (s
2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2015 
 A2015-15 sch 3 pt 3.4
notified LR 27 May 2015
s 1, s 2 commenced 27 May 2015 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.4 commenced 10 June 2015 (s
2)
Planning and Development (University of Canberra and Other Leases) Legislation Amendment Act 2015
 A2015-19 pt 6
notified LR 11 June 2015
s 1, s 2 commenced 11 June 2015 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 6 commenced 1 July 2015 (s 2 and CN2015-9 
)
Revenue (Charitable Organisations) Legislation Amendment Act 2015
 A2015-48 pt 2
notified LR 24 November 2015
s 1, s 2 commenced 24 November 2015 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 25 November 2015 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2015 
 A2015-49 pt 2
notified LR 24 November 2015
s 1, s 2 commenced 24 November 2015 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 25 November 2015 (s 2)
Red Tape Reduction Legislation Amendment Act 2016
 A2016-18 sch 3 pt 3.20
notified LR 13 April 2016
s 1, s 2 commenced 13 April 2016 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.20 commenced 27 April 2016 (s
2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2016 
 A2016-47 pt 2
notified LR 22 August 2016
s 1, s 2 commenced 22 August 2016 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 1 September 2016 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2017 
 A2017-1 sch 1 pt 1.2
notified LR 22 February 2017
s 1, s 2 commenced 22 February 2017 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.2 commenced 18 September 2017 (s 2 (1) and CN2017-5 
)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2017 (No 2)
 A2017-11 pt 2
notified LR 16 May 2017
s 1, s 2 commenced 16 May 2017 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 1 July 2017 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2018 
 A2018-2 sch 1 pt 1.2
notified LR 28 February 2018
s 1, s 2 commenced 28 February 2018 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.2 commenced 1 March 2018 (s
2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2019 
 A2019-7 sch 1 pt 1.2
notified LR 27 March 2019
s 1, s 2 commenced 27 March 2019 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.2 commenced 28 March 2019 (s 2
(1))
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2019 (No 2)
 A2019-46 pt 2
notified LR 9 December 2019
s 1, s 2 commenced 9 December 2019 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 16 December 2019 (s 2 (2) and CN2019-21 
)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2021 
 A2021-10 sch 1 pt 1.1
notified LR 19 May 2021
s 1, s 2 commenced 19 May 2021 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.1 commenced 20 May 2021 (s 2
(1))
Statute Law Amendment Act 2021
 A2021-12 sch 3 pt 3.11
notified LR 9 June 2021
s 1, s 2 commenced 9 June 2021 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.11 commenced 23 June 2021 (s 2
(1))
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2023 
 A2023-6 pt 2
notified LR 11 April 2023
s 1, s 2 commenced 11 April 2023 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 1 October 2023 (s 2 (2) and CN2023-8 
)
Planning (Consequential Amendments) Act 2023
 A2023-36 sch 1 pt 1.20
notified LR 29 September 2023
s 1, s 2 commenced 29 September 2023 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.20 commenced 27 November 2023 (s 2 (1) and
see Planning Act 2023 
 A2023-18, s 2 (2) and CN2023-10 
)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2023 [No 2]
 A2023-47 pt 2
notified LR 15 November 2023
s 1, s 2 commenced 15 November 2023 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 1 July 2024 (s 2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2025 
 A2025-29 sch 4 pt 4.62
notified LR 6 November 2025
s 1, s 2 commenced 6 November 2025 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 4 pt 4.62 commenced 16 December 2025 (s 2
(6))
4     Amendment
history
Name of
Acts 1     sub A2000-46 
 s 4
Commencements
2     om A2000-46 
 s 5
Dictionarys
2A     ins A2000-34 
 s 4     am
A2023-6 
 s 4
Notess
2B     ins A2000-34 
 s 4
Offences against Act--application of
Criminal Code etcs 2C     ins A2005-54 
 amdt 1.98
Territory not liable for payment of
dutys 4     defs reloc to dict A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2000-34 
 s 5     ins
A2001-55 
 s 4     am
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.55     sub A2009-45 
 s 4     def
Australian Stock Exchange om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
broker om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
chess om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
CUFS om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
futures broker om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
futures contract om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
general insurer reloc to dict A2000-34 
 s 5     def
identification code om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
index trust om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
instalment warrant om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
IR om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
marketable securities om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
Motor Traffic Act om A1999-79 
 sch
3     def private company om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
proper SCH transfer om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
recognised stock exchange om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
registered independent options trader om A2000-34 

s 5     def registered scheme
reloc to dict A2000-34 
 s 5     def
relevant interest om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
relevant SCH participant om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
SCH om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
SCH business rules om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
SCH participant om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
SCH-regulated transfer om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
SEATS om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
transfer document om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
transfer identifier for an SCH-regulated transfer om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
transfer value of marketable securities om A2000-34 

s 5     def warrant om A2000-34 
 s 5     def
warrant-issuer om A2000-34 
 s 5
Payment of duty equivalents by territory
departmentss 4A     ins A2001-55 
 s 4     am
A2006-42 
 amdt 3.55; A2008-31 
 amdt
1.1     om A2009-45 
 s 5
Duty a debt payable to
Territorys 5     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.99
Introduction and
overviewpt 2.1 hdg     (prev ch 2 pt 1
hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
Definitions-- ch
2s 6     am A2001-40 
 s 4     def
cancelled ins A2017-1 
 amdt
1.2     def commercial lease
ins A2014-12 
 s 4     def
commercial lease with premium ins A2014-12 
 s 4     def
commercial purposes ins A2014-12 
 s 4     def
market rent ins A2014-12 
 s 4     def
premium ins A2014-12 
 s 4     def
primary production ins A2014-12 
 s 4     def
rent reserved ins A2014-12 
 s 4     def
transfer exp 30 June 2010 (s 75A)
Meaning of commercial lease with
premium--ch 2s 6A     ins A2014-12 
 s 5     am
A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
Imposition of duty on certain transactions
concerning dutiable propertys 7     am A2001-55 
 s 5, s 6; A2006-45 
 s 4; A2008-31 
 amdt 1.2; A2014-12 
 s 6; A2015-19 
 s 17, s 18; pars renum R64 LA; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.3
Imposition of duty on dutiable transactions
that are not transferss 8     am A2001-55 
 s 7; table renum R11 LA; A2006-45 
 ss 5-9; A2007-38 
 s 4; A2014-12 
 s 7; A2015-19 
 s 19, s 20; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.4, amdt 1.5, amdt 1.99

Dutiable
propertys 10     am A2000-34 
 s 6; A2003-1 
 s 4; A2006-13 
 s 4, s 6; pars renum R18 LA (see also A2006-13 
 s 5); A2006-45 
 ss 10-12; pars renum R22 LA; A2007-38 
 s 5, s 6; ss, pars renum R27 LA; A2008-31 
 amdt 1.3, amdt
1.39     (1) (h), (i), (m) (i), (iii), (2)
exp 30 June 2010 (s 75A)     ss, pars renum
R45 LA     am A2012-36 
 s 4; A2013-19 
 amdt 3.87; A2014-12 
 ss 8-11; ss ,pars renum R59 LA; A2015-19 
 s 21, s 22; pars renum R64 LA; A2019-7 
 amdt 1.4; A2021-10 
 amdt 1.1
When does a liability for duty
arise?s 11     sub A2017-1 
 amdt
1.6     am A2018-2 
 amdt 1.2
Who is liable to pay the
duty?s 12     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.99
Liability of joint
tenantss 13     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.99
Necessity for written instrument or written
statements 14     am A2000-34 
 s 7; A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1225, amdt 1.1226; A2021-12 
 amdt
3.23
Lodging written instrument etc with
commissioners 15     am A2000-34 
 s 8     sub
A2006-37 
 s 4     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.7; A2021-12 
 amdt 3.24; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
When does duty become
payable?s 16     am A2000-34 
 s 9;
     sub A2017-1 
 amdt
1.8     am A2018-2 
 amdt 1.3, amdt 1.4; A2021-10 
 amdt 1.2, amdt 1.3; table items renum R73
LA; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
Payment of duty--'off the
plan' purchase agreementss
16A     ins A2000-46 
 s 7     am
A2004-13 
 amdt 2.21; A2007-29 
 s 4, s 5; A2015-49 
 s 4, s 5; A2016-47 
 ss
5-7     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.8
Declaration of affordable house and land
packagess 16B     ins A2007-29 
 s 6     om
A2016-47 
 s 8
No double
dutys 17     am A2002-14 
 s 4; A2006-22 
 amdt 1.57, amdt 1.58 (A2006-22 
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93)); A2007-38 
 s 7; ss renum R27 LA; A2009-45 
 s 6; A2014-12 
 s 12; ss renum R59 LA; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.9, amdt 1.10; amdt 1.99;
ss renum R69 LA; A2023-6 
 s 5, s 6
Rate of
dutys 18     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.11, amdt 1.12
Concessions and exemptions from
dutys 19     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.13
Dutiable
valuept 2.2 hdg     (prev ch 2 pt 2 hdg)
renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
What is the dutiable value of
dutiable property?s 20     am A2001-55 
 amdt 1.5; A2003-1 
 s 5; A2006-13 
 s 7; ss renum R18 LA; A2006-45 
 s 13; A2007-29 
 s 7, s 8; ss renum R26 LA; A2007-38 
 s 8; ss renum R27 LA; A2012-19 
 s 4, s 5; pars renum R50 LA; A2014-12 
 s 13, s 14; ss, pars renum R59 LA; A2016-47 
 ss 9-11; ss renum R67 LA; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
What is the consideration for the transfer
of dutiable property?s 21     am A2006-13 
 s 8; ss renum R18 LA; A2008-31 
 amdt 1.40; A2015-19 
 s 23
What is the unencumbered value of
dutiable property?s 22     am A2001-55 
 s 8, s 9; A2003-1 
 s 6; ss renum R8 LA (see A2003-1 
 s 7); A2006-13 
 s 9; ss renum R18 LA
Aggregation of dutiable
transactionss 24     am A2001-17 
 amdt 2.8; A2005-54 
 amdt
1.99     (8) exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.14, amdt 1.15
Apportionment--dutiable property and
other propertys 26     am A2017-1 
 amdts 1.16-1.18
Apportionment--business assets in this
and other jurisdictionss 27     am A2001-55 
 amdt
1.5     om A2006-13 
 s 10
Partnership
interestss 28     am A2023-6 
 s 7
Partitionss
29     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.19, amdt 1.99; ss renum R69 LA; A2023-6 
 s 7
Rates of
dutypt 2.3 hdg     (prev ch 2 pt 3 hdg)
renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
General
rates 31     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Shares, units and interests marketable
securitiess 32     am A2000-34 
 s 10; A2006-45 
 s 14; A2008-31 
 amdt
1.39     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Certain business
assetss 33     am A2000-46 
 s 8; A2001-55 
 amdt 1.5; A2006-13 
 s 11, s 12; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.20, amdt 1.98
Application of
divisions 34     om A2000-34 
 s 11
SCH participant liable to pay
dutys 35     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Record of SCH-regulated
transferss 36     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Particulars to be included by relevant SCH
participant in transfer documents
37     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Relevant SCH participant's
identification code equivalent to
stampings 38     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Returns to be lodged and duty
paids 39     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Off-market transfers of marketable
securitiesch 2 pt 4 hdg     om A2000-34 
 s 11
The securities clearing
housech 2 pt 4 div 2 hdg     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Registration as the securities clearing
houses 40     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Monthly
returns 41     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Returns to be kept by the
SCHs 42     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Disclosure to the SCH of
informations 43     om A2000-34 
 s 11
London Stock
Exchangech 2 pt 4 div 3 hdg     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Application of division
3s 44     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Payment of
dutys 45     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Payment by periodic
returnch 2 pt 4 div 4 hdg     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Application for approval to pay duty by
periodic returns 46     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Miscellaneousch
2 pt 4 div 5 hdg     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Reduction of duty--payment in
non-Australian jurisdictions 47     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Certain transfers not chargeable with
dutys 48     om A2000-34 
 s 11
Special
provisionspt 2.4 hdg     (prev ch 2 pt 5
hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
Interim payment of
dutys 49     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.21
Cancelled
agreementss 50     am A2009-45 
 s 7, s
8     sub A2017-1 
 amdt 1.22
Cancelled transfer of dutiable
propertys 50A     ins A2009-45 
 s 9     am
A2017-1 
 amdts 1.23-1.25
Grant of certain Crown leases on surrender
of development leasess 51     am A2009-49 
 amdt 3.47; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.26, amdt 1.98; A2019-7 
 amdt 1.5
Refund if Crown lease
surrendereds 52     sub A2007-25 
 amdt
1.36     am A2008-28 
 amdt 3.78; A2015-19 
 s 24; A2023-36 
 amdt 1.109, amdt 1.110
Transfers arising from mortgages of
lands 53     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.27, amdt 1.98
Exemptionspt
2.5 hdg     (prev ch 2 pt 6 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     sub A2017-1 
 amdt
1.28pt 2.5 hdg note     ins A2023-6 
 s 8
Trustsdiv
2.5.1 hdg     (prev ch 2 pt 6 div 1 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
Change in
trusteess 54     am A2000-46 
 s 9; A2001-40 
 s 5, s 6; A2006-32 
 s 4; A2017-1 
 amdts 1.29-1.32
Transfer to custodian of managed investment
schemes 55     am A2000-46 
 s
10     sub A2017-1 
 amdt 1.33
Transfers in relation to managed investment
schemess 55A     ins A2000-46 
 s 11     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.34
Transfers in relation to registered
schemess 55B     ins A2000-46 
 s 11     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.35, amdt 1.36
Property vested in apparent
purchasers 56     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.37
Transfers back from
trustees 57 hdg     sub A2023-47 
 s 4s
57     am A2006-45 
 s 15, s
16     (3) def dutiable property
exp 30 June 2010 (s 75A)     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.38, amdt 1.39
Property passing to
beneficiariess 58     sub A2017-1 
 amdt 1.40
Establishment of a trust relating to
unidentified property and non-dutiable
propertys 59     am A2000-30 
 s 4; ss renum R4
LA     exp 30 June 2008 (s
72B)
Declaration of trust relating to managed
investment schemes 60 hdg     sub A2008-17 
 s 4s
60     (1) exp 30 June 2008 (s 72B)     sub A2017-1 
 amdt 1.41
Nomineeing transactions--unquoted
marketable securitiess 60A     ins A2000-46 
 s
12     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Superannuationdiv
2.5.2 hdg     (prev ch 2 pt 6 div 2 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
Instruments relating to
superannuations 61     exp 30 June 2008
(s 72B)
Transfer of property from one superannuation
fund to anothers 62     am A2000-30 
 s 5; ss renum R4 LA; A2013-19 
 amdt 3.88; A2015-48 
 s 4; A2016-18 
 amdt 3.90, amdt 3.91; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.42, amdt 1.43; ss renum R69 LA; A2023-6 
 s 9
Transfers to trustees or custodians of
superannuation funds or trustss 63
hdg     sub A2003-1 
 s 8s
63     am A2000-30 
 s 6; A2003-1 
 ss 9-11; ss renum R8 LA (see A2003-1 
 s 12); A2006-45 
 s 17; ss renum R22 LA; A2008-31 
 amdt
1.39     (3) exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)     ss renum R45
LA     am A2013-19 
 amdt 3.89; A2015-48 
 s 5; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.44; ss renum R69 LA; A2023-6 
 s 10
Alternative finance
transactionsdiv 2.5.2A hdg     ins A2023-47 
 s 5
Meaning of
financial institution--div
2.5.2As 64     ins A2023-47 
 s 5
Land transferred to financial institution
and individual then leased and transferred to
individuals 64A     ins A2023-47 
 s 5
Land transferred to financial institution
then transferred to individuals
64B     ins A2023-47 
 s 5
Land transferred to financial institution
then leased and transferred to
individuals 64C     ins A2023-47 
 s 5
Land transferred to individual with
beneficial interest transferred to financial
institutions 64D     ins A2023-47 
 s 5
Change of financial
institutions 64E     ins A2023-47 
 s 5
Individual dies before arrangement
completeds 64F     ins A2023-47 
 s 5
Miscellaneousdiv
2.5.3 hdg     (prev ch 2 pt 6 div 3 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
Transfer of land to certain authorities and
other bodiess 64     am A2007-21 
 s 4; A2013-19 
 amdt 3.90; A2015-48 
 s 6     om
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.45
Transfer of land under Fair Work (Registered
Organisations) Act 2009 (Cwlth)s
65     sub A2005-20 
 amdt 3.142; A2009-49 
 amdt 3.48; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.45
Conveyances to prescribed
peoples 66     sub A2017-1 
 amdt 1.45
Conversion of property to unit
titles 67     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.46
Surrender and regrant of Crown
leases 68     sub A2000-46 
 s 13     am
A2015-19 
 s 25; A2017-1 
 amdts 1.47-1.49
Regrant of lease with additional
lands 68A     ins A2000-46 
 s 13     am
A2003-1 
 s 13; A2015-19 
 s 26; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Deceased
estatess 69     am A2015-49 
 s 6     om
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.50
Certain transfers of marketable
securitiess 70     am A2005-20 
 amdt 3.143; A2009-49 
 amdt
3.49     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Corporate reconstructions--concessional
duty for dutiable transactionss
70A     ins A2003-29 
 s 4     am
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.55     om A2015-49 
 s 7
Bankruptcy or
insolvencys 71     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.51
Transfer to partner of interest in principal
place of residences 72 hdg     sub A2002-14 
 s 5s
72     am A2002-14 
 s 6, s
7     sub A2004-2 
 amdt
1.17     am A2006-22 
 amdt 1.46 (A2006-22 
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93)); A2007-3 
 amdt 3.175; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.52
Reduction of duty--payment in
non-Australian jurisdictions 72A     ins
A2000-34 
 s
12     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Expiry--duty on certain
instrumentspt 2.5A hdg     ins A2008-17 
 s 5     exp
30 June 2008 (s 72B)
Expiry--provisions relating to duty on
certain instrumentss 72B     ins A2008-17 
 s 5     exp
30 June 2008 (s 72B)
Exemptionspt
2.6 hdg     (prev ch 2 pt 7 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.53
Transfers to State, another Territory or
prescribed authoritys 73     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.54
Transfers etc to entities for community
housings 73A     ins A2007-29 
 s 9     am
A2013-19 
 amdt 3.91; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.55; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
Transfers etc to special disability
trustss 73B     ins A2010-20 
 s 4     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.56; A2021-10 
 amdt 1.4
Transfers etc--long-term leases for
residential purposess 73D     ins A2009-15 
 s 4     om
A2014-12 
 s 15
Transfers relating to
mortgagess 74     am A2000-46 
 s 14; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.57
Financial and other
agreementss 74A     ins A2002-14 
 s 8     am
A2006-22 
 amdt 1.57, amdt 1.58 (A2006-22 
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93)); A2009-45 
 s 10; pars renum R41 LA; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.58
Transfers relating to certain personal
relationshipss 74B     ins A2002-14 
 s 8     am
A2004-2 
 amdt 1.18, amdt 1.19; A2006-22 
 amdt 1.47, amdt 1.48, amdt 1.57, amdt
1.58 (A2006-22 
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93)); A2007-3 
 amdt 3.175; A2008-14 
 amdt 1.29; A2009-45 
 ss 11-14; ss renum R41 LA; A2012-40 
 amdt 3.45; A2013-19 
 amdt 3.92; A2013-39 
 amdt 2.25 (A2013-39 
 never effective (see Commonwealth v
Australian Capital Territory [2013] HCA 55)); A2016-18 
 amdts
3.92-3.94     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.59
Marketable
securitiess 75     am A2000-34 
 s 13; A2000-46 
 s 15; A2001-40 
 s
7     (4), (4A), (4B) exp 30 June 2001 (s 75
(4B))     am A2003-1 
 s 14; ss renum R8 LA (see A2003-1 
 s 15); A2006-45 
 s 18; A2008-31 
 amdt 1.39; A2009-15 
 s 5     exp
30 June 2010 (s 75A)
Deferred payment of
dutypt 2.6A hdg     ins A2007-29 
 s
10     sub A2019-46 
 s 5
First home owner grant scheme and home buyer
concession schemediv 2.6A.1 hdg     ins
A2019-46 
 s 6
Definitions--pt
2.6As 75AA     ins A2007-29 
 s 10     om
A2019-46 
 s 7     def
deferral arrangement ins A2007-29 
 s 10     om
A2019-46 
 s 7     def
eligible person ins A2007-29 
 s 10     am
A2013-35 
 s 4     om
A2019-46 
 s 7     def
eligible property ins A2007-29 
 s 10     om
A2019-46 
 s 7     def
home buyer concession scheme ins A2007-29 
 s 10     am
A2014-44 
 amdt
3.16     sub A2019-7 
 amdt
1.6     om A2019-46 
 s 7     def
residential lease ins A2007-29 
 s 10     om
A2013-19 
 amdt 3.93
Definitions--div 2.6A.1s
75     ins A2019-46 
 s 8     def
deferral arrangement ins A2019-46 
 s 8     def
eligible person ins A2019-46 
 s 8     def
eligible property ins A2019-46 
 s 8     def
home buyer concession scheme ins A2019-46 
 s 8
Meaning of eligible
property--div 2.6A.1s
75A     ins A2019-46 
 s 8     am
A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
Application to defer payment of
dutys 75AB     ins A2007-29 
 s 10     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.60; A2021-12 
 amdt 3.25
Approval to defer payment of
dutys 75AC     ins A2007-29 
 s 10
Conditions of deferral
arrangements 75AD     ins A2007-29 
 s 10     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.61; A2019-46 
 s 9, s 10; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
Unpaid duty and interest a debt and charge
on propertys 75AE     ins A2007-29 
 s 10
Other duty deferral
schemesdiv 2.6A.2 hdg     ins A2019-46 
 s 11
Definitions--div 2.6A.2s
75AF     ins A2019-46 
 s
11     def deferral arrangement
ins A2019-46 
 s
11     def duty deferral scheme
ins A2019-46 
 s
11     def eligible person ins
A2019-46 
 s
11     def eligible transaction
ins A2019-46 
 s 11
Duty deferral
schemes--determinations 75AG     ins
A2019-46 
 s 11     am
A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
Duty deferral schemes--application to
defer payment of dutys 75AH     ins A2019-46 
 s 11
Duty deferral schemes--approval to
defer payment of dutys 75AI     ins A2019-46 
 s 11
Duty deferral schemes--conditions of
deferral arrangements 75AJ     ins A2019-46 
 s 11
Duty deferral schemes--unpaid duty and
interest a debt and charge on
propertys 75AK     ins A2019-46 
 s 11
Expiry--provisions relating to unquoted
marketable securitiespt 2.7 hdg     ins
A2006-45 
 s
19     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Expiry--provisions relating to unquoted
marketable securitiess 75A     ins A2006-45 
 s
19     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Preliminarypt
3.1 hdg     (prev ch 3 pt 1 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
Meaning of chapter 3
transactions 76     sub A2023-6 
 s
11     def acquisition
statement om A2023-6 
 s 11
Definitions--ch
3s 76A     ins A2023-6 
 s
11     sub A2023-47 
 s 6     def
acquisition statement ins A2023-6 
 s
11     sub A2023-47 
 s 6     def
chapter 3 property ins A2023-47 
 s 6
Imposition of
dutys 77     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.62
Acquisition of interests in certain
landholderspt 3.2 hdg     (prev ch 3 pt 2
hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
Preliminarydiv
3.2.1 hdg     (prev ch 3 pt 2 div 1 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 

amdt 1.6)     sub A2008-31 
 s 4
Meaning of associated
persons 77A     ins A2023-6 
 s 12
Definitions--pt
3.2s 78     sub A2008-31 
 s 4     def
acquires ins A2008-31 
 s 4     def
associated person ins A2008-31 
 s 4     am
A2012-35 
 s 4     om
A2023-6 
 s
13     def entity ins A2008-31 
 s 4     def
interest ins A2008-31 
 s 4     def
land ins A2023-47 
 s 7     def
landholder ins A2008-31 
 s 4     om
A2023-6 
 s
13     def landholding ins A2008-31 
 s 4     def
private corporation om A2008-31 
 s 4     def
relevant acquisition ins A2008-31 
 s 4     def
relevant period ins A2008-31 
 s 4     def
significant interest ins A2008-31 
 s 4
Landholding
entitiesdiv 3.2.2 hdg     (prev ch 3 pt 2
div 2 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 

amdt 1.6)     sub A2008-31 
 s 4
Meaning of entity--pt
3.2s 78A     ins A2008-31 
 s 4     am
A2012-35 
 s 5, s 6; A2013-19 
 amdt 3.94, amdt 3.95
Meaning of
landholders 79     sub A2008-31 
 s 4; A2023-6 
 s 14
Meaning of landholding--pt
3.2s 80     sub A2008-31 
 s 4     am
A2023-6 
 s 15, s 16
Meaning of land--pt
3.2s 80A     ins A2023-47 
 s 8
Constructive ownership of
landholdings--linked bodiess
81     am A2001-40 
 s 8     sub
A2008-31 
 s 4     am
A2012-35 
 s 7, s
8     sub A2023-6 
 s 17
Constructive ownership of landholdings and
other property--discretionary
trustss 82     sub A2008-31 
 s 4
Interest and significant
interest in landholders--pt
3.2s 83     sub A2008-31 
 s 4     am
A2012-35 
 s 9
Meaning of associated person--pt
3.2s 83A     ins A2008-31 
 s 4     om
A2023-6 
 s 18
How person acquires an interest in a
landholder--pt 3.2s 84     am A2000-46 
 s 16; A2001-55 
 s
10     sub A2008-31 
 s 4     am
A2009-15 
 s 6; A2023-47 
 s 9
Charging of
dutydiv 3.2.3 hdg     (prev ch 3 pt 2 div
3 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
When does liability for duty
arise?s 85     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.99
What is a relevant
acquisition?--pt 3.2s 86     sub
A2008-31 
 s 5     am
A2012-35 
 s 10, s 11; ss renum R53 LA; A2023-6 
 s 19
Acquisition
statementss 87     am A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1227, amdt 1.1228; A2006-45 
 s 20; ss renum R22 LA; A2008-31 
 s 6, amdt 1.4; A2021-12 
 amdt 3.25     sub
A2023-6 
 s 20
When must duty be
paid?s 88     am A2014-44 
 amdt 3.16
Who is liable to pay duty on relevant
acquisition?s 89     am A2017-1 
 amdt
1.98     sub A2023-6 
 s 21
Duty payable on relevant
acquisitions--single interests
90 hdg     am R69 LAs 90     am A2008-31 
 s 7, amdt
1.5     (4) exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)     ss renum R45
LA     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98; A2018-2 
 amdt
1.5     sub A2023-6 
 s 21
Duty payable on relevant
acquisitions--aggregated
interestss 90A     ins A2023-6 
 s 21
Duty payable on relevant
acquisitions--further interests
90B     ins A2023-6 
 s 21
Unencumbered value
determinations 90C     ins A2023-6 
 s 21     am
A2023-36 
 amdt 1.111
Duty payable on relevant
acquisitions--combined
acquisitionss 90D     ins A2023-47 
 s 10
General and
supplementaldiv 3.2.4 hdg     (prev ch 3
pt 2 div 4 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
Ch 3 transactions--concessional
dutys 91 hdg     sub A2001-55 
 s 11s
91     am A2001-55 
 s 12, s 13; A2002-14 
 s 9     (2)
        (h) exp 30 June 2010 (s 75A)     pars renum
R45 LA     am A2011-3 
 amdt 3.181; A2015-48 
 s 7     om
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.63
Corporate reconstructions--concessional
duty for relevant acquisitionss
91A     ins A2003-29 
 s 5     am
A2006-42 
 amdt 3.55; A2008-31 
 amdt
1.6     om A2015-49 
 s 7
Maximisation of entitlements on distribution
of propertys 92     am A2008-31 
 amdts 1.7-1.9
Valuation of
propertys 93     am A2008-31 
 amdt 1.10; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.64; A2023-6 
 ss 22-25
Uncompleted agreements for sale or
conveyance of lands 94     sub A2008-31 
 amdt 1.11; A2023-6 
 s 26
Uncompleted agreements for purchase,
allotment or issue of shares or units in
landholders 94A     ins A2023-47 
 s 11
Duty concession--acquisitions securing
financial accommodations 95     am A2008-31 
 amdt 1.12; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.65, amdt 1.66; ss renum R69 LA; A2023-6 
 ss
27-29     om A2023-47 
 s 12
Registration of unit trust
schemespt 3.2A hdg     ins A2008-31 
 s 8     om
A2012-35 
 s 12
Definitions--pt
3.2As 95A     ins A2008-31 
 s 8     om
A2012-35 
 s
12     def disqualifying circumstance
ins A2008-31 
 s 8     om
A2012-35 
 s
12     def registered ins A2008-31 
 s 8     om
A2012-35 
 s
12     def responsible entity
ins A2008-31 
 s 8     om
A2012-35 
 s 12
Applications for
registrations 95B     ins A2008-31 
 s 8     om
A2012-35 
 s 12
Registration of imminent public unit trust
schemess 95C     ins A2008-31 
 s 8     om
A2012-35 
 s 12
Registration of wholesale unit trust
schemess 95D     ins A2008-31 
 s 8     am
A2012-21 
 amdt 3.52, amdt
3.53     om A2012-35 
 s 12
Registration of imminent wholesale unit
trust schemess 95E     ins A2008-31 
 s 8     om
A2012-35 
 s 12
Duration of
registrations 95F     ins A2008-31 
 s 8     om
A2012-35 
 s 12
Register of wholesale unit trust
schemess 95G     ins A2008-31 
 s 8     om
A2012-35 
 s 12
Reporting requirements for registered
schemess 95H     ins A2008-31 
 s 8     om
A2012-35 
 s 12
Cancellation of
registrations 95I     ins A2008-31 
 s 8     om
A2012-35 
 s 12
Disqualifying circumstances for registered
unit trust schemess 95J     ins A2008-31 
 s 8     om
A2012-35 
 s 12
Entitlements arising from capital reductions
or alterations of rightspt 3.3
hdg     (prev ch 3 pt 3 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Interpretation--pt
3.3s 96     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)     def capital reduction
am A2001-40 
 s 9     exp
30 June 2010 (s 75A)     def company
sub A2000-34 
 s 14     am
A2000-46 
 s
17     sub A2001-40 
 s 10     am
A2008-31 
 s 9     exp
30 June 2010 (s 75A)     def voting
shares sub A2001-40 
 s 11     om
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.35     def voting share ins
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.35     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
When does liability for duty
arise?s 97     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
When must duty be
paid?s 98     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Who is liable to pay
duty?s 99     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Entitlement to voting shares arising from
capital reduction or rights
alterations 100     am A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1229; A2001-55 
 s 14; A2008-31 

amdt 1.13     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
What statement under s 100 must
contains 101 hdg     sub A2001-44 
 amdt
1.1230s 101     am A2001-44 
 amdt
1.1230     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Assessment of
dutys 102     sub A2000-34 
 s
15     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Acquisition of land use entitlements by
allotment of shares or issue of
unitspt 3.4 hdg     (prev ch 3 pt 4 hdg)
renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
When does liability for duty
arise?s 103     sub A2006-45 
 s 21     am
A2008-31 
 s 10, amdt 1.14; A2013-19 
 amdt 3.96, amdt 3.97; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.99; A2023-6 
 s 30
When must duty be
paid?s 104     am A2014-44 
 amdt 3.16
Who is liable to pay
duty?s 105     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Acquisition of land use
entitlements 106     am A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1231; A2021-12 
 amdt 3.25
What statement under s 106 must
contains 107 hdg     sub A2001-44 
 amdt
1.1232s 107     am A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1232
Assessment of
dutys 108     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.67
Disability
exemptions 109     am A2000-34 
 s 16; A2008-31 
 s 11, amdt
1.14     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)     ins A2021-10 
 amdt 1.5
Allotment of shares by
directionpt 3.5 hdg     (prev ch 3 pt 5
hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
When does a liability for duty
arise?s 110     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
When must duty be
paid?s 111     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Who is liable to pay the
duty?s 112     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Acquisition of shares by
allotments 113     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
What allotment statement must
contains 114 hdg     sub A2001-44 
 amdt
1.1233s 114     am A2001-44 
 amdt
1.1233     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Assessment of
dutys 115     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Voluntary transfers under Financial Sector
(Transfer and Restructure) Act 1999
(Cwlth)pt 3.6 hdg     (prev ch 3 pt 6
hdg) ins A2001-55 
 s
15     renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     sub A2008-28 
 amdt
3.79     am A2019-7 
 amdt 1.14
Definitions--pt
3.6s 115A     ins A2001-55 
 s
15     def asset am A2008-28 
 amdt 3.81; A2019-7 
 amdt
1.15     def business am A2008-28 
 amdt 3.81; A2019-7 
 amdt
1.15     def FS (BTGR) Act ins
A2008-28 
 amdt
3.80     om A2019-7 
 amdt
1.7     def FS (TB) Act om A2008-28 
 amdt
3.80     def FS (TR) Act ins A2019-7 
 amdt
1.8     def receiving body am
A2008-28 
 amdt 3.81; A2019-7 

amdt 1.15     def voluntary
transfer am A2008-28 
 amdt 3.81; A2019-7 
 amdt 1.15
Declaration required if business
transferreds 115B     ins A2001-55 
 s 15     am
A2008-28 
 amdt 3.82; A2008-31 
 amdt 1.15; A2015-15 
 amdt 3.23; A2019-7 
 amdt 1.15; A2021-12 
 amdt 3.25. amdt 3.26; A2023-47 
 s 13
When does liability for duty
arise?s 115C     ins A2001-55 
 s 15     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.99; A2023-47 
 s 14
When must duty be
paid?s 115D     ins A2001-55 
 s 15     am
A2014-44 
 amdt 3.16
Who is liable to pay
duty?s 115E     ins A2001-55 
 s 15     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Assessment of
dutys 115F     ins A2001-55 
 s 15     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.68
Exemptions from
dutys 115G     ins A2001-55 
 s 15     am
A2006-42 
 amdt 3.55; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
Exemptions--ch 3
transactionspt 3.7 hdg     ins A2002-14 
 s 10pt
3.7 hdg note     ins A2023-6 
 s 31
Exemptions--ch 3 transactions
generallydiv 3.7.1 hdg     ins A2009-15 
 s 7     sub
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.69; A2023-47 
 s 15
Exemptions--ch 3
transactionss 115H     ins A2002-14 
 s 10     am
A2004-2 
 amdt 1.18, amdt 1.19; A2006-22 
 amdt 1.49, amdt 1.50, amdt 1.57, amdt
1.58 (A2006-22 
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93)); A2007-3 
 amdt 3.175; A2008-14 
 amdt 1.30; A2009-45 
 ss 15-18; ss renum R41 LA; A2012-40 
 amdt 3.46; A2013-19 
 amdt 3.98; A2013-39 
 amdt 2.26 (A2013-39 
 never effective (see Commonwealth v
Australian Capital Territory [2013] HCA 55)); A2016-18 
 amdts
3.95-3.97     sub A2017-1 
 amdt 1.69; A2023-47 
 s 15
Exemption--relevant acquisitions to
secure finances 115HA     ins A2023-47 
 s 15
Exemption--transactions made on
bankruptcy or winding-ups 115HB     ins
A2023-47 
 s 15
Exemption--transactions made due to
change in trusteess 115HC     ins A2023-47 
 s 15
Exemption--transactions in relation to
managed investment schemess 115HD     ins
A2023-47 
 s 15
Exemption--transactions in relation to
registered schemess 115HE     ins A2023-47 
 s 15
Exemption--ch 3 transactions made by
apparent purchasers 115HF     ins A2023-47 
 s 15
Exemption--transactions made to return
ch 3 property held by trustees
115HG     ins A2023-47 
 s 15
Exemption--transactions between
superannuation fundss 115HH     ins A2023-47 
 s 15
Exemption--transactions between
trustees and custodians of superannuation funds or
trustss 115HI     ins A2023-47 
 s 15
Exemptions--'top hatting'
arrangementsdiv 3.7.2 hdg     ins A2009-15 
 s 7     sub
A2023-47 
 s 16
Definitions--div
3.7.2s 115I     ins A2009-15 
 s 8     def
exchanging members ins A2009-15 
 s 8     def
interposed trust ins A2009-15 
 s 8
Exemption for relevant
acquisitionss 115J     ins A2009-15 
 s 8     am
A2023-6 
 s 32
Conditions of
exemptions 115K     ins A2009-15 
 s 8
Revocation of
exemptions 115L     ins A2009-15 
 s 8     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
On-market transfers of marketable
securitiesch 4 hdg     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Interpretations
116     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Presumptions regarding
brokings 117     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Imposition of
dutys 118     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Exemptionss
119     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Three
ratess 120     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Duty at general
rates 121     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Marketable securities held on broker's
own accounts 122     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Marketable securities held on account of
options traders and futures brokerss
123     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Marketable securities held on account of
warrant-issuerss 124     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Additional duty on marketable securities
held otherwise than for short termss
125     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Low exercise price
optionss 126     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Records of sales, purchases and
transactions--generallys 127     om
A2000-34 
 s 17
Records of sales, purchases and
transactions--options traders, futures brokers and
warrant-issuerss 128     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Lodgment of returns and payment of duty by
brokerss 129     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Lodging of returns--registered
independent options traders, futures brokers and
warrant-issuerss 130     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Endorsement of transfer as to payment of
dutys 131     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Recovery of duty by broker from vendor or
purchasers 132     om A2000-34 
 s 17
Lease
instrumentsch 5 hdg     exp 30 June 2009
(s 150A)
Preliminarypt
5.1 hdg     (prev ch 5 pt 1 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Definitions--ch
5s 133     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)     def lease am A2006-13 
 s
13     sub A2006-45 
 s
22     def lessee om A2006-45 
 s
23     def lessor om A2006-45 
 s 23
Liability for
dutypt 5.2 hdg     (prev ch 5 pt 2 hdg)
renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Imposition of
dutys 134     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
How duty is charged on lease
instruments 135     sub A2001-55 
 s 16     am
A2006-45 
 s
24     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
What is the cost of a
lease?s 136     am A2006-45 
 s 25, s
26     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Splitting or redirection of cost of
franchise arrangements 137     om A2006-45 
 s 27
Who is liable to pay
duty?s 138     sub A2006-45 
 s
28     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
When must duty be
paid?s 139     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Rates of
dutypt 5.3 hdg     (prev ch 5 pt 3 hdg)
renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
General rate--short-term
leasess 140     sub A2001-55 
 s 17     am
A2006-45 
 s 29; pars renum R22
LA     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
General rate--long-term
leasess 141     sub A2001-55 
 s 17     om
A2006-45 
 s 30
General rate--franchise
arrangementss 141A     ins A2001-55 
 s 17     am
A2006-13 
 s 14     om
A2006-45 
 s 31
Related instruments--exemptions and
concessionss 142 hdg     sub A2001-55 
 s 18s
142     exp 30 June 2009 (s 150A)
Unascertainable lease
costspt 5.4 hdg     (prev ch 5 pt 4 hdg)
renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Operation--pt
5.4s 143     am A2001-55 
 s
19     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Estimate and subsequent
adjustments 144     am A2005-54 
 amdt 1.100, amdt
1.101     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
CPI method
s 145     am A2003-41 
 amdts 3.210-3.213; A2008-31 
 amdt
1.40     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Quantification of lessee's
improvementss 146     table renum R11
LA     am A2006-45 
 s 32; items renum R22
LA     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Miscellaneouspt
5.5 hdg     (prev ch 5 pt 5 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Interim stamping of lease
instruments 147     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Reassessment of duty--early
terminations 148     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Reassessment of duty--reduction of
costs 149     am A2001-55 
 s
20     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Exemptions--lease
instrumentss 150 hdg     sub A2001-55 
 s 21s
150     am A2001-55 
 ss 22-24; A2006-45 
 s 33, s 34; pars renum R22
LA     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Expiry--ch
5pt 5.6 hdg     ins A2006-45 
 s
35     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Expiry--ch
5s 150A     ins A2006-45 
 s
35     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)
Hire of
goodsch 6 hdg     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Preliminarypt
6.1 hdg     (prev ch 6 pt 1 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Definitions for ch
6s 151     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
What is a hire of
goods?s 152     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Exclusions from definition of hire of
goodss 153     am A2006-45 
 s 36, s
37     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
What form may a hire of goods
take?s 154     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
What are hiring
charges?s 155     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Payments exempted from hiring
chargess 156     am A2000-34 
 s
18     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Hire of goods to which ch 6
applies--jurisdictional nexuss
157     exp 30 June 2007 (s 173A)
Imposition and rates of
dutypt 6.2 hdg     (prev ch 6 pt 2 hdg)
renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Imposition of
dutys 158     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Rates of
dutys 159     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Credit for duty paid in another Australian
jurisdictions 160     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Splitting or redirection of hiring
chargess 161     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Ascertainment and disclosure of place of use
of goodss 162     am A2005-54 
 amdt
1.102     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Arrangements applying to people engaged in
business of hiring out goodspt 6.3
hdg     (prev ch 6 pt 3 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Meaning of commercial hire
businesss 163     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Application of pt
6.3s 164     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Commercial hire business to be
registereds 165     sub A2005-54 
 amdt
1.103     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Registration of commercial hire
businessess 166     am A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1234, amdt
1.1235     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Cancellation of registration of commercial
hire businesss 167     am A2005-54 
 amdt 1.104, amdt
1.105     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Duty
bases 168     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Lodgment of returns and payment of
dutys 169     am A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1236, amdt
1.1237     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Returns of related bodies
corporates 170     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Arrangements applying to people other than
those engaged in business of hiring out
goodspt 6.4 hdg     (prev ch 6 pt 4 hdg)
renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Statement of
transactions 171     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Lodgment of statement and payment of
dutys 172     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Method of calculating total hiring charges
if they are not readily
ascertainables 173     exp 30 June 2007
(s 173A)
Expiry--ch
6pt 6.5 hdg     ins A2006-45 
 s
38     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Expiry--ch
6s 173A     ins A2006-45 
 s
38     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)
Liability for
dutys 174     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.70
Insurancech
8 hdg     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Preliminarypt
8.1 hdg     (prev ch 8 pt 1 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Definitions--ch
8s 175     om A2017-11 
 s 4     def
general insurance am A2002-6 
 s 4; A2002-20 
 s 4     om
A2017-11 
 s 4     def
general insurer sub A2006-19 
 s 5     om
A2017-11 
 s 4     def
insurer sub A2006-19 
 s 6     om
A2017-11 
 s 4     def
paid ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.36     om A2017-11 
 s 4     def
premium am A2001-22 
 amdt
1.1     om A2017-11 
 s 4     def
third-party insurance am A2009-16 
 amdt
3.1     om A2017-11 
 s 4
When is a premium
paid?s 176     om A2017-11 
 s 4
General
insurancept 8.2 hdg     (prev ch 8 pt 2
hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Imposition of
dutys 177     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Rate of
dutys 178     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Who is liable to pay
duty?s 179     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Circumstances in which duty is payable by
insured persons 180     am A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1238, amdt 1.1239; A2008-31 

amdt 1.40     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Records to be
kepts 181     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Refunds if premiums
returneds 182     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Life
insurancept 8.3 hdg     (prev ch 8 pt 3
hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Imposition of
dutys 183     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Obligation to make out and execute policy of
life insurances 184     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Rates of
dutys 185     am A2013-19 
 amdt
3.99     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Who is liable to pay
duty?s 186     om A2017-11 
 s 4
When duty payable by insured
persons 187     am A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1240, amdt
1.1241     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Refund on cancellation of life insurance
policys 188     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Payment of duty by
insurerspt 8.4 hdg     (prev ch 8 pt 4
hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Meaning of insurer for pt
8.4s 188A     ins A2006-19 
 s 7     om
A2017-11 
 s 4
Insurers to be
registereds 189     sub A2005-54 
 amdt
1.106     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Registration of
insurerss 190     sub A2001-44 
 amdt
1.1242     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Cancellation of registration by
commissioners 191     am A2006-19 
 s 8; A2014-44 
 amdt
3.16     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Insurer stopping writing insurance
businesss 192     sub A2005-54 
 amdt
1.107     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Register of
insurerss 193     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Monthly returns and payment of
dutys 194     am A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1243, amdt
1.1244     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Recovery of duty by registered
insurers 195     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Apportionmentpt
8.5 hdg     (prev ch 8 pt 5 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Apportionment of premiums and other amounts
between Australian jurisdictionsdiv
8.5.1 hdg     (prev ch 8 pt 5 div 1 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 

amdt 1.6)     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Application of div
8.5.1s 196     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Object of div
8.5.1s 197     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Schedule of
apportionments 198     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Apportionment in
practices 199     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Apportionment of premiums and other amounts
between different types of
insurancediv 8.5.2 hdg     (prev ch 8 pt
5 div 2 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 

amdt 1.6)     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Apportionment between different types of
insurances 200     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Exempt
insurancept 8.6 hdg     (prev ch 8 pt 6
hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Insurance exempt from duty
generallys 201 hdg     sub A2002-20 
 s 5s
201     am A2002-6 
 s 5, s 6; A2009-20 
 amdt 3.58; A2013-19 
 amdt 3.100; A2015-48 
 s 8     om
A2017-11 
 s 4
Insurance exempt from duty in certain
circumstancess 201A     ins A2002-20 
 s 6     am
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.55     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Miscellaneouspt
8.7 hdg     (prev ch 8 pt 7 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Effect on contract of insurance of failure
to comply with ch 8s 202     om A2017-11 
 s 4
Imposition and rates of
dutypt 9.1 hdg     (prev ch 9 pt 1 hdg)
renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
Meaning of dutiable value for pt
9.1s 203     sub A2001-55 
 s 25
Registration of vehicles in the name of 2 or
more peoples 203A     ins A2001-55 
 s 25     am
A2013-19 
 amdt 3.101
Imposition of
dutys 204     am A1999-79 
 s 5 sch 3; A2001-55 
 s 26; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.72
Lodgment of statement of dutiable
values 205     am A1999-79 
 s 5 sch 3; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.73
Rate of
dutys 208     am A2003-29 
 s 6; A2008-34 
 s 4; A2009-20 
 amdt 3.59, amdt 3.60; A2009-45 
 s 19, s 20; A2010-19 
 s 4; pars renum R45 LA; A2011-3 
 amdt 3.182; A2013-19 
 amdt 3.102; A2015-49 
 s 8; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
Corporate reconstructions--concessional
duty for motor vehicle registration
applicationss 208AA     ins A2003-29 
 s 7     am
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.55     om A2015-49 
 s 9
Exemptionspt
9.2 hdg     (prev ch 9 pt 2 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt
1.6)pt 9.2 hdg note     ins A2023-6 
 s 33
Definitions--pt
9.2s 208A     def demonstrator
ins A2000-46 
 s
18     def licensed vehicle dealer
ins A2000-46 
 s 18     om
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.37     def trading stock ins
A2000-46 
 s 18
Government
vehicless 209     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.74
Foreign
countriess 209A     ins A2000-46 
 s 19     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
International organisations and
diplomatss 209B     ins A2005-29 
 s 4     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Status of forces
agreementss 209C     ins A2015-49 
 s 10     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Hospitals and
schoolss 210     sub A2005-29 
 s 5     om
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.74
Charitable
organisationss 210A     ins A2005-29 
 s 5     om
A2015-48 
 s 9
Certain disabled
personss 211     am A2005-20 
 amdt 3.144; A2009-20 
 amdt 3.61; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Partial exemption--modified vehicles
for people with disabilitiess
211A     ins A2006-19 
 s 9     am
A2013-19 
 amdt 3.103, amdt 3.104; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Successors of deceased
peoples 212     am A2001-55 
 s 27     om
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.74
Vehicle registration transfers relating to
certain personal relationshipss
213     sub A2002-14 
 s 11     am
A2004-2 
 amdt 1.18, amdt 1.19; A2006-22 
 amdt 1.51, amdt 1.52, amdt 1.57, amdt
1.58 (A2006-22 
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93)); A2007-3 
 amdt 3.175; A2008-14 
 amdt 1.31; A2009-45 
 ss 21-24; ss renum r41 LA; A2012-40 
 amdt 3.47; A2013-19 
 amdt 3.105; A2013-39 
 amdt 2.27 (A2013-39 
 never effective (see Commonwealth v
Australian Capital Territory [2013] HCA 55)); A2016-18 
 amdts
3.98-3.100     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.74
Registration charges consequent on Vehicle
Registration Acts 213A     ins A2000-5 
 s 4     am
A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1245; A2001-55 
 s
28     exp 1 March 2002 (s 213A
(3))
Vehicle dealers--registration of
demonstrators and trading stocks
214     sub A2000-46 
 s 20     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98; A2018-2 
 amdt 1.6
Renewal of registration of demonstrators and
trading stocks 214A     ins A2000-46 
 s 20     am
A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1246; A2006-42 
 amdt
3.55     om A2018-2 
 amdt 1.7
Organisations registered under Fair Work
(Registered Organisations) Acts
215     sub A2005-20 
 amdt 3.145; A2009-49 
 amdt
3.50     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Repossessed motor
vehicless 216     am A2007-21 
 s 5; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Veteran, vintage and historic
vehicless 217     am A1999-79 
 s 5 sch 3
     ss (4), (5) exp 1 March 2002 (s 217
(5))     am A2009-49 
 amdt 3.51; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98; A2018-2 
 amdt 1.8
Avoidance of double duty--duty paid in
corresponding Australian
jurisdictions 218     am A1999-79 
 s 5 sch 3; A2009-4 
 s 4; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Reassessment of duty--repossession of
stolen motor vehicles 219     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Miscellaneouspt
9.3 hdg     (prev ch 9 pt 3 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 
 amdt 1.6)
Meaning of licensed vehicle dealer in pt
9.3s 220     am A1999-79 
 s 5 sch 3
     om A2006-42 
 amdt 3.38
Prerequisites for
registrations 221     am A1999-79 
 s 5 sch 3; A2001-55 
 s 29, s
30     ss (4), (5) exp 1 March 2002 (s 221
(5))     am A2005-20 
 amdt 3.146; A2005-29 
 s 6, s 7; A2007-21 
 s 6; A2013-19 
 amdt 3.106; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Certificates of
exemptions 222     sub A2000-46 
 s 21     om
A2005-29 
 s 8
Returns by road transport
authoritys 223     sub A1999-79 
 s 5 sch
3     am A2001-55 
 s
31     sub A2005-29 
 s 9
Rectification of errors in
registrations 224     am A2000-5 
 s 5     am
A2001-44 
 amdt
1.1247     ss (2), (3), (4) exp 31 March 2002
(s 224 (4))     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.75
Certificates as
evidences 226     am A1999-79 
 s 5 sch 3 
Duplicates and
counterpartss 227     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.76
Replicass
228     am A2006-37 
 s 5, s
6     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.76
Minimum amount of
dutys 229     am A2000-34 
 s 19; A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1248, amdt 1.1249; A2001-55 
 s 32; A2017-11 
 s 5     sub
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.76
Approved agents and
taxpayers--exemption from $20 concessional duty and s 229 minimum
dutys 229A     ins A2001-55 
 s 33     om
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.76
General exemptions from
dutych 11 hdg note     ins A2023-6 
 s 34
Exemptions from
duty--generalpt 11.1 hdg     ins A2017-1 
 amdt 1.77
Inter-generational rural
transferss 230     am A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1250, amdt 1.1251; A2006-42 
 amdt 3.55; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
Specialised
agenciess 231     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Charitable
organisationss 232     sub A2001-55 
 s 34     om
A2003-29 
 s 8     ins
A2015-48 
 s 10
Corporate reconstruction
transactionss 232A     ins A2015-49 
 s 11     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.78, amdt 1.79; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
Hospitals and
schoolss 232B     ins A2017-1 
 amdt 1.80
Commonwealth, States and
Territoriess 232C     ins A2017-1 
 amdt 1.80
Deceased
estatess 232D     ins A2017-1 
 amdt 1.80
Exemptions from duty--certain personal
relationshipspt 11.2 hdg     ins A2017-1 
 amdt 1.80
Definitions--pt
11.2s 232E     ins A2017-1 
 amdt
1.80     def de facto relationship
ins A2017-1 
 amdt
1.80     def motor vehicle transfer
application ins A2017-1 

amdt 1.80     def spouse
party ins A2017-1 
 amdt
1.80     def transaction ins A2017-1 
 amdt 1.80
Transactions under certain court
orderss 232F     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.80
Transactions under Family Law Act 1975
(Cwlth), s 90B, s 90C or s 90D financial
agreementss 232G     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.80
Transactions under Family Law Act 1975
(Cwlth), pt 8AB financial
agreementss 232H     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.80
Transactions under Domestic Relationships
Act 1994, s 33 (1) (d)s 232I     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.80
Stamping
instrumentspt 12.1 hdg     (prev ch 12 pt
1 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 

amdt 1.6)     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.81
Meaning of
stampeds 233     sub A2006-37 
 s 7     am
A2007-29 
 s 11     om
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.82
Stamping
instrumentss 234     sub A2006-37 
 s 7     om
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.82
Stamping duplicates or counterparts of
instrumentss 235     sub A2006-37 
 s 7     om
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.82
Stamping duplicates or counterparts of
instrumentss 236     om A2006-37 
 s 7
Stamping instruments if no duty
chargeables 237     om A2006-37 
 s 7
Stamp defaced or
removeds 238     sub A2006-37 
 s 7     om
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.82
Electronic assessment and payment of
dutys 239     om A2004-15 
 amdt
2.62     ins A2006-37 
 s 7     am
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.83; A2021-12 
 amdt 3.27
Possession of counterfeiting
equipments 240     om A2004-15 
 amdt 2.62
Offence to stamp without
authoritys 241     sub A2005-54 
 amdt 1.108; A2006-37 
 s 7     om
A2017-1 
 amdt 1.84
Instruments to be separately charged with
duty in certain casess 242     am A2017-1 
 amdt 1.98
Execution of
instrumentss 243     am A2008-31 
 amdt 1.40; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.85
Certificate of duty and other
chargess 244     sub A2005-54 
 amdt 1.109; A2017-1 
 amdt
1.86     am A2019-7 
 amdts 1.9-1.11; A2019-46 
 s 12; A2021-12 
 amdt 3.27
Stamping taken to constitute
assessments 245     am A2008-31 
 amdt
1.40     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.86
Deferred payments for certain stamped
instrumentss 246     am A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1254, amdt 1.1255; A2006-37 
 s 8; A2014-44 
 amdt
3.16     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.86
Enforcementpt
12.2 hdg     (prev ch 12 pt 2 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 

amdt 1.6)     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.87
Registration of
instrumentss 247     am A2003-1 
 s 16, s
17     sub A2005-54 
 amdt
1.110     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.88
Registration of transfers of
sharess 248     am A2000-34 
 s
20     sub A2005-54 
 amdt
1.110     am A2006-37 
 s 9, s 10; pars renum R20
LA     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Registration of transfers of
unitss 249     am A2000-34 
 s
21     sub A2005-54 
 amdt
1.110     am A2006-37 
 s 11, s 12; pars renum R20
LA     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)
Receiving instruments in
evidences 250     am A2006-37 
 s
13     sub A2017-1 
 amdt 1.89
Valuation of
propertys 251     am A2001-55 
 s 35, s 36
Valuation of market rent for commercial
lease with premiums 251A     ins A2014-12 
 s 16
Miscellaneouspt
12.3 hdg     (prev ch 12 pt 3 hdg) renum R1 LA (see A2001-55 

amdt 1.6)     om A2017-1 
 amdt 1.90
Objectionss
252 hdg     sub A2008-37 
 amdt
1.128s 252     am A2000-34 
 s 22; A2000-46 
 s 22; pars renum R4 LA; A2002-14 
 s 12, s 13; pars renum R6 LA (see A2002-14 
 s 14); A2003-29 
 s 9-12; pars renum R9 LA (see A2003-29 
 s 13); A2006-22 
 amdt 1.57 (A2006-22 
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93)); A2006-45 
 s 39; pars renum R22
LA(1) (n), (o), (p) exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)     pars renum R25
LA     am A2008-31 
 s 12, amdts 1.16-1.21; pars renum R33 LA; A2008-37 
 amdt 1.129; A2009-15 
 s 9; pars renum R38 LA; A2012-35 
 s 13; pars renum R53 LA; A2015-49 
 s 12, s 13; pars renum R65 LA; A2017-11 
 s 6; pars renum R68 LA; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.91, amdt 1.92; pars renum R69 LA; A2018-2 
 amdt 1.9; pars renum R70 LA; A2023-6 
 s 35; A2023-47 
 s 17; pars renum R78 LA
Review of decisions by
ACATs 252AA     ins A2008-37 
 amdt 1.129
Determination of
feess 252AB     ins A2018-2 
 amdt
1.10     am A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
Declaration of recognised stock
exchangess 252A     ins A2001-44 
 amdt
1.1256     am A2006-42 
 amdt 3.55; A2008-31 
 amdt
1.22     om A2016-47 
 s 12
Regulation-making
powers 253     sub A2001-44 
 amdt
1.1256     am A2025-29 
 amdt 4.62
Transitionalch
13 hdg     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))
Application of Act to
instrumentss 254     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s
276)
Continued operation of Stamp Duties and
Taxes Act 1987 in relation to
instrumentss 255     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s
276)
Application of ch 2
s 256     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s
276)
Transfers back from a
nominees 257     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s
276)
Credit for duty paid on the acquisition of a
businesss 258     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s
276)
Application of ch 3
s 259     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s
276)
How duty is charged on relevant
acquisitionss 260     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s
276)
Application of ch 4
s 261     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s
276)
Continued application of Stamp Duties and
Taxes Act 1987 in relation to marketable
securitiess 262     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s
276)
Application of ch 5
s 263     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s
276)
Application of ch 6
s 264     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s
276)
Continued operation of Part VIB of the Stamp
Duties and Taxes Act 1987s 265     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     am A2001-55 
 amdt
1.1     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))
Application of ch 8
s 266     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))
Continued operation of pt IV of the Stamp
Duties and Taxes Act 1987s 267     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))
Refunds where premiums are
returneds 268     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))
Refund on cancellation of policy of life
insurances 269     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))
Application of ch 9
s 270     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))
Continued operation of certain provisions of
pt IV of the Stamp Duties and Taxes Act
1987s 271     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))
Certificates of
exemptions 272     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))
Duty and tax paid under the Stamp Duties and
Taxes Act 1987s 273     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))
Stamping under the Stamp Duties and Taxes
Act 1987s 274     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))
Determined duties and
taxess 275     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))
Expiry of
Parts 276 hdg     sub A2001-55 
  amdt
1.2     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))s 276     ins A2000-80 
 amdt
3.4     am A2001-44 
 amdt 1.1257; A2001-55 
 amdt
1.3     exp 21 December 2003 (s 276
(1))
Transitional--Duties Amendment Act
2006ch 14 hdg     ins A2006-13 
 s
15     exp 1 July 2011 (s
403)
Application of ch 2 to certain transfers and
transactionss 400     ins A2006-13 
 s
15     exp 1 July 2011 (s 403 (LA s 88
declaration applies))
Application of ch 5 to certain franchise
arrangementss 401     ins A2006-13 
 s
15     exp 1 July 2011 (s 403 (LA s 88
declaration applies))
Transitional regulations--ch
14s 402     ins A2006-13 
 s
15     exp 1 July 2011 (s
403)
Expiry--ch
14s 403     ins A2006-13 
 s
15     exp 1 July 2011 (s
403)
Transitional--Duties Amendment Act
2006 (No 2)ch 15 hdg     ins A2006-45 
 s 40     om
R64 LA
Transitional--hire of
goodspt 15.1 hdg     ins A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2012 (s
414)
Application of ch 6 to hiring charges
received by commercial hire business before 1 July
2007s 410     ins A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2012 (s
414)
Application of ch 6 to hire of goods entered
into before 1 July 2007s 411     ins
A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2012 (s
414)
Application of ch 6 to certain
arrangementss 412     ins A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2012 (s 414 (LA s 88
declaration applies))
Transitional regulations--pt
15.1s 413     ins A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2012 (s
414)
Expiry--pt
15.1s 414     ins A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2012 (s
414)
Transitional--lease
instrumentspt 15.2 hdg     ins A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2014 (s
423)
Application of ch 5 to leases entered into
before 1 July 2009s 420     ins
A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2014 (s
423)
Application of ch 5 to certain
arrangementss 421     ins A2006-45 
 s 40     am
A2007-38 
 s 9, s
10     exp 30 June 2014 (s 423 (LA s 88
declaration applies))
Transitional regulations--pt
15.2s 422     ins A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2014 (s
423)
Expiry--pt
15.2s 423     ins A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2014 (s
423)
Transitional--unquoted marketable
securitiespt 15.3 hdg     ins A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2015 (s
432)
Application of repealed provisions to
certain arrangementss 430     ins A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2015 (s 432 (LA s 88
declaration applies))
Transitional regulations--pt
15.3s 431     ins A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2015 (s
432)
Expiry--pt
15.3s 432     ins A2006-45 
 s
40     exp 30 June 2015 (s
432)
Transitional--Duties Amendment Act
2008ch 16 hdg     ins A2008-17 
 s 6     exp
30 June 2013 (s 443)Note for ch
16     ch 16 hdg also ins A2008-31 
 s
13renum as ch 17 hdg R32
LA
Meaning of repealed
provisions--ch 16s 440     ins
A2008-17 
 s 6     exp
30 June 2013 (s 443)Note for s
440     s 440 also ins A2008-31 
 s
13renum as s 450 R32 LA
Application of repealed
provisionss 441     ins A2008-17 
 s 6     exp
30 June 2013 (s 443)Note for s
441     s 441 also ins A2008-31 
 s
13renum as s 451 R32 LA
Transitional regulations--ch
16s 442     ins A2008-17 
 s 6     exp
30 June 2013 (s 443)Note for s
442     s 442 also ins A2008-31 
 s
13renum as s 452 R32 LA
Expiry--ch
16s 443     ins A2008-17 
 s 6     exp
30 June 2013 (s 443)
Transitional--Duties (Landholders)
Amendment Act 2008ch 17
hdg     (prev ch 16 hdg) ins A2008-31 
 s
13     renum as ch 17 hdg R32
LA     exp 1 September 2010 (s
452)
Application of pt 3.2 to existing private
unit trust schemess 450     (prev s 440)
ins A2008-31 
 s
13     renum as s 450 R32
LA     exp 1 September 2010 (s 452 (LA
s 88 declaration applies))
Transitional regulations--ch
17s 451     (prev s 441) ins A2008-31 
 s
13     renum as s 451 R32
LA     exp 1 September 2010 (s
452)
Modification--Payroll Tax Act
1987s 451A     ins as mod SL2008-38 
 s 3     exp
1 September 2010 (s 451A (2))
Expiry--ch
17s 452     (prev s 442) ins A2008-31 
 s
13     renum as s 452 R32
LA     exp 1 September 2010 (s
452)
Transitional--Duties (Landholders)
Amendment Act 2012ch 18 hdg     ins A2012-35 
 s
14     exp 1 July 2014 (s
463)
Definitions--ch
18s 460     ins A2012-35 
 s
14     exp 1 July 2014 (s
463)     def amending Act ins
A2012-35 
 s
14     exp 1 July 2014 (s
463)     def commencement day
ins A2012-35 
 s
14     exp 1 July 2014 (s
463)     def new provisions ins
A2012-35 
 s
14     exp 1 July 2014 (s
463)
Changes to duty on acquisitions in
landholderss 461     ins A2012-35 
 s
14     exp 1 July 2014 (s
463)
Transitional regulations--ch
18s 462     ins A2012-35 
 s
14     exp 1 July 2014 (s
463)
Expiry--ch
18s 463     ins A2012-35 
 s
14     exp 1 July 2014 (s
463)
Transitional--Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2017ch 19 hdg     ins
A2017-1 
 amdt
1.93     exp 18 September 2022 (s
474)
Definitions--ch
19s 470     ins A2017-1 
 amdt
1.93     exp 18 September 2022 (s
474)     def amending Act ins
A2017-1 
 amdt
1.93     exp 18 September 2022 (s
474)     def commencement day
ins A2017-1 
 amdt
1.93     exp 18 September 2022 (s
474)
Application of ch 2 and ch 12 to
pre-commencement day transactionss
471     ins A2017-1 
 amdt
1.93     exp 18 September 2022 (s
474)
Application of ch 12 to pre-commencement day
instrumentss 472     ins A2017-1 
 amdt
1.93     exp 18 September 2022 (s
474)
Transitional
regulationss 473     ins A2017-1 
 amdt
1.93     exp 18 September 2022 (s
474)
Expiry--ch
19s 474     ins A2017-1 
 amdt
1.93     exp 18 September 2022 (s
474)
Dictionarydict     ins
A2000-34 
 s 23     am
A2006-19 
 s 10; A2006-22 
 amdt 1.53, amdt 1.54 (A2006-22 
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93)); A2008-14 
 amdt 1.32, amdt 1.33; A2008-37 
 amdt 1.130; A2010-18 
 amdt 1.11; A2012-40 
 amdt 3.48; A2013-19 
 amdt 3.107; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.94; A2023-47 
 s
18     def acquired ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.39     om A2008-31 
 amdt
1.23     def acquires ins A2008-31 
 amdt
1.24     def acquisition statement
ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.39     sub A2023-6 
 s
36     def Act imposing duty
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
ADR reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     exp
30 June 2010 (s 75A)     def
application to register a motor vehicle sub A1999-79 
 sch
3     reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
approved reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
asset ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.39     am A2008-28 
 amdt 3.84; A2019-7 
 amdt
1.14     def associated person
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     am
A2001-40 
 s
12     sub A2008-31 
 amdt
1.25     am A2012-35 
 s
15     sub A2023-6 
 s
36     def Australian register
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     am
A2001-40 
 s 13     om
A2013-19 

amdt 3.108     def Australian
Securities Exchange ins A2023-6 
 s
38     def Australian Stock Exchange
ins A2008-31 
 amdt
1.26     om A2023-6 
 s
37     def bankrupt reloc from
s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2006-42 
 amdt 3.40; A2010-18 
 amdt
1.12     def business ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.41     am A2008-28 
 amdt 3.84; A2019-7 
 amdt
1.14     def business asset om
A2001-55 
 amdt
1.4     def cancelled ins A2017-1 
 amdt
1.95     def capital reduction
ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.41     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)     def chapter 3 property
ins A2023-47 
 s
19     def chapter 3 transaction
ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.41     sub A2023-6 
 s
39     def charge reloc from s
4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
charitable organisation reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2015-15 
 amdt
3.24     om A2015-48 
 s
11     def commercial hire
business reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     exp
30 June 2007 (s 173A)     def
commercial lease ins A2014-12 
 s
17     def commercial lease
with premium ins A2014-12 
 s
17     def commercial purposes
ins A2014-12 
 s
17     def commissioner reloc
from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
company ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.41     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)     def company title
dwelling reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2006-45 
 s
41     def complying approved deposit
fund reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
complying superannuation fund am A2001-55 
 s
37     sub A2023-6 
 s
39     def consideration ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.41     def Corporations Act
ins A2001-40 
 s 14     om
A2006-19 
 s
11     def corresponding law
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
cost reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
Crown lease reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2009-20 
 amdt 3.62; A2015-19 
 s
27     def declaration of trust
ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.41     def declared land
sublease ins A2015-19 
 s 28     am
A2023-36 
 amdt
1.112     def de facto
relationship ins A2017-1 
 amdt
1.95     def deferral arrangement
ins A2007-29 
 s
12     sub A2019-46 
 s
13     def demonstrator ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.41     def determined amount
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2013-19 

amdt 3.108     def determined rate
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
disabled person reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2006-19 
 s
11     def discretionary trust
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
disqualifying circumstance ins A2008-31 
 amdt
1.26     om A2012-35 
 s
16     def domestic partner
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2004-2 
 amdt
1.20     def domestic relationship
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2006-22 
 amdt 1.55 (A2006-22 
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93))     sub A2007-3 
 amdt
3.176     def duly stamped
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2006-37 
 s
14     def dutiable entitlement
ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.41     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)     def dutiable property
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
dutiable transaction reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
"dutiable value", in relation to a motor vehicle reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2006-19 
 s
12     def "dutiable value", in
relation to dutiable property reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2006-19 
 s
12     def dutiable value ins
A2006-19 
 s
12     def duty deferral scheme
ins A2019-46 
 s
14     def eligible person ins
A2007-29 
 s
12     sub A2019-46 
 s
15     def eligible property
ins A2007-29 
 s
12     sub A2019-46 
 s
15     def eligible rollover fund
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
eligible transaction ins A2019-46 
 s
16     def entity ins A2008-31 
 s
14     def equipment financing
arrangement ins A2006-42 

amdt 3.41     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)     def error transaction
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2006-45 
 s
41     def exchanging members
ins A2009-15 
 s
10     sub A2023-47 
 s
20     def financial
institution ins A2023-47 
 s
21     def financial market ins
A2008-31 
 amdt
1.26     def first executed ins
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.41     def fit-out costs
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     exp
30 June 2009 (s 150A)     def foreign
resident reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2013-19 

amdt 3.108     def franchise
om A2014-12 
 s
18     def franchise arrangement
om A2014-12 
 s
18     def franchisee reloc
from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2014-12 
 s
18     def franchisor reloc
from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2013-19 

amdt 3.108     def FS (BTGR) Act
ins A2008-28 
 amdt
3.83     om A2019-7 
 amdt
1.12     def FS (TB) Act ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.41     om A2008-28 
 amdt
3.83     def FS (TR) Act ins A2019-7 
 amdt
1.13     def general insurance
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     am
A2002-20 
 s 4     om
A2017-11 
 s 7     def
general insurer ins A2006-19 
 s 13     om
A2017-11 
 s 7     def
goods ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.41     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)     def hire of goods
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.42     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)     def hire-purchase agreement
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     exp
30 June 2007 (s 173A)     def hiring
charges reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.43     exp 30 June 2007 (s
173A)     def home buyer concession
scheme ins A2007-29 
 s
12     sub A2019-46 
 s
17     def hospital reloc from
s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
impressed stamp reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2006-37 
 s
15     def instrument reloc
from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
insurance reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
insurance intermediary reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.44     def insurer reloc from
s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2006-19 
 s 14     om
A2017-11 
 s 7     def
intellectual property reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2013-19 

amdt 3.108     def interest
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2006-42 
 amdt 3.45; A2008-31 
 amdt
1.27     def interest, in
relation to a land-rich corporation reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2008-31 
 amdt
1.27     def international trade
insurance reloc from s 4 A2000-34 

s 5     om A2013-19 

amdt 3.108     def international
transport reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
interposed trust ins A2009-15 
 s
10     sub A2023-47 
 s
22     def land reloc from s 4
A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2023-47 
 s
23     def landholder ins A2008-31 
 amdt
1.28     sub A2023-6 
 s
40     def landholding ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.46     def land used for primary
production reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
land use entitlement reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
lease reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2006-45 
 s
42     def lease instrument ins
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.46     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)     def lessee ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.46     sub A2006-45 
 s
43     def lessor ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.46     sub A2006-45 
 s
43     def licensed vehicle dealer
ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.46     sub A2007-21 
 s 7     def
life reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
life company reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.47     def life insurance
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2006-19 
 s 15     om
A2017-11 
 s 7     def
life insurance rider ins A2006-19 
 s 16     om
A2017-11 
 s 7     def
listed company ins A2023-6 
 s
41     def listed trust ins A2008-31 
 s
14     sub A2023-6 
 s
42     def long-term lease ins
A2006-45 
 s
44     sub A2007-38 
 s 11     om
A2014-12 
 s
18     def majority interest
ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.48     om A2008-31 
 amdt
1.29     def majority shareholder
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
managed investment scheme am A2001-40 
 s
15     def marriage ins A2002-14 
 s
15     sub A2013-39 
 amdt 2.25 (A2013-39 
 never effective (see Commonwealth v
Australian Capital Territory [2013]
HCA 55))     def market rent
ins A2014-12 
 s
19     def marketable securities
ins A2001-34 
 s
23     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)     def market value reloc
from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
matrimonial property ins A2002-14 
 s
15     def mortgage reloc from
s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
motor vehicle am A1999-79 
 sch
3     reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2010-19 
 s 5     def
motor vehicle transfer application ins A2017-1 

amdt 1.95     def new motor
vehicle sub A1999-79 
 sch
3     reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
non-commercial Commonwealth authority reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2013-19 

amdt 3.108     def paid
ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.48     om A2017-11 
 s 7     def
partner ins A2004-2 
 amdt
1.21     am A2006-22 
 amdt 1.57 (A2006-22 
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93))     def
partnership interest am A2001-55 
 amdt
1.5     sub A2006-13 
 s
16     def party ins A2002-14 
 s
16     def person ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.48     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)     def personal
relationship ins A2006-22 
 amdt 1.56 (A2006-22 
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93))     def
person with a disability ins A2006-19 
 s 17     om
A2013-19 

amdt 3.108     def pooled
superannuation trust reloc from s 4 A2000-34 

s 5     om A2013-19 

amdt 3.108     def premium
ins A2006-19 
 s
18     sub A2014-12 
 s 20; A2017-11 
 s 8     def
primary production ins A2014-12 
 s
21     def private company ins
A2001-34 
 s
23     sub A2008-31 
 s 15; A2023-6 
 s
43     def private corporation
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 

s 5     om A2008-31 
 amdt
1.30     def private unit trust
scheme sub A2008-31 
 s 15     am
A2012-35 
 s 17     om
A2013-19 

amdt 3.108     def property
transferred ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.48     def public unit trust scheme
am A2000-34 
 s 5
     reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     am
A2001-40 
 ss
16-18     sub A2008-31 
 s 15     am
A2012-35 
 s
18     def receiving body ins
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.48     am A2008-28 
 amdt 3.84; A2019-7 
 amdt
1.14     def recognised stock exchange
ins A2008-31 
 s 16     om
A2016-47 
 s
13     def registered ins A2008-31 
 s 31     om
A2012-35 
 s
19     def registered insurer
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2017-11 
 s 9     def
registered scheme ins A2000-46 
 s
6     reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2001-40 
 s
19     def related body corporate
sub A2001-40 
 s
20     reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2023-6 
 s
44     def related person am A2001-40 
 s
21     reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     am
A200-4-2 amdt 1.22     om A2023-6 
 s
44     def relationship property
ins A2002-14 
 s 17     am
A2006-22 
 amdt 1.57 (A2006-22 
 rep before commenced by disallowance (see
Cwlth Gaz 2006 No S93))     def
relevant acquisition ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.48     sub A2008-31 
 amdt
1.32     def relevant period
ins A2008-31 
 s
33     def rent reserved ins A2014-12 
 s
21     def replica reloc from s
4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2013-19 

amdt 3.108     def residential
lease ins A2007-29 
 s
12     sub A2013-19 

amdt 3.109     def responsible
entity sub A2001-40 
 s
22     reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2008-31 
 amdt 1.34; A2012-35 
 s
20     def right reloc from s 4
A2000-34 
 s 5     def
rights alteration ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.48     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)     def scheme reloc from
s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2015-49 
 s
14     def shares reloc from s
4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
significant interest ins A2008-31 
 s
35     def solicitor reloc from
s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.49     def special disability
trust ins A2021-10 
 amdt
1.6     def special hiring agreement
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     exp
30 June 2007 (s 173A)     def spouse
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2004-2 
 amdt
1.23     def spouse party ins
A2017-1 
 amdt
1.95     def stamped ins A2006-37 
 s 16     om
A2017-1 
 amdt
1.96     def stock exchange ins
A2000-34 
 s 23     am
A2001-44 
 amdt
1.1258     om A2008-31 
 amdt
1.36     def subsidiary reloc
from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.50     om A2008-31 
 amdt
1.37     def Taxation Administration
Act reloc from s 4 A2000-34 

s 5     def tax avoidance scheme
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2015-49 
 s
14     def tenement reloc from
s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2006-45 
 s
45     def territory company
sub A2001-40 
 s
23     reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     om
A2013-19 

amdt 3.110     def third-party
insurance ins A2006-19 
 s 18     om
A2017-11 
 s 9     def
time ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.51     def trading stock
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.52     def transaction ins A2017-1 
 amdt
1.97     def transfer sub A2001-55 
 s 38; A2006-42 
 amdt
3.53     am A2006-45 
 s 46; pars renum R22
LA     sub A2008-31 
 amdt
1.38         (b) exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)     pars renum R45
LA     def transferee ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.54     def trustee am A2000-34 
 s
5     reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s
5     pars renum R45
LA     am A2023-6 
 s
45     def unascertainable ins
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.54     om A2014-44 
 amdt
3.15     def unencumbered value
reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
unit reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
unit trust scheme reloc to from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     def
value of the lease ins A2001-55 
 s
39     exp 30 June 2009 (s
150A)     def variation reloc
from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     exp
30 June 2009 (s 150A)     def Vehicle
Registration Act ins A1999-79 
 sch
3     reloc from s 4 A2000-34 
 s 5     sub
A2001-44 
 amdt
1.1259     def voluntary transfer
ins A2006-42 
 amdt
3.54     am A2008-28 
 amdt 3.84; A2019-7 
 amdt
1.14     def voting share ins
A2006-42 
 amdt
3.54     exp 30 June 2010 (s
75A)     def wholesale unit trust
scheme ins A2008-31 
 s 16     om
A2012-35 
 s
21     def widely held trust
ins A2008-31 
 s
16     sub A2012-35 
 s 22
5     Earlier
republications
Some earlier republications were not numbered.  The number in column 1
refers to the publication order.  
Since 12 September 2001 every authorised republication has been published
in electronic pdf format on the ACT legislation register.  A selection of
authorised republications have also been published in printed format.  These
republications are marked with an asterisk (*) in column 1.  Electronic and
printed versions of an authorised republication are identical. 

      
      
      
      

Republication No and date

Effective

Last amendment made by

Republication for

R0A13
Feb 2006

1 Mar
1999-27 Feb 2000

-

new Act and retrospective amendments by A2002-6 

R0B13
Feb 2006

1 Mar
2000-30 June 2000

A2000-5 

amendments by A1999-79 
, SL2000-15 
, A2000-5 
 and A2000-46 
 and includes retrospective amendments by A2002-6 

R0C13
Feb 2006

6 July
2000-27 Sept 2000

A2000-34 

amendments by A2000-30 
 and A2000-34 
 and includes retrospective amendments by A2002-6 

R0D13
Feb 2006

28 Sept
2000-20 Dec 2000

A2000-46 

amendments by A2000-46 
 and includes retrospective amendments by A2002-6 

R117 Apr
2001

12 Sept
2001-4 Oct 2001

A2001-55 

amendments by A2000-80 
, A2001-22 
, A2001-40 
, A2001-44 
 and A2001-55 
 and includes retrospective amendments by A2002-6 

R217 Apr
2002

5 Oct
2001-1 Mar 2002

A2001-55 

amendments by A2001-17 
 and includes retrospective amendments by A2002-6 

R3
(RI)30 Sept 2016

2 Mar
2002-31 Mar 2002

A2001-55 

commenced expiry and includes retrospective
amendments by A2002-6 

reissue for correction to ch 13
expiry

R4
(RI)30 Sept 2016

1 Apr
2002-16 Apr 2002

A2001-55 

commenced expiry and includes retrospective
amendments by A2002-6 

reissue for correction to ch 13
expiry

R5
(RI)30 Sept 2016

17 Apr
2002-23 May 2002

A2002-6 

amendments by A2002-6 

reissue for correction to ch 13
expiry

R6
(RI)30 Sept 2016

24 May
2002-30 June 2002

A2002-14 

amendments by A2002-14 

reissue for correction to ch 13
expiry

R7
(RI)30 Sept 2016

1 July
2002-3 Mar 2003

A2002-20 

amendments by A2002-20 

reissue for correction to ch 13
expiry

R8
(RI)30 Sept 2016

4 Mar
2003-30 June 2003

A2003-1 

amendments by A2003-1 

reissue for correction to ch 13
expiry

R9
(RI)30 Sept 2016

1 July
2003-8 Oct 2003

A2003-29 

amendments by A2003-29 

reissue for correction to ch 13
expiry

R10
(RI)30 Sept 2016

9 Oct
2003-21 Dec 2003

A2003-41 

amendments by A2003-41 

reissue for correction to ch 13
expiry

R10A30
Sept 2016

22 Dec
2003-21 Mar 2004

A2003-41 

expiry of transitional provisions (ch
13)

R1122
Mar 2004

22 Mar
2004-8 Apr 2004

A2004-2 

amendments by A2004-2 

R129 Apr
2004

9 Apr
2004-31 Aug 2004

A2004-15 

amendments by A2004-15 

R131
Sept 2004

1 Sept
2004-1 June 2005

A2004-15 

amendments by A2004-13 

R142
June 2005

2 June
2005-30 June 2005

A2005-20 

amendments by A2005-20 

R151
July 2005

1 July
2005-23 Nov 2005

A2005-29 

amendments by A2005-29 

R1624
Nov 2005

24 Nov
2005-17 May 2006

A2005-54 

amendments by A2005-54 

R1718
May 2006

18 May
2006-30 June 2006

A2006-19 

amendments by A2006-19 

R181
July 2006

1 July
2006-30 Aug 2006

A2006-19 

amendments by A2006-13 

R1931
Aug 2006

31 Aug
2006-26 Sept 2006

A2006-32 

amendments by A2006-32 

R2027
Sept 2006

27 Sept
2006-15 Nov 2006

A2006-37 

amendments by A2006-37 

R2116
Nov 2006

16 Nov
2006-28 Nov 2006

A2006-42 

amendments by A2006-42 

R22*29
Nov 2006

29 Nov
2006-11 Apr 2007

A2006-45 

amendments by A2006-45 

R2312
Apr 2007

12 Apr
2007-19 June 2007

A2007-3 

amendments by A2007-3 

R2420
June 2007

20 June
2007-30 June 2007

A2007-21 

amendments by A2007-21 

R251
July 2007

1 July
2007-2 Oct 2007

A2007-21 

commenced expiry

R263 Oct
2007

3 Oct
2007-4 Dec 2007

A2007-29 

amendments by A2007-29 

R275 Dec
2007

5 Dec
2007-30 Mar 2008

A2007-38 

amendments by A2007-38 

R2831
Mar 2008

31 Mar
2008-18 May 2008

A2007-38 

amendments by A2007-25 

R2919
May 2008

19 May
2008-29 June 2008

A2008-14 

amendments by A2008-14 

R3030
June 2008

30 June
2008-30 June 2008

A2008-17 

amendments by A2008-17 

R311
July 2008

1 July
2008-25 Aug 2008

A2008-17 

amendments by A2008-17 
 and commenced expiry

R3226
Aug 2008

26 Aug
2008-31 Aug 2008

A2008-31 

amendments by A2008-28 

R331
Sept 2008

1 Sept
2008-2 Sept 2008

A2008-31 

amendments by A2008-31 

R343
Sept 2008

3 Sept
2008-11 Sept 2008

A2008-34 

amendments by A2008-34 

R3512
Sept 2008

12 Sept
2008-1 Feb 2009

SL2008-38 

modifications by SL2008-38 

R362 Feb
2009

2 Feb
2009-4 Mar 2009

SL2008-38 

amendments by A2008-37 

R375 Mar
2009

5 Mar
2009-30 June 2009

A2009-4 

amendments by A2009-4 

R381
July 2009

1 July
2009-4 July 2009

A2009-16 

amendments by A2009-15 
 and commenced expiry 

R395
July 2009

5 July
2009-21 Sept 2009

A2009-16 

amendments by A2009-16 

R4022
Sept 2009

22 Sept
2009-24 Nov 2009

A2009-20 

amendments by A2009-20 

R4125
Nov 2009

25 Nov
2009-16 Dec 2009

A2009-45 

amendments by A2009-45 

R4217
Dec 2009

17 Dec
2009-15 Mar 2010

A2009-49 

amendments by A2009-49 

R4316
Mar 2010

16 Mar
2010-2 June 2010

A2009-49 

amendments by A2009-45 

R443
June 2010

3 June
2010-30 June 2010

A2010-18 

amendments by A2010-18 

R451
July 2010

1 July
2010-6 July 2010

A2010-19 

amendments by A2010-19 
 and commenced expiry

R467
July 2010

7 July
2010-1 Sept 2010

A2010-20 

amendments by A2010-20 

R472
Sept 2010

2 Sept
2010-28 Feb 2011

A2010-20 

commenced expiry

R481 Mar
2011

1 Mar
2011-1 July 2011

A2011-3 

amendments by A2011-3 

R492
July 2011

2 July
2011-17 May 2012

A2011-3 

expiry of transitional provisions (ch
14)

R5018
May 2012

18 May
2012-4 June 2012

A2012-19 

amendments by A2012-19 

R515
June 2012

5 June
2012-18 June 2012

A2012-21 

amendments by A2012-21 

R5219
June 2012

19 June
2012-30 June 2012

A2012-36 

amendments by A2012-36 

R531
July 2012

1 July
2012-10 Sept 2012

A2012-36 

amendments by A2012-35 
 and expiry of transitional provisions (pt
15.1)

R5411
Sept 2012

11 Sept
2012-13 June 2013

A2012-40 

amendments by A2012-40 

R5514
June 2013

14 June
2013-30 June 2013

A2013-19 

amendments by A2013-19 

R56*1
July 2013

1 July
2013-31 Aug 2013

A2013-19 

expiry of transitional provisions (ch
16)

R571
Sept 2013

1 Sept
2013-6 Nov 2013

A2013-35 

retrospective amendments by A2013-35 

R587 Nov
2013

never effective

A2013-39 

 (never effective)

amendments by A2013-39 

R58
(RI)7 Nov 2013

7 Nov
2013-28 Apr 2014

A2013-39 

 (never effective)

reissued because of High Court decision in
relation to A2013-39 

R5929
Apr 2014

29 Apr
2014-30 June 2014

A2014-12 

amendments by A2014-12 

R601
July 2014

1 July
2014-1 July 2014

A2014-12 

expiry of transitional provisions (pt
15.2)

R612
July 2014

2 July
2014-18 Nov 2014

A2014-12 

expiry of transitional provisions (ch
18)

R6219
Nov 2014

19 Nov
2014-9 June 2015

A2014-44 

amendments by A2014-44 

R6310
June 2015

10 June
2015-30 June 2015

A2015-15 

amendments by A2015-15 

R641
July 2015

1 July
2015-24 Nov 2015

A2015-19 

amendments by A2015-19 
 and expiry of transitional provisions (pt
15.3)

R6525
Nov 2015

25 Nov
2015-26 Apr 2016

A2015-49 

amendments by A2015-48 
 and A2015-49 

R6627
Apr 2016

27 Apr
2016-31 Aug 2016

A2016-18 

amendments by A2016-18 

R671
Sept 2016

1 Sept
2016-30 June 2017

A2016-47 

amendments by A2016-47 

R681
July 2017

1 July
2017-17 Sept 2017

A2017-11 

amendments by A2017-11 

R6918
Sept 2017

18 Sept
2017-28 Feb 2018

A2017-11 

amendments by A2017-1 

R701
March 2018

1 March
2018-27 March 2019

A2018-2 

amendments by A2018-2 

R7128
March 2019

28 March
2019-15 Dec 2019

A2019-7 

amendments by A2019-7 

R7216
Dec 2019

16 Dec
2019-19 May 2021

A2019-46 

amendments by A2019-46 

R7320
May 2021

20 May
2021-22 June 2021

A2021-10 

amendments by A2021-10 

R7423
June 2021

23 June
2021-18 Sept 2022

A2021-12 

amendments by A2021-12 

R7519
Sept 2022

19 Sept
2022-30 Sept 2023

A2021-12 

expiry of transitional provisions (ch
19)

R761 Oct
2022

1 Oct
2022-26 Nov 2023

A2023-6 

amendments by A2023-6 

R7727
Nov 2023

27 Nov
2023-30 June 2024

A2023-36 

amendments by A2023-36 

R781
July 2024

1 July
2024-15 Dec 2025

A2023-47 

amendments by A2023-47 
Note     Republication 6 was published in
printed format.  It has been replaced with republication 6
(RI).
6     Expired
transitional or validating provisions
This Act may be affected by transitional or validating provisions that have
expired.  The expiry does not affect any continuing operation of the provisions
(see Legislation Act 2001 
, s 88 (1)).
Expired provisions are removed from the republished law when the expiry
takes effect and are listed in the amendment history using the abbreviation
'exp' followed by the date of the expiry.
To find the expired provisions see the version of this Act before the
expiry took effect.  The ACT legislation register has point-in-time versions of
this Act.
(c)
Australian Capital Territory 2025

DUTIES ACT 1999
- NOTES
Australian Capital
Territory

    
A1999-7
Republication No 79
Effective: 16 December 2025 Republication date: 16 December 2025 Last amendment made by A2025-29

About this republication The republished law
This is a republication of the Duties Act
1999

 (including any amendment made under the Legislation Act 2001

, part 11.3 (Editorial changes)) as in force on 16 December 2025 

.  It also includes any commencement, amendment, repeal or expiry
affecting this republished law to 16 December 2025 

.  
The legislation history and amendment history of the republished law are
set out in endnotes 3 and 4. 
Kinds of republications
The Parliamentary Counsel's Office prepares 2 kinds of republications
of ACT laws (see the ACT legislation register at www.legislation.act.gov.au 

):
               o     authorised republications to which the Legislation Act 2001

 applies
               o     unauthorised republications.
The status of this republication appears on the bottom of each
page.
Editorial changes
The Legislation Act 2001 

, part 11.3 authorises the Parliamentary Counsel to make editorial
amendments and other changes of a formal nature when preparing a law for
republication.  Editorial changes do not change the effect of the law, but have
effect as if they had been made by an Act commencing on the republication date
(see Legislation Act 2001 

, s 115 and s 117).  The changes are made if the Parliamentary Counsel
considers they are desirable to bring the law into line, or more closely into
line, with current legislative drafting practice.  
This republication includes amendments made under part 11.3 (see endnote
1).
Uncommenced provisions and
amendments
If a provision of the republished law has not commenced, the symbol
 U  appears immediately before the
provision heading.  Any uncommenced amendments that affect this republished law
are accessible on the ACT legislation register (www.legislation.act.gov.au 

). For more information, see the home page for this law on the
register.
Modifications
If a provision of the republished law is affected by a current
modification, the symbol  M  appears
immediately before the provision heading.  The text of the modifying provision
appears in the endnotes.  For the legal status of modifications, see the Legislation Act 2001

, section 95.
Penalties
At the republication date, the value of a penalty unit for an offence
against this law is $160 for an individual and $810 for a corporation (see Legislation Act 2001

, s 133).
Australian Capital
Territory

Duties Act
1999

    
Endnotes148 

Australian Capital
Territory

Duties Act 1999
