FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 NO. 53, 1975

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 NO. 53, 1975
- TABLE OF PROVISIONS

                              PART  I-PRELIMINARY

1. Short title.  
2. Commencement.  
3. Repeal and saving.  
4. Interpretation.  
5. Certain children deemed to be children of a marriage.  
6. Polygamous marriages.  
7. Extension of Act to Norfolk Island.  
8. Supersession of existing laws.  
9. Transitional.  
10. Child welfare law not affected.  

                 PART  II-MARRIAGE  COUNSELLING  ORGANIZATIONS

11. Grants to approved marriage counselling organizations.  
12. Approval of marriage counselling organizations.  
13. Reports and financial statements of approved marriage counselling organizations.  

                   PART  III-COUNSELLING  AND  RECONCILIATION

14. Conciliation.  
15. Notice seeking counselling.  
16. Advice as to counselling.  
17. Provision of certain documents.  
18. Admissions made to marriage counsellors, &c.  
19. Oath or affirmation of secrecy.  

                   PART  IV-THE  FAMILY  COURT  OF  AUSTRALIA

20. Interpretation.  
21. Creation of Court.  
22. Appointment, removal and resignation of Judges.  
23. Seniority.  
24. Absence or illness of Chief Judge.  
25. Salary and allowances.  
26. Oath or affirmation of allegiance and of office.  
27. Place of sitting.  
28. Exercise of jurisdiction.  
29. Appellate jurisdiction.  
30. Court divided in opinion.  
31. Jurisdiction of Family Court.  
32. Certain powers under Marriage Act.  
33. Jurisdiction in associated matters.  
34. Issue of certain writs, &c.  
35. Contempt of court.  
36. Registries.  
37. Officers of Court.  
38. Practice and procedure.  

                 PART  V-JURISDICTION  IN  MATRIMONIAL  CAUSES

39. Jurisdiction in matrimonial causes.  
40. Jurisdiction of Family Court.  
41. Establishment of State Family Courts.  
42. Law to be applied.  
43. Principles to be applied by courts.  
44. Institution of proceedings.  
45. Staying and transfer of proceedings.  
46. Transfer of proceedings from court of summary jurisdiction in certain cases.  
47. Courts to act in aid of each other.  

                PART  VI-DISSOLUTION  AND  NULLITY  OF  MARRIAGE

48. Dissolution of marriage.  
49. Meaning of separation.  
50. Effect of resumption of cohabitation.  
51. Nullity of marriage.  
52. Court not to make decree of dissolution where application for decree of nullity before it.  
53. Circumstances occurring before commencement of Act or outside Australia.  
54. Decree nisi in first instance.  
55. When decree becomes absolute.  
56. Certificate as to decree absolute.  
57. Rescission of decree nisi where parties reconciled.  
58. Rescission of decree nisi on ground of miscarriage of justice.  
59. Re-marriage.  

                 PART  VII-WELFARE  AND  CUSTODY  OF  CHILDREN

60. Definitions.  
61. Rights of guardianship and custody of children.  
62. Conferences with, and reports by, welfare officers.  
63. Decree absolute where children.  
64. Powers of court in custodial proceedings.  
65. Separate representation of child.  
66. Where applicant in contempt.  
67. Registration inter-State of orders for custody of ex-nuptial children.  
68. Overseas custody orders.  
69. Transmission of Australian custody orders to overseas country.  
70. Interfering with child subject to custody order.  

                     PART  VIII-MAINTENANCE  AND  PROPERTY

71. Definition.  
72. Right of spouse to maintenance.  
73. Maintenance of children.  
74. Powers of court in maintenance proceedings.  
75. Matters to be taken into consideration in proceedings with respect to maintenance.  
76. Maintenance of children.  
77. Urgent maintenance cases.  
78. Declaration of interests in property.  
79. Alteration of property interests.  
80. General powers of court.  
81. Duty of court to end financial relations.  
82. Cessation of orders.  
83. Modification of maintenance orders.  
84. Execution of instruments by order of court.  
85. Transactions to defeat claims.  
86. Registration of maintenance agreements.  
87. Approval of maintenance agreements entered into in substitution for rights under Act.  
88. Enforcement of maintenance agreements.  
89. Overseas maintenance agreements.  
90. Instruments not liable to duty.  

                             PART  IX-INTERVENTION

91. Intervention by Attorney-General.  
92. Intervention by other persons.  

                                PART  X-APPEALS

93. No appeal after decree absolute.  
94. Appeals from courts exercising original jurisdiction.  
95. Appeals to High Court.  
96. Appeals from courts of summary jurisdiction.  

                       PART  XI-PROCEDURE  AND  EVIDENCE

97. Procedure.  
98. Evidence by affidavit.  
99. Evidence as to paternity.  
100. Evidence of husbands and wives

                       PART  XII-RECOGNITION  OF  DECREES
101.  Offensive or scandalous questions
102. Proof of birth, death or marriage
103. Decrees under this Act
104. Overseas decrees
105. Enforcement generally.  
106. Methods of enforcement.  
107. Persons in prison at commencement of Act.  
108. Contempt.  
109. Inter-State enforcement of affiliation and like orders.  
110. Overseas enforcement of maintenance orders.  
111. Convention on Recovery Abroad of Maintenance.  
112. Arrangements with States.  
113. Proceedings for declarations.  
114. Injunctions.  
115. Family Law Council.  
116. Institute of Family Studies.  
117. Costs.  
118. Frivolous or vexatious proceedings.  
119. Married persons may sue each other.  
120. Criminial conversation, adultery and enticement.  
121. Restriction on publication of evidence.  
122. Rights of legal practitioners.  
123. Regulations.  

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 NO. 53, 1975
- LONG TITLE

An Act relating to Marriage and to Divorce and Matrimonial Causes and, in
relation thereto, Parental Rights and the Custody and Guardianship of Infants,
and certain other Matters.

  BE IT ENACTED by the Queen, the Senate and the House of Representatives of
Australia, as follows:-

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 1
Short title.

  1. This Act may be cited as the Family Law Act 1975.*

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 2
Commencement.

  2. This Act shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by
Proclamation.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 3
Repeal and saving.

  3. (1) The Matrimonial Causes Act 1959, the Matrimonial Causes Act 1965 and
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1966 are repealed.
  (2) Notwithstanding the repeal effected by sub-section (1)-

  (a)  the validity of a decree made before the commencement of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959 by virtue of the Imperial Act entitled the
Matrimonial Causes (War Marriages) Act, 1949 or Part I of the Matrimonial
Causes (War Marriages) Act 1947 of New Zealand and in force immediately before
the commencement of this Act shall continue to be recognized in all courts in
Australia;

  (b)  a decree of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory made before the
commencement of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1959 in the exercise of
jurisdiction invested or conferred by the Matrimonial Causes Act 1945, or that
Act as amended by the Matrimonial Causes Act 1955, and in force immediately
before the commencement of this Act shall continue to have effect throughout
Australia; and 

  (c)  a decree of the Supreme Court, or of a court of summary jurisdiction,
of a State or Territory-

      (i)  made before the commencement of this Act in the exercise of
jurisdiction invested or conferred by the repealed Act, or in a matrimonial
cause or proceedings for a separation order instituted under the law of that
State or Territory, being a decree that was in force immediately before the
commencement of this Act; or

     (ii)  made after the commencement of this Act in proceedings to which
sub-section 9 (1) applied,

    shall have, or continue to have, effect throughout Australia, and, except
in the case of-

     (iii)  a decree of nullity of marriage made on the ground that the
marriage was voidable;

     (iv)  a decree of judicial separation;

     (v)  a decree of restitution of conjugal rights;

     (vi)  a decree of jactitation of marriage; or

    (vii)  a separation order,

    this Act applies to and in relation to the decree as if the decree had
been made under this Act.
  (3) For the purposes of paragraph (2) (c), a purported decree to which
section 5 of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1971 applies made in a State shall be
deemed to be a decree of the Supreme Court of that State made in the exercise
of jurisdiction invested by the repealed Act.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 4
Interpretation.

  4. (1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears-

  ''adopted'', in relation to a child, means adopted under the law of any
place (whether in or out of Australia) relating to the adoption of children;

  ''appeal'' includes an application for a re-hearing;

  ''applicant'' includes a cross-applicant and, in relation to proceedings for
dissolution of marriage instituted before the commencement of this Act,
includes a petitioner or cross-petitioner;

  ''approved'', in relation to a marriage counselling organization, means
approved by the Attorney-General in pursuance of section 12;

  ''Australia'' includes Norfolk Island;

  ''court'', in relation to any proceedings, means the court exercising
jurisdiction in those proceedings by virtue of this Act;

  ''court of summary jurisdiction'' includes a Family Court of a State or
Territory, not being a court that may be constituted by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of a State or Territory;

  ''decree'' means decree, judgment or order, and includes a decree nisi and
an order dismissing an application or refusing to make a decree or order;

  ''Family Court'' means the Family Court of Australia;

  ''financial matters'', in relation to the parties to a marriage, means
matters with respect to-

     (a)  the maintenance of one of the parties;

     (b)  the property of those parties or of either of them; or

     (c)  the maintenance of children of the marriage;

  ''financial or custodial proceedings'' means proceedings (being, unless the
context otherwise requires, proceedings under this Act) of a kind referred to
in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of the definition of ''matrimonial cause'' in
this sub-section;

  ''made'', in relation to a decree, being a judgment, means given, and
''make'' has a corresponding meaning;

  ''maintenance agreement'' means an agreement in writing made, whether before
or after the commencement of this Act, between the parties to a marriage,
being an agreement that makes provision with respect to financial matters,
whether or not there are other parties to the agreement and whether or not it
also makes provision with respect to other matters, and includes such an
agreement that varies an earlier maintenance agreement;

  ''marriage counsellor'' means-

     (a)  a person appointed as a counsellor under section 37;

     (b)  a person authorized by an approved marriage counselling organization
to offer marriage counselling on behalf of the organization; or

     (c)  a person authorized under the regulations to offer marriage
counselling;

  ''matrimonial cause'' means-

     (a)  proceedings between the parties to a marriage for a decree of-

         (i)  dissolution of marriage; or

        (ii)  nullity of marriage;

     (b)  proceedings for a declaration as to the validity of a marriage or of
the dissolution or annulment of a marriage by decree or otherwise;

     (c)  proceedings with respect to-

         (i)  the maintenance of one of the parties to a marriage;

        (ii)  the property of the parties to a marriage or of either of them;
or 

        (iii)  the custody, guardianship or maintenance of, or access to, a
child of a marriage;

     (d)  proceedings between the parties to a marriage for the approval by a
court of a maintenance agreement or for the revocation of such an approval or
for the registration of a maintenance agreement;

     (e)  proceedings for an order or injunction in circumstances arising out
of a marital relationship; or

     (f)  any other proceedings (including proceedings with respect to the
enforcement of a decree or the service of process) in relation to concurrent,
pending or completed proceedings of a kind referred to in any of paragraphs
        (a) to (e), including proceedings of such a kind pending at, or completed
before, the commencement of this Act;

  ''ordinarily resident'' includes habitually resident;

  ''overseas maintenance agreement'' means a maintenance agreement that has
force and effect in a prescribed overseas country by reason of the
registration of the agreement, or the taking of any other action in relation
to the agreement, under the law of that country and includes an agreement with
respect to the maintenance of an ex-nuptial child that would be covered by the
foregoing provisions of this definition if the child were a child of the
marriage of the parties to the agreement;

  ''prescribed overseas country'' means New Zealand or any other country
outside Australia that is declared by the regulations to be a prescribed
overseas country for the purposes of the provision in which the expression is
used;

  ''proceedings'' means a proceeding in a court, whether between parties or
not, and includes cross-proceedings or an incidental proceeding in the course
of or in connexion with a proceeding;

  ''proceedings for principal relief'' means proceedings under this Act of a
kind referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of the definition of ''matrimonial
cause'' in this sub-section;

  ''property'', in relation to the parties to a marriage or either of them,
means property to which those parties are, or that party is, as the case may
be, entitled, whether in possession or reversion;

  ''Registrar'', in relation to a court, means the Registrar, Master or other
proper officer of that court;

  ''repealed Act'' means the Matrimonial Causes Act 1959 and includes that Act
as amended at any time;

  ''separation order'' means a decree, not being a decree of dissolution or
nullity of marriage or for a judicial separation, having the effect of
relieving a party to a marriage from any obligation to cohabit with the other
party to the marriage;

  ''Territory'' does not include an external Territory other than Norfolk
Island;

  ''welfare officer'' means-

     (a)  a person appointed as a welfare officer under section 37;

     (b)  a person who is permanently or temporarily employed as a welfare
officer in the Australian Public Service or in the Public Service of a
Territory;

     (c)  a person who is permanently or temporarily employed as a welfare
officer in the Public Service of a State and whose services have been made
available for the purposes of this Act in pursuance of an arrangement between
the Government of Australia and the Government of the State;

     (d)  a person nominated by an organization concerned with the welfare of
children, being an organization that has been approved by the
Attorney-General; or

     (e)  a person appointed as a welfare officer in accordance with the
regulations.
  (2) A reference in this Act to a party to a marriage includes a reference to
a person who was a party to a marriage that has been dissolved or annulled, in
Australia or elsewhere.
  (3) In ascertaining the domicile of a party to a marriage for the purposes
of this Act-

  (a)  a person's domicile at any time (whether before or after the
commencement of this Act) in any country, howsoever acquired, shall be deemed
to have continued, or to continue, until the acquisition by that person of a
domicile of choice in another country;

  (b)  the domicile of a woman who is, or has at any time been, married shall
be determined as if she had never been married; and

  (c)  a person who has attained the age of 18 years, or a person who has not
attained that age but is, or has at any time been, married, has, and shall be
deemed to have had at all times since that person attained that age or became
married, the capacity to acquire a domicile of choice.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 5
Certain children deemed to be children of a marriage.

  5. (1) For the purposes of the application of this Act in relation to a
marriage-

  (a)  a child adopted since the marriage by the husband and wife or by either
of them with the consent of the other;

  (b)  a child of the husband and wife born before the marriage; and

  (c)  a child of either the husband or wife (including an ex-nuptial child of
either of them and a child adopted by either of them) if, at the relevant
time, the child was ordinarily a member of the household of the husband and
wife,
shall be deemed to be a child of the marriage, and a child of the husband and
wife (including a child born before the marriage) who has been adopted by
another person or other persons shall be deemed not to be a child of the
marriage.
  (2) For the purposes of sub-section (1), in relation to any proceedings the
relevant time is-

  (a)  the time immediately preceding the time when the husband and wife
separated or, if they have separated on more than one occasion, the time
immediately preceding the time when they last separated before the institution
of the proceedings; or

  (b)  if the husband and wife were living together at the time when the
proceedings were instituted, the time immediately preceding the institution of
the proceedings.
  (3) The provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) apply in relation to a
purported marriage that is void as if the purported marriage were a marriage.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 6
Polygamous marriages.

  6. For the purpose of proceedings under this Act, a union in the nature of a
marriage which is, or has at any time been, polygamous, being a union entered
into in a place outside Australia, shall be deemed to be a marriage.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 7
Extension of Act to Norfolk Island.

  7. This Act extends to Norfolk Island.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 8
Supersession of existing laws.

  8. (1) After the commencement of this Act-

  (a)  proceedings by way of a matrimonial cause shall not be instituted
except under this Act; and

  (b)  proceedings by way of a matrimonial cause instituted before the
commencement of this Act shall not be continued except in accordance with
section 9.
  (2) Proceedings for a decree of restitution of conjugal rights, of
jactitation of marriage or of judicial separation shall not be instituted or
continued after the commencement of this Act.
  (3) Proceedings for a separation order shall not be instituted after the
commencement of this Act.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 9
Transitional.

  9. (1) Subject to sub-section (2), pending proceedings for a decree of
dissolution of marriage or for a decree of nullity of marriage on the ground
that the marriage is voidable, and pending proceedings for a separation order,
may be continued and shall be dealt with as if this Act had not been passed.
  (2) Where the parties have lived separately and apart for a continuous
period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, pending proceedings for a decree of dissolution of
marriage shall, if the applicant so requests, be dealt with as if they were
proceedings instituted under this Act on the ground referred to in section 48,
and, in relation to proceedings in which such a request is made, sub-section
48 (2) has effect as if the proceedings for dissolution of marriage had been
instituted by an application filed on the date of commencement of this Act.
  (3) Pending proceedings for a decree of nullity of marriage on the ground
that the marriage is void or proceedings of a kind referred to in paragraph
        (b) of the definition of ''matrimonial cause'' in sub-section 4 (1) may be
continued and shall be dealt with as if they were proceedings instituted under
this Act.
  (4) Pending proceedings constituting a matrimonial cause, not being
proceedings for principal relief, whether instituted under the repealed Act or
under the law of a State or Territory, may be continued and shall be dealt
with as if they were proceedings instituted under this Act.
  (5) Sub-section 117 (1) does not apply to proceedings continued and dealt
with under this section.
  (6) Where, in any proceedings constituting a matrimonial cause, a decree has
been made before the commencement of this Act-

  (a)  any appeal in respect of that decree may be continued or instituted;

  (b)  any new trial or re-hearing ordered upon the hearing of such an appeal,
or upon an appeal heard before the commencement of this Act, may be had and
completed; and

  (c)  any decree may be made upon any such appeal, new trial or re-hearing,
and, if a decree so made is a decree nisi, the decree may become absolute,
as if this Act had not been passed.
  (7) Where, in any proceedings constituting a matrimonial cause, a decree
nisi was made before the commencement of this Act but did not become absolute
before that date, the decree becomes absolute upon-

  (a)  the expiration of 1 month from the date of making of the decree;

  (b)  the expiration of 1 month from the date of making of a relevant order
under sub-section 71 (1) of the repealed Act or section 63 of this Act; or

  (c)  the date of commencement of this Act,
whichever is the latest.
  (8) The law to be applied, and the practice and the procedure to be
followed, in and in relation to pending proceedings that are continued as if
this Act had not been passed shall be the same as if this Act had not been
passed.
  (9) In this section-

  ''appeal'' includes-

     (a)  an application for leave or special leave to appeal;

     (b)  an application for a new trial or for a re-hearing; and

     (c)  an intervention;

  ''pending proceedings'' means proceedings that were instituted before the
date of commencement of this Act but were not completed before that date.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 10
Child welfare law not affected.

  10. (1) Subject to sub-section (3), a court shall not make an order under
Part VII or Part VIII for the maintenance, custody or guardianship of-

  (a)  a child who, under the law of a State, is a ward of the State or a
State child or is under the care and control of a Minister of State of the
State; or

  (b)  a child who has a similar status under a law of a Territory.
  (2) Nothing in this Act, and no decree under this Act, affects-

  (a)  the jurisdiction of a court, or the power of an authority, under a law
of a State to make an order, or take any other action, whereby a child becomes
a ward of the State or a State child, or is placed under the care and control
of a Minister of State of a State or any similiar jurisdiction or power under
a law of a Territory;

  (b)  any such order made, or action taken, or the operation, in respect of a
child in relation to whom any such order has been made or action taken, of the
law under which the order was made or action taken;

  (c)  the jurisdiction of a court under a law of a State or Territory to make
an order in respect of the maintenance of a child referred to in sub-section
(1) in favour of an officer or authority of the State or Territory performing
functions in relation to the welfare of children; or

  (d)  an order of a kind referred to in paragraph (c) made by a court.
  (3) The Family Court or the Supreme Court of a State or Territory may make
an order referred to in sub-section (1) if it is satisfied that there are
special circumstances that justify the making of the order.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 11
Grants to approved marriage counselling organizations.

  11. The Attorney-General may, from time to time, out of moneys appropriated
by the Parliament for the purposes of this Part, grant to an approved marriage
counselling organization, upon such conditions as he thinks fit, such sums by
way of financial assistance as he determines.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 12
Approval of marriage counselling organizations.

  12. (1) A voluntary organization may apply to the Attorney-General for
approval under this Part as a marriage counselling organiz- ation.
  (2) The Attorney-General may approve any such organization as a marriage
counselling organization where he is satisfied that-

  (a)  the organization is willing and able to engage in marriage counselling;
and

  (b)  marriage counselling constitutes or will constitute the whole or the
major part of its activities.
  (3) The approval of an organization under this section may be given subject
to such conditions as the Attorney-General determines.
  (4) Where the approval of an organization has been given subject to
conditions, the Attorney-General may, from time to time, revoke or vary all or
any of those conditions or add further conditions.
  (5) An approval of a voluntary organization under Part II of the repealed
Act shall be deemed to be an approval under this section.
  (6) The Attorney-General may, at any time, revoke the approval of an
organization where-

  (a)  the organization has not complied with a condition of the approval of
the organization;

  (b)  the organization has not furnished, in accordance with section 13, a
statement or report that the organization was required by that section to
furnish; or

  (c)  the Attorney-General is satisfied that the organization is not
adequately carrying out marriage counselling.
  (7) Notice of the approval of an organization under this section, and of the
revocation of such an approval, shall be published in the Gazette.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 13
Reports and financial statements of approved marriage counselling
organizations.

  13. (1) An approved marriage counselling organization shall, not later than
30 September in each year, furnish to the Attorney-General, in respect of the
period of 12 months that ended on 30 June in that year-

  (a)  an audited financial statement of the receipts and payments of the
organization, in which receipts and payments in respect of its marriage
counselling activities are shown separately from other receipts and payments;
and

  (b)  a report on its marriage counselling activities, including information
as to the number of cases dealt with by the organization during the year.
  (2) Where the Attorney-General is satisfied that it would be impracticable
for an organization to comply with the requirements of sub- section (1) or
that the application of those requirements to an organiz- ation would be
unduly onerous, he may, by writing under his hand, exempt the organization,
wholly or in part, from those requirements.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 14
Conciliation.

  14. (1) Where proceedings for a dissolution of marriage have been
instituted, or financial or custodial proceedings have been instituted by a
party to a subsisting marriage, it is the duty of the Judge or magistrate
constituting the court and of every legal practitioner representing a party to
give consideration, from time to time, to the possibility of a reconciliation
of the parties.
  (2) If, in such proceedings, it appears at any time to the Judge or
magistrate from the evidence in the proceedings or the attitude of the
parties, or of either of them, that there is a reasonable possibility of such
a reconciliation, the Judge or magistrate may-

  (a)  adjourn the proceedings to afford the parties an opportunity to
consider a reconciliation;

  (b)  with the consent of those parties, interview them in chambers, with or
without counsel, as the Judge thinks proper, with a view to effecting a
reconciliation; and

  (c) if he thinks it desirable to do so, nominate-

      (i)  a marriage counsellor or an approved marriage counselling
organization; or

     (ii)  in special circumstances, some other suitable person or
organization, 

    to assist those parties in considering a reconciliation.
  (3) If, after an adjournment under sub-section (2) has taken place, either
of the parties requests that the hearing be proceeded with, the Judge or
magistrate shall resume the hearing as soon as practicable.
  (4) Where the court makes an order or grants an injunction under section
114, the court shall, if it is of opinion that it is in the interests of the
parties or of the children of the marriage to do so, direct or advise either
or both of the parties to attend upon a marriage counsellor, but failure to
comply with such direction or advice does not constitute a contempt of the
court.
  (5) Where a court having jurisdiction under this Act is of the opinion that
counselling may assist the parties to a marriage to improve their relationship
to each other and to any child of the marriage, it may advise the parties to
attend upon a marriage counsellor or an approved marriage counselling
organization and, if it thinks it desirable to do so, adjourn any proceedings
before it to enable the attendance.
  (6) Where it appears from an application for dissolution of a marriage that
the parties have been married for less than 2 years preceding the date of
filing of the application, the court shall not hear the proceedings unless the
court is satisfied that-
marriage counsellor, an approved marriage counselling organization or some
other suitable person or organization nominated by the Director of Counselling
and Welfare; or

  (b)  there are special circumstances by reason of which the hearing should
proceed.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 15
Notice seeking counselling.

  15. (1) A party to a marriage may file in the Family Court a notice stating
that he or she intends to seek the assistance of the counselling facilities of
the Family Court.
  (2) Where such a notice is filed, the Director of Counselling and Welfare of
the Family Court may arrange for the parties to the marriage to be interviewed
by a marriage counsellor for the purpose of assisting the parties with a view
to a reconciliation or the improvement of their relationship to each other and
to the children of the marriage.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 16
Advice as to counselling.

  16. (1) The Director of Counselling and Welfare of the Family Court may
advertise the existence and availability of the counselling and welfare
facilities of the Family Court and of other courts having jurisdiction under
this Act.
  (2) A party to a marriage may seek the assistance of the counselling
facilities of the Family Court and when such assistance is sought the Director
of Counselling and Welfare shall, as far as practicable, make those facilities
available.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 17
Provision of certain documents.

  17. The regulations shall provide for the furnishing to persons proposing to
institute proceedings under this Act, and in appropriate cases to their
spouses, of documents setting out-

  (a)  the legal and possible social effects of the proposed proceedings
(including the consequences for the children of the marriage); and

  (b)  the counselling and welfare facilities available within the Family
Court and elsewhere.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 18
Admissions made to marriage counsellors, &c.

  18. (1) This section applies to-

  (a)  a marriage counsellor;

  (b)  a person nominated, or acting on behalf of an organization nominated,
in accordance with sub-paragraph 14 (2) (c) (ii); or

  (c)  a person to whom a party to a marriage has been referred by a marriage
counsellor, or by a person referred to in paragraph (b), for medical or other
professional consultation.
  (2) Evidence of anything said or of any admission made at a conference with
a person to whom this section applies acting in the capacity referred to in
sub-section(1) is not admissible in any court (whether exercising federal
jurisdiction or not) or in proceedings before a person authorized by a law of
Australia or of a State or Territory, or by consent of parties, to hear
evidence.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 19
Oath or affirmation of secrecy.

  19. (1) A marriage counsellor shall, before entering upon the performance of
his functions as such a counsellor, make before a person authorized under the
law of Australia or of a State or a Territory to take affidavits, an oath or
affirmation of secrecy in accordance with the prescribed form.
  (2) A marriage counsellor who has made an oath or affirmation of secrecy
under the repealed Act shall be deemed to have made an oath or affirmation
under this section.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 20
Interpretation.

  20. In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears-

  ''Chief Judge'' means the Chief Judge of the Court, and includes a Senior
Judge for the time being performing the duties and exercising the powers of
the Chief Judge;

  ''Court'' means the Family Court of Australia;

  ''Full Court'' means the Family Court when constituted by three or more
Judges or when constituted in accordance with sub-section 28 (4);

  ''Judge'' means a Judge of the Family Court (including the Chief Judge or a
Senior Judge).

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 no. 53 of 1975
- SECT 21
Creation of Court.

  21. (1) A court, to be known as the Family Court of Australia, is created by
this Act.
  (2) The Court is a superior court of record.
  (3) The Court consists of a Chief Judge and of Senior Judges and other
Judges, not exceeding 6 in total, or such greater number as may be prescribed
by regulations from time to time.
  (4) Regulations made pursuant to sub-section (3) shall take effect at the
expiration of 7 sitting days after the regulations have been laid before each
House of the Parliament.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 no. 53 of 1975
- SECT 22
Appointment, removal and resignation of Judges.

  22. (1) A Judge-

  (a)  shall be appointed by the Governor-General; and

  (b)  shall not be removed except by the Governor-General, on an address from
both Houses of the Parliament in the same session praying for his removal on
the grounds of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
  (2) A person shall not be appointed as a Judge unless-

  (a)  he is or has been a Judge of another court created by the Parliament or
of a court of a State or has been enrolled as a legal practitioner of the High
Court or of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory for not less than 5
years; and

  (b)  by reason of training, experience and personality, he is a suitable
person to deal with matters of family law.
  (3) A Judge may resign his office by writing under his hand addressed to the
Governor-General, and the resignation takes effect on the day on which it is
received by the Governor-General or on such later day as is specified in the
writing.
  (4) A Judge or former Judge is entitled to be styled ''The Honourable''.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 no. 53 of 1975
- SECT 23
Seniority.

  23. (1) The Chief Judge is senior to all other Judges of the Court.
  (2) The Senior Judges have seniority next to the Chief Judge according to
the dates on which their appointments as Senior Judges took effect.
  (3) Where, by reason of the fact that two or more commissions of appointment
took effect on the same day, the foregoing provisions do not determine
seniority between the Senior Judges appointed by those commissions, those
Judges have such seniority in relation to each other as is assigned to them by
the Governor-General.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 no. 53 of 1975
- SECT 24
Absence or illness of Chief Judge.

  24. Whenever-

  (a)  the Chief Judge is absent from Australia or from duty; or
  (b)  there is a vacancy in the office of Chief Judge,
the next senior Judge who is in Australia and is available and willing to do
so shall perform the duties and may exercise the powers of the Chief Judge.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 no. 53 of 1975
- SECT 25
Salary and allowances.

  25. (1) The Chief Judge shall receive salary at the rate of $31,450 a year
and an annual allowance at the rate of $1,750 a year.
  (2) Each Senior Judge shall receive salary at the rate of $29,250 a year and
an annual allowance at the rate of $1,250.
  (3) Each other Judge shall receive salary at the rate of $25,000 a year and
an annual allowance at the rate of $1,200 a year.
  (4) The salary and annual allowances of the Judges accrue from day to day
and are payable monthly.
  (5) A Judge shall be paid such other allowances as are prescribed.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 no. 53 of 1975
- SECT 26
Oath or affirmation of allegiance and of office.

  26. A Judge shall, before proceeding to discharge the duties of his office,
take, before the Chief Justice or a Justice of the High Court of Australia or
a Judge of the Family Court or of another court created by the Parliament, an
oath or affirmation of allegiance in the form in the Schedule to the
Constitution, and also an oath or affirmation in the following form:-

  ''I, . . . . . . , do swear that I will well and truly serve in the office
of (Chief Judge, Senior Judge or Judge, as the case may be) of the Family
Court of Australia and that I will do right to all manner of people according
to law, without fear or favour, affection or ill-will, So help me God.''

                                        or

  ''I, . . . . . , do solemnly and sincerely promise and declare that . . .''
(as above, omitting the words ''So help me God'').

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 27
Place of sitting.

  27. Sittings of the Court shall be held from time to time as required at the
places at which the Registries of the Court are established, but the Court may
sit at any place in Australia.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 28
Exercise of jurisdiction.

  28. (1) The original jurisdiction of the Court may be exercised by one or
more Judges.
  (2) The jurisdiction of the Court in an appeal from a court of summary
jurisdiction may be exercised by one or more Judges.
  (3) The jurisdiction of the Court in an appeal from a Judge of the Court or
of the Supreme Court of a State shall be exercised by a Full Court.
  (4)  Where, after a Full Court (including a Full Court constituted in
accordance with this sub-section) has commenced the hearing, or further
hearing, of an appeal and before the appeal has been determined, one of the
Judges constituting the Full Court dies, resigns his office, or otherwise
becomes unable to continue as a member of the Full Court for the purposes of
the appeal, then the hearing and determination, or the determination, of the
appeal may be completed by a Full Court constituted by the remaining Judges,
if at least 2 Judges remain, or, with the consent of the parties, by a Full
Court constituted by the remaining Judge or Judges and an additional Judge or
Judges.
  (5) A Full Court constituted in accordance with sub-section (4) may have
regard to any evidence given or received, and arguments adduced, by or before
the Full Court as previously constituted.
  (6) The Court constituted by one or more Judges may sit and exercise the
jurisdiction of the Court notwithstanding that the Court constituted by one or
more other Judges is at the same time sitting and exercising the jurisdiction
of the Court.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 29
Appellate jurisdiction.

  29. (1) The Family Court has jurisdiction to hear and determine-

  (a)  appeals referred to in section 94; and

  (b)  appeals from judgments of the Family Court, constituted otherwise than
as a Full Court, in the exercise of jurisdiction otherwise than under this
Act.
  (2) The Family Court has jurisdiction to hear and determine appeals under
section 96 except where the Supreme Court of a State has jurisdiction to hear
such appeals.
  (3) Subject to section 96, in an appeal the Court shall have regard to the
evidence given in the proceedings out of which the appeal arose and has power
to draw inferences of fact and, in its discretion, to receive further evidence
upon questions of fact, which evidence may be given by affidavit, by oral
examination before the Court or a Judge or in such other manner as the Court
may direct.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 30
Court divided in opinion.

  30. If the Judges constituting the Court for the purposes of any proceedings
are divided in opinion as to the judgment to be pronounced, judgment shall be
pronounced according to the opinion of the majority, if there is a majority,
but, if the Judges are equally divided in opinion-

  (a)  in the case of an appeal from a judgment of the Family Court
constituted by a single Judge, or of the Supreme Court of a State-the judgment
appealed from shall be affirmed; and

  (b)  in any other case-the opinion of the Chief Judge or, if he is not one
of the Judges constituting the Court, the opinion of the most senior of those
Judges, shall prevail.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 31
Jurisdiction of Family Court.

  31. (1) The Family Court has jurisdiction in-

  (a)  matrimonial causes instituted or continued under this Act;
  (b)  proceedings instituted or continued under the Marriage Act 1961-1973,
other than proceedings under Part VII of that Act;

  (c)  matters arising under a law of a Territory concerning-

      (i)  the adoption of children;

     (ii)  the guardianship, custody or maintenance of children; or

     (iii)  payments of a kind referred to in section 109; and

  (d)  matters in which jurisdiction is conferred on it by a law made by the
Parliament.
  (2) Subject to such restrictions and conditions (if any) as are contained in
the regulations, the jurisdiction of the Family Court may be exercised in
relation to persons or things outside Australia and the Territories.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 32
Certain powers under Marriage Act.

  32. (1) A power or function exercisable under the Marriage Act 1961-1973 by
a Judge or magistrate as defined in sub-section 5 (1) of that Act shall be
exercisable by any Judge of the Family Court who is appointed by the
Attorney-General to be a person authorized to exercise that power or function,
and that Act applies in relation to the exercise of a power or function in
accordance with this section as if references in that Act to a Judge or
magistrate included references to a Judge of the Family Court so appointed.
  (2) A request may not be made under section 17 of the Marriage Act 1961-1973
for a re-hearing of an application that has been dealt with by a Judge of the
Family Court.
  (3) The Governor-General may, by Proclamation, declare that a power or
function referred to in sub-section (1) is exercisable in accordance with this
section to the exclusion, in whole or in part as specified in the
Proclamation, of the exercise of that power or function by Judges or
magistrates as defined in sub-section 5 (1) of the Marriage Act 1961-1973.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 33
Jurisdiction in associated matters.

  33. To the extent that the Constitution permits, jurisdiction is conferred
on the Court in respect of matters not otherwise within the jurisdiction
expressed by this Act or any law to be conferred on the Court that are
associated with matters (including matters before the Court upon an appeal) in
which the jurisdiction of the Court is invoked or that arise in proceedings
(including proceedings upon an appeal) before the Court.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 34
Issue of certain writs, &c.

  34. (1) The Court has power, in relation to matters in which it has
jurisdiction, to make orders of such kinds, and to issue, or direct the issue
of, writs of such kinds, as the Court thinks appropriate.
  (2) Without limiting the generality of sub-section (1), the Court may issue,
or direct the issue of, writs and orders of such kinds as are prescribed.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 35
Contempt of court.

  35. Subject to this and any other Act, the Family Court has the same power
to punish contempts of its power and authority as is possessed by the High
Court in respect of contempts of the High Court.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 36
Registries.

  36. (1) The Governor-General shall cause such Registries of the Court to be
established as he thinks fit.
  (2) Unless and until the regulations otherwise provide, the Principal
Registry shall be located in Sydney.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 37
Officers of Court.

  37. (1) The Attorney-General may appoint such officers of the Court as are
referred to in this section and such other officers of the Court as are
necessary.
  (2) The officers of the Court have such duties, powers and functions as are
provided by this Act and the regulations and such other duties and functions
as the Chief Judge directs.
  (3) There shall be a Registrar of the Court and such Deputy Registrars of
the Court as are necessary.
  (4) There shall be a Marshal of the Court and such Deputy Marshals of the
Court as are necessary.
  (5) The Marshal-

  (a)  is charged with the service and execution of all writs, orders,
decrees, warrants, precepts, process and commands of the Court that are
directed to him; and

  (b)  shall take, receive and detain any person who is committed to his
custody by the Court, and shall discharge all such persons when directed by
the Court or required by law.
  (6) A Deputy Marshal may, subject to any directions of the Marshal, exercise
or perform any of the powers and functions of the Marshal.
  (7) The Marshal or a Deputy Marshal may authorize such persons as he thinks
fit to assist him in the exercise of any power or the performance of any
function.
  (8) There shall be a Director of Counselling and Welfare, and such other
counsellors and welfare officers as are necessary.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 38
Practice and procedure.

  38. (1) Subject to this Act, the practice and procedure of the Court shall
be in accordance with the regulations.
  (2) In so far as the provisions applicable in accordance with sub- section
(1) are insufficient, the Rules of the High Court, as in force for the time
being, apply, mutatis mutandis, so far as they are capable of application and
subject to any directions of the Court or a Judge, to the practice and
procedure of the Court.
  (3) In this section, ''practice and procedure'' includes all matters with
respect to which regulations may be made under this Act.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 39
Jurisdiction in matrimonial causes.

  39. (1) Subject to this Part, a person may institute a matrimonial cause
under this Act-

  (a)  in the Family Court; or

  (b)  in the Supreme Court of a State or a Territory.
  (2) Subject to this Part, a person may institute a matrimonial cause under
this Act, not being proceedings for principal relief, in a Court of summary
jurisdiction of a State or Territory.
  (3) Proceedings for a decree of dissolution of marriage may be instituted
under this Act by a party to the marriage if, at the date on which the
application for the decree is filed in a court, either party to the marriage-

  (a)  is an Australian citizen;

  (b)  is domiciled in Australia; or

  (c)  is ordinarily resident in Australia and has been so resident for 1 year
immediately preceding that date.
  (4) Proceedings of a kind referred to in any of paragraphs (a) to (e) of the
definition of ''matrimonial cause'' in sub-section 4 (1), other than
proceedings for a decree of dissolution of marriage, may be instituted under
this Act if-

  (a)  either party to the marriage is an Australian citizen;

  (b)  either party to the marriage is present in Australia; or

  (c)  the proceedings relate to a child of the marriage and the child is
present in Australia.
  (5) Subject to this Part, the Supreme Court of each State is invested with
federal jurisdiction, and jurisdiction is conferred on the Family Court and on
the Supreme Court of each Territory, to hear and determine-

  (a)  matrimonial causes instituted under this Act;

  (b) matrimonial causes continued in accordance with section 9; and

  (c)  proceedings instituted under regulations made for the purposes of
section 106, 109, 110 or 111.
  (6) Subject to this Part, the courts of summary jurisdiction of each State
are invested with federal jurisdiction, and jurisdiction is conferred on the
courts of summary jurisdiction of each Territory, to hear and determine-

  (a)  matrimonial causes, not being proceedings for principal relief,
instituted under this Act;

  (b)  matrimonial causes, not being proceedings for principal relief,
continued in accordance with section 9; and

  (c)  proceedings instituted under regulations made for the purposes of
section 106, 109, 110 or 111.
  (7) The Governor-General may, by Proclamation, fix a date as the date on and
after which proceedings under this Act may not be instituted in or transferred
to a court of summary jurisdiction in a State or Territory or in a part of a
State or Territory specified in the Proclamation and a court of summary
jurisdiction shall not hear and determine any such proceedings so instituted
in, or transferred to, that court on or after that date.
  (8) Jurisdiction under this Act in a matrimonial cause instituted under this
Act is not conferred on a court of a Territory unless at least one of the
parties to the proceedings is, at the date of the institution of the
proceedings or the date of the transfer of the proceedings to the court of the
Territory, ordinarily resident in the Territory.
  (9) Jurisdiction under this Act in a matrimonial cause continued in
accordance with section 9 is not invested in or conferred on a court other
than the court in which the matrimonial cause was instituted or to which it
has been transferred under sub-section 40 (6) or section 45.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 40
Jurisdiction of Family Court.

  40. (1) The jurisdiction of the Family Court under this Act shall not be
exercised except in accordance with Proclamations under this section.
  (2) The Governor-General may, by Proclamation, fix a date as the date on and
after which the jurisdiction of the Family Court under this Act may be
exercised in respect of all proceedings, or a class of proceedings, in such
States and Territories as are specified in the Proclamation.
  (3) The Governor-General may, by Proclamation, fix a date as the date on and
after which proceedings under this Act may not be instituted in or transferred
to the Supreme Court of a State or Territory specified in the Proclamation, or
may be so instituted or transferred only where specified conditions are
complied with, and such a Proclamation may be expressed to apply only to
proceedings of specified classes and may be expressed to apply only to the
institution of proceedings in, or the transfer of proceedings to, a particular
Registry or Registries of a Supreme Court referred to in the Proclamation.
  (4) The Supreme Court of a State or Territory shall not hear and determine
proceedings under this Act instituted in or transferred to that Court
otherwise than in accordance with any Proclamation in force under sub-section
(3), but nothing in this section invalidates a decree made by such a Supreme
Court.
  (5) Proclamations under sub-sections (2) and (3) may be made from time to
time.
  (6) A party to proceedings instituted or continued under this Act that are
at any time pending in the Supreme Court of a State or Territory, being
proceedings that could, at the date of the application under this sub-section,
have been instituted in the Family Court, may apply to the Family Court for an
order transferring the proceedings to the Family Court, and the Court may
order accordingly.
  (7) The regulations may make provision in relation to matters arising in or
in connexion with the transfer of proceedings in accordance with an order
under sub-section (6).

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 41
Establishment of State Family Courts.

  41. (1) As soon as practicable after the commencement of this Act, the
Australian Government shall take steps with a view to the making of agreements
with the governments of the States providing for the creation of State courts
to be known as Family Courts, being agreements under which the Australian
Government will provide the necessary funds for the establishment and
administration of those courts.
  (2) Where, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, a State has
created a court known as a Family Court, the Governor-General may, by
Proclamation, declare that, on and after a date specified in the Proclamation,
this section applies to that court.
  (3) Where, by virtue of a Proclamation under sub-section (2), this section
applies to a court, this Act has effect in relation to the institution of
proceedings on or after the date fixed by the Proclamation, and in relation to
proceedings so instituted, as if references in sections 39, 46, 94 and 96 to
the Supreme Court of a State were, in relation to the State in which the court
referred to in the Proclamation is established, references to that court, and
that court is invested with federal jurisdiction accordingly.
  (4) The Governor-General shall not make a Proclamation under this section in
respect of a court unless he is satisfied that-

  (a)  arrangements have been made under which Judges will not be appointed to
that court except with the approval of the Attorney-General of Australia;

  (b)  Judges appointed to that court are by reason of training, experience
and personality, suitable persons to deal with matters of family law and
cannot hold office beyond the age of 65 years; and

  (c)  arrangements have been made under which full use will be made by that
court of the counselling and welfare facilities that are available to the
Family Court of Australia.
  (5) References in this Act to a court of summary jurisdiction shall not be
read as including references to a court to which this section applies.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 42
Law to be applied.

 42. (1) The jurisdiction conferred on a court, or with which a court is
invested, by this Act shall be exercised in accordance with this Act.
  (2) Where it would be in accordance with the common law rules of private
international law to apply the laws of any country or place (including a State
or Territory), the court shall apply the laws of that country or place.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 43
Principles to be applied by courts.

  43. The Family Court shall, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under this
Act or any other Act, and any other court exercising jurisdiction under this
Act shall, in the exercise of that jurisdiction, have regard to-

  (a)  the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the
union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered
into for life;

  (b)  the need to give the widest possible protection and assistance to the
family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society, particularly
while it is responsible for the care and education of dependent children;

  (c)  the need to protect the rights of children and to promote their
welfare; and

  (d)  the means available for assisting parties to a marriage to consider
reconciliation or the improvement of their relationship to each other and to
the children of the marriage.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 44
Institution of proceedings.

  44. (1) Subject to this section, proceedings under this Act shall be
instituted by application.
  (2) A respondent may, in an answer to an application, include an application
for any decree or declaration under this Act.
  (3) Where a decree nisi of dissolution of marriage or of nullity of marriage
has been made, proceedings of a kind referred to in sub-paragraph (c) (i) or
        (ii) of the definition of ''matrimonial cause'' in sub-section 4 (1) (not
being proceedings seeking the discharge, suspension, revival or variation of
an order previously made in proceedings with respect to the maintenance of a
party) shall not be instituted after the expiration of 12 months after the
date of the making of the decree or the date of commencement of this Act,
whichever is the later, except by leave of the court in which the proceedings
are to be instituted.
  (4) The court shall not grant leave under sub-section (3) unless it is
satisfied that hardship would be caused to a party to a marriage or to a child
of the marriage if leave were not granted.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 45
Staying and transfer of proceedings.

  45. (1) Where it appears to a court in which a matrimonial cause (including
a matrimonial cause instituted before the commencement of this Act) is pending
that a matrimonial cause (including a matrimonial cause instituted before the
commencement of this Act) in respect of the same marriage or void marriage is
pending in another court, the first-mentioned court may stay the proceedings
in that court for such time as it thinks fit or may dismiss the proceedings.
  (2) Where it appears to a court in which a matrimonial cause has been
instituted or is being continued under this Act that it is in the interests of
justice that the proceedings be dealt with in another court having
jurisdiction under this Act, the court may transfer the proceedings to the
other court.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 46
Transfer of proceedings from court of summary jurisdiction in certain cases.

  46. (1) Where proceedings are instituted in a court of summary jurisdiction
with respect to-

  (a)  the custody or guardianship of, or access to, a child of a marriage;
or

  (b)  property of a value exceeding $1,000,
and the respondent, in an answer to the application by which the proceedings
were instituted, seeks an order different from that sought in the application,
the court shall, unless the parties agree to the court hearing and determining
the proceedings, transfer the proceedings to the Family Court or to the
Supreme Court of a State or Territory.
  (2) Where proceedings referred to in sub-section (1) are before it, the
court may transfer the proceedings of its own motion, notwithstanding that the
parties would be willing for the court to hear and determine the proceedings.
  (3) Before transferring proceedings under sub-section (1), the court may
make such orders, including an order under section 62, as it considers
necessary pending the disposal of the proceedings by the court to which they
are to be transferred.
  (4) Where proceedings are transferred to a court in pursuance of this
section, that court shall proceed as if the proceedings had been originally
instituted in that court.
  (5) Without prejudice to the duty of a court of summary jurisdiction to
comply with this section, failure by such a court so to comply does not
invalidate any order of the court in the proceedings.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 47
Courts to act in aid of each other.

  47. All courts having jurisdiction under this Act shall severally act in aid
of and be auxiliary to each other in all matters under this Act.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 48
Dissolution of marriage.

  48. (1) An application under this Act by a party to a marriage for a decree
of dissolution of the marriage shall be based on the ground that the marriage
has broken down irretrievably.
  (2) Subject to sub-section (3), in a proceeding instituted by such an
application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree
of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if, and only if, the court is
satisfied that the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart
for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the
date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage.
  (3) A decree of dissolution of marriage shall not be made if the court is
satisfied that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being
resumed.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 49
Meaning of separation.

  49. (1) The parties to a marriage may be held to have separated
notwithstanding that the cohabitation was brought to an end by the action or
conduct of one only of the parties.
  (2) The parties to a marriage may be held to have separated and to have
lived separately and apart notwithstanding that they have continued to reside
in the same residence or that either party has rendered some household
services to the other.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 50
Effect of resumption of cohabitation.

  50. (1) For the purposes of proceedings for a decree of dissolution of
marriage, where, after the parties to the marriage separated, they resumed
cohabitation on one occasion but, within a period of 3 months after the
resumption of cohabitation, they again separated and thereafter lived
separately and apart up to the date of the filing of the application, the
periods of living separately and apart before and after the period of
cohabitation may be aggregated as if they were one continuous period, but the
period of cohabitation shall not be deemed to be part of the period of living
separately and apart.
  (2) For the purposes of sub-section (1), a period of cohabitation shall be
deemed to have continued during any interruption of the cohabitation that, in
the opinion of the court, was not substantial.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 51
Nullity of marriage.

  51. (1) An application under this Act for a decree of nullity of marriage
shall be based on the ground that the marriage is void.
  (2) A marriage that takes place after the commencement of this Act is void
where-

  (a)  either of the parties is, at the time of the marriage, lawfully married
to some other person;

  (b)  the parties are within a prohibited relationship;

  (c)  the marriage is not a valid marriage under the law of the place where
the marriage takes place, by reason of a failure to comply with the
requirements of the law of that place with respect to the form of
solemnization of marriages;

  (d)  the consent thereto of either of the parties is not a real consent
because-

      (i)  it was obtained by duress or fraud;

     (ii)  that party is mistaken as to the identity of the other party or as
to the nature of the ceremony performed; or

     (iii)  that party is mentally incapable of understanding the nature and
effect of the marriage ceremony; or

  (e)  either of the parties is not of marriageable age,
and not otherwise.
  (3) Marriages that are within a prohibited relationship are marriages-

  (a)  between a person and an ancestor or descendant of the person; or

  (b)  between a brother and a sister (whether of the whole blood or the
half-blood).
  (4) Any relationship specified in sub-section (3) includes a relationship
traced through, or to, a person who is or was an adopted child, and, for that
purpose, the relationship between an adopted child and his adoptive parent, or
each of his adoptive parents, shall be deemed to be or to have been the
natural relationship of child and parent.
  (5) Nothing in sub-section (4) makes it lawful for a person to marry a
person whom the first-mentioned person could not lawfully have married if that
sub-section had not been enacted.
  (6) For the purposes of this section-

  (a)  a person who has at any time been adopted by another person shall be
deemed to remain the adopted child of that other person notwithstanding that
any order by which the adoption was effected has been annulled, cancelled or
discharged or that the adoption has for any other reason ceased to be
effective; and

  (b)  a person who has been adopted on more than one occasion shall be deemed
to be the adopted child of each person by whom he has been adopted.
  (7) Paragraph (2) (c) does not apply in relation to a marriage solemnized
under Part V of the Marriage Act 1961 or of that Act as amended or to any
other marriage recognized in Australia by virtue of that Act or regulations
made under that Act.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 52
Court not to make decree of dissolution where application for decree of
nullity before it.

  52. Where both an application for a decree of nullity of a marriage and an
application for a decree of dissolution of that marriage are before a court,
the court shall not make a decree of dissolution of the marriage unless it has
dismissed the application for a decree of nullity of the marriage.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 53
Circumstances occurring before commencement of Act or outside Australia.

  53. A decree may be made, or refused, under this Part by reason of facts and
circumstances notwithstanding that those facts and circumstances, or some of
them, took place before the commencement of this Act or outside Australia.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 54
Decree nisi in first instance.

  54. A decree of dissolution of marriage under this Act shall, in the first
instance, be a decree nisi.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 55
When decree becomes absolute.

  55. (1) Subject to this section, a decree nisi made under this Act becomes
absolute by force of this section at the expiration of a period of 1 month
from the making of the decree or from the making of an order under section 63,
whichever is the later.
  (2) Where a decree nisi has been made in any proceedings, the court of first
instance (whether or not it made the decree), or a court in which an appeal
has been instituted, may, either before or after it has disposed of the
proceedings or appeal, and whether or not a previous order has been made under
this sub-section-

  (a)  having regard to the possibility of an appeal or further appeal, make
an order extending the period at the expiration of which the decree nisi will
become absolute; or

  (b)  if it is satisfied that there are special circumstances that justify
its so doing, make an order reducing the period at the expiration of which the
decree nisi will become absolute.
  (3) Where an appeal is instituted (whether or not it is the first appeal)
before a decree nisi has become absolute, then, notwithstanding any order in
force under sub-section (2) at the time of the institution of the appeal but
subject to any such order made after the institution of the appeal, the decree
nisi, unless reversed or rescinded, becomes absolute by force of this
section-

  (a)  at the expiration of a period of 1 month from the day on which the
appeal is determined or discontinued; or

  (b)  on the day on which the decree would have become absolute under
sub-section (1) if no appeal had been instituted,
whichever is the later.
  (4) A decree nisi shall not become absolute by force of this section where
either of the parties to the marriage has died.
  (5) In this section, ''appeal'', in relation to a decree nisi, means-

  (a)  an appeal or application for leave to appeal against, or an
intervention or application for a re-hearing relating to-

      (i)  the decree nisi; or

     (ii)  an order under section 63 in relation to the proceedings in which
the decree nisi was made; or

  (b)  an application under section 57 or 58 for recission of the decree or an
appeal or application for leave to appeal arising out of such an application.
  (6) For the purposes of this section, where an application for leave to
appeal, or for a re-hearing, is granted, the application shall be deemed not
to have been determined or discontinued so long as-

  (a)  the leave granted remains capable of being exercised; or

  (b)  an appeal or re-hearing instituted in pursuance of the leave is
pending. 

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 56
Certificate as to decree absolute.

  56. (1) Where a decree nisi becomes absolute, the Registrar of the court by
which the decree was made shall prepare and file a memorandum of the fact and
of the date upon which the decree became absolute.
  (2) Where a decree nisi has become absolute, any person is entitled, on
application to the Registrar of the court by which the decree was made, to
receive a certificate signed by the Registrar that the decree nisi has become
absolute.
  (3) A certificate given under sub-section (2) is, in all courts (whether
exercising federal jurisdiction or not) and for all purposes, evidence of the
matters specified in the certificate.
  (4) The regulations may provide for the establishment of central records of
decrees made under this Act and for the notification of decrees to the
appropriate marriage registering authorities of the States and Territories.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 57
Rescission of decree nisi where parties reconciled.

  57. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Part, where a decree nisi has
been made in proceedings for a decree of dissolution of marriage, the court
may, at any time before the decree becomes absolute, upon the application of
the parties to the marriage, rescind the decree on the ground that the parties
have become reconciled.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 58
Rescission of decree nisi on ground of miscarriage of justice.

  58. Where a decree nisi has been made but has not become absolute, the court
by which the decree was made may, on the application of a party to the
proceedings, or on the intervention of the Attorney-General, if it is
satisfied that there has been a miscarriage of justice by reason of fraud,
perjury, suppression of evidence or any other circumstance, rescind the decree
and, if it thinks fit, order that the proceedings be re-heard.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 59
Re-marriage.

  59. Where a decree of dissolution of marriage under this Act has become
absolute, a party to the marriage may marry again.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 60
Definitions.

  60. In this Part-

  ''marriage'' includes a void marriage;

  ''overseas custody order'' means an order made by a court in a prescribed
overseas country, being-

     (a)  an order for custody of, or access to, a child who has not attained
the age of 18 years; or

     (b)  an order varying or discharging an order of the kind referred to in
paragraph (a), including an order of that kind made under this Act.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 61
Rights of guardianship and custody of children.

  61. (1) Subject to any order of a court for the time being in force, each of
the parties to a marriage is a guardian of any child of the marriage who has
not attained the age of 18 years and those parties have the joint custody of
the child.
  (2) An order with respect to the custody or guardianship of, or access to, a
child-

  (a)  shall not be made in respect of a child who has attained the age of 18
years or is or has been married; and

  (b)  ceases to be in force when the child attains the age of 18 years or
marries.
  (3) Unless a court having jurisdiction under this Act otherwise orders, an
order in respect of the custody or guardianship of, or access to, a child of a
marriage ceases to be in force if the child is adopted by a person who is not
a party to the marriage.
  (4) On the death of a party to a marriage in whose favour a custody order
has been made in respect of a child of the marriage, the other party to the
marriage is entitled to the custody of the child only if the court so orders
on application by that other party and, upon such an application, any other
person who had the care and control of the child at the time of the
application is entitled to be a party to the proceedings.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 62
Conferences with, and reports by, welfare officers.

  62. (1) Where-

  (a)  there is a child (being a child who has not attained the age of 18
years) of a marriage in respect of which proceedings for principal relief have
been instituted; or

  (b)  proceedings for the custody or guardianship of, or access to, a child
of a marriage who has not attained the age of 18 years are contested,
the court may, at any stage of the proceedings, of its own motion or upon the
request of a party to the proceedings, make an order directing the parties to
the proceedings to attend a conference with a welfare officer to discuss the
welfare of the child and, if there are any differences between the parties as
to matters affecting the welfare of the child, to endeavour to resolve those
differences.
  (2) Where the court makes an order under sub-section (1), it may fix a place
and time for the conference to take place or direct that the conference shall
take place at a place and time to be fixed by a welfare officer.
  (3) If a party fails to attend a conference in respect of which an order has
been made under sub-section (1), it is the duty of the welfare officer to
report the failure to the court.
  (4) The court may adjourn any proceedings referred to in sub- section (1)
until a report has been obtained from a welfare officer on such matters
relevant to the proceedings as the court considers desirable, and may receive
the report in evidence.
  (5) Subject to sub-section (4), evidence of anything said or of any
admission made at a conference that takes place in pursuance of an order made
under this section is not admissible in any court (whether exercising federal
jurisdiction or not) or in proceedings before a person authorized by a law of
Australia or of a State or Territory, or by consent of parties, to hear
evidence.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 63
Decree absolute where children.

  63. (1) A decree nisi of dissolution of marriage does not become absolute
unless the court, by order, has declared that it is satisfied-

  (a)  that there are no children of the marriage who have not attained the
age of 18 years; or

  (b)  that the only children of the marriage who have not attained the age of
18 years are the children specified in the order and that-

      (i)  proper arrangements in all the circumstances have been made for the
welfare of those children; or

     (ii)  there are circumstances by reason of which the decree nisi should
become absolute notwithstanding that the court is not satisfied that such
arrangements have been made.
  (2) Where, in proceedings for a decree of dissolution of marriage, the court
is in doubt whether the arrangements made for the welfare of a child of the
marriage are proper in all the circumstances, the court may adjourn the
proceedings until a report has been obtained from a welfare officer regarding
those arrangements.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 64
Powers of court in custodial proceedings.

  64. (1) In proceedings with respect to the custody or guardianship of, or
access to, a child of a marriage-

  (a)  the court shall regard the welfare of the child as the paramount
consideration;

  (b)  where the child has attained the age of 14 years, the court shall not
make an order under this Part contrary to the wishes of the child unless the
court is satisfied that, by reason of special circumstances, it is necessary
to do so; and

  (c)  subject to paragraphs (a) and (b), the court may make such order in
respect of those matters as it thinks proper, including an order until further
order.
  (2) In proceedings with respect to the custody of a child of a marriage, the
court may, if it is satisfied that it is desirable to do so, make an order
placing the child in the custody of a person other than a party to the
marriage. 
  (3) Where the court makes an order placing a child of a marriage in the
custody of a party to the marriage, or of a person other than a party to the
marriage, it may include in the order such provision as it thinks proper for
access to the child by any person.
  (4) Where a court makes an order for joint custody of a child of a marriage
or declines to make an order for the sole custody of the child, it may make
orders as to access or such other orders as it thinks proper.
  (5) Where a court makes an order under this Part with respect to a child,
the court may also, if it thinks the welfare of the child so requires, by
order direct that compliance with the first-mentioned order shall, as far as
practicable, be supervised by a welfare officer.
  (6) Where the court is of the opinion that there is a possibility or threat
that a child will be removed from Australia, it may order the passport of the
child and of any other person concerned to be delivered up to the court upon
such conditions as the court thinks fit.
  (7) The court may discharge or vary an order under this section, or may
suspend any part of the order and may revive the operation of any part so
suspended.
  (8) On an application for the discharge or variation of an order under this
section in respect of a child who has attained the age of 14 years, if the
court is satisfied that the discharge or variation of the order would be in
accordance with the wishes of the child, it shall discharge or vary the order
accordingly unless the court is satisfied that it is undesirable to do so by
reason of special circumstances.
  (9) Where an order made by a court (including a court of a prescribed
overseas country) with respect to the custody of a child is in force, a court
having jurisdiction under this Act may issue a warrant authorizing or
directing the person, or any of the persons, to whom it is addressed to take
possession of the -115100 other person or authority (including a person or
authority in or from a prescribed overseas country) named in the order on
behalf of the person entitled to custody.
  (10) Where an order made by a court (including a court of a prescribed
overseas country) entitling a person to access to a child is in force, a court
having jurisdiction under this Act may, for the purpose of giving effect to
the order, issue a warrant authorizing or directing the person, or any of the
persons, to whom it is addressed to take possession of the child and to
deliver the child to the person so entitled to access.
  (11) Where an order entitles more than one person to the custody of a child,
a warrant shall not be issued under this section for the removal of the child
from -116500 of them.
  (12) The Attorney-General may appoint persons to be enforcement officers for
the purposes of this Part and a warrant under sub-section (9) or (10) may be
addressed to a person so appointed.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 65
Separate representation of child.

  65. Where, in proceedings with respect to the custody, guardianship or
maintenance of, or access to, a child of a marriage, it appears to the court
that the child ought to be separately represented, the court may, of its own
motion, or on the application of the child or of an organization concerned
with the welfare of children or of any other person, order that the child be
separately represented, and the court may make such other orders as it thinks
necessary for the purpose of securing such separate representation.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 66
Where applicant in contempt.

  66. The court may proceed with the hearing of proceedings in relation to a
child notwithstanding that the person by whom the proceedings were instituted
has failed to comply with an order of the court or of another court having
jurisdiction under this Act.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 67
Registration inter-State of orders for custody of ex-nuptial children.

  67. (1) In this section-

  ''court'', in relation to a State or Territory, means the Supreme Court, or
a court of summary jurisdiction, of that State or Territory;

  ''custody order'' means a subsisting order for custody of, or access to, an
ex-nuptial child who has not attained the age of 18 years.
  (2) The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the
registration in a State or Territory in a court having jurisdiction under this
Act (including the Family Court) of custody orders made by a court in another
State or Territory.
  (3) Where a custody order is registered in a court under this section, the
order has the same force and effect as if it were an order made by that court
under this Act.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 68
Overseas custody orders.

  68. (1) The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the
registration in courts in Australia of overseas custody orders.
  (2) Where an overseas custody order is registered in a court under this
section, the order has the same force and effect as if it were an order made
by that court under this Act.
  (3) Where an overseas custody order is so registered, a court in Australia
shall not, where it becomes aware of the order, exercise jurisdiction in
proceedings for the custody of, or access to, the child the subject of the
overseas custody order, unless-

  (a)  every person having rights of custody or access in relation to the
child under the overseas custody order consents to the exercise of
jurisdiction by the court in the proceedings; or

  (b)  the court is satisfied that there are substantial grounds for believing
that the welfare of the child will be adversely affected if the court does not
exercise jurisdiction in the proceedings.
  (4) Where the court exercises jurisdiction in proceedings for the custody
of, or access to, a child who is the subject of an overseas custody order, the
court shall not make an order with respect to the custody of, or access to,
the child unless the person who instituted the proceedings satisfies the
court-

  (a)  that the welfare of the child is likely to be adversely affected if the
order is not made; or

  (b)  that there has been such a change in the circumstances of the child
that the order ought to be made.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 69
Transmission of Australian custody orders to overseas country.

  69. (1) Where an order made by a court in Australia with respect to the
custody of, or access to, a child who has not attained the age of 18 years may
be enforced in a prescribed overseas country under provisions corresponding to
the provisions of section 68, the Registrar of the court shall, if so
requested in writing by a person having rights of custody or access in
relation to the child under the order, send to an appropriate court or
authority in that country such documents and information as are necessary for
securing the enforcement of the order in the overseas country.
  (2) The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the
transmission to a prescribed overseas country of copies of, and documents
relating to, an order made by a court in Australia with respect to custody of,
or access to, a child who is the subject of an overseas custody order.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 70
Interfering with child subject to custody order.

  70. (1) Where an order is made under this Act granting to a person the
custody of a child of a marriage, a person shall not remove the child from the
care and control of the first-mentioned person contrary to the order or
interfere with the exercise of the first-mentioned person's rights under the
order in respect of the child.
  (2) Where an order is made under this Act granting to a person the custody
of a child of a marriage, being a child that is in the care and control of
another person, that other person shall, upon demand by the person entitled to
the custody of the child under the order, deliver the child to that person.
  (3) Where an order under this Act provides for a person to have access to a
child of a marriage, a person shall not, without just cause or excuse, hinder
or prevent the first-mentioned person from obtaining access to the child in
accordance with the order or interfere with the access to the child that the
first-mentioned person is entitled to in accordance with the order.
  (4) Sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) apply to an order registered in a court
under section 67 or 68 as if the order were an order made under this Act.
  (5) A person shall not prevent or hinder the execution of a warrant issued
in pursuance of section 64.
  (6) If a court having jurisdiction under this Act is satisfied that a person
has knowingly and without reasonable cause contravened or failed to comply
with a provision of this section, that court may-

  (a)  order that person to pay a fine not exceeding $1,000;

  (b)  require that person to enter into a recognizance, with or without
sureties, in such reasonable amount as the court thinks fit, that that person
will comply with the relevant order, or order that person to be imprisoned
until that person enters into such a recognizance or until the expiration of 3
months, whichever first occurs;

  (c)  order that person to deliver up to the court that person's passport and
such other documents as the court thinks fit; and

  (d)  make such other orders as the court considers necessary to enforce
compliance with this section.
  (7) Where an act or omission referred to in sub-section (6) is an offence
against any other law, the person committing the offence may be prosecuted and
convicted under that law, but nothing in this section shall render any person
liable to be punished twice in respect of the same offence.
  (8) Sub-section (6) does not prejudice the power of a court to punish a
person for contempt of court.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 71
Definition.

  71. In this Part-

  ''marriage'' includes a void marriage;

  ''re-marriage'', in relation to a person who was a party to a purported
marriage that is void, means marriage.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 72
Right of spouse to maintenance.

  72. A party to a marriage is liable to maintain the other party, to the
extent that the first-mentioned party is reasonably able to do so, if, and
only if, that other party is unable to support herself or himself adequately,
whether by reason of having the care or control of a child of the marriage who
has not attained the age of 18 years, or by reason of age or physical or
mental incapacity for appropriate gainful employment or for any other adequate
reason having regard to any relevant matter referred to in sub-section 75
(2).

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 73
Maintenance of children.

  73. The parties to a marriage are liable, according to their respective
financial resources, to maintain the children of the marriage who have not
attained the age of 18 years.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 74
Powers of court in maintenance proceedings.

  74. In proceedings with respect to the maintenance of a party to a marriage
or of a child of a marriage, the court may make such order as it thinks proper
for the provision of maintenance in accordance with this Part.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 75
Matters to be taken into consideration in proceedings with respect to
maintenance.

  75. (1) In exercising jurisdiction under this Part, the court shall take
into account only the matters referred to in sub-section (2).
  (2) The matters to be so taken into account are-

  (a)  the age and state of health of each of the parties;

  (b)  the income, property and financial resources of each of the parties and
the physical and mental capacity of each of them for appropriate gainful
employment;

  (c)  whether either party has the care or control of a child of the marriage
who has not attained the age of 18 years;

  (d)  the financial needs and obligations of each of the parties;

  (e)  the responsibilities of either party to support any other person;

  (f)  the eligibility of either party for a pension, allowance or benefit
under any law of Australia or of a State or Territory or under any
superannuation fund or scheme, or the rate of any such pension, allowance or
benefit being paid to either party;

  (g)  where the parties have separated or the marriage has been dissolved, a
standard of living that in all the circumstances is reasonable;

  (h)  the extent to which the payment of maintenance to the party whose
maintenance is under consideration would increase the earning capacity of that
party by enabling that party to undertake a course of education or training or
to establish himself or herself in a business or otherwise to obtain an
adequate income;

  (j)  the extent to which the party whose maintenance is under consideration
has contributed to the income, earning capacity, property and financial
resources of the other party;

  (k)  the duration of the marriage and the extent to which it has affected
the earning capacity of the party whose maintenance is under consideration;

  (l)  the need to protect the position of a woman who wishes only to continue
her role as a wife and mother;

  (m)  if the party whose maintenance is under consideration is cohabiting
with another person-the financial circumstances relating to the cohabitation;

  (n)  the terms of any order made or proposed to be made under section 79 in
relation to the property of the parties; and

  (o)  any fact or circumstance which, in the opinion of the court, the
justice of the case requires to be taken into account.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 76
Maintenance of children.

  76. (1) In determining-

  (a)  whether to make an order for the maintenance of a child of a marriage;
or 

  (b)  the period for which such an order should continue in force or the
amount of any payment to be required to be made under such an order,
the court shall, in addition to the matters referred to in section 75, take
into account-

  (c)  the income, earning capacity, property and other financial resources of
the child;

  (d)  the financial needs of the child; and

  (e)  the manner in which the child is being, and in which the parties to the
marriage expected the child to be, educated or trained.
  (2)  Subject to sub-section (3)-

  (a)  an order shall not be made for the maintenance of a child who has
attained the age of 18 years; and

  (b)  an order for the maintenance of a child ceases to be in force when the
child attains the age of 18 years.
  (3) The court may-

  (a)  provide in an order for the maintenance of a child who has not attained
the age of 18 years that the order shall continue in force until a day that is
later than, or for a period that extends beyond, the day on which the child
will attain that age; or

  (b)  make an order for the maintenance of a child who has attained the age
of 18 years, being an order that is expressed to continue in force until a
day, or for a period, specified in the order,
if the court is satisfied that the provision of the maintenance is necessary
to enable the child to complete his education (including vocational training
or apprenticeship) or because he is mentally or physically handicapped, and,
in that case, the order continues in force until that day or the expiration of
that period, as the case may be.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 77
Urgent maintenance cases.

  77. Where, in proceedings with respect to the maintenance of a party to a
marriage or a child of a marriage, it appears to the court that the party or
child is in immediate need of financial assistance, but it is not practicable
in the circumstances to determine immediately what order, if any, should be
made, the court may order the payment, pending the disposal of the
proceedings, of such periodic sum or other sums as the court considers
reasonable.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 78
Declaration of interests in property.

  78. (1) In proceedings between the parties to a marriage with respect to
existing title or rights in respect of property, the court may declare the
title or rights, if any, that a party has in respect of the property.
  (2) Where a court makes a declaration under sub-section (1), it may make
consequential orders to give effect to the declaration, including orders as to
sale or partition and interim or permanent orders as to possession.
  (3) An order under this section is binding on the parties to the marriage
but not on any other person.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 79
Alteration of property interests.

  79. (1) In proceedings with respect to the property of the parties to a
marriage or either of them, the court may make such order as it thinks fit
altering the interests of the parties in the property, including an order for
a settlement of property in substitution for any interest in the property and
including an order requiring either or both of the parties to make, for the
benefit of either or both of the parties or a child of the marriage, such
settlement or transfer of property as the court determines.
  (2) The court shall not make an order under this section unless it is
satisfied that, in all the circumstances, it is just and equitable to make the
order.
  (3) The court shall not make an order under this section unless a decree
nisi for dissolution of the marriage, or a decree of nullity of the marriage,
has been made or proceedings for a decree of dissolution or nullity of the
marriage have been instituted in that court or in another court having
jurisdiction under this Act or a party has filed in the court a notice under
section 15.
  (4) In considering what order should be made under this section the court
shall take into account-

  (a)  the financial contribution made directly or indirectly by or on behalf
of a party or a child to the acquisition, conservation or improvement of the
property, or otherwise in relation to the property;

  (b)  the contribution made directly or indirectly to the acquisition,
conservation or improvement of the property by either party, including any
contribution made in the capacity of homemaker or parent;

  (c)  the effect of any proposed order upon the earning capacity of either
party;

  (d)  the matters referred to in sub-section 75 (2) so far as they are
relevant; and

  (e)  any other order made under this Act affecting a party.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 80
General powers of court.

  80. The court, in exercising its powers under this Part, may do any or all
of the following:-

  (a)  order payment of a lump sum, whether in one amount or by instalments;

  (b)  order payment of a weekly, monthly, yearly or other periodic sum;

  (c)  order that payment of any sum ordered to be paid be wholly or partly
secured in such manner as the court directs;

  (d)  order that any necessary deed or instrument be executed and that such
documents of title be produced or such other things be done as are necessary
to enable an order to be carried out effectively or to provide security for
the due performance of an order;

  (e)  appoint or remove trustees;

  (f)  order that payments be made direct to a party to the marriage, to a
trustee to be appointed or into court or to a public authority for the benefit
of a party to the marriage;

  (g)  order that payment of maintenance in respect of a child be made to such
person or public authority as the court specifies;

  (h)  make a permanent order, an order pending the disposal of proceedings or
an order for a fixed term or for a life or during joint lives or until further
order;

  (i) impose terms and conditions;

  (j)  make an order by consent;

  (k)  make any other order (whether or not of the same nature as those
mentioned in the preceding paragraphs of this section), which it thinks it is
necessary to make to do justice; and

  (l)  subject to this Act, make an order under this Part at any time before
or after the making of a decree under another Part.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 81
Duty of court to end financial relations.

  81. In proceedings under this Part, other than proceedings under section 78
or proceedings with respect to maintenance payable during the subsistence of a
marriage, the court shall, as far as practicable, make such orders as will
finally determine the financial relationships between the parties to the
marriage and avoid further proceedings between them.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 82
Cessation of orders.

  82. (1) An order with respect to the maintenance of a party to a marriage or
a child of a marriage ceases to have effect upon the death of the party or
child. 
  (2) Subject to sub-section (3), an order with respect to the maintenance of
a party to a marriage or a child of a marriage ceases to have effect upon the
death of the person liable to make payments under the order.
  (3) Sub-section (2) does not apply in relation to an order if the order is
expressed to continue in force throughout the life of the person for whose
benefit the order was made or for a period that had not expired at the time of
the death of the person liable to make payments under the order and, in that
case, the order is binding upon the legal personal representative of the
deceased person.
  (4) An order with respect to the maintenance of a party to a marriage ceases
to have effect upon the re-marriage of the party unless in special
circumstances the court having jurisdiction otherwise orders.
  (5) Subject to the provisions of sub-section 76 (3), an order with respect
to the maintenance of a child of a marriage ceases to have effect upon the
adoption or marriage of the child.
  (6) Where a re-marriage referred to in sub-section (4) or a marriage
referred to in sub-section (5) takes place, it is the duty of the person for
whose benefit the order was made to inform without delay the person liable to
make payments under the order of the date of the re-marriage or marriage.
  (7) Any moneys paid in respect of a period after the event referred to in
sub-section (4) or (5) may be recovered in a court having jurisdiction under
this Act.
  (8) Nothing in this section affects the recovery of arrears due under an
order at the time when the order ceased to have effect.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 83
Modification of maintenance orders.

  83. (1) In proceedings with respect to the maintenance of a party to a
marriage or of a child of a marriage, if there is in force an order (whether
made before or after the commencement of this Act) with respect to the
maintenance of that party or child by the other party to the marriage-

  (a)  made by the court; or

  (b)  made by another court and registered in the first-mentioned court in
accordance with the regulations,
the court may-

  (c)  discharge the order if there is any just cause for so doing;

  (d)  suspend its operation wholly or in part and either until further order
or until a fixed time or the happening of some future event;

  (e)  revive wholly or in part an order suspended under paragraph (d); or

  (f)  subject to sub-section (2), vary the order so as to increase or
decrease any amount ordered to be paid or in any other manner.
  (2) The court shall not make an order increasing or decreasing an amount
ordered to be paid by an order unless it is satisfied-

  (a)  that, since the order was made or last varied-

      (i)  the circumstances of a person for whose benefit the order was made
have so changed;

     (ii)  the circumstances of the person liable to make payments under the
order have so changed; or

     (iii)  in the case of an order that is binding on a legal personal
representative, the circumstances of the estate are such,

    as to justify its so doing;

  (b)  that, since the order was made, or last varied, the cost of living has
changed to such an extent as to justify its so doing; or

  (c)  that material facts were withheld from the court that made the order or
from a court that varied the order or material evidence previously given
before such a court was false.
  (3) Sub-section (2) does not prevent the court from making an order varying
an order made before the date of commencement of this Act if the
first-mentioned order is made for the purpose of giving effect to this Part.
  (4) In satisfying itself for the purposes of paragraph (2) (b), the court
shall have regard to any changes that have occurred in the Consumer Price
Index published by the Commonwealth Statistician.
  (5) The court shall not, in considering the variation of an order, have
regard to a change in the cost of living unless at least 12 months have
elapsed since the order was made or was last varied having regard to a change
in the cost of living.
  (6) An order decreasing the amount of a periodic sum payable under an order
or discharging an order shall not be expressed to be retrospective to a date
earlier than 12 months before the date of the application for the variation or
discharge.
  (7) For the purposes of this section, the court shall have regard to the
provisions of sections 72, 75 and 76.
  (8) The discharge of an order does not affect the recovery of arrears due
under the order at the time as at which the discharge takes effect.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 84
Execution of instruments by order of court.

  84. (1) Where-

  (a)  an order under this Part has directed a person to execute a deed or
instrument; and

  (b)  that person has refused or neglected to comply with the direction or,
for any other reason, the court thinks it necessary to exercise the powers of
the court under this sub-section,
the court may appoint an officer of the court or other person to execute the
deed or instrument in the name of the person to whom the direction was given
and to do all acts and things necessary to give validity and operation to the
deed or instrument.
  (2) The execution of the deed or instrument by the person so appointed has
the same force and validity as if it had been executed by the person directed
by the order to execute it.
  (3) The court may make such order as it thinks just as to the payment of the
costs and expenses of and incidental to the preparation of the deed or
instrument and its execution.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 85
Transactions to defeat claims.

  85. (1) In proceedings under this Part, the court may set aside or restrain
the making of an instrument or disposition by or on behalf of, or by direction
or in the interest of, a party, which is made or proposed to be made to defeat
an existing or anticipated order in those proceedings for costs, maintenance
or the declaration or alteration of any interests in property or which,
irrespective of intention, is likely to defeat any such order.
  (2) The court may order that any money or real or personal property dealt
with by any such instrument or disposition may be taken in execution or
charged with the payment of such sums for costs or maintenance as the court
directs, or that the proceeds of a sale shall be paid into court to abide its
order.
  (3) The court shall have regard to the interests of, and shall make any
order proper for the protection of, a bona fide purchaser or other person
interested. 
  (4) A party or a person acting in collusion with a party may be ordered to
pay the costs of any other party or of a bona fide purchaser or other person
interested of and incidental to any such instrument or disposition and the
setting aside or restraining of the instrument or disposition.
  (5) In this section, ''disposition'' includes a sale and a gift.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 86
Registration of maintenance agreements.

  86. (1) A maintenance agreement other than an agreement to which section 87
applies may be registered, as prescribed, in any court having jurisdiction
under this Act.
  (2) Where a maintenance agreement is so registered in a court, the court
may, in relation to the agreement, exercise any of the powers conferred on the
court under section 83 as if the agreement were an order of the court.
  (3) The court in which a maintenance agreement is registered under
sub-section (1) may set aside the agreement if, and only if, the court is
satisfied that the concurrence of a party was obtained by fraud or undue
influence or that the parties desire the agreement to be set aside.
  (4) Subject to section 89, this section does not apply to overseas
maintenance agreements.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 87
Approval of maintenance agreements entered into in substitution for rights
under Act.

  87. (1) Subject to this section, a maintenance agreement may make provision
to the effect that the agreement shall operate, in relation to the financial
matters dealt with in the agreement, in substitution for any rights of the
parties to the agreement under this Part.
  (2) A maintenance agreement that makes provision as mentioned in sub-section
(1) does not have any effect unless it has been approved by the court.
  (3) If-

  (a)  a maintenance agreement makes provision as mentioned in sub-section
(1); and

  (b)  the agreement has been approved by the court and the approval has not
been revoked,
any order having effect under this Part or any order made under Part VIII of
the repealed Act and continued in effect by virtue of paragraph 3 (2) (c)
ceases to have effect in so far as it relates to the financial matters dealt
with in the agreement and, subject to sub-section (9), no court having
jurisdiction under this Act may make an order with respect to those financial
matters.
  (4) In proceedings for the approval of a maintenance agreement, if the court
is satisfied that the provisions of the agreement with respect to financial
matters are proper, the court shall approve the agreement, but, if the court
is not so satisfied, it shall refuse to approve the agreement.
  (5) A maintenance agreement that has been approved by a court ceases to be
in force upon the death of a party to the agreement unless the agreement
otherwise provides.
  (6) A court may revoke its approval of a maintenance agreement if, and only
if, it is satisfied that the approval of the court was obtained by fraud, that
the concurrence of a party was obtained by fraud or undue influence or that
the parties to the agreement desire the revocation of the approval and, where
an approval is so revoked, the agreement ceases to be in force.
  (7) Where a court has approved a maintenance agreement, the agreement shall
be deemed to be registered in that court.
  (8) An agreement that is by virtue of sub-section (7) deemed to be
registered in a court may be registered, as prescribed, in another court
having jurisdiction under this Act.
  (9) Where the court is satisfied that the arrangements in a maintenance
agreement that has been approved by the court relating to a child of the
marriage who has not attained the age of 18 years are no longer proper, it may
make an order under this Part.
  (10) Nothing in this Act affects the operation of an agreement sanctioned
under paragraph 87 (1) (k) of the repealed Act or the rights and obligations
of a person under such an agreement.
  (11) Subject to section 89, this section does not apply to overseas
maintenance agreements.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 88
Enforcement of maintenance agreements.

  88. A maintenance agreement that has been registered, or is deemed to have
been registered, in a court may be enforced as if it were an order of that
court.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 89
Overseas maintenance agreements.

  89. The regulations may make provision for and in relation to-

  (a)  the application of sections 86 and 87, with such additions, exceptions
and modifications as are prescribed, to overseas maintenance agreements; and

  (b)  the transmission to appropriate courts or authorities of prescribed
overseas countries of, or of copies of, maintenance agreements and of
agreements for maintenance of ex-nuptial children for the purpose of securing
the enforcement of those agreements in those countries.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 90
Instruments not liable to duty.

  90. A maintenance agreement, or a deed or other instrument executed by a
person for the purposes of such an agreement or for the purposes of, or in
accordance with an order under, this Part, is not subject to any duty or
charge under any law of a State or Territory.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 91
Intervention by Attorney-General.

  91. (1) The Attorney-General may intervene in, and contest or argue any
question arising in-

  (a)  any proceedings under this Act where the court requests him to do so or
a matter arises that affects the public interest; or

  (b)  any proceedings under this Act with respect to the custody or
guardianship of, or access to, children.
  (2) Where the Attorney-General intervenes in any proceedings, he shall be
deemed to be a party to the proceedings with all the rights, duties and
liabilities of a party.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 92
Intervention by other persons.

  92. (1) In proceedings other than proceedings for principal relief, any
person may apply for leave to intervene in the proceedings, and the court may
make an order entitling that person to intervene in the proceedings.
  (2) An order under this section may be made upon such conditions as the
court thinks fit.
  (3) Where a person intervenes in any proceedings by leave of the court he
shall, unless the court otherwise orders, be deemed to be a party to the
proceedings with all the rights, duties and liabilities of a party.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 93
No appeal after decree absolute.

  93. An appeal does not not lie from a decree of dissolution of marriage
after the decree has become absolute.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 94
Appeals from courts exercising original jurisdiction.

  94. (1) A person aggrieved by a decision of a Judge of the Supreme Court of
a State exercising jurisdiction under this Act or of the Family Court
exercising original jurisdiction under this Act or a Family Court established
under section 41 of this Act may, within the time prescribed by the
regulations, appeal from the decree to the Full Court of the Family Court.
  (2) Upon such an appeal, the Full Court may affirm, reverse or vary the
decree the subject of the appeal and may make such decree as, in the opinion
of the court, ought to have been made in the first instance, or may, if it
thinks fit, order a re-hearing, on such terms and conditions, if any, as it
thinks fit.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 95
Appeals to High Court.

  95. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Judiciary Act 1903-1973, an
appeal does not lie to the High Court from a judgment, decree or order of a
court exercising jurisdiction under this Act, whether original or appellate,
except-

  (a)  by special leave of the High Court; or

  (b)  upon a certificate of the Full Court of the Family Court that an
important question of law or of public interest is involved.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 96
Appeals from courts of summary jurisdiction.

  96. (1) A person aggrieved by the decree of a court of summary jurisdiction
of a State or Territory exercising jurisdiction under this Act may, within
such time as is prescribed, appeal to the Family Court or to the Supreme Court
of that State or Territory.
  (2) The Supreme Court of each State is invested with federal jurisdiction,
and jurisdiction is conferred on the Family Court and on the Supreme Court of
each Territory, to hear and determine appeals instituted in that Court under
this section.
  (3) The Governor-General may, by Proclamation, fix a date as the date on or
after which appeals to the Supreme Court of a specified State or Territory
under this section may not be instituted.
  (4) A court shall determine an appeal under this section in accordance
with-

  (a)  the law in force on the date on which the hearing of the appeal is
concluded; and

  (b)  the evidence that was before the court of summary jurisdiction and any
other evidence adduced with the leave of that court under sub-section (5).
  (5) On the hearing of an appeal to which this section applies a party is not
entitled to adduce evidence except with the leave of the court-

  (a)  granted on the ground that the evidence relates to matters that
occurred after the hearing of the proceedings in the court of summary
jurisdiction; or

  (b)  granted in special circumstances on another ground.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 97
Procedure.

  97. (1) Subject to sub-section (2) and to the regulations, all proceedings
in the Family Court, or in another court when exercising jurisdiction under
this Act, shall be heard in closed court.
  (2) Subject to the regulations, relatives or friends of either party,
marriage counsellors, welfare officers and legal practitioners may be present
in court unless in a particular case the court otherwise orders.
  (3) In proceedings under this Act, the court shall proceed without undue
formality and shall endeavour to ensure that the proceedings are not
protracted. 
  (4) Neither the Judge hearing proceedings under this Act nor counsel shall
robe.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 98
Evidence by affidavit.

  98. The regulations may provide for evidence of any material matter to be
given on affidavit at the hearing of-

  (a)  proceedings for principal relief that are undefended at the time of
hearing; and

  (b)  proceedings other than proceedings for principal relief.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 99
Evidence as to paternity.

  99. Where the paternity of a child is a question in issue in proceedings
under this Act, the court may make an order requiring either party to the
marriage or any other person to give such evidence as is material to the
question.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 100
Evidence of husbands and wives

  100. (1) The parties to proceedings under this Act are competent and
compellable witnesses.
  (2) In the proceedings under this Act, the parties to a marriage are
competent and compellable to disclose communications made between them during
the marriage.
  (3) Sub-section (2) applies to communications made before, as well as to
communications made after, the date of commencement of this Act.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 101
Offensive or scandalous questions

  101. The court shall forbid the asking of, or excuse a witness from
answering, a question that it regards as offensive, scandalous, insulting or
humiliating, unless the court is satisfied that it is essential in the
interests of justice that the question be answered.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 102
Proof of birth, death or marriage

  102. In proceedings under this Act, the court may receive as evidence of the
facts stated in it a document purporting to be either the original or a
certified copy of a certificate, entry or record of a birth, death or marriage
alleged to have taken place whether in Australia or elsewhere.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 103
Decrees under this Act

  103. A decree under this Act has effect throughout Australia and the
external Territories other than Papua New Guinea.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 104
Overseas decrees

  104. (1) In this section-

  ''applicant'', in relation to the dissolution or annulment of a marriage,
means the party at whose instance the dissolution or annulment was effected;

  ''marriage'' includes a purported marriage that is void;

  ''overseas country'' means a country, or part of a country, outside
Australia; 

  ''relevant date'', in relation to a dissolution or annulment of a marriage,
means the date of the institution of the proceedings that resulted in the
dissolution or annulment;

  ''respondent'', in relation to the dissolution or annulment of a marriage,
means a party to the marriage not being the party at whose instance the
dissolution or annulment was effected.
  (2) For the purposes of this section, a person who is a national of a
country of which an overseas country forms part shall be deemed to be a
national of that overseas country.
  (3) A dissolution or annulment of a marriage effected in accordance with the
law of an overseas country shall be recognized as valid in Australia where-

  (a)  the respondent was ordinarily resident in the overseas country at the
relevant date;

  (b)  the applicant was ordinarily resident in the overseas country at the
relevant date and either-

      (i)  the ordinary residence of the applicant had continued for not less
than 1 year immediately before the relevant date; or

     (ii)  the last place of cohabitation of the parties to the marriage was
in that country;

  (c)  the applicant or the respondent was domiciled in the overseas country
at the relevant date;

  (d)  the respondent was a national of the overseas country at the relevant
date;

  (e)  the applicant was a national of the overseas country at the relevant
date and either-

      (i)  the applicant was ordinarily resident in that country at that date;
or

     (ii)  the applicant had been ordinarily resident in that country for a
continuous period of 1 year falling, at least in part, within the 2 years
immediately before the relevant date; or

  (f)  the applicant was a national of, and present in, the overseas country
at the relevant date and the last place of cohabitation of the parties to the
marriage was in an overseas country the law of which, at the relevant date,
did not provide for dissolution of marriage or annulment of marriage, as the
case may be.
  (4) A dissolution or annulment of a marriage shall not be recognized as
valid by virtue of sub-section (3) where-

  (a)  under the common law rules of private international law, recognition of
its validity would be refused on the ground that a party to the marriage had
been denied natural justice or that the dissolution or annulment was obtained
by fraud; or

  (b)  recognition would manifestly be contrary to public policy.
  (5) Any dissolution or annulment of a marriage that would be recognized as
valid under the common law rules of private international law but to which
none of the preceding provisions of this section applies shall be recognized
as valid in Australia, and the operation of this sub-section shall not be
limited by any implication from those provisions.
  (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, the annulment in
accordance with the law of an overseas country of a marriage solemnized under
Part V of the Marriage Act 1961 or of that Act as amended, being an annulment
on the ground only of non-compliance with the formalities prescribed by the
law of the country in which the marriage was solemnized, shall not be
recognized as valid in Australia.
  (7) For the purposes of this section, a court in Australia, in considering
the validity of a dissolution or annulment effected under the law of an
overseas country, may treat as proved any facts found by a court of the
overseas country or otherwise established for the purposes of the law of the
overseas country.
  (8) For the purposes of the preceding provisions of this section but without
limiting the operation of those provisions, a dissolution or annulment of a
marriage shall be deemed to have been effected in accordance with the law of
an overseas country if it was effected in another overseas country in
circumstances in which, at the relevant date, it would have been recognized as
valid by the law of the first-mentioned overseas country.
  (9) Where a dissolution or annulment of a marriage is to be recognized as
valid in accordance with this section, the capacity of a party to that
marriage to re-marry in accordance with the law of Australia is not affected
by the fact that the validity of the dissolution or annulment is not
recognized under the law of some other country.
  (10) The preceding provisions of this section apply in relation to
dissolutions and annulments effected whether by decree, legislation or
otherwise, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, and, for the
purposes of this section, any decree, legislation or other process by which it
is established that a purported marriage was or is to become void shall be
deemed to be an annulment of the marriage.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975- SECT 105
Enforcement generally.

                      PART  XIII-ENFORCEMENT  OF  DECREES
  105. (1) Subject to this Part and to the regulations, all decrees made under
this Act may be enforced by any court having jurisdiction under this Act.
  (2) A court shall not entertain a proceeding under this Act for the
enforcement of a decree made by another court unless the decree is registered
in the first-mentioned court in accordance with the regulations.
  (3) Where a person bound by a decree made under this Act has died, the
decree may, by leave of the court by which it was made and on such terms and
conditions as the court thinks fit, be enforced, in respect of liabilities
that arose under the decree before the death of that person, against the
estate of that person.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975- SECT 106
Methods of enforcement.

  106. The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the
enforcement of decrees made under this Act including-

  (a)  provision for conferring jurisdiction on courts of the Territories or
investing State courts with federal jurisdiction; and

  (b)  in the case of a decree being a maintenance order under Part
VIII-provision for an officer of a court exercising jurisdiction under this
Act or an authority or person specified in the regulations, in his discretion,
to take proceedings on behalf of the person entitled to moneys payable under
that order for the purpose of enforcing payment of those moneys.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975- SECT 107
Persons in prison at commencement of Act.

  107. (1) After the commencement of this Act, no person shall be imprisoned
or otherwise placed in custody by reason of contravention of, or failure to
comply with, an order for the payment of money made in a matrimonial cause and
any person who is in a prison or other custody at the commencement of this Act
as a result of contravention of, or failure to comply with, such an order
shall be released forthwith.
  (2) The release from prison or other custody under sub-section (1) of a
person who was in that prison or custody by reason of failure to pay any
moneys does not release the person from any liability to pay those moneys.
  (3) This section does not affect the operation of sub-section 70 (6) or
sub-section 114 (4).

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975- SECT 108
Contempt.

  108. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a court having
jurisdiction under this Act may punish persons for contempt in the face of the
court when exercising that jurisdiction or for wilful disobedience of any
decree made by the court in the exercise of jurisdiction under this Act.
  (2) The regulations may provide for practice and procedure as to charging
with contempt and the hearing of the charge.
  (3) Where a person in contempt is not a corporation, the court may punish
the contempt by committal to prison or fine or both.
  (4) Where a corporation is in contempt, the court may punish the contempt by
sequestration or fine or both.
  (5) The court may make an order for-

  (a)  punishment on terms;

  (b)  suspension of punishment; or

  (c)  the giving of security for good behaviour.
  (6) Where a person is committed to prison for a term for contempt, the court
may order his discharge before the expiry of that term.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975- SECT 109
Inter-State enforcement of affiliation and like orders.

  109. (1) This section applies to an order for the payment of-

  (a)  the expenses of maintaining, for a period immediately before her
confinement or expected confinement, a woman who has been, or is expected to
be, confined for the purposes of childbirth;

  (b)  medical, surgical, hospital or nursing expenses in respect of the
confinement of such a woman;

  (c)  the expenses of maintaining such a woman for a period immediately
following her confinement;

  (d)  the expenses of maintaining a woman who is expecting a child, where the
order was made by reason that she was expecting the child;

  (e)  an amount in respect of the maintenance of an ex-nuptial child who has
not attained the age of 18 years where the order was made on the basis that
the person against whom the order was made is a parent of the child;

  (f)  funeral expenses in respect of an ex-nuptial child, where the order was
made on the basis that the person against whom the order was made is a parent
of the child;

  (g)  funeral expenses in respect of the mother of an ex-nuptial child, where
the order was made on the basis that the person against whom the order was
made is the father of the child; or

  (h)  medical, surgical, hospital or nursing expenses in respect of a person,
where the order was made by reason that an order for the payment of expenses
referred to in a preceding paragraph has been made in relation to that
person.
  (2) The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the
enforcement in a State or Territory by a court having jurisdiction under this
Act of orders to which this section applies made by a court in another State
or Territory.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975- SECT 110
Overseas enforcement of maintenance orders.

  110. (1) In this section-

  ''country with restricted reciprocity'' means a country outside Australia
declared by the regulations to be a country with restricted reciprocity for
the purposes of this section;

  ''maintenance order'' means an order with respect to the maintenance of a
party to a marriage or of a child of a marriage who has not attained the age
of 18 years or, to the extent provided by the regulations, an order of the
kind referred to in section 109;

  ''reciprocating country'' means a country outside Australia declared by the
regulations to be a reciprocating country for the purposes of this section.
  (2) The regulations may make provision for and in relation to-

  (a)  the registration in, and enforcement by, courts having jurisdiction
under this Act of maintenance orders made by courts of reciprocating countries
or of countries with restricted reciprocity;

  (b)  the transmission to appropriate courts or authorities of reciprocating
countries or of countries with restricted reciprocity of maintenance orders
made by courts having jurisdiction under this Act for the purpose of securing
the enforcement of those orders in those countries;

  (c)  the making of orders (including provisional orders) for the variation,
discharge, suspension or revival of maintenance orders registered in
accordance with regulations under this section or transmitted to other
countries in accordance with regulations under this section, and the effect in
Australia of orders under this paragraph; and

  (d)  the making of orders for the confirmation of provisional orders made by
courts in reciprocating countries or in countries with restricted reciprocity,
being provisional maintenance orders or provisional orders varying,
discharging, suspending or reviving maintenance orders, and the effect in
Australia of orders under this paragraph.
  (3) The regulations may make different provision under this section in
relation to reciprocating countries from the provision made in relation to
countries with restricted reciprocity.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975- SECT 111
Convention on Recovery Abroad of Maintenance.

  111. The regulations may make such provision as is necessary to enable the
performance of the obligations of Australia under the Convention on the
Recovery Abroad of Maintenance signed at New York on 20 June 1956 but any such
regulations shall not come into operation until the day on which that
Convention enters into force for Australia.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975- SECT 112
Arrangements with States.

  112. The Government of Australia may make arrangements with the Government
of a State for the performance by officers of the State of functions under the
regulations.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975- SECT 113
Proceedings for declarations.

                    PART  XIV-DECLARATIONS  AND  INJUNCTIONS
  113. In proceedings of the kind referred to in paragraph (b) of the
definition of ''matrimonial cause'' in sub-section 4 (1), the court may make
such declaration as is justified.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 114
Injunctions.

  114. (1) In proceedings of the kind referred to in paragraph (e) of the
definition of ''matrimonial cause'' in sub-section 4 (1), the court may make
such order or grant such injunction as it thinks proper with respect to the
matter to which the proceedings relate, including an injunction for the
personal protection of a party to the marriage or of a child of the marriage
or for the protection of the marital relationship or in relation to the
property of a party to the marriage or relating to the use or occupancy of the
matrimonial home.
  (2) In exercising its powers under sub-section (1), the court may make an
order relieving a party to a marriage from any obligation to perform marital
services or render conjugal rights.
  (3) A court exercising jurisdiction under this Act in proceedings other than
proceedings to which sub-section (1) applies may grant an injunction, by
interlocutory order or otherwise (including an injunction in aid of the
enforcement of a decree), in any case in which it appears to the court to be
just or convenient to do so and either unconditionally or upon such terms and
conditions as the court thinks appropriate.
  (4) If a court having jurisdiction under this Act is satisfied that a person
has knowingly and without reasonable cause contravened or failed to comply
with an injunction or order under this section, that court may-

  (a)  order that person to pay a fine not exceeding $1,000;

  (b)  require that person to enter into a recognizance, with or without
sureties, in such reasonable amount as the court thinks fit, that he will
comply with the injunction or order, or order him to be imprisoned until he
enters into such a recognizance or until the expiration of 3 months, whichever
first occurs; 

  (c)  order that person to deliver up to the court such documents as the
court thinks fit; and

  (d)  make such other orders as the court considers necessary to enforce
compliance with the injunction or order.
  (5) Sub-section (4) does not prejudice the power of a court to punish a
person for contempt of court.
  (6) Where an act or omission referred to in sub-section (4) is an offence
against any other law, the person committing the offence may be prosecuted and
convicted under that law, but nothing in this section renders any person
liable to be punished twice in respect of the same offence.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 115
Family Law Council.

                             PART  XV-MISCELLANEOUS
  115. (1) The Attorney-General may establish a Family Law Council consisting
of persons appointed by him in accordance with sub- section (2).
  (2) The Council shall consist of a Judge of the Family Court and such other
judges, officers of the Public Service of Australia or of a State,
representatives of marriage counselling organizations and other persons as the
Attorney-General thinks fit.
  (3) It is the function of the Council to advise and make recommendations to
the Attorney-General, either of its own motion or upon request made to it by
the Attorney-General, concerning-

  (a)  the working of this Act and other legislation relating to family law;

  (b)  the working of legal aid in proceedings in family law; and

  (c)  any other matters relating to family law.
  (4) The Attorney-General shall appoint one of its members to be Chairman of
the Council.
  (5) The members of the Council shall be paid such allowances in respect of
expenses in connexion with their duties as are prescribed.
  (6) A member (including the Chairman) may resign his office by writing
signed by him and delivered to the Attorney-General.
  (7) Meetings of the Council shall be convened by the Chairman or the
Attorney-General.
  (8) The Council shall cause records to be kept of its meetings.
  (9) The Council shall, within 60 days after each year ending on 30 June,
furnish to the Attorney-General, for presentation to the Parliament, a report
with respect to its operations in that year.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 116
Institute of Family Studies.

  116. (1) There is established by this Act an Institute by the name of the
Institute of Family Studies.
  (2) The Institute shall consist of-

  (a)  a Director; and

  (b)  4 or more other members,
each of whom shall be appointed by the Attorney-General.
  (3) The functions of the Institute are-

  (a)  to promote, by the encouragement and co-ordination of research and
other appropriate means, the identification of, and development of
understanding of, the factors affecting marital and family stability in
Australia, with the object of promoting the protection of the family as the
natural and fundamental group unit in society; and

  (b)  to advise and assist the Attorney-General in relation to the making of
grants, out of moneys available under appropriations made by the Parliament,
for purposes related to the functions of the Institute and the supervising of
the employment of grants so made.
  (4) The regulations may prescribe any matters that are necessary or
convenient to be prescribed in connexion with the conduct of the affairs of
the Institute, including matters relating to the conduct of the meetings of
the Institute, and, subject to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1974,
payment of remuneration and allowances to the Director or other members of the
Institute.
  (5) The Director may, on behalf of Australia and with the approval of the
Attorney-General, employ persons as members of the staff of the Institute and
engage persons to assist the Institute as consultants or otherwise.
  (6) The terms and conditions of employment or engagement of persons under
this section are such as are from time to time determined by the Director with
the approval of the Attorney-General.
  (7) Where a member of the staff of the Institute was, immediately before his
appointment, an officer of the Australian Public Service or a person to whom
the Officers' Rights Declaration Act 1928-1975 applied-

  (a)  he retains his existing and accruing rights;

  (b)  for the purpose of determining those rights, his service as a member of
the staff of the Institute shall be taken into account as if it were service
in the Australian Public Service; and

  (c)  the Officers' Rights Declaration Act 1928-1975 applies as if this Act
and this section had been specified in the Schedule to that Act.
  (8) This section has effect notwithstanding the Public Service Act 1922-1975
but subject to any other Act relating to persons employed by Australia.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 117
Costs.

  117. (1) Subject to sub-section (2) and section 118, each party to
proceedings under this Act shall bear his own costs.
  (2) If the court is of opinion in a particular case that there are
circumstances that justify it in doing so, the court may, subject to the
regulations, make such orders as to costs and security for costs, whether by
way of interlocutory order or otherwise, as the court thinks just.
  (3) A person who has instituted a matrimonial cause or a person who is
entitled to participate in proceedings either as a respondent or intervener
may apply to the Australian Legal Aid Office for legal assistance under this
section in respect of the proceedings.
  (4) Where an application is made by a person under sub-section (3), the
Attorney-General, the Director of the Australian Legal Aid Office or a person
employed in the Australian Legal Aid Office authorized by the Director in
writing in that behalf may (in the case of a person employed in the Australian
Legal Aid Office, subject to any restriction in that authority in writing)
authorize legal assistance to the applicant in accordance with the means and
needs test of the Australian Legal Aid Office for the giving of legal
assistance.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 118
Frivolous or vexatious proceedings.

  118. The court may, at any stage of proceedings under this Act, if it is
satisfied that the proceedings are frivolous or vexatious, dismiss the
proceedings and make such orders as to costs as it thinks just.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 119
Married persons may sue each other.

  119. Either party to a marriage may bring proceedings in contract or in tort
against the other party.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 120
Criminial conversation, adultery and enticement.

  120. After the commencement of this Act, no action lies for criminal
conversation, damages for adultery, or for enticement of a party to a
marriage. 

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 121
Restriction on publication of evidence.

  121. (1) A person shall not print or publish-

  (a)  any statement or report that proceedings have been instituted in the
Family Court or in another court exercising jurisdiction under this Act; or

  (b)  any account of evidence in proceedings instituted in the Family Court
or in another court having jurisdiction under this Act, or any other account
or particulars of any such proceedings.
  (2) A person who contravenes sub-section (1) is guilty of an offence
punishable, on conviction-

  (a)  in the case of a first offence, or a second or subsequent offence
prosecuted summarily-by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or imprisonment for a
period not exceeding 6 months; and

  (b)  in the case of a second or subsequent offence, being an offence
prosecuted on indictment-by a fine not exceeding $2,000 or imprisonment for a
period not exceeding 1 year.
  (3) Any offence against this section may be prosecuted summarily, and a
second or subsequent offence by a person against this section may be
prosecuted summarily or on indictment.
  (4) Proceedings for an offence against this section shall not be commenced
except by, or with the written consent of, the Attorney-General.
  (5) The preceding provisions of this section do not apply to or in relation
to-

  (a)  the printing of any pleading, transcript of evidence or other document
for use in connexion with proceedings in any court or the communication of any
such document to persons concerned in the proceedings;

  (b)  the printing or publishing of a notice or report in pursuance of the
direction of a court;

  (c)  the printing or publishing of law court lists; or

  (d)  the printing or publishing of any publication bona fide intended
primarily for the use of members of the legal or medical profession, being-

      (i)  a separate volume or part of a series of law reports; or

     (ii)  any other publication of a technical character.
  (6) In this section, ''court'' includes an officer of a court investigating
a matter in accordance with the regulations.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 122
Rights of legal practitioners.

  122. A person who is, under Part VIIIA of the Judiciary Act 1903-1973,
entitled to practise in any federal court as a barrister or solicitor, or as
both, has the like right to practice in any State court exercising
jurisdiction under this Act.

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
- SECT 123
Regulations.

  123. (1) The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with
this Act, prescribing all matters that are required or permitted by this Act
to be prescribed or are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying
out or giving effect to this Act.
  (2) The regulations may make provision for or in relation to the practice
and procedure to be followed in the Family Court and in other courts
exercising jurisdiction under this Act, and for or in relation to all matters
and things incidental to any such practice or procedure, or necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for the conduct of any business in those courts.
  (3) Without limiting the generality of sub-section (2), the regulations may
make provision for or in relation to-

  (a)  the attendance of witnesses;

  (b)  providing for the manner of service of process of the Family Court or
another court exercising jurisdiction under this Act, and for dispensing with
such service;

  (c)  the enforcement and execution of the judgments of the Family Court and
other courts exercising jurisdiction under this Act;

  (d)  the time and manner of institution of appeals in and to the Family
Court; 

  (e)  the duties of officers of the Family Court;

  (f)  subject to the Constitution, authorizing an officer of the Family Court
or of another court exercising jurisdiction under this Act to perform and
exercise powers and functions, on behalf of the court or otherwise, in
relation to proceedings instituted in the Family Court or proceedings under
this Act, and enabling the Court concerned to review the decision of that
officer in relation to the performance or exercise of any function or power;

  (g)  the seals and stamps to be used in the Family Court and in courts
having jurisdiction under this Act;

  (h)  prescribing matters relating to the costs of proceedings and the
assessment or taxation of those costs;

   (i)  authorizing a court to refer to an officer of the Court for
investigation, report and recommendation claims or applications for or
relating to any matters before the court;

   (j)  authorizing an officer making an investigation referred to in
paragraph (i) to take evidence on oath or affirmation, and to obtain and
receive in evidence a report from a welfare officer, and enabling the
summoning of witnesses before an officer making such an investigation for the
purpose of giving evidence or producing books and documents;

  (k)  regulating the procedure of a court upon receiving a report of an
officer who has made an investigation referred to in paragraph (i);

   (l)  prescribing matters incidental to the matters specified in the
preceding paragraphs of this section;

  (m)  prescribing penalties not exceeding $500 for offences against the
regulations.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-- 

FAMILY LAW ACT 1975 No. 53 of 1975
 - NOTES

                                      NOTE

1.  Act No. 53, 1975; assented to 12 June 1975.
