FIRST HOME OWNER GRANT AND OTHER HOME OWNER GRANTS ACT 2000 - As at 1 August
2025 - Act 14 of 2000
 
TABLE OF PROVISIONS

**** TABLE OF PROVISIONS ****

PART 1 - PRELIMINARY
      1.  Short title

      2.  Commencement

PART 2 - INTERPRETATION
Division 1 - General
      3.  Definitions

Division 2 - Basic concepts for first home owner grants
     3A.  Application of division

      4.  Meaning of eligibility criteria

      5.  Meaning of eligible transaction

      6.  Meaning of home and new home

      7.  Meaning of home owner or owner of a home

      8.  Meaning of relevant interest

     8A.  Meaning of unencumbered value

      9.  Meaning of spouse

PART 3 - FIRST HOME OWNER GRANTS
Division 1A - Preliminary
     9A.  Application of part

Division 1 - Entitlement to grant
     10.  When grant is payable

Division 2 - Eligibility criteria—applicants
     11.  Criterion 1—Applicant to be a natural person and at least 18 years
of age

     12.  Criterion 2—Applicant to be Australian citizen or permanent
resident

     13.  Criterion 3—Applicant or applicant’s spouse must not have
received an earlier grant

     14.  Criterion 4—Applicant or applicant’s spouse must not have had
relevant interest in residential property

     15.  Criterion 5—Residence requirements

Division 3 - Application for grant
     16.  Application for grant

     17.  All interested persons to join in application

     18.  Application on behalf of person under legal disability

Division 4 - Decision on application
     19.  Commissioner to decide applications

     20.  Amount of grant

     21.  Payment of grant

     22.  Payment in anticipation of compliance with residence requirements

    22A.  Repayment of grant after completion of particular transactions

     23.  Conditions generally

     24.  Death of applicant

     25.  Notice of decision

Division 5 - Special and regional eligible transactions
   25AA.  Definitions for div 5

    25A.  (Repealed)

    25B.  Meaning of special eligible transaction for div 5

   25BA.  Meaning of regional eligible transaction for div 5

    25C.  Amount of grant

Division 6 - Particular eligible transactions—1 July 2016 to 30 June 2018
    25D.  Meaning of particular eligible transaction for div 6

    25E.  Amount of grant

Division 7 - Relevant eligible transactions—20 November 2023 to 30 June 2026
   25EA.  Meaning of relevant eligible transaction

   25EB.  Amount of grant

PART 3A - REGIONAL HOME BUILDING BOOST GRANTS
Division 1 - Preliminary
    25F.  Application of part

    25G.  Commissioner’s functions and powers

Division 2 - Entitlement to grant
    25H.  Application for grant and when grant is payable

Division 3 - Decision on application
    25I.  Commissioner to decide applications

    25J.  Amount of grant

    25K.  Payment of grant

    25L.  Conditions

    25M.  Notice of decision

    25N.  Investigations and enforcement

PART 3B - HOME BUILDER GRANTS
Division 1 - Preliminary
    25O.  Application of part

    25P.  Commissioner’s functions and powers

Division 2 - Entitlement to grant
    25Q.  Application for grant and when grant is payable

Division 3 - Decision on application
    25R.  Commissioner to decide applications

    25S.  Amount of grant

    25T.  Payment of grant

    25U.  Conditions

    25V.  Notice of decision

    25W.  Investigations and enforcement

PART 4 - AUTHORISED OFFICERS, INVESTIGATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
Division 1 - Authorised officers
     26.  Appointment

     27.  Limitation of authorised officer’s powers

     28.  Authorised officer’s appointment conditions

     29.  Authorised officer’s identity card

     30.  Production or display of authorised officer’s identity card

Division 2 - Investigations
Subdivision 1 - Cross-border investigations
     31.  Commissioner may carry out investigations under corresponding laws

Subdivision 2 - General powers on investigations
     32.  Powers on investigation

Subdivision 3 - Entry of places
     33.  Authorised officer’s power to enter places

     34.  Entry with consent

     35.  Application for warrant

     36.  Issue of warrant

     37.  Special warrants

     38.  Warrants—procedure before entry

Subdivision 4 - Powers of authorised officers on entry to places
     39.  General powers for places

Subdivision 5 - General enforcement matters
     40.  Notice of damage

     41.  Compensation

     42.  False or misleading documents

     43.  False or misleading statements

     44.  Obstruction of authorised officers

     45.  Impersonation of authorised officer

     46.  Access to particular records without fee

Division 3 - Repayments and penalties
     47.  Commissioner may require repayment and impose penalty

     48.  Recovery of amount paid in error etc.

     49.  Charge over land

    49A.  Collection of amounts from a garnishee

    49B.  Duration of garnishee notice

    49C.  Effect of discharge of debt on garnishee notice

    49D.  Effect of payment by garnishee

     50.  Effect of writing off liability

     51.  Penalty amounts to be alternative to prosecution

    51A.  Court may order repayment etc.

Division 4 - Legal proceedings
     52.  Statements in complaint

     53.  Evidentiary certificates

     54.  Summary proceedings for offences

     55.  When proceedings must start

PART 5 - OBJECTIONS AND REVIEWS
Division 1 - Objections
     56.  Lodging objection

     57.  Deciding objection

     58.  Notice of decision

Division 2 - Review of decision on objections
     59.  Right of review by QCAT

     60.  QCAT to decide review on evidence before the commissioner

     61.  Representation of parties before QCAT

     62.  (Repealed)

     63.  (Repealed)

     64.  (Repealed)

PART 6 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
     65.  Delegations

     66.  Administration agreements

     67.  Protection from liability

     68.  Offence to disclose confidential information

     69.  Use of information obtained under taxation laws

    69A.  Disqualifying arrangements for first home owner grants

    69B.  Valuation or evidence of value of property

     70.  Approved forms

    70A.  Commissioner may arrange for use of an approved information system to
make particular decisions

     71.  Regulation-making power

PART 7 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR FIRST HOME OWNER GRANT AMENDMENT ACT 2003
     72.  Continuing operation of Act for particular eligible transactions

PART 8 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR REVENUE AND OTHER LEGISLATION AMENDMENT
ACT (NO. 2) 2008
     73.  Continuing operation of Act for particular eligible transactions

     74.  Transitional provision for particular approved form

PART 9 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR REVENUE AND OTHER LEGISLATION AMENDMENT
ACT 2010
     75.  Definition for pt 9

     76.  Continuing operation of pre-amended s 5

     77.  Charge mentioned in s 49

PART 10 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISION FOR REVENUE AND OTHER LEGISLATION AMENDMENT
ACT 2011
     78.  Continuing operation of pre-amended s 55

PART 11 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR FISCAL REPAIR AMENDMENT ACT 2012
     79.  Continuing operation of Act for eligible transactions with
commencement date before 12 September 2012

     80.  Application of s 20(1)(b) to particular contracts

     81.  Continuing operation of Act for particular eligible transactions with
commencement date earlier than 11 October 2012

PART 12 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISION FOR PAYROLL TAX REBATE, REVENUE AND OTHER
LEGISLATION AMENDMENT ACT 2015
     82.  Application of s 15

PART 13 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR ROYALTY LEGISLATION AMENDMENT ACT 2020
     83.  Application of Act for pre-commencement applications and relevant
decisions

     84.  Protection from liability for particular officials

     85.  Application of s 68 to particular information

     86.  References to First Home Owner Grant Act 2000

PART 14 - VALIDATION PROVISION FOR REVENUE AND OTHER LEGISLATION AMENDMENT ACT
2024
     87.  Applications made before commencement that relate to relevant
eligible transactions

SCHEDULE - Dictionary

 
- LONG TITLE
An Act to encourage and help home ownership, and to offset the effect of the
GST on home ownership, by establishing a scheme for the payment of grants to
first home owners, and to provide for a scheme for the payment of other
particular grants to home owners
 
Short title
*** 1 Short title ***
This Act may be cited as the First Home Owner Grant and Other Home Owner Grants
Act 2000.
 
Commencement
*** 2 Commencement ***
This Act commences on 1 July 2000.
 
Definitions
*** 3 Definitions ***
The dictionary in the schedule defines particular words used in this Act.
 
Application of division
*** 3A Application of division ***
This division applies in relation to first home owner grants.
 
Meaning of eligibility criteria
*** 4 Meaning of eligibility criteria ***
The
"eligibility criteria" are the criteria, under part 3, division 2, for deciding
whether an applicant for a first home owner grant is eligible for the grant.
 
Meaning of eligible transaction
*** 5 Meaning of eligible transaction ***
     (1) An
     "eligible transaction" is—
          (a) a contract made on or after 1 July 2000 for the
          purchase of a new home in the State; or
          (b) a comprehensive home building contract made by the
          owner of land in the State, or a person who will on
          completion of the contract be the owner of land in the
          State, to have a new home built on the land, if the
          contract is made on or after 1 July 2000; or
          (c) the building of a new home in the State by an owner
          builder if the building work starts on or after 1 July
          2000.
     (2) Also, each of the following is an
     "eligible transaction" —
          (a) a contract made on or after 1 July 2000 but before 11
          October 2012 for the purchase of a home, other than a new
          home, in the State;
          (b) a comprehensive home building contract made by the
          owner of land in the State, or a person who will on
          completion of the contract be the owner of land in the
          State, to have a home, other than a new home, built on the
          land, if the contract is made on or after 1 July 2000 but
          before 11 October 2012;
          (c) the building of a home, other than a new home, in the
          State by an owner builder if the building work starts on or
          after 1 July 2000 but before 11 October 2012.
     (3) For subsections (1) (a) and (2) (a), a contract is a contract for
     the purchase of a new home or other home if the contract is a
     contract for the acquisition of a relevant interest in land—
          (a) on which a new home or other home is built; or
          (b) on which a new home or other home is to be built,
          before completion of the contract, by or for the vendor and
          at the expense of the vendor.
     (4) However, a contract is not an eligible transaction if the
     commissioner is satisfied it forms part of a scheme to circumvent
     limitations on, or requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement
     to a first home owner grant.
     (5) Unless satisfied to the contrary, the commissioner must presume
     the existence of a scheme mentioned in subsection (4) if—
          (a) for a contract to purchase a new home or other
          home—the purchaser had an option to purchase the home
          granted before 1 July 2000 or the vendor had an option to
          require the purchaser to purchase the home granted before
          that date; or
          (b) for a comprehensive home building contract—either
          party had a right or option granted before 1 July 2000 to
          require the other to enter into the contract.
     (6) Also, a transaction is not an eligible transaction if the
     consideration for the transaction is $750,000 or more.
     (7) Also, a contract mentioned in subsection (1) (a) or (2) (a) is
     not an eligible transaction if the total of the following—
          (a) the unencumbered value of the new home or other home;
          (b) the unencumbered value of the relevant interest in the
          land, on which the new home or other home is built or to be
          built, at the commencement date for the contract;
     is $750,000 or more.
     (8) Also, a contract mentioned in subsection (1) (b) or (2) (b) to
     have a new home or other home built on land is not an eligible
     transaction if the total of the following—
          (a) the consideration for the transaction;
          (b) the unencumbered value of the land at the commencement
          date for the contract;
     is $750,000 or more.
     (9) Also, a transaction mentioned in subsection (1) (c) or (2) (c) is
     not an eligible transaction if the total of the following—
          (a) the consideration for the transaction;
          (b) the unencumbered value of the land, on which the new
          home or other home is to be built, at the commencement date
          for the transaction;
     is $750,000 or more.
 
Meaning of home and new home
*** 6 Meaning of home and new home ***
     (1) A
     "home" is a building, fixed to land, that—
          (a) may lawfully be used as a place of residence; and
          (b) is a suitable building for use as a place of residence.
     (2) A
     "new home" is a home that—
          (a) has not been previously occupied or sold as a place of
          residence; or
          (b) is a substantially renovated home.
     (3) For subsection (2) (b), a home is a substantially renovated home
     if—
          (a) the home is the subject of a contract for the purchase
          of the home; and
          (b) the sale of the home under the contract is, under the A
          New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cwlth), a
          taxable supply as a sale of new residential premises as
          defined under section 40 -75(1)(b) of that Act; and
          (c) the home, as renovated, has not been previously
          occupied or sold as a place of residence.
 
Meaning of home owner or owner of a home
*** 7 Meaning of home owner or owner of a home ***
A person is a
"home owner" or
"owner" of a home if the person has a relevant interest in the land on which
the home is built.
 
Meaning of relevant interest
*** 8 Meaning of relevant interest ***
     (1) A
     "relevant interest" in land is—
          (a) an estate in fee simple in the land; or
          (b) a life estate in the land; or
          (c) a perpetual lease of the land granted by the
          Commonwealth or the State; or
          (d) a leasehold interest in the land granted by the
          Commonwealth or the State that may be converted into an
          estate in fee simple under the terms of the lease or the
          Act under which the lease is granted; or
          (e) a term lease for pastoral purposes granted under the
          Land Act 1994; or
          (f) an interest as purchaser under—
               (i) a contract for the purchase from the
               Commonwealth or the State, or any Commonwealth or
               State instrumentality or authority, of an estate
               in fee simple in the land by instalments; or
               (ii) an instalment contract under the Property
               Law Act 2023, section 89, for the purchase of an
               estate in fee simple in the land; or
          (g) a licence or right of occupancy granted by the
          Commonwealth or the State, or any Commonwealth or State
          instrumentality or authority, that gives, in the
          commissioner’s opinion, the licensee or the holder of the
          right reasonable security of tenure; or
          (h) an interest in a company’s shares if the commissioner
          is satisfied that—
               (i) the interest entitles the holder of the
               interest to exclusive occupation of a specified
               home owned by the company; and
               (ii) the home was built before the holder of the
               interest acquired the interest or entered into an
               agreement to acquire the interest; and
               (iii) the value of the shares is not less than
               the value of the company’s interest in the
               home; or
          (i) another interest declared by regulation to be a
          relevant interest.
               Note—
                    Also, see the schedule, definition
                    "residential property" and section 14.
     (2) However—
          (a) an interest is not a relevant interest at a particular
          time unless the holder of the interest has, or will have
          within 1 year after that time, a right to immediate
          occupation of the land; and
          (b) an interest is not a relevant interest in the hands of
          a person who holds it subject to a trust.
     (3) A regulation under subsection (1) (i) may declare an interest to
     be a relevant interest in land even though the interest may not be
     recognised at law or in equity as an interest in land.
     (4) If a person holds an interest in land on trust as guardian for a
     person under a legal disability and the interest would be a relevant
     interest if it were not for subsection (2) (b) —
          (a) the person under the legal disability is taken to be
          the person who holds a relevant interest in the land; and
          (b) the guardian is taken not to hold the interest.
 
Meaning of unencumbered value
*** 8A Meaning of unencumbered value ***
     (1) The
     "unencumbered value" of property is the value of the property
     determined without regard to—
          (a) any encumbrance to which the property is subject,
          whether contingently or otherwise; or
          (b) any arrangement—
               (i) the parties to which are not dealing with
               each other at arm’s length; and
               (ii) that results in the reduction of the value
               of the property; or
          (c) any arrangement for which a significant purpose of any
          party to the arrangement was, in the commissioner’s
          opinion, the reduction of the value of the property.
     (2) Also, the
     "unencumbered value" of property held by a person on trust as
     guardian for another person who is under a legal disability must be
     determined without regard to the liabilities of the trust, including
     the liability to indemnify the trustee.
     (3) In this section—

     "property" means—
          (a) a home; or
          (b) land; or
          (c) a relevant interest in land.
 
Meaning of spouse
*** 9 Meaning of spouse ***
     (1) Subject to subsections (2) to (6), a
     "spouse" is a person who is—
          (a) married; or
          (b) a de facto partner; or
               Note—
                    See the Acts Interpretation Act 1954,
                    section 32DA.
     (c) a civil partner.
     (2) A person is a de facto partner of another person only if they are
     living together as a couple on a genuine domestic basis within the
     meaning of the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 32DA, and, for
     at least 2 years, have so lived together as a couple.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if the commissioner is satisfied, when
     deciding an application for a first home owner grant, that—
          (a) an applicant for the grant—
               (i) is married but is living apart from the
               person to whom the applicant is married; or
               (ii) is in a registered relationship but is
               living apart from the person with whom the
               applicant is in a civil partnership; and
          (b) the applicant and the person mentioned in paragraph (a)
          (i) or (ii) have no intention of again living together as a
          couple.
     (4) The person to whom the applicant is married, or with whom the
     applicant is in a civil partnership, must not be regarded as the
     applicant’s spouse.
     (5) Subsection (6) applies if the commissioner is satisfied, when
     deciding an application for a first home owner grant, an applicant
     for the grant—
          (a) is living apart from the person who, under this
          section, would otherwise be the applicant’s de facto
          partner; and
          (b) they intend to again live together as a couple on a
          genuine domestic basis within the meaning of the Acts
          Interpretation Act 1954, section 32DA.
     (6) The person must be regarded as the applicant’s spouse.
     (7) This section applies despite the Acts Interpretation Act 1954,
     section 32DA (6).
 
Application of part
*** 9A Application of part ***
This part applies in relation to first home owner grants.
 
When grant is payable
*** 10 When grant is payable ***
     (1) A first home owner grant is payable on an application under this
     Act if—
          (a) the applicant or, if there are 2 or more of them, each
          of the applicants complies with the eligibility criteria;
          and
          (b) the transaction for which the grant is sought—
               (i) is an eligible transaction; and
               (ii) has been completed.
               Note—
                    For authorisation of payment of the
                    grant before the completion of the
                    eligible transaction, see section 19
                    (2).
     (2) Despite subsection (1) (a), an applicant need not comply with the
     eligibility criteria to the extent the applicant is exempted from
     compliance under this Act.
     (3) Only 1 first home owner grant is payable for the same eligible
     transaction.
 
Criterion 1—Applicant to be a natural person and at least 18 years of age
*** 11 Criterion 1—Applicant to be a natural person and at least 18 years of
age ***
     (1) An applicant for a first home owner grant must be—
          (a) a natural person; and
          (b) at least 18 years of age at the commencement date for
          the eligible transaction.
     (2) The commissioner may exempt an applicant from the requirement in
     subsection (1) (b) if the commissioner is satisfied—
          (a) the applicant will comply with criterion 5 as applying
          to the applicant under section 15; and
          (b) the application does not form part of a scheme to
          circumvent limitations on, or requirements affecting,
          eligibility for or entitlement to a first home owner grant.
 
Criterion 2—Applicant to be Australian citizen or permanent resident
*** 12 Criterion 2—Applicant to be Australian citizen or permanent resident
***
     (1) Subject to subsection (2), an applicant for a first home owner
     grant must be an Australian citizen or a permanent resident.
     (2) If an application is made by joint applicants and 1 of the
     applicants is an Australian citizen or a permanent resident, it is
     not necessary for the other or others to be Australian citizens or
     permanent residents.
 
Criterion 3—Applicant or applicant’s spouse must not have received an
earlier grant
*** 13 Criterion 3—Applicant or applicant’s spouse must not have received
an earlier grant ***
     (1) An applicant is ineligible if—
          (a) the applicant or the applicant’s spouse has been a
          party to an earlier application under this Act or a
          corresponding law; and
          (b) a grant was paid on the application.
     (2) However, an applicant is not ineligible if—
          (a) the grant was later paid back; and
          (b) the basis for the repayment of the grant was a failure
          to satisfy section 10 (1); and
          (c) any penalty amount payable under section 47 was also
          paid in relation to the earlier application.
 
Criterion 4—Applicant or applicant’s spouse must not have had relevant
interest in residential property
*** 14 Criterion 4—Applicant or applicant’s spouse must not have had
relevant interest in residential property ***
     (1) An applicant is ineligible if the applicant or applicant’s
     spouse has, before 1 July 2000, held—
          (a) a relevant interest in residential property in
          Queensland; or
          (b) an interest in residential property in another State
          that is a relevant interest under a corresponding law of
          that State.
     (2) However, the applicant is not ineligible if—
          (a) the relevant interest is an interest as purchaser of an
          estate in fee simple in land under a contract mentioned in
          section 8 (1) (f); and
          (b) the contract was terminated within 1 year after the
          contract was entered into; and
          (c) the applicant or applicant’s spouse did not acquire
          an estate in fee simple in the land.
     (3) For subsection (1), in deciding whether an applicant held a
     relevant interest, under this Act or a corresponding law, in
     residential property at a particular time, any deferment of the
     applicant’s right of occupation, because the property was subject
     to a lease, must be disregarded.
     (4) An applicant is ineligible if the applicant or the applicant’s
     spouse has, on or after 1 July 2000 and before the date on which the
     application is made, held an interest in property (other than the
     property to which the application relates) used at any time on or
     after 1 July 2000 as the residence of the applicant or the
     applicant’s spouse, being—
          (a) a relevant interest in residential property in
          Queensland; or
          (b) an interest in residential property in another State
          that is a relevant interest under the corresponding law of
          that State.
     (5) However, for subsection (4), the applicant or the applicant’s
     spouse is taken not to have used the property as the residence of the
     applicant or the applicant’s spouse if—
          (a) the property was the subject of an earlier application
          under this Act by the applicant; and
          (b) a first home owner grant was paid under the earlier
          application; and
          (c) because of a failure to satisfy criterion 5 as applying
          to the applicant under section 15 in relation to the
          earlier application, the applicant repaid the grant.
 
Criterion 5—Residence requirements
*** 15 Criterion 5—Residence requirements ***
     (1) An applicant for a first home owner grant must occupy the home to
     which the application relates as the applicant’s principal place of
     residence for a continuous period of at least 6 months.
     (2) However, if the commissioner is satisfied there are good reasons
     to do so, the commissioner may—
          (a) approve a shorter period; or
          (b) exempt the applicant from the requirement to comply
          with subsection (1).
     (3) The period of occupation required under subsection (1), or the
     shorter period approved under subsection (2) (a), must start within 1
     year after completion of the eligible transaction or a longer period
     approved by the commissioner.
     (4) The commissioner may exempt an applicant from the residence
     requirement under subsection (3) if—
          (a) the applicant is 1 of 2 or more joint applicants for a
          first home owner grant; and
          (b) at least 1 of the applicants complies with the
          residence requirement; and
          (c) the commissioner is satisfied there are good reasons to
          exempt the applicant from the residence requirement.
     (5) The commissioner may give an approval or exemption under
     subsection (2), (3) or (4) at any time, even if the period to which
     the approval or exemption relates has ended.
 
Application for grant
*** 16 Application for grant ***
     (1) An application for a first home owner grant must be made to the
     commissioner or an agent of the commissioner.
     (2) The application must be—
          (a) in the approved form; and
          (b) supported by the information required by the
          commissioner.
     (3) The application may only be made within a period (the
     "application period")—
          (a) starting on the commencement date of the eligible
          transaction to which the application relates; and
          (b) ending 1 year after the completion of the eligible
          transaction to which the application relates.
     (4) However, the commissioner may allow an application to be made
     before or after the application period.
 
All interested persons to join in application
*** 17 All interested persons to join in application ***
     (1) All interested persons must be applicants.
     (2) For subsection (1), an interested person is a person who is, or
     will be, on completion of the eligible transaction to which the
     application relates, an owner of the relevant home, other than a
     person prescribed under a regulation.
 
Application on behalf of person under legal disability
*** 18 Application on behalf of person under legal disability ***
     (1) An application may be made on behalf of a person under a legal
     disability by a guardian.
     (2) For deciding eligibility, the person under the legal disability
     must be regarded as the applicant.
 
Commissioner to decide applications
*** 19 Commissioner to decide applications ***
     (1) If the commissioner is satisfied a first home owner grant is
     payable on an application, the commissioner must authorise the
     payment of the grant.
     (2) The commissioner may authorise the payment of the grant before
     the completion of the eligible transaction if the commissioner is
     satisfied it is appropriate in particular circumstances.
 
Amount of grant
*** 20 Amount of grant ***
     (1) The amount of a first home owner grant is the lesser of the
     following—
          (a) the consideration for the eligible transaction;
          (b) either—
               (i) for a new home eligible
               transaction—$15,000; or
               (ii) for another eligible transaction—$7000.
     (2) In this section—

     "new home eligible transaction" means an eligible transaction
     mentioned in section 5 (1).
 
Payment of grant
*** 21 Payment of grant ***
     (1) A first home owner grant must be paid by electronic funds
     transfer, cheque or in any other way the commissioner considers
     appropriate.
     (2) A first home owner grant must be paid to—
          (a) the applicant; or
          (b) someone else to whom the applicant directs in writing
          the grant be paid.
     (3) If the applicant requests, the commissioner may apply the amount
     of a first home owner grant, or part of the amount, towards a
     liability for State taxes, fees or charges.
 
Payment in anticipation of compliance with residence requirements
*** 22 Payment in anticipation of compliance with residence requirements ***
     (1) The commissioner may authorise payment of a first home owner
     grant in anticipation of compliance with the residence requirements
     if the commissioner is satisfied each applicant intends to comply
     with the residence requirements.
     (2) If a first home owner grant is paid in anticipation of compliance
     with the residence requirements, the payment is made on condition
     that, if the residence requirements are not complied with, the
     applicants must within 14 days after the relevant date—
          (a) give written notice of that fact to the commissioner;
          and
          (b) repay the amount of the grant.
     (3) For subsection (2), the relevant date is the earlier of the
     following—
          (a) the end of the period allowed for compliance with the
          residence requirements;
          (b) the date on which it first becomes apparent that the
          residence requirements will not be complied with during the
          period allowed for compliance.
     (4) For a joint application, each applicant is individually liable to
     comply with the requirements under subsection (2) (a) and (b) but
     compliance by any 1 or more of them must be regarded as compliance by
     both or all.
     (5) A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with
     a condition mentioned in subsection (2).
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
 
Repayment of grant after completion of particular transactions
*** 22A Repayment of grant after completion of particular transactions ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a first home owner grant is paid before the completion
          of a relevant transaction; and
          (b) on completion of the transaction—
               (i) the unencumbered value of a new home or other
               home the subject of the transaction results in
               the transaction not being an eligible transaction
               under section 5 (7); or
               (ii) the consideration for the transaction
               results in the transaction not being an eligible
               transaction under section 5 (8) or (9).
     (2) The applicant for the grant must within 28 days after completion
     of the transaction—
          (a) give written notice to the commissioner that the
          transaction is not an eligible transaction; and
          (b) repay the amount of the grant.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
     (3) For a joint application, each applicant is individually liable to
     comply with the requirements under subsection (2) (a) and (b), but
     compliance by any one or more of them must be regarded as compliance
     by both or all.
     (4) In this section—

     "relevant transaction" means—
          (a) a contract mentioned in section 5 (1) (b) or (2) (b) to
          have a new home or other home built on land; or
          (b) a transaction mentioned in section 5 (1) (c) or (2)
          (c); or
          (c) a contract mentioned in section 5 (3) (b).
 
Conditions generally
*** 23 Conditions generally ***
     (1) The commissioner may authorise the payment of a first home owner
     grant on the reasonable conditions the commissioner considers
     appropriate.
     (2) A condition imposed by the commissioner, under this section or
     another provision of this Act, may require a person on whose
     application the first home owner grant is paid—
          (a) to give notice of non-compliance with the condition
          within a period stated in the condition; and
          (b) to repay the grant within a period stated in the
          condition.
     (3) For a joint application, each applicant is individually liable to
     comply with a requirement under subsection (2) but compliance by any
     1 or more of them must be regarded as compliance by both or all.
     (4) A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with
     a condition imposed by the commissioner, under this section or
     another provision of this Act.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
 
Death of applicant
*** 24 Death of applicant ***
     (1) An application for a first home owner grant does not lapse
     because an applicant dies before the application is decided.
     (2) If an applicant dies before the application is decided, the
     following provisions apply—
          (a) if the deceased was 1 of 2 or more applicants and 1 or
          more applicants survive—the application must be dealt
          with as if the surviving applicants were the sole
          applicants;
          (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply—a first home owner
          grant, if payable on the application, must be paid to the
          deceased’s personal representative.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if—
          (a) a deceased applicant for a first home owner grant had
          not, when the applicant died, complied with criterion 5, as
          applying to the applicant under section 15 immediately
          before the applicant’s death; and
          (b) the commissioner is satisfied the applicant intended to
          comply with the criterion.
     (4) The deceased applicant is taken to have complied with criterion
     5.
 
Notice of decision
*** 25 Notice of decision ***
     (1) If the commissioner decides an application, or decides to vary or
     reverse an earlier decision on an application, the commissioner must
     give the applicant written notice of the decision.
     (2) If the decision authorises the payment of a first home owner
     grant without conditions, payment of the grant is sufficient notice
     of the decision.
     (3) If the decision is to refuse an application, or to vary or
     reverse an earlier decision on an application, the notice must state
     the following—
          (a) the reasons for the decision;
          (b) the person may, within 60 days after receiving the
          notice, object to the decision;
          (c) how to object.
               Note—
                    See part 5.
 
Definitions for div 5
*** 25AA Definitions for div 5 ***
In this division—

"period 1 transaction" means an eligible transaction the commencement date for
which is between 14 October 2008 and 30 June 2009, both dates inclusive.

"period 2 transaction" means an eligible transaction the commencement date for
which is between 1 July 2009 and 30 September 2009, both dates inclusive.

"period 3 transaction" means an eligible transaction the commencement date for
which is between 1 October 2009 and 31 December 2009, both dates inclusive.
 
Meaning of special eligible transaction for div 5
*** 25B Meaning of special eligible transaction for div 5 ***
     (1) A
     "special eligible transaction" is an eligible transaction the
     commencement date for which is between 14 October 2008 and 31
     December 2009, both dates inclusive, that is—
          (a) a contract for the purchase of a home; or
          (b) a comprehensive home building contract for a new home
          if—
               (i) the building work starts within the
               prescribed start period or within the longer
               period the commissioner allows in particular
               circumstances; and
               (ii) the contract states the building work must
               be completed within the prescribed building
               period or, if the contract does not state a
               completion date for the building work, it is
               completed—
                    (A) within the prescribed building
                    period; or
                    (B) within the longer period the
                    commissioner allows in particular
                    circumstances; or
          (c) the building of a new home by an owner builder if the
          eligible transaction is completed within the prescribed
          building period or within the longer period the
          commissioner allows in particular circumstances.
     (2) However, an eligible transaction mentioned in subsection (1) (a)
     that is a contract to purchase a new home on a proposed lot on an
     unregistered plan of subdivision of land is a special eligible
     transaction only if the contract states the building work must be
     completed before the prescribed completion date or, if the contract
     does not state a completion date for the building work, it is
     completed before the prescribed completion date.
     (3) Also, an eligible transaction that is a contract is not a special
     eligible transaction if the commissioner is satisfied the contract
     forms part of a scheme to circumvent limitations on, or requirements
     affecting, eligibility or entitlement to a first home owner grant for
     a special eligible transaction.
     (4) Unless satisfied to the contrary, the commissioner must presume
     the existence of a scheme mentioned in subsection (3) if the contract
     replaces a contract made before 14 October 2008 that is—
          (a) a contract to purchase the same or substantially
          similar home; or
          (b) a comprehensive home building contract to build the
          same or a substantially similar home.
     (5) For this section, building work—
          (a) starts when laying the foundations for the home starts;
          and
          (b) is completed when the building is ready for occupation
          as a home and any completion requirements prescribed under
          a regulation are complied with.
     (6) In this section—

     "prescribed building period", for building work, means the period
     starting on the date the work is started and ending 18 months after
     it is started.

     "prescribed completion date" —
          (a) for a period 1 transaction—31 December 2010; or
          (b) for a period 2 transaction—31 March 2011; or
          (c) for a period 3 transaction—30 June 2011.

     "prescribed start period", for building work, means the period
     starting on the commencement date and ending 26 weeks after that
     date.
 
Meaning of regional eligible transaction for div 5
*** 25BA Meaning of regional eligible transaction for div 5 ***
     (1) A
     "regional eligible transaction" is an eligible transaction the
     commencement date for which is between 1 June 2010 and 30 June 2011,
     both dates inclusive, if—
          (a) the transaction is—
               (i) a contract for the purchase of a new home; or
               (ii) a comprehensive home building contract for a
               new home; or
               (iii) the building of a new home by an owner
               builder; and
          (b) on the commencement date for the transaction, the land
          on which the home is or will be located is wholly outside
          the SEQ region.
     (2) However, an eligible transaction that is a contract is not a
     regional eligible transaction if the commissioner is satisfied the
     contract forms part of a scheme to circumvent limitations on, or
     requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement to a first home
     owner grant for a regional eligible transaction.
     (3) Unless satisfied to the contrary, the commissioner must presume
     the existence of a scheme mentioned in subsection (2) if the contract
     replaces a contract made before 1 June 2010, and the contract is—
          (a) to purchase the same or a substantially similar home;
          or
          (b) a comprehensive home building contract to build the
          same or a substantially similar home.
     (4) In this section—

     "SEQ region" means the local government areas of the following local
     governments—
          • Brisbane City Council
          • Gold Coast City Council
          • Ipswich City Council
          • Lockyer Valley Regional Council
          • Logan City Council
          • Moreton Bay City Council
          • Redland City Council
          • Scenic Rim Regional Council
          • Somerset Regional Council
          • Sunshine Coast Regional Council.
 
Amount of grant
*** 25C Amount of grant ***
     (1) Despite section 20, the amount of a first home owner grant for an
     eligible transaction that is a special eligible transaction for a new
     home is the lesser of the following—
          (a) the consideration for the transaction;
          (b) for—
               (i) a period 1 transaction—$21,000; or
               (ii) a period 2 transaction—$21,000; or
               (iii) a period 3 transaction—$14,000.
     (2) Despite section 20, the amount of a first home owner grant for an
     eligible transaction that is a special eligible transaction for a
     home, other than a new home, is the lesser of the following—
          (a) the consideration for the transaction;
          (b) for—
               (i) a period 1 transaction—$14,000; or
               (ii) a period 2 transaction—$14,000; or
               (iii) a period 3 transaction—$10,500.
     (3) Despite section 20, the amount of a first home owner grant for an
     eligible transaction that is a regional eligible transaction is the
     lesser of the following—
          (a) the consideration for the transaction; or
          (b) $11,000.
 
Meaning of particular eligible transaction for div 6
*** 25D Meaning of particular eligible transaction for div 6 ***
     (1) A
     "particular eligible transaction" is an eligible transaction
     mentioned in section 5 (1) the commencement date for which is between
     1 July 2016 and 30 June 2018, both dates inclusive.
     (2) However, an eligible transaction that is a contract is not a
     particular eligible transaction if the commissioner is satisfied the
     contract forms part of a scheme to circumvent limitations on, or
     requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement to a first home
     owner grant for a particular eligible transaction.
     (3) Unless satisfied to the contrary, the commissioner must presume
     the existence of a scheme mentioned in subsection (2) if the contract
     replaces a contract made before 1 July 2016 that is—
          (a) a contract to purchase the same or substantially
          similar home; or
          (b) a comprehensive home building contract to build the
          same or a substantially similar home.
 
Amount of grant
*** 25E Amount of grant ***
Despite section 20, the amount of a first home owner grant for an eligible
transaction that is a particular eligible transaction for a new home is the
lesser of the following—
     (a) the consideration for the transaction;
     (b) $20,000.
 
Meaning of relevant eligible transaction
*** 25EA Meaning of relevant eligible transaction ***
     (1) A
     "relevant eligible transaction" is an eligible transaction mentioned
     in section 5 (1) that is—
          (a) a contract for the purchase of a new home in the State
          made between 20 November 2023 and 30 June 2026, both dates
          inclusive; or
          (b) a comprehensive home building contract made by the
          owner of land in the State, or a person who will on
          completion of the contract be the owner of land in the
          State, to have a new home built on the land, if the
          contract is made between 20 November 2023 and 30 June 2026,
          both dates inclusive; or
          (c) the building of a new home in the State by an owner
          builder if the building work starts between 20 November
          2023 and 30 June 2026, both dates inclusive.
     (2) However, an eligible transaction that is a contract is not a
     relevant eligible transaction if the commissioner is satisfied the
     contract forms part of a scheme to circumvent limitations on, or
     requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement to a first home
     owner grant for a relevant eligible transaction.
     (3) Unless satisfied to the contrary, the commissioner must presume
     the existence of a scheme mentioned in subsection (2) if—
          (a) the contract replaces a contract made before 20
          November 2023 that is—
               (i) a contract to purchase the same or a
               substantially similar home; or
               (ii) a comprehensive home building contract to
               build the same or a substantially similar home;
               or
          (b) for a contract to purchase a new home—the purchaser
          had an option to purchase the home granted before 20
          November 2023 or the vendor had an option to require the
          purchaser to purchase the home granted before that date; or
          (c) for a comprehensive home building contract—either
          party had a right or option granted before 20 November 2023
          to require the other to enter into the contract.
 
Amount of grant
*** 25EB Amount of grant ***
Despite section 20, the amount of a first home owner grant for an eligible
transaction that is a relevant eligible transaction is the lesser of the
following—
     (a) the consideration for the transaction;
     (b) $30,000.
 
Application of part
*** 25F Application of part ***
This part applies in relation to regional home building boost grants.
 
Commissioner’s functions and powers
*** 25G Commissioner’s functions and powers ***
     (1) The commissioner is responsible for administering the RHBBG
     direction.
     (2) The commissioner has the power to do all things necessary or
     convenient to be done for performing the commissioner’s function
     under subsection (1).
 
Application for grant and when grant is payable
*** 25H Application for grant and when grant is payable ***
     (1) A person who is eligible to apply for a regional home building
     boost grant under the RHBBG direction may apply for the grant.
     (2) An application for a regional home building boost grant must
     comply with the RHBBG direction.
     (3) An applicant for a regional home building boost grant is entitled
     to be paid the grant if—
          (a) the applicant, or if there are 2 or more of them, each
          of the applicants, complies with the eligibility criteria
          for the grant under the RHBBG direction; and
          (b) the transaction for which the grant is sought—
               (i) is an eligible RHBBG transaction; and
               (ii) has been completed within the meaning of the
               RHBBG direction.
                    Note—
                         See also section 25I (2).
     (4) Only 1 regional home building boost grant is payable for the same
     eligible RHBBG transaction.
 
Commissioner to decide applications
*** 25I Commissioner to decide applications ***
     (1) The commissioner must authorise the payment of a regional home
     building boost grant if the commissioner is satisfied the grant is
     payable on an application for the grant.
     (2) Also, if the RHBBG direction provides for the commissioner to
     authorise the payment of a regional home building boost grant in
     anticipation of the applicant for the grant complying with particular
     stated requirements, the commissioner may authorise the payment as
     provided for by the direction.
 
Amount of grant
*** 25J Amount of grant ***
The amount of a regional home building boost grant is the lesser of the
following—
     (a) the consideration for the eligible RHBBG transaction less the
     amount of a first home owner grant paid to the applicant in relation
     to the eligible RHBBG transaction;
     (b) $5,000.
 
Payment of grant
*** 25K Payment of grant ***
A regional home building boost grant authorised by the commissioner must be
paid—
     (a) to the applicant for the grant; and
     (b) in the way stated in the RHBBG direction.
 
Conditions
*** 25L Conditions ***
     (1) The payment of a regional home building boost grant is subject
     to—
          (a) the conditions stated in the RHBBG direction; and
          (b) any other condition imposed by the commissioner.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1), a condition may require a person
     on whose application the grant was made to—
          (a) give notice of non-compliance with a condition within
          the period stated in the condition; and
          (b) repay the amount of the grant within the period stated
          in the condition for repaying the amount.
     (3) A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with
     a condition mentioned in subsection (1) or (2).
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
 
Notice of decision
*** 25M Notice of decision ***
     (1) If the commissioner decides an application for a regional home
     building boost grant, or decides to vary or reverse an earlier
     decision on an application for a regional home building boost grant,
     the commissioner must give the applicant written notice of the
     decision.
     (2) If the decision is to refuse an application for a regional home
     building boost grant, or to vary or reverse an earlier decision on an
     application for a regional home building boost grant, the notice must
     state the following—
          (a) the reasons for the decision;
          (b) that the person may, within 60 days after receiving the
          notice, object to the decision;
          (c) how to object.
               Note—
                    See part 5.
 
Investigations and enforcement
*** 25N Investigations and enforcement ***
     (1) The commissioner may carry out an investigation (an
     "authorised investigation") to decide—
          (a) whether an application under this Act for a regional
          home building boost grant has been properly made; or
          (b) whether an objection to a decision made under this Act
          in relation to a regional home building boost grant should
          be upheld; or
          (c) whether an applicant for a regional home building boost
          grant to whom the grant has been paid was eligible for the
          grant under the RHBBG direction; or
          (d) whether a condition on which a regional home building
          boost grant has been paid has been complied with; or
          (e) another matter reasonably related to the administration
          or enforcement of this Act in relation to a regional home
          building boost grant.
     (2) Part 4 applies in relation to the investigation and enforcement
     of a matter relating to a regional home building boost grant as if—
          (a) a reference to a first home owner grant included a
          reference to a regional home building boost grant; and
          (b) a reference to an applicant or former applicant
          included a reference to an applicant or former applicant
          for a regional home building boost grant; and
          (c) a reference to an application included a reference to
          an application for a regional home building boost grant;
          and
          (d) a reference to a home included a reference to a home
          within the meaning of the RHBBG direction; and
          (e) a reference in section 51A (1) (b) to a contravention
          of a section included a contravention of section 25L (3).
 
Application of part
*** 25O Application of part ***
This part applies in relation to home builder grants.
 
Commissioner’s functions and powers
*** 25P Commissioner’s functions and powers ***
     (1) The commissioner is responsible for administering the home
     builder direction.
     (2) The commissioner has the power to do all things necessary or
     convenient to be done for performing the commissioner’s function
     under subsection (1).
 
Application for grant and when grant is payable
*** 25Q Application for grant and when grant is payable ***
     (1) A person who is eligible to apply for a home builder grant under
     the home builder direction may apply for the grant.
     (2) An application for a home builder grant must comply with the home
     builder direction.
     (3) An applicant for a home builder grant is entitled to be paid the
     grant if—
          (a) the applicant or, for a joint application, each of the
          applicants, complies with the eligibility criteria for the
          grant under the home builder direction; and
          (b) the transaction for which the grant is sought is an
          eligible home builder transaction; and
          (c) the relevant requirement in relation to the eligible
          home builder transaction has been met.
               Note—
                    See also section 25R (2).
     (4) Only 1 home builder grant is payable for the same eligible home
     builder transaction.
     (5) In this section—

     "relevant requirement", in relation to an eligible home builder
     transaction, means—
          (a) if the transaction is a contract for the purchase of a
          new home within the meaning of the home builder
          direction—the contract has been completed within the
          meaning of the home builder direction; or
          (b) if the transaction is a comprehensive home building
          contract within the meaning of the home builder
          direction—the foundations have been laid and the first
          progress payment has been paid to the builder under the
          contract; or
          (c) if the transaction is a contract for a substantial
          renovation within the meaning of the home builder
          direction—construction under the contract has commenced
          and at least $150,000 of the contract price has been paid
          to the builder under the contract.
 
Commissioner to decide applications
*** 25R Commissioner to decide applications ***
     (1) The commissioner must authorise the payment of a home builder
     grant if the commissioner is satisfied the grant is payable on an
     application for the grant.
     (2) Also, if the home builder direction provides for the commissioner
     to authorise the payment of a home builder grant in anticipation of
     the applicant for the grant complying with particular stated
     requirements, the commissioner may authorise the payment as provided
     for by the direction.
 
Amount of grant
*** 25S Amount of grant ***
The amount of a home builder grant is—
     (a) if the contract for the eligible home builder transaction is made
     between 4 June 2020 and 31 December 2020, both dates
     inclusive—$25,000; or
     (b) if the contract for the eligible home builder transaction is made
     between 1 January 2021 and 31 March 2021, both dates
     inclusive—$15,000.
 
Payment of grant
*** 25T Payment of grant ***
A home builder grant authorised by the commissioner must be paid—
     (a) to the applicant for the grant; and
     (b) in the way stated in the home builder direction.
 
Conditions
*** 25U Conditions ***
     (1) The payment of a home builder grant is subject to—
          (a) the conditions stated in the home builder direction;
          and
          (b) any other conditions imposed by the commissioner.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1), a condition may require a person
     on whose application the grant was made to—
          (a) give notice of non-compliance with a condition within
          the period stated in the condition; and
          (b) repay the amount of the grant within the period stated
          in the condition for repaying the amount.
     (3) A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with
     a condition mentioned in subsection (1) or (2).
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
 
Notice of decision
*** 25V Notice of decision ***
     (1) If the commissioner decides an application for a home builder
     grant, or decides to vary or reverse an earlier decision on an
     application for a home builder grant, the commissioner must give the
     applicant written notice of the decision.
     (2) If the decision is to refuse an application for a home builder
     grant, or to vary or reverse an earlier decision on an application
     for a home builder grant, the notice must state the following—
          (a) the reasons for the decision;
          (b) that the person may, within 60 days after receiving the
          notice, object to the decision;
          (c) how to object.
               Note—
                    See part 5.
 
Investigations and enforcement
*** 25W Investigations and enforcement ***
     (1) The commissioner may carry out an investigation (an
     "authorised investigation") to decide—
          (a) whether an application under this Act for a home
          builder grant has been properly made; or
          (b) whether an objection to a decision made under this Act
          in relation to a home builder grant should be upheld; or
          (c) whether an applicant for a home builder grant to whom
          the grant has been paid was eligible for the grant under
          the home builder direction; or
          (d) whether a condition on which a home builder grant has
          been paid has been complied with; or
          (e) another matter reasonably related to the administration
          or enforcement of this Act in relation to a home builder
          grant.
     (2) Part 4, other than section 49, applies in relation to the
     investigation and enforcement of a matter relating to a home builder
     grant as if—
          (a) a reference to a first home owner grant included a
          reference to a home builder grant; and
          (b) a reference to an applicant or former applicant
          included a reference to an applicant or former applicant
          for a home builder grant; and
          (c) a reference to an application included a reference to
          an application for a home builder grant; and
          (d) a reference to a home included a reference to a home
          within the meaning of the home builder direction; and
          (e) a reference in section 51A (1) (b) to a contravention
          of a section included a contravention of section 25U (3).
 
Appointment
*** 26 Appointment ***
     (1) The commissioner may appoint as an authorised officer—
          (a) a public service employee; or
          (b) an officer or employee of the authority responsible for
          the administration of a corresponding law.
     (2) The commissioner may appoint a person as an authorised officer
     only if the commissioner is satisfied the person has the necessary
     expertise or experience to be an authorised officer.
 
Limitation of authorised officer’s powers
*** 27 Limitation of authorised officer’s powers ***
     (1) For this Act, an authorised officer has the powers given under
     this Act.
     (2) An authorised officer is subject to the directions of the
     commissioner in exercising the powers.
     (3) An authorised officer’s powers may be limited—
          (a) under a regulation; or
          (b) by notice given by the commissioner to the authorised
          officer.
     (4) An authorised officer who is an officer or employee of an
     authority responsible for the administration of a corresponding law
     may exercise the powers of an authorised officer under this Act only
     in relation to a first home owner grant.
 
Authorised officer’s appointment conditions
*** 28 Authorised officer’s appointment conditions ***
     (1) An authorised officer holds office on the conditions stated in
     the instrument of appointment.
     (2) An authorised officer—
          (a) if the appointment provides for a term of
          appointment—ceases holding office at the end of the term;
          and
          (b) if the conditions of appointment provide—ceases
          holding office on ceasing to hold another office stated in
          the appointment conditions; and
          (c) may resign by signed notice given to the commissioner.
 
Authorised officer’s identity card
*** 29 Authorised officer’s identity card ***
     (1) The commissioner must give each authorised officer an identity
     card.
     (2) The identity card must—
          (a) contain a recent photograph of the authorised officer;
          and
          (b) be signed by the authorised officer; and
          (c) identify the person as an authorised officer; and
          (d) state an expiry date.
     (3) A person who ceases to be an authorised officer must return the
     identity card to the commissioner as soon as practicable, but within
     21 days, after the person ceases to be an authorised officer, unless
     the person has a reasonable excuse for not returning it in the 21
     days.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
     (4) This section does not prevent the giving of a single identity
     card to a person for this Act and other Acts.
 
Production or display of authorised officer’s identity card
*** 30 Production or display of authorised officer’s identity card ***
     (1) An authorised officer may exercise a power in relation to a
     person only if the authorised officer—
          (a) first produces the authorised officer’s identity card
          for the person’s inspection; or
          (b) has the authorised officer’s identity card displayed
          so it is clearly visible to the person.
     (2) However, if for any reason it is not practicable to comply with
     subsection (1) before exercising the power, the authorised officer
     must produce the identity card as soon as it is practicable.
 
Commissioner may carry out investigations under corresponding laws
*** 31 Commissioner may carry out investigations under corresponding laws ***
If asked by an authority responsible for administering a corresponding law, the
commissioner may carry out an authorised investigation, to the extent it
relates to a first home owner grant, for the corresponding law.
 
Powers on investigation
*** 32 Powers on investigation ***
     (1) For carrying out an authorised investigation, the commissioner
     may, by written notice, require a person to do one or more of the
     following—
          (a) give the commissioner written information stated in the
          notice;
          (b) attend at a stated time and place before the
          commissioner, or a stated authorised officer, to answer
          questions relevant to the investigation;
          (c) produce a document relevant to the investigation to the
          commissioner at a reasonable stated time and place.
     (2) The commissioner may require information given, or to be given,
     under this section be verified on oath or by statutory declaration.
     (3) A person must not, without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with
     a requirement under this section.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
     (4) A person who, having attended before the commissioner or officer
     in response to a notice under subsection (1) (b), must not fail to
     answer a question relevant to the investigation unless the person has
     a reasonable excuse.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
     (5) It is a reasonable excuse for a person to fail to comply with a
     requirement under subsection (3) to give information or produce a
     document or to answer a question under subsection (4) if complying
     with the requirement or answering the question might tend to
     incriminate the person.
 
Authorised officer’s power to enter places
*** 33 Authorised officer’s power to enter places ***
     (1) An authorised officer may enter a place if—
          (a) its occupier consents to the entry; or
          (b) it is a public place and the entry is made when it is
          open to the public; or
          (c) it is a place where a business is conducted and the
          entry is made when—
               (i) the place is open for the conduct of
               business; or
               (ii) is otherwise open for entry; or
          (d) the entry is authorised by warrant.
     (2) For the purpose of asking the occupier of a place for consent to
     enter, an authorised officer may, without the occupier’s consent or
     a warrant—
          (a) enter land around premises at the place to an extent
          that is reasonable to contact the occupier; or
          (b) enter part of the place the authorised officer
          reasonably considers members of the public ordinarily are
          allowed to enter when they wish to contact the occupier.
     (3) For subsection (1) (c), a place of business does not include a
     part of the place where the person resides.
 
Entry with consent
*** 34 Entry with consent ***
     (1) This section applies if an authorised officer intends to ask an
     occupier of a place to consent to the authorised officer or another
     authorised officer entering the place under section 33 (1) (a).
     (2) Before asking for the consent, the authorised officer must tell
     the occupier—
          (a) the purpose of the entry; and
          (b) that the occupier is not required to consent.
     (3) If the consent is given, the authorised officer may ask the
     occupier to sign an acknowledgement of the consent.
     (4) The acknowledgement must state—
          (a) the occupier has been told—
               (i) the purpose of the entry; and
               (ii) that the occupier is not required to
               consent; and
          (b) the purpose of the entry; and
          (c) the occupier gives the authorised officer consent to
          enter the place and exercise powers under this division;
          and
          (d) the time and date the consent was given.
     (5) If the occupier signs the acknowledgement, the authorised officer
     must immediately give a copy to the occupier.
     (6) A court must find the occupier did not consent to an authorised
     officer entering the place under this subdivision if—
          (a) an issue arises in a proceeding before the court
          whether the occupier of the place consented to the entry;
          and
          (b) an acknowledgement is not produced in evidence for the
          entry; and
          (c) it is not proved by the person relying on the
          lawfulness of the entry that the occupier consented to the
          entry.
 
Application for warrant
*** 35 Application for warrant ***
     (1) An authorised officer may apply to a magistrate for a warrant for
     a place.
     (2) The application must be sworn and state the grounds on which the
     warrant is sought.
     (3) The magistrate may refuse to consider the application until the
     authorised officer gives the magistrate all the information the
     magistrate requires about the application in the way the magistrate
     requires.
          Example—
               The magistrate may require additional information
               supporting the application to be given by
               statutory declaration.
 
Issue of warrant
*** 36 Issue of warrant ***
     (1) The magistrate may issue a warrant only if the magistrate is
     satisfied there are reasonable grounds for suspecting—
          (a) there is a particular thing or activity (the
          "evidence") that may provide evidence of an offence against
          this Act; and
          (b) the evidence is at the place, or within the next 7
          days, may be at the place.
     (2) The warrant must state the following—
          (a) the authorised officer may, with necessary and
          reasonable help and force—
               (i) enter the place and any other place necessary
               for entry; and
               (ii) exercise the authorised officer’s powers
               under this division;
          (b) the offence for which the warrant is sought;
          (c) the hours of the day or night when the place may be
          entered;
          (d) the date, within 14 days after the warrant’s issue,
          the warrant ends;
          (e) the purpose for which the warrant is issued.
 
Special warrants
*** 37 Special warrants ***
     (1) An authorised officer may apply for a warrant (a
     "special warrant") by phone, fax, radio or another form of
     communication if the authorised officer considers it necessary
     because of—
          (a) urgent circumstances; or
          (b) other special circumstances, including, for example,
          the authorised officer’s remote location.
     (2) Before applying for the special warrant, the authorised officer
     must prepare an application stating the grounds on which the warrant
     is sought.
     (3) The authorised officer may apply for the warrant before the
     application is sworn.
     (4) After issuing the special warrant, the magistrate must
     immediately fax a copy to the authorised officer if it is reasonably
     practicable to fax the copy.
     (5) If it is not reasonably practicable to fax a copy to the
     authorised officer—
          (a) the magistrate must tell the authorised officer—
               (i) what the terms of the warrant are; and
               (ii) the date and time the warrant is issued; and
          (b) the authorised officer must complete a form of warrant
          (a
          "warrant form") and write on it—
               (i) the magistrate’s name; and
               (ii) the date and time the magistrate issued the
               warrant; and
               (iii) the terms of the special warrant.
     (6) The facsimile warrant, or the warrant form properly completed by
     the authorised officer, authorises the entry and the exercise of the
     other powers stated in the warrant issued by the magistrate.
     (7) The authorised officer must, at the first reasonable opportunity,
     send to the magistrate—
          (a) the sworn application; and
          (b) if the authorised officer completed a warrant
          form—the completed warrant form.
     (8) On receiving the documents, the magistrate must attach them to
     the warrant.
     (9) A court must find the exercise of the power by an authorised
     officer was not authorised by a special warrant if—
          (a) an issue arises in a proceeding before the court
          whether the exercise of the power was authorised by a
          special warrant; and
          (b) the warrant is not produced in evidence; and
          (c) it is not proved by the person relying on the
          lawfulness of the entry that the authorised officer
          obtained the warrant.
 
Warrants—procedure before entry
*** 38 Warrants—procedure before entry ***
     (1) This section applies if an authorised officer named in a warrant
     issued under this subdivision for a place is intending to enter the
     place under the warrant.
     (2) Before entering the place, the authorised officer must do or make
     a reasonable attempt to do the following things—
          (a) identify himself or herself, and anyone else helping
          the authorised officer, to a person present at the place
          who is an occupier of the place by producing the authorised
          officer’s identity card;
          (b) give the person a copy of the warrant or, if the entry
          is authorised by a facsimile warrant or warrant form
          mentioned in section 37 (6), a copy of the facsimile
          warrant or warrant form;
          (c) tell the person the authorised officer is permitted by
          the warrant to enter the place;
          (d) give the person an opportunity to allow the authorised
          officer immediate entry to the place without using force.
     (3) However, the authorised officer need not comply with subsection
     (2) if the authorised officer believes on reasonable grounds that
     immediate entry to the place is required to ensure the effective
     execution of the warrant is not frustrated.
 
General powers for places
*** 39 General powers for places ***
     (1) An authorised officer who enters a place under subdivision 3 may
     exercise any of the following powers—
          (a) search any part of the place;
          (b) inspect, examine, photograph or film a document or
          anything in the place;
          (c) take extracts from, and make copies of, any document in
          the place;
          (d) take into the place any equipment and materials the
          authorised officer reasonably requires for exercising a
          power under this division;
          (e) require a person in the place to—
               (i) give the authorised officer reasonable help
               to exercise the powers mentioned in paragraphs
               (a) to (d); or
               (ii) answer questions relevant to the
               investigation.
     (2) When making a requirement mentioned in subsection (1) (e), the
     authorised officer must warn the person it is an offence to fail to
     comply with the requirement unless the person has a reasonable
     excuse.
     (3) A person required to give reasonable help under subsection (1)
     (e) (i) or answer a question under subsection (1) (e) (ii) must
     comply with the requirement unless the person has a reasonable
     excuse.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
     (4) If a person is required under subsection (1) (e) (i) to give
     reasonable help by answering a question or producing a document, or
     under subsection (1) (e) (ii) to answer a question, it is a
     reasonable excuse if complying with the requirement might tend to
     incriminate the person.
 
Notice of damage
*** 40 Notice of damage ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an authorised officer damages property when exercising
          or purporting to exercise a power under this division; or
          (b) a person (the
          "other person") acting under the direction of an authorised
          officer damages property.
     (2) The authorised officer must promptly give written notice of
     particulars of the damage to the person who appears to the authorised
     officer to be the owner of the property.
     (3) If the authorised officer believes the damage was caused by a
     latent defect in the property or circumstances beyond the control of
     the authorised officer, contractor or other person, the authorised
     officer may state it in the notice.
     (4) If, for any reason, it is impracticable to comply with subsection
     (2), the authorised officer must leave the notice in a conspicuous
     position and in a reasonably secure way where the damage happened.
     (5) This section does not apply to damage the authorised officer
     reasonably believes is trivial.
     (6) In subsection (2) —

     "owner", of property, includes the person in possession or control of
     it.
 
Compensation
*** 41 Compensation ***
     (1) A person may claim from the commissioner the cost of repairing or
     replacing property damaged because of the exercise or purported
     exercise of a power under this division.
     (2) The cost may be claimed and ordered to be paid in a proceeding—
          (a) brought in a court with jurisdiction for the recovery
          of the amount claimed; or
          (b) for an offence against this Act brought against the
          person claiming the amount.
     (3) A court may order an amount be paid only if it is satisfied it is
     just to make the order in the circumstances of the particular case.
     (4) A regulation may prescribe matters that may, or must, be taken
     into account by the court when considering whether it is just to make
     the order.
 
False or misleading documents
*** 42 False or misleading documents ***
     (1) A person must not give to the commissioner or an authorised
     officer a document containing information the person knows is false
     or misleading in a material particular.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—70 penalty units.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who, when giving the
     document—
          (a) tells the commissioner or officer, to the best of the
          person’s ability, how it is false or misleading; and
          (b) if the person has, or can reasonably get, the correct
          information—gives the correct information to the
          commissioner or officer.
     (3) In a proceeding for an offence against subsection (1), it is
     enough for a charge to state that the document was, without
     specifying which, ‘false or misleading’.
 
False or misleading statements
*** 43 False or misleading statements ***
     (1) A person must not state anything to the commissioner or an
     authorised officer the person knows is false or misleading in a
     material particular.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—70 penalty units.
     (2) In a proceeding for an offence against subsection (1), it is
     enough for a charge to state that the statement was, without
     specifying which, ‘false or misleading’.
 
Obstruction of authorised officers
*** 44 Obstruction of authorised officers ***
     (1) A person must not obstruct an authorised officer in the exercise
     of a power, unless the person has a reasonable excuse.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
     (2) If a person has obstructed an authorised officer and the
     authorised officer decides to proceed with the exercise of the power,
     the authorised officer must warn the person that—
          (a) it is an offence to obstruct the authorised officer,
          unless the person has a reasonable excuse; and
          (b) the authorised officer considers the person’s conduct
          is an obstruction.
 
Impersonation of authorised officer
*** 45 Impersonation of authorised officer ***
A person must not pretend to be an authorised officer.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
 
Access to particular records without fee
*** 46 Access to particular records without fee ***
For carrying out an authorised investigation, the commissioner may, without
payment of a fee, inspect and take copies of any record relevant to the
investigation that is kept by a public sector unit or local government.
 
Commissioner may require repayment and impose penalty
*** 47 Commissioner may require repayment and impose penalty ***
     (1) The commissioner may, by written notice, require an applicant or
     former applicant for a first home owner grant to repay an amount paid
     on the application if the amount was paid in error (the
     "error amount").
     (2) If the error amount was paid because of a contravention of
     section 42 or 43 in relation to the application for the grant, the
     commissioner may, by written notice, impose a penalty of not more
     than the error amount (a
     "penalty amount").
     (3) If an applicant or former applicant for a first home owner grant
     fails to make a repayment required under subsection (1) or the
     conditions of the grant, the commissioner may, by written notice
     impose a penalty of not more than the error amount (also a
     "penalty amount").
     (4) If the error amount was paid to a third party, the commissioner,
     may by written notice, require the third party to repay the amount to
     the commissioner.
     (5) A notice under this section must state the following—
          (a) the reasons for the decision to require the payment;
          (b) the person may, within 60 days after receiving the
          notice, object to the decision;
          (c) how to object.
 
Recovery of amount paid in error etc.
*** 48 Recovery of amount paid in error etc. ***
     (1) This section applies to the following amounts—
          (a) an amount an applicant or former applicant for a first
          home owner grant is required to repay under the conditions
          of the grant or under a requirement under this Act;
          (b) a penalty amount imposed on an applicant or former
          applicant for a first home owner grant under section 47 (2)
          or (3);
          (c) an amount a third party is required, under section 47
          (4), to pay to the commissioner.
     (2) The liability arising from a requirement to pay, or repay, an
     amount to which this section applies is, if the requirement attaches
     to 2 or more persons, joint and several.
     (3) An amount to which this section applies is a debt payable to the
     commissioner and may be recovered in a court of competent
     jurisdiction.
     (4) The commissioner may enter into an arrangement for payment of a
     liability outstanding under this section by instalments.
     (5) The arrangement may include provision for the payment of
     interest.
 
Charge over land
*** 49 Charge over land ***
     (1) This section applies if an applicant or former applicant who is
     liable to pay an amount to which section 48 applies has an interest
     in the land on which the home, for which the first home owner grant
     was sought, is fixed.
     (2) The liability is a first charge on the applicant’s interest in
     the land.
     (2A) The charge has priority over all other encumbrances over the
     applicant’s interest in the land.
     (3) The registrar must register the charge over the land if the
     commissioner lodges with the registrar—
          (a) a request to register the charge in the appropriate
          form over the land; and
          (b) a certificate stating that—
               (i) the amount stated in the certificate is owing
               in relation to the charge over the land; and
               (ii) there is a charge over the land under this
               section.
     (4) The commissioner must, as soon as practicable after payment of
     the amount, lodge with the registrar—
          (a) a request to release the charge in the appropriate
          form; and
          (b) a certificate stating that the amount owing in relation
          to the charge over the land has been paid.
     (5) The registrar must register the release of the charge over the
     land.
     (6) The fee for registration of the charge, or release of the charge,
     is payable by the applicant or former applicant mentioned in
     subsection (1).
     (7) If the commissioner pays the fee mentioned in subsection (6), the
     commissioner may recover the amount of the fee from the applicant or
     former applicant liable for payment of the fee.
 
Collection of amounts from a garnishee
*** 49A Collection of amounts from a garnishee ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) under section 48, a debt is payable by an applicant or
          former applicant to the commissioner; and
          (b) the commissioner reasonably believes a person (the
          "garnishee")—
               (i) holds or may receive an amount for or on
               account of the applicant or former applicant; or
               (ii) is liable or may become liable to pay an
               amount to the applicant or former applicant; or
               (iii) has authority to pay an amount to the
               applicant or former applicant.
     (2) Subsection (1) (b) applies even though the applicant or former
     applicant’s entitlement to the amount may be subject to unfulfilled
     conditions.
     (3) The commissioner may, by written notice given to the garnishee
     (the
     "garnishee notice"), require the garnishee to pay a stated amount
     (the
     "garnishee amount") to the commissioner by a stated date.
     (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the garnishee notice may require
     the garnishee to pay to the commissioner an amount out of each
     payment the garnishee is liable, or from time to time becomes liable,
     to make to the applicant or former applicant.
     (5) However, subsection (6) applies if, on the date for payment under
     the garnishee notice, the garnishee amount is not held for, or is not
     liable to be paid to, the applicant or former applicant by the
     garnishee.
     (6) The garnishee notice has effect as if the date for payment were
     immediately after the date the amount is held for, or is liable to be
     paid to, the applicant or former applicant by the garnishee.
     (7) The garnishee amount must not be more than the applicant’s or
     former applicant’s debt.
     (8) The garnishee must comply with the garnishee notice unless the
     garnishee has a reasonable excuse.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
     (9) The commissioner must give to the applicant or former
     applicant—
          (a) a copy of the garnishee notice; and
          (b) details in writing of the applicant’s or former
          applicant’s debt to which the notice relates.
 
Duration of garnishee notice
*** 49B Duration of garnishee notice ***
The garnishee notice has effect until the garnishee amount is paid or the
commissioner, by written notice given to the garnishee, withdraws the notice.
 
Effect of discharge of debt on garnishee notice
*** 49C Effect of discharge of debt on garnishee notice ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the applicant’s or former applicant’s debt to which
          the garnishee notice relates is discharged, whether
          completely or partly, before the date for payment of the
          garnishee amount; and
          (b) the discharge affects the amount to be recovered from
          the garnishee.
     (2) The commissioner must give written notice to the garnishee and
     the applicant or former applicant—
          (a) informing them of the extent of the discharge of the
          debt; and
          (b) stating the amount payable under the garnishee notice
          is reduced accordingly; and
          (c) if the applicant’s or former applicant’s debt is
          fully discharged—withdrawing the garnishee notice.
 
Effect of payment by garnishee
*** 49D Effect of payment by garnishee ***
If the garnishee pays an amount to the commissioner under a garnishee notice,
the garnishee—
     (a) is taken to have acted under the authority of the applicant or
     former applicant or an authority mentioned in section 49A (1) (b)
     (iii); and
     (b) if the garnishee is under an obligation to pay an amount to the
     applicant or former applicant—is taken to have satisfied the
     obligation to the extent of the payment.
 
Effect of writing off liability
*** 50 Effect of writing off liability ***
If all or part of an applicant’s liability under section 48, including the
applicant’s liability to pay costs ordered by a court or QCAT, is written off
under the Financial Accountability Act 2009, section 21, the writing off does
not extinguish the applicant’s liability or prevent a later proceeding
against the applicant to recover the amount of the liability.
 
Penalty amounts to be alternative to prosecution
*** 51 Penalty amounts to be alternative to prosecution ***
     (1) This section applies if a penalty amount, including a part of a
     penalty amount, becomes payable under section 47 by a person because
     of an act or omission of the person.
     (2) If a proceeding is started against the person for an offence
     against a provision of this Act relating to the act or omission, and
     the penalty amount has not been paid to the commissioner, the penalty
     amount is payable only if the commissioner withdraws the proceeding.
     (3) If the penalty amount has been paid to the commissioner, but a
     proceeding is started against the person for an offence against a
     provision of this Act arising out of the act or omission, the penalty
     amount must be refunded by the commissioner.
     (4) Despite subsection (3), if the commissioner withdraws the
     proceeding for the offence, the person again becomes liable to pay
     the penalty amount.
 
Court may order repayment etc.
*** 51A Court may order repayment etc. ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a first home owner grant is paid to a person; and
          (b) the person is convicted by a court for a contravention
          of section 22 (5), 22A (2), 23 (4), 42 (1) or 43 (1) in
          relation to the grant.
     (2) The court may order the person to repay the grant.
     (3) Also, the court may order the person to pay the commissioner
     twice the grant amount if it is satisfied the circumstances of the
     contravention form part of a scheme to circumvent limitations on, or
     requirements affecting, eligibility or entitlement to a first home
     owner grant.
     (4) This section does not limit the court’s powers under the
     Penalties and Sentences Act 1992 or any other law.
 
Statements in complaint
*** 52 Statements in complaint ***
In a complaint starting a proceeding, a statement that the matter of the
complaint came to the complainant’s knowledge on a stated day is evidence of
the matter.
 
Evidentiary certificates
*** 53 Evidentiary certificates ***
A certificate purporting to be signed by the commissioner stating any of the
following matters is evidence of the matter—
     (a) on a stated day—
          (i) a stated person was liable to pay, or paid, a stated
          amount; or
          (ii) a stated person made, gave or executed a stated
          document; or
          (iii) a stated document was given to a stated person in a
          stated way; or
          (iv) the commissioner had not received a stated document or
          information;
     (b) a stated document is a copy of, or part of, another document.
 
Summary proceedings for offences
*** 54 Summary proceedings for offences ***
A proceeding for an offence against this Act must be taken in a summary way
under the Justices Act 1886.
 
When proceedings must start
*** 55 When proceedings must start ***
A proceeding for an offence against this Act must start within 5 years after
the commission of the offence.
 
Lodging objection
*** 56 Lodging objection ***
     (1) This section applies to an applicant or former applicant for a
     first home owner grant, regional home building boost grant or home
     builder grant who is dissatisfied with a decision of the
     commissioner—
          (a) on the applicant’s or former applicant’s
          application for the grant; or
          (b) to require payment of an amount under section 47 in
          relation to the grant.
     (1A) The applicant or former applicant may lodge a written objection
     for the decision with the commissioner.
     (2) The grounds of objection must be stated fully and in detail in
     the notice.
     (3) The objection must be lodged within 60 days after the objector
     receives notice of the decision.
     (4) If the commissioner is satisfied an objector has a reasonable
     excuse for failing to lodge an objection within the 60 day period,
     the commissioner may extend the time for lodging the objection.
 
Deciding objection
*** 57 Deciding objection ***
     (1) After considering the objection, the commissioner may—
          (a) confirm the decision; or
          (b) set aside the decision and substitute another decision.
     (2) If the decision the subject of the objection was made by a
     delegate of the commissioner, the delegate must not decide the
     objection.
 
Notice of decision
*** 58 Notice of decision ***
     (1) The commissioner must give written notice to the objector of the
     commissioner’s decision on the objection.
     (2) The notice must comply with the QCAT Act, section 157 (2).
 
Right of review by QCAT
*** 59 Right of review by QCAT ***
An objector who is dissatisfied with the commissioner’s decision on the
objection may apply, within 60 days after the objector receives notice of the
commissioner’s decision on the objection and as otherwise provided under the
QCAT Act, to QCAT for a review of the decision.
 
QCAT to decide review on evidence before the commissioner
*** 60 QCAT to decide review on evidence before the commissioner ***
     (1) This section applies to a proceeding for a review by QCAT of a
     decision of the commissioner on an objection.
     (2) QCAT must—
          (a) hear and decide the review of the decision by way of a
          reconsideration of the evidence before the commissioner
          when the decision was made, unless QCAT considers it
          necessary in the interests of justice to allow new
          evidence; and
          (b) decide the review of the decision in accordance with
          the same law that applied to the making of the original
          decision.
     (3) The grounds on which the application for review is made are
     limited to the grounds of the relevant objection unless QCAT
     otherwise orders.
     (4) If QCAT decides, under the QCAT Act, section 139, that the
     proceeding should be reopened, the issues in the proceeding that are
     reheard must be—
          (a) heard and decided by way of a reconsideration of the
          evidence given in the proceeding for the review of the
          decision; and
          (b) decided in accordance with the same law that applied to
          the making of the original decision.
     (5) In this section—

     "new evidence" means evidence that was not before the commissioner
     when the decision on the objection was made.

     "original decision" means the decision of the commissioner that was
     the subject of the relevant objection.

     "relevant objection" means the objection to which the decision of the
     commissioner relates.
 
Representation of parties before QCAT
*** 61 Representation of parties before QCAT ***
     (1) This section applies to a party in a proceeding before QCAT
     relating to an application under section 59.
     (2) The party may be represented by a lawyer.
 
Delegations
*** 65 Delegations ***
     (1) The commissioner may delegate the commissioner’s powers under
     this Act to an appropriately qualified officer or employee of the
     department.
     (2) In addition, the commissioner may delegate the commissioner’s
     powers under part 4 in relation to a first home owner grant to the
     authority responsible for administering a corresponding law or an
     appropriately qualified officer or employee of the authority.
 
Administration agreements
*** 66 Administration agreements ***
     (1) The commissioner may, on behalf of the State, enter into an
     agreement with a financial institution or other person for performing
     functions related to administering the scheme for payment of first
     home owner grants established under this Act.
     (2) The commissioner may, at any time, revoke the agreement.
 
Protection from liability
*** 67 Protection from liability ***
     (1) An official is not civilly liable for an act done, or omission
     made, honestly and without negligence under this Act, the RHBBG
     direction or the home builder direction.
     (2) If subsection (1) prevents a civil liability attaching to an
     official, the liability attaches instead to the State.
     (3) In this section—

     "official" means—
          (a) the commissioner; or
          (b) an authorised officer; or
          (c) an officer or employee of the department to whom the
          commissioner has, under section 65, delegated powers.
 
Offence to disclose confidential information
*** 68 Offence to disclose confidential information ***
     (1) This section applies to a person who—
          (a) is or has been engaged in the administration of this
          Act, the RHBBG direction or the home builder direction,
          including an employee of an agent of the commissioner; or
          (b) has obtained access to confidential information,
          whether directly or indirectly, from a person mentioned in
          paragraph (a).
     (2) The person must not disclose confidential information acquired by
     the person to anyone else other than under subsection (3) or (4).
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (3) The person may disclose confidential information—
          (a) at the request, or with the consent of, the person to
          whom the information relates or someone else acting on the
          person’s behalf; or
          (b) if the disclosure is expressly permitted or required
          under another Act; or
          (c) in connection with the administration or enforcement
          of—
               (i) this Act, the RHBBG direction, the home
               builder direction or a corresponding law; or
               (ii) a taxation law; or
               (iii) the First Home Saver Accounts Act 2008
               (Cwlth); or
          (d) for a legal proceeding under this Act; or
          (e) to the extent required to comply with the agreement
          between the Commonwealth and the State called ‘National
          Partnership on HomeBuilder’.
     (4) Also, if the commissioner becomes aware, from information
     obtained or held by the commissioner in the course of administering
     this Act, the RHBBG direction or the home builder direction, of a
     particular offence or suspected offence (whether against this Act or
     another law), the commissioner may disclose confidential information
     about the offence or suspected offence to a member of the Queensland
     Police Service or the Australian Federal Police for an investigation
     or proceeding (including for starting an investigation or
     proceeding).
     (5) For a proceeding other than a legal proceeding under this Act,
     the person can not be compelled to disclose to a court or QCAT or to
     a party—
          (a) confidential information; or
          (b) whether or not the person has received particular
          confidential information; or
          (c) the identity of the source of particular confidential
          information.
     (6) If, under subsection (3) (c), confidential information is
     disclosed to another person in connection with the administration or
     enforcement of a law, the RHBBG direction or the home builder
     direction, the person must not disclose the information to anyone
     else other than in connection with that purpose.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (7) In this section—

     "confidential information" means information held by the
     commissioner, including information given on an application under
     this Act, that relates to a particular application for a first home
     owner grant, regional home building boost grant or home builder
     grant.
 
Use of information obtained under taxation laws
*** 69 Use of information obtained under taxation laws ***
The commissioner may use information obtained in the administration or
enforcement of a taxation law for the administration or enforcement of this
Act.
 
Disqualifying arrangements for first home owner grants
*** 69A Disqualifying arrangements for first home owner grants ***
     (1) A disqualifying arrangement exists in relation to an application
     for a first home owner grant if—
          (a) a related person of an applicant for the application
          provides or will provide financial help to the applicant,
          directly or indirectly, to help the applicant enter into
          the eligible transaction to which the application relates;
          and
          (b) the related person has used, or will use, the home the
          subject of the eligible transaction, frequently or
          otherwise to a significant extent, in addition to any use
          of the home by the applicant; and
          (c) the related person would not be eligible for the grant
          had the related person entered into the eligible
          transaction; and
          (d) the commissioner is not satisfied that in the
          circumstances there are genuine family reasons for the
          matters mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b).
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1) (a), any of the following may be
     taken to be financial help provided by the related person—
          (a) the related person makes a gift of money or property,
          whether or not the gift is enough to meet all of the
          applicant’s obligations under the eligible transaction;
          (b) the related person makes a contribution towards the
          cost of—
               (i) the applicant complying with his or her
               obligations under the eligible transaction; or
               (ii) maintaining the home the subject of the
               eligible transaction;
          (c) the related person makes a loan repayment for the
          applicant in relation to the eligible transaction;
          (d) the related person forgives loan repayments otherwise
          owed by the applicant to the related person.
     (3) A disqualifying arrangement exists in relation to an application
     for a first home owner grant if the commissioner is satisfied—
          (a) there is an arrangement the sole or main purpose of
          which is to obtain a first home owner grant, rather than
          acquiring a home; and
          (b) the application is made for the purposes of the
          arrangement.
     (4) For subsection (3), the commissioner must have regard to the
     following—
          (a) the way the eligible transaction was entered into or
          carried out;
          (b) the nature of the connection, whether business, family
          or another connection, between the parties to the eligible
          transaction;
          (c) the amount of consideration payable under the eligible
          transaction;
          (d) the value of the home the subject of the eligible
          transaction;
          (e) the living and family arrangements of the applicant and
          any related person;
          (f) the financial circumstances of the applicant;
          (g) the source of funds used to complete the eligible
          transaction and meet the costs of owning and maintaining
          the home the subject of the eligible transaction.
     (5) Subsection (4) does not limit the matters to which the
     commissioner may or ought to have regard for subsection (3).
     (6) If a disqualifying arrangement exists in relation to an
     application for a first home owner grant the commissioner may—
          (a) if the application has not yet been approved—refuse
          the application; or
          (b) if the application was approved but the grant has not
          yet been paid—reverse the decision on the application and
          refuse to pay the grant; or
          (c) if the grant has already been paid—reverse the
          decision on the application and act under section 47 to
          recover the grant as an error amount, and to recover any
          penalty amount imposed under the section.
     (7) The commissioner must give the applicant reasons for taking
     action under this section.
     (8) In this section—

     "related person", of an applicant, means—
          (a) a parent, child, grandparent, sibling, uncle or aunt of
          the applicant; or
          (b) the spouse of any person mentioned in paragraph (a).
 
Valuation or evidence of value of property
*** 69B Valuation or evidence of value of property ***
     (1) For determining whether a transaction is an eligible transaction,
     eligible RHBBG transaction or eligible home builder transaction, the
     commissioner may—
          (a) by notice given to a relevant person, require the
          person to lodge a valuation of property prepared by a
          registered valuer or to provide the other evidence of value
          the commissioner considers appropriate; or
          (b) have property valued; or
          (c) rely on a valuation of property prepared by a
          registered valuer, or other person the commissioner is
          satisfied is properly qualified to provide evidence of
          value of the property.
     (2) If the commissioner is not satisfied with the valuation or
     evidence lodged or provided under subsection (1) (a), the
     commissioner may—
          (a) have the property valued; or
          (b) rely on a valuation of the property prepared by a
          registered valuer, or another person the commissioner is
          satisfied is properly qualified to provide evidence of
          value of the property.
     (3) The commissioner may recover the cost of obtaining a valuation
     under this section from the relevant person.
     (4) In this section—

     "property" means—
          (a) in relation to a first home owner grant—
               (i) a home; or
               (ii) land; or
               (iii) a relevant interest in land; or
          (b) in relation to a regional home building boost grant—
               (i) a home within the meaning of the RHBBG
               direction; or
               (ii) land; or
               (iii) an estate in fee simple in land; or
          (c) in relation to a home builder grant—
               (i) a home within the meaning of the home builder
               direction; or
               (ii) land; or
               (iii) an estate in fee simple in land.

     "registered valuer" means a valuer registered under the Valuers
     Registration Act 1992.

     "relevant person" means—
          (a) an applicant for a first home owner grant, regional
          home building boost grant or home builder grant in relation
          to the transaction; or
          (b) a former applicant for a first home owner grant,
          regional home building boost grant or home builder grant in
          relation to the transaction.
 
Approved forms
*** 70 Approved forms ***
     (1) The commissioner may approve forms for use under this Act.
     (2) The approved form of application for a first home owner grant, or
     part of the form, may be required to be completed or signed by the
     spouse of the applicant.
 
Commissioner may arrange for use of an approved information system to make
particular decisions
*** 70A Commissioner may arrange for use of an approved information system to
make particular decisions ***
     (1) The commissioner may approve an information system for this
     section.
     (2) The commissioner may arrange for the use of an approved
     information system for any purposes for which the commissioner may
     make a relevant decision under this Act.
     (3) A relevant decision made by the operation of an approved
     information system under an arrangement made under subsection (2) is
     taken to be a decision made by the commissioner.
     (4) In this section—

     "approved information system" means an information system approved by
     the commissioner under subsection (1).

     "electronic communication" means—
          (a) a communication of information in the form of data,
          text or images by guided or unguided electromagnetic
          energy; or
          (b) a communication of information in the form of sound by
          guided or unguided electromagnetic energy, if the sound is
          processed at its destination by an automated voice
          recognition system.

     "information system" means a system for generating, sending,
     receiving, storing or otherwise processing electronic communications.

     "relevant decision" means a decision that does not involve the
     exercise of the commissioner’s discretion.
 
Regulation-making power
*** 71 Regulation-making power ***
     (1) The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
     (2) A regulation may provide for a maximum penalty of not more than
     20 penalty units for a contravention of a regulation.
 
Continuing operation of Act for particular eligible transactions
*** 72 Continuing operation of Act for particular eligible transactions ***
     (1) This Act continues to apply in relation to a relevant application
     as if this Act had not been amended by the relevant provisions of the
     amending Act.
     (2) In this section—

     "amending Act" means the First Home Owner Grant Amendment Act 2003.

     "relevant application" means an application for a first home owner
     grant, if the commencement date for the eligible transaction to which
     the application relates is a date earlier than 1 January 2004.

     "relevant provisions", of the amending Act, means the provisions of
     the amending Act commencing on the day this section commences, other
     than section 5.
 
Continuing operation of Act for particular eligible transactions
*** 73 Continuing operation of Act for particular eligible transactions ***
     (1) This Act continues to apply in relation to a relevant application
     as if this Act had not been amended by part 4 of the amending Act,
     other than sections 49 to 52, 54 (to the extent it inserts new
     section 74) and 55 (to the extent it inserts new definitions
     "new home" and
     "special eligible transaction").
     (2) In this section—

     "amending Act" means the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act
     (No. 2) 2008.

     "relevant application" means an application for a first home owner
     grant, if the commencement date for the eligible transaction to which
     the application relates is a date earlier than 1 January 2010.
 
Transitional provision for particular approved form
*** 74 Transitional provision for particular approved form ***
     (1) This section applies to the first publication in the gazette, on
     or after the commencement of this section, of a notice under the
     Statutory Instruments Act 1992, section 58(6)(a) relating to the
     approval or availability of a relevant form.
     (2) The publication is taken to have been effective on and from 14
     October 2008.
     (3) In this section—

     "relevant form" means a form for making an application for a first
     home owner grant for a special eligible transaction.

     "special eligible transaction" see section 25B.
 
Definition for pt 9
*** 75 Definition for pt 9 ***
In this part—

"amending Act" means the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2010.
 
Continuing operation of pre-amended s 5
*** 76 Continuing operation of pre-amended s 5 ***
Section 5 as in force immediately before its amendment by the amending Act
continues to apply in relation to an application for a first home owner grant
if the commencement date for the eligible transaction to which the application
relates is before 31 March 2010.
 
Charge mentioned in s 49
*** 77 Charge mentioned in s 49 ***
Section 49 as in force immediately before its amendment by the amending Act
continues to apply to a liability in relation to a grant the payment of which
was authorised before the amendment.
 
Continuing operation of pre-amended s 55
*** 78 Continuing operation of pre-amended s 55 ***
     (1) This section applies to an offence against this Act, if the act
     or omission constituting the offence happened before the commencement
     of this section.
     (2) Without limiting the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 20,
     section 55 as in force before the commencement of this section
     continues to apply in relation to the offence.
 
Continuing operation of Act for eligible transactions with commencement date
before 12 September 2012
*** 79 Continuing operation of Act for eligible transactions with commencement
date before 12 September 2012 ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to an eligible transaction if
     the commencement date for the transaction is a date before 12
     September 2012.
     (2) This Act continues to apply in relation to the eligible
     transaction as if this Act had not been amended by the Fiscal Repair
     Amendment Act 2012, part 3, division 2.
 
Application of s 20(1)(b) to particular contracts
*** 80 Application of s 20(1)(b) to particular contracts ***
     (1) This section applies to an eligible transaction mentioned in
     section 5(1)(a) or (b) made on or after 12 September 2012 if the
     commissioner is satisfied the transaction forms part of a scheme to
     obtain an increased amount of a first home owner grant under section
     20 as amended by the Fiscal Repair Amendment Act 2012.
     (2) Unless satisfied to the contrary, the commissioner must presume
     the existence of a scheme mentioned in subsection (1) if the contract
     that is the eligible transaction replaces a contract to purchase, or
     a comprehensive home building contract to build, the same or
     substantially similar new home that was made before 12 September
     2012.
     (3) Despite section 20, the amount of a first home owner grant for
     the eligible transaction is the lesser of the following—
          (a) the consideration for the transaction;
          (b) $7000.
 
Continuing operation of Act for particular eligible transactions with
commencement date earlier than 11 October 2012
*** 81 Continuing operation of Act for particular eligible transactions with
commencement date earlier than 11 October 2012 ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to an eligible transaction if
     the commencement date for the transaction is on or after 12 September
     2012 but before 11 October 2012.
     (2) This Act as in force on 12 September 2012 continues to apply in
     relation to the eligible transaction as if this Act had not been
     amended by the Fiscal Repair Amendment Act 2012, part 3, division 3.
 
Application of s 15
*** 82 Application of s 15 ***
Section 15(5) applies in relation to an approval or exemption given by the
commissioner on or after 4 July 2013.
 
Application of Act for pre-commencement applications and relevant decisions
*** 83 Application of Act for pre-commencement applications and relevant
decisions ***
     (1) This Act applies in relation to a pre-commencement application or
     relevant decision as if it were an application or decision made under
     this Act.
     (2) However, if it is an offence for a person to contravene a
     provision of this Act, the provision applies in relation to a pre-
     commencement application or relevant decision, or the grant to which
     the application or decision relates, only if the act or omission
     constituting the offence occurs wholly after the commencement.
     (3) For section 56(3), an objection to a relevant decision made
     before the commencement must be lodged within 60 days after the
     commencement.
     (4) In this section—

     "pre-commencement application" means an application for a grant made
     under the RHBBG direction or home builder direction before the
     commencement.

     "relevant decision" means a decision by the commissioner on a pre-
     commencement application for a regional home building boost grant or
     home builder grant, whether the decision is made before or after the
     commencement.
 
Protection from liability for particular officials
*** 84 Protection from liability for particular officials ***
     (1) An official is not civilly liable for an act done, or omission
     made, honestly and without negligence under the RHBBG direction or
     home builder direction before the commencement.
     (2) In this section—

     "official" means—
          (a) the commissioner; or
          (b) an officer or employee of the department to whom the
          commissioner has delegated powers under the RHBBG direction
          or home builder direction.
 
Application of s 68 to particular information
*** 85 Application of s 68 to particular information ***
Section 68 applies to information held by the commissioner, whether the
information was given before or after the commencement.
 
References to First Home Owner Grant Act 2000
*** 86 References to First Home Owner Grant Act 2000 ***
A reference in a document to the First Home Owner Grant Act 2000 may, if the
context permits, be taken to be a reference to this Act.
 
Applications made before commencement that relate to relevant eligible
transactions
*** 87 Applications made before commencement that relate to relevant eligible
transactions ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an application under section 16 was made before the
          commencement of this section; and
          (b) the eligible transaction to which the application
          relates—
               (i) is a relevant eligible transaction under
               section 25EA (1); and
               (ii) has a commencement date on or after 20
               November 2023 and before the commencement of this
               section.
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that—
          (a) the rights and liabilities of all persons in relation
          to the application are, and have always been, the same as
          if part 3, division 7 had been in force from 20 November
          2023; and
          (b) anything done in relation to the application has the
          same effect, and is taken to have always had the same
          effect, as it would have had if part 3, division 7 had been
          in force from 20 November 2023.
 
- SCHEDULE
*** SCHEDULE Dictionary ***

"administration agreement" means an agreement made under section 66.

"agent", of the commissioner for an application for a first home owner grant,
means a financial institution or other person with whom the commissioner has
made an administration agreement.

"appropriately qualified", for a person to whom a power under this Act may be
delegated, includes having the qualifications, experience or standing
appropriate to exercise the power.
     Example of standing—
          a person’s classification level in the public service

"approved form" means a form approved under section 70.

"Australian citizen" see the Australian Citizenship Act 2007 (Cwlth), section
4.

"authorised investigation" means—
     (a) for a first home owner grant—an investigation to decide—
          (i) whether an application under this Act or a
          corresponding law for a first home owner grant has been
          properly made; or
          (ii) whether an objection to a decision made under this Act
          or a corresponding law should be upheld; or
          (iii) whether an applicant to whom, or for whose benefit, a
          first home owner grant has been paid under this Act or a
          corresponding law was eligible for the grant; or
          (iv) whether a condition on which a first home owner grant
          has been paid under this Act or a corresponding law has
          been complied with; or
          (v) another matter reasonably related to the administration
          or enforcement of this Act or a corresponding law; or
     (b) for a regional home building boost grant—an investigation
     mentioned in section 25N (1); or
     (c) for a home builder grant—an investigation mentioned in section
     25W (1).

"authorised officer" means a person appointed as an authorised officer under
section 26.

"building" includes part of a building.

"commencement date", for an eligible transaction, means—
     (a) for a contract for the purchase of a home or to have a home
     built—the date when the contract is made; or
     (b) for the building of a home by an owner builder—
          (i) the date when laying the foundations for the home
          starts; or
          (ii) another date the commissioner considers appropriate in
          the circumstances of the case.

"commissioner" means the Commissioner of State Revenue appointed under the
Taxation Administration Act 2001.

"completed", for an eligible transaction, means—
     (a) for a contract for the purchase of a home—
          (i) when the purchaser becomes entitled to possession of
          the home under the contract; and
          (ii) if the purchaser is to obtain a registered title to
          the land on which the home is built—the purchaser’s
          title is registered; or
     (b) for a contract to have a home built—when the building is ready
     for occupation as a home and any prescribed completion requirements
     are complied with; or
     (c) for the building of a home by an owner builder—when the
     building is ready for occupation as a home and any prescribed
     completion requirements are complied with.

"comprehensive home building contract" means a contract under which a builder
undertakes to build a home from the start of building work to the point where
the home is ready for occupation and, if for any reason, the work to be carried
out under the contract is not completed, includes any further contract under
which the work is to be completed.

"consideration", for an eligible transaction, means—
     (a) for a contract for the purchase of a home—the consideration for
     the purchase; or
     (b) for a contract to have a home built—the total consideration
     payable for the building work; or
     (c) for the building of a home by an owner builder—the actual costs
     to the owner of carrying out the work, excluding any allowance for
     the owner builder’s own labour.

"corresponding law" means an Act of another State corresponding to this Act to
the extent it relates to a first home owner grant.

"eligibility criteria" see section 4.

"eligible home builder transaction" means an eligible transaction within the
meaning of the home builder direction.

"eligible RHBBG transaction" means an eligible transaction within the meaning
of the RHBBG direction.

"eligible transaction" see section 5.

"first home owner grant" means a grant payable under part 3.

"garnishee", for part 4, division 3, see section 49A (1) (b).

"garnishee amount", for part 4, division 3, see section 49A (3).

"garnishee notice", for part 4, division 3, see section 49A (3).

"guardian", of a person under a legal disability, includes a trustee who holds
property on trust for the person under an instrument of trust or by order or
direction of a court or tribunal.

"home" see section 6.

"home builder direction" means the administrative direction called
‘Australian Government HomeBuilder Grant—Queensland’ made by the Minister
and published on the department’s website.

"home builder grant" means a grant payable under part 3B.

"home owner" see section 7.

"new home" see section 6.

"obstruct" includes hinder and attempt to obstruct or hinder.

"occupier", of a place, includes the person apparently in charge of the place.

"option", to purchase, includes a right of pre-emption and right of first
refusal.

"owner" means—
     (a) for a home—see section 7; or
     (b) for land—a person who has a relevant interest in the land.

"owner builder" means an owner of land who builds a home, or has a home built,
on the land without entering into a comprehensive home building contract.

"particular eligible transaction", for part 3, division 6, see section 25D (1).

"penalty amount" see section 47 (2) and (3).

"period 1 transaction", for part 3, division 5, see section 25AA.

"period 2 transaction", for part 3, division 5, see section 25AA.

"period 3 transaction", for part 3, division 5, see section 25AA.

"permanent resident" means—
     (a) the holder of a permanent visa as defined by the Migration Act
     1958 (Cwlth), section 30 (1); or
     (b) a New Zealand citizen who is the holder of a special category
     visa as defined by the Migration Act 1958 (Cwlth), section 32.

"place" includes the following—
     (a) vacant land;
     (b) premises;
     (c) a vehicle;
     (d) a boat;
     (e) an aircraft.

"premises" includes the following—
     (a) a building or structure of any kind;
     (b) the land on which a building or structure is situated.

"prescribed completion requirements", for completion of an eligible
transaction, means requirements prescribed under a regulation.

"public place" means a place the public is entitled to use or is open to, or
used by, the public, whether or not on payment of an admission fee.

"regional eligible transaction", for part 3, division 5, see section 25BA.

"regional home building boost grant" means a grant payable under part 3A.

"registrar" means the registrar of titles or another person responsible for
keeping a register for dealings in land.

"relevant eligible transaction", for part 3, division 7, see section 25EA (1).

"relevant interest" see section 8.

"residence requirement"...

"residence requirements" means the following requirements—
     (a) the requirement—
          (i) under section 15 (1), that an applicant for a first
          home owner grant must occupy the home to which the
          application relates as the applicant’s principal place of
          residence for a continuous period of at least 6 months; or
          (ii) under section 15 (1) and (2) (a), that an applicant
          for a first home owner grant must occupy the home to which
          the application relates as the applicant’s principal
          place of residence for a shorter period approved by the
          commissioner;
     (b) the requirement under section 15 (3) that the period of
     occupation required under section 15 (1), or section 15 (1) and (2)
     (a), must start within 1 year after completion of the eligible
     transaction or a longer period approved by the commissioner.

"residential property" means land in Australia that, at a particular time, has
a building on it that is lawfully occupied as a place of residence or is
suitable for occupation as a place of residence.

"RHBBG direction" means the administrative direction called ‘Regional home
building boost grant’ made by the Minister and published on the
department’s website.

"special eligible transaction", for part 3, division 5, see section 25B (1).

"spouse" see section 9.

"structure" includes part of a structure.

"taxation law" means—
     (a) a law of the Commonwealth or a State about the assessment or
     imposition of a tax, fee, duty or other impost; or
     (b) the repealed Fuel Subsidy Act 1997.

"unencumbered value" see section 8A.
