GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023 

- TABLE OF PROVISIONS

PART 1--PRELIMINARY
1. Purposes  
2. Commencement  
3. Definitions  
4. Taxation Administration Act 1997  
5. Act binds the Crown  

PART 2--CASINO TAXATION

Division 1--Introduction

6. Definitions for Part 2  

Division 2--Imposition and calculation of tax

7. Imposition of tax  
8. Casino tax  
9. Community benefit levy  
10. Additional casino tax&#8212;gross gaming revenue  
11. Additional casino tax&#8212;commission based players gaming revenue  
12. Carrying forward negative total commission based players gaming revenue  

Division 3--Registration and returns

13. Registration of casino operators  
14. Returns and payment of tax  
14A. Power to require regular provision of information etc. during specified period  

PART 3--TAXATION OF KENO

Division 1--Introduction

15. Definitions for Part 3  
16. Net keno revenue  
17. Foreign currency transactions  

Division 2--Imposition and rate of tax

18. Imposition and rate of tax  
19. Rollover of negative net keno revenue to subsequent month  

Division 3--Registration and returns

20. Registration of keno entities  
21. Cancellation of registration by Commissioner  
22. Cancellation of registration by registered keno entity  
23. Returns and payment of tax  

Division 4--General

24. Multi-jurisdictional agreements  
25. Guidelines for determining location  
26. Extraterritorial operation  
27. Hospitals and Charities Fund and Mental Health Fund  
28. Regulations for keno tax  

PART 4--TAXATION OF WAGERING AND BETTING

Division 1--Introduction

29. Definitions for Part 4  
30. Bets made in foreign currency  

Division 2--Imposition, rate and hypothecation of tax

31. Imposition and rate of tax  

Division 4--provides for tax payable groupsups.

32. Tax-free threshold where wagering and betting entity leaves a group  
33. Victorian racing industry payment  
34. ANZAC Day Proceeds Fund  
35. Hospitals and Charities Fund  

Division 3--Registration and returns

36. Registration of wagering and betting entities  
37. Cancellation of registration by Commissioner  
38. Cancellation of registration by registered wagering and betting entity  
39. Returns and payment of tax  

Division 4--Grouping provisions

40. Constitution of groups  
41. Groups of corporations  
42. Groups of commonly controlled businesses  
43. Smaller groups subsumed by larger groups  
44. Imposition and rate of tax  
45. Supplementary provisions for determining tax for groups&#8212;members joining or forming groups during financial year  
46. Supplementary provisions for determining tax for groups&#8212;members leaving groups and joining other groups during financial year  
47. Designated group entities  
48. Registration of designated group entity  
49. Cancellation of registration by Commissioner  
50. Cancellation of registration by registered designated group entity  
51. Group returns and payment of tax  
52. Supplementary provisions for joint and several liability of group members  

Division 5--General

53. Multi-jurisdictional agreements  
54. Guidelines for determining location  
55. Extraterritorial operation  
56. Regulations for wagering and betting tax  

PART 5--GENERAL AND TRANSITIONAL

Division 1--General

57. Regulations  

Division 2--Transitional provisions

58. Transitional provisions in Schedule 2  
SCHEDULE 1 
SCHEDULE 2 
ENDNOTES

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 1
Purposes

The purposes of this Act are&#8212;

         (a)     to consolidate and amend various gambling taxes; and

         (b)     to make consequential amendments to the Casino Control Act
1991, the Casino (Management Agreement) Act 1993, the Gambling
Regulation Act 2003 and the Taxation Administration Act
1997.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 2
Commencement

This Act comes into operation on 1 July
2023.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 3
Definitions

In this Act&#8212;

"additional casino tax" means tax imposed by section 7(1)(c)
and (d);

"casino tax" means tax imposed by
section 7(1)(a);

"community benefit levy" means the levy imposed by section
7(1)(b);

"GST" has the same meaning as in the GST Act;

"GST Act" means the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax)
Act 1999 of the Commonwealth;

"Hospitals and Charities Fund" means the fund established under
section 136 of the Health Services Act 1988;

"keno tax" means tax imposed by Part 3;

"Mental Health Fund" means the fund referred to in section
10.3.4 of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003;

"VGCCC" means Victorian Gambling and Casino Control Commission
established under Part 2 of the Victorian Gambling and Casino Control
Commission Act 2011;

"wagering and betting tax" means tax imposed by Part
4;

"written notice" includes a notice given in the form of
electronic data from which a written document can be produced or
reproduced.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 4
Taxation Administration Act 1997

This Act is to be read together with the
Taxation Administration Act 1997 which provides for the
administration and enforcement of this Act and other taxation laws.

Note

This Act and regulations made under this Act are a taxation law under the
Taxation Administration Act 1997.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 5
Act binds the Crown

     (1)     This Act binds the Crown in right of
Victoria and, so far as the legislative power of the Parliament permits, the
Crown in all its other capacities.

     (2)     Nothing in this Act makes the Crown in any of its capacities liable to
be prosecuted for an offence.

Part
2&#8212;Casino taxation

Division
1&#8212;Introduction

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 6
Definitions for Part 2

In this Part&#8212;

casino has the meaning given by section 3(1) of the
Casino Control Act 1991;

casino operator has the meaning given by section 3(1) of
the Casino Control Act 1991;

"commission based player" means a person who participates in a
premium player arrangement with a casino operator where the person and the
casino operator satisfy the requirements of any relevant controls and procedures
approved by the VGCCC under section 121 of the Casino Control Act 1991 in
respect of a premium player;

commission based players gaming revenue attributable to gaming
machines means the total amount received by a casino operator from
bets made on gaming machines in the casino by commission based players,
including any amounts in respect of the face value of any free bets,
less&#8212;

         (a)     the total amount of all prizes paid from that amount, including net
prizes paid in relation to free bets (other than prizes paid into or out of a
jackpot special prize pool); and

         (b)     the total of all amounts received by the casino operator from bets
made on gaming machines by commission based players that are paid into a jackpot
special prize pool and that are required to be paid or payable as
prizes;

commission based players gaming revenue attributable to table
games means the total of all amounts, including cheques and other
negotiable instruments whether collected or not, received in any period by a
casino operator from the conduct or playing of table games in the casino by
commission based players, including any amounts in respect of the face value of
any free bets, less the total amount of all winnings paid in that period by the
casino operator to commission based players in respect of the conduct or playing
of table games in the casino by them, including net prizes paid in relation to
free bets;

"free bet" means a bet made wholly or partly without the person
making the bet paying any monetary amount for the bet or part of the
bet;

gaming machine has the meaning given by section 1.3(1)
of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003;

"gaming revenue attributable to gaming machines" means the
total amount received by a casino operator from bets made on gaming machines in
the casino by players other than commission based players, including any amounts
in respect of the face value of any free bets, less&#8212;

         (a)     the total amount of all prizes paid from that amount, including net
prizes paid in relation to free bets (other than prizes paid into or out of a
jackpot special prize pool); and

         (b)     the total of all amounts received by the casino operator from bets
made on gaming machines by players other than commission based players that are
paid into a jackpot special prize pool and that are required to be paid or
payable as prizes;

"gaming revenue attributable to table games" means the
total of all amounts, including cheques and other negotiable instruments whether
collected or not, received in any period by a casino operator from the conduct
or playing of table games in the casino by players other than commission based
players, including any amounts in respect of the face value of any free bets,
less the total amount of all winnings paid in that period by the casino operator
in respect of the conduct or playing of table games in the casino by players
other than commission based players, including net prizes paid in relation to
free bets;

"global GST amount" has the same meaning as in the GST
Act;

"gross gaming revenue" means the sum of&#8212;

         (a)     gaming revenue attributable to gaming machines; and

         (b)     gaming revenue attributable to table games;

jackpot special prize pool has the meaning given by
section 3.1.2 of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003;

"net prizes", in relation to free bets, means any prizes
payable in respect of the bets minus the face value of the bets;

premium player arrangement has the meaning given by
section 3(1) of the Casino Control Act 1991;

"State tax credit", for a casino operator in respect of a
month, means an amount equal to the amount determined under Division 126 of the
GST Act as the operator's global GST amount for the month;

"table game" means&#8212;

         (a)     a game that has been approved by the VGCCC under section 60 of the
Casino Control Act 1991 as a "table game" at any time on or after 4 June
2009; or

         (b)     a semi-automated, fully automated, electronic or animated version of a
game referred to in paragraph (a); or

         (c)     a game that is substantially similar to a game referred to in
paragraph (a) or (b);

"total commission based players gaming revenue" means the sum
of&#8212;

         (a)     commission based players gaming revenue attributable to gaming
machines; and

         (b)     commission based players gaming revenue attributable to table
games;

"total gaming revenue" means the sum of&#8212;

         (a)     gross gaming revenue; and

         (b)     total commission based players gaming revenue.

Division
2&#8212;Imposition and calculation of tax

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 7
Imposition of tax

     (1)     The following taxes are imposed on the
revenue from gaming machines and table games in a casino&#8212;

         (a)     casino tax in accordance with section 8;

         (b)     a community benefit levy in accordance with section 9;

         (c)     additional casino tax in accordance with section 10;

         (d)     additional casino tax in accordance with section 11.

     (2)     The casino operator is liable to pay the taxes imposed by subsection
(1) in respect of a casino.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 8
Casino tax

     (1)     Subject to subsection (6), casino tax is
calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where&#8212;

     CT     is the casino tax payable by a casino operator for a
month;

     TCT     is the casino operator's total casino tax calculated under
subsection (2) for the month;

     STC     is the casino operator's State tax credit for the
month.

     (2)     For the purposes of subsection (1), a casino operator's total casino
tax is calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where&#8212;

     TCT     is the casino operator's total casino tax for a
month;

     TT     is an amount equal to 21&#183;25% of the casino operator's
gaming revenue attributable to table games in the month;

     TG     is the tax on the casino operator's gaming revenue attributable
to gaming machines in the month, calculated under subsection (3);

     TCBP     is an amount equal to 9% of the casino operator's total
commission based players gaming revenue in the month.

     (3)     For the purposes of subsection (2), the tax on a casino operator's
gaming revenue attributable to gaming machines is calculated in accordance with
the following formula&#8212;

where&#8212;

     TG     is the tax on the casino operator's gaming revenue attributable
to gaming machines in a month;

     GMT     is the tax per gaming machine installed in the
casino calculated under subsection (4) in the month;

     E     is the average number of gaming machines installed in the casino
in the month, calculated by dividing the sum of the total number of gaming
machines installed in the casino on each day of the month by the number of days
in the month.

     (4)     For the purposes of subsection (3), the tax per gaming machine
installed in a casino is the sum of the amounts of average gaming revenue
attributable to gaming machines installed in the casino determined by
multiplying those parts of that average gaming revenue specified in
Column 1 of the Table by the rate specified in Column 2 of the Table
opposite those parts.

Table

      
      

Column 1

Column 2

The part of average gaming revenue attributable to gaming machines
that:

Rate of tax

does not exceed $2666

0&#183;00%

exceeds $2666 but does not exceed $6666.67

46&#183;70%

exceeds $6666.67 but does not exceed $12 500

51&#183;17%

exceeds $12 500

60&#183;67%

     (5)     In subsection (4), the average gaming revenue attributable to
gaming machines installed in the casino is the amount calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where&#8212;

     A     is the average gaming revenue attributable to gaming machines
installed in the casino in a month;

     TR     is the gaming revenue attributable to gaming machines installed
in the casino in the month;

     E     has the same meaning as in subsection (3).

     (6)     For the purposes of subsection (1)&#8212;

         (a)     if a casino operator's total gaming revenue in a month is less than
zero, the State tax credit for that month is to be applied to the total casino
tax for the following month; and

         (b)     if a casino operator's total casino tax for a month is less than the
operator's State tax credit for that month, the excess amount of the State tax
credit is to be applied to the total casino tax for the following
month.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 9
Community benefit levy

     (1)     The community benefit levy is 1% of a
casino operator's total gaming revenue in a month.

     (2)     An amount equal to the amount of community benefit levy paid into the
Consolidated Fund must, in respect of each financial year, be paid out of the
Consolidated Fund, in the proportions determined by the Treasurer, into the
Hospitals and Charities Fund.

     (3)     The Consolidated Fund is appropriated to the necessary extent for
payment to be made under subsection (2).

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 10
Additional casino tax&#8212;gross gaming revenue

     (1)     Additional casino tax is payable in
accordance with this section if a casino operator's gross gaming revenue in a
financial year exceeds the base amount for that financial year.

     (2)     The additional casino tax is the amount in Column 2 of the Table
in Schedule 1 opposite the amount in Column 2 of that Table by which the gross
gaming revenue of the casino operator in the financial year exceeds the base
amount for that year.

     (3)     For the purposes of this section and Schedule 1, the base
amount for a financial year is&#8212;

         (a)     for the financial year beginning on
1 July 2023&#8212;$1 200 000 000; and

         (b)     for a subsequent financial year, subject to subsection (4)&#8212;the
amount determined in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where&#8212;

     BA     is the base amount for the financial year;

     CPIi     is the all groups consumer price index for
Melbourne in original terms for the last reference period in the preceding
financial year most recently published by the Australian Bureau of
Statistics;

     CPIii     is the all groups consumer price index in original
terms for Melbourne for the corresponding reference period one year earlier than
the reference period referred to in CPIi most recently published by
the Australian Bureau of Statistics;

     P     is the base amount for the previous financial year.

     (4)     For the purposes of subsection (3), if the consumer price index
referred to in the definition of CPIi and CPIii is
discontinued, suspended or otherwise altered to such an extent that an
adjustment cannot, in the reasonable opinion of the Commissioner, be made, the
base amount is to be determined by substituting another index that in the
Commissioner's opinion is comparable.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 11
Additional casino tax&#8212;commission based players gaming revenue

     (1)     Additional casino tax is payable in
accordance with this section if a casino operator's total commission based
players gaming revenue in a financial year is less than
$100 000 000.

     (2)     The amount of the additional casino tax is calculated in accordance
with the following formula&#8212;

where&#8212;

     ACT     is the additional casino tax for the financial year;

     TCBP     is the casino operator's total commission based players gaming
revenue in the financial year.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 12
Carrying forward negative total commission based players gaming revenue

If, in any month, a casino operator's total
commission based players gaming revenue is less than zero, the negative amount
may be carried forward to the following month and applied to reduce the total
commission based players gaming revenue in that month.

Division
3&#8212;Registration and returns

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 13
Registration of casino operators

     (1)     A casino operator that becomes liable for
tax under this Part must apply to the Commissioner, in the form approved by the
Commissioner, for registration under this Division within 14 days after the end
of the first month in which the operator becomes liable.

Penalty:     500 penalty units in the case of a body corporate;

     100 penalty units in any other case.

Note

Section 130B of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 applies to
an offence against this subsection.

     (2)     The Commissioner must register a casino operator that applies under
subsection (1).

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 14
Returns and payment of tax

     (1)     A casino operator must&#8212;

         (a)     within 30 days after the end of each month&#8212;

               (i)     lodge with the Commissioner a return in respect of the month and a
copy of the operator's GST return in respect of the month lodged under Division
31 of the GST Act; and

               (ii)     pay to the Commissioner any casino tax and community benefit levy
payable for the month; and

         (b)     within 30 days after the end of each financial year, pay to the
Commissioner any additional casino tax payable for the financial year.

     (2)     A casino operator must lodge a return under subsection (1)(a)(i)
even if no casino tax or community benefit levy is payable for the
month.

     (3)     A return is to be in the form, and contain the information,
determined by the Commissioner.

S. 14A inserted by
No. 22/2024 s. 5.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 14A
Power to require regular provision of information etc. during specified period

     (1)     The Commissioner, by written notice, may
require a casino operator to provide to the Commissioner any information,
document or thing that&#8212;

         (a)     is of a class of information, document or thing specified in the
notice; and

         (b)     is in or comes into the possession of the casino operator during the
period (not exceeding 6 months) specified in the notice; and

         (c)     is an additional record that the casino operator is required to keep,
or cause to be kept, in accordance with a written notice under section 51 of the
Taxation Administration Act 1997.

     (2)     A casino operator to whom a notice is given under subsection (1) must
provide any information, document or thing required by the notice within the
timeframe specified in the notice or any extended timeframe specified by the
Commissioner.

Penalty:     500 penalty units in the case of a body corporate;

     100 penalty units in any other case.

Note

Section 130B of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 applies to
an offence against this subsection.

     (3)     A casino operator does not commit an offence against subsection (2) if
the casino operator has a reasonable excuse for not providing the required
information, document or thing within the timeframe specified in the notice or
any extended timeframe specified by the Commissioner.

Part
3&#8212;Taxation of keno

Division
1&#8212;Introduction

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 15
Definitions for Part 3

In this Part&#8212;

"free keno game" means a keno game played by a person without
paying, wholly or in part, a monetary amount to play the game;

"keno entity" means any of the following&#8212;

         (a)     a keno licensee;

         (b)     a person authorised or permitted to conduct a keno game, in Victoria
or elsewhere, under the law of another State or a Territory;

         (c)     a person, or person of a class, prescribed by the
regulations;

keno game has the meaning given by section 1.3(1) of the
Gambling Regulation Act 2003;

keno licensee has the meaning given by section 1.3(1) of
the Gambling Regulation Act 2003;

multi-jurisdictional agreement has the meaning given by
section 24(1);

"net keno revenue"&#8212;see section 16;

"net prizes", in relation to a free keno game, means the prizes
payable on the keno game minus the face value of the keno game;

"participating jurisdiction" means Victoria and another State
or a Territory that enters into a multi-jurisdictional agreement;

"registered keno entity" means a keno entity that is
registered under section 20.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 16
Net keno revenue

     (1)     For the purposes of this Part, the
net keno revenue of a keno entity in respect of a month is the
amount calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where&#8212;

          NKR     is the net keno revenue of the keno entity in respect of a
month;

          TA     is the sum of&#8212;

         (a)     the total amount received by the keno entity in the month for keno
games played by persons who were located in Victoria at the time of playing the
keno games, including any amounts in respect of the face value of any free keno
games played by those persons; and

         (b)     the total of any other amounts of a kind prescribed by the regulations
to be TA;

     TP     is the sum of&#8212;

         (a)     the total amount of all prizes paid or payable in the month directly
to persons who were located in Victoria at the time of playing the keno games,
including net prizes paid in relation to free keno games, other than prizes paid
into or out of a prize pool; and

         (b)     the total of all amounts received by the keno entity in the month for
keno games played by persons who were located in Victoria at the time of playing
the keno games&#8212;

               (i)     that are paid into a prize pool; and

               (ii)     that are required to be paid or payable as prizes to players of keno
games (whether located in Victoria or elsewhere); and

         (c)     the total of any other amounts of a kind prescribed by the regulations
to be TP.

     (2)     In determining the net keno revenue of a keno entity, any amounts in
respect of GST payable by the entity in respect of supplies to which the revenue
relates are to be included.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 17
Foreign currency transactions

For the purposes of this Part, if a payment to
play a keno game is made in a currency other than Australian currency, the
amount of the payment is to be converted to Australian currency at the exchange
rate published by the Reserve Bank of Australia&#8212;

         (a)     on the day on which the payment is made; or

         (b)     if the rate is not published on that day, on the last day on which the
rate was published before that day.

Division
2&#8212;Imposition and rate of tax

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 18
Imposition and rate of tax

     (1)     Subject to section 19, tax is imposed on
the net keno revenue of a keno entity in respect of a month at the rate of
24&#183;24%.

     (2)     The keno entity is liable to pay keno tax on the entity's net keno
revenue.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 19
Rollover of negative net keno revenue to subsequent month

If the net keno revenue of a keno entity in
respect of a month is a negative amount, that amount may be applied to reduce
the net keno revenue of the keno entity in respect of the next or a subsequent
month for the purposes of determining the keno entity's keno tax in respect of
that next or subsequent month.

Division
3&#8212;Registration and returns

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 20
Registration of keno entities

     (1)     Subject to subsection (2), a keno entity
that becomes liable for keno tax must apply to the Commissioner, in the form
approved by the Commissioner, for registration under this Division before the
end of the first month in which the entity becomes liable.

Penalty:     500 penalty units in the case of a body corporate;

     100 penalty units in any other case.

Note

Section 130B of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 applies to
an offence against this subsection.

     (2)     A keno entity does not commit an offence against subsection (1) if the
entity has a reasonable excuse for not applying for registration.

     (3)     The Commissioner must register a keno entity that applies under
subsection (1).

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 21
Cancellation of registration by Commissioner

     (1)     The Commissioner, by written notice to a
registered keno entity, may cancel the entity's registration under this Division
for any reason the Commissioner thinks sufficient.

     (2)     A cancellation of registration has effect from the date specified
for the purpose by the Commissioner in the notice of cancellation.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 22
Cancellation of registration by registered keno entity

     (1)     A registered keno entity that ceases to
incur any liability to pay keno tax and does not expect to incur any such
liability in the future must, within 14 days after so
ceasing&#8212;

         (a)     give written notice of that fact to the Commissioner; and

         (b)     unless previously lodged&#8212;

               (i)     lodge a return for the final month in respect of which they
are liable to pay keno tax under section 18; and

               (ii)     pay any keno tax to which the return relates.

     (2)     The notice cancels the registered keno entity's registration under
this Division on the day on which it is received by the Commissioner.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 23
Returns and payment of tax

     (1)     Every keno entity that is registered or
required to apply for registration under this Division must, within 30 days
after the end of each month&#8212;

         (a)     lodge with the Commissioner a return in respect of the month;
and

         (b)     pay to the Commissioner any keno tax payable under section 18 on net
keno revenue in respect of the month.

     (2)     A keno entity must lodge a return under subsection (1) even if no
keno tax is payable in respect of the month.

     (3)     A return is to be in the form, and contain the information,
determined by the Commissioner.

Division
4&#8212;General

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 24
Multi-jurisdictional agreements

     (1)     The Treasurer may enter into an agreement
(a multi-jurisdictional agreement) with one or more
other States or one or more Territories, or both, to establish and implement
processes for achieving improvements in the assessment and collection of taxes,
interest and penalties imposed by the participating jurisdictions on keno
operations that are carried on in multiple jurisdictions.

     (2)     A multi-jurisdictional agreement may&#8212;

         (a)     provide for collection of taxes, interest and penalties by a
participating jurisdiction on behalf of other participating jurisdictions and
for the distribution of amounts so collected; and

         (b)     provide for each participating jurisdiction to collect, on behalf of
all participating jurisdictions, taxes, interest and penalties payable to
those jurisdictions by keno entities whose businesses are based in the
collecting jurisdiction; and

         (c)     provide for participating jurisdictions to undertake audits or
investigations in respect of taxes, interest and penalties payable by a keno
entity under the law of another participating jurisdiction; and

         (d)     authorise the performance of functions under this Act or the
Taxation Administration Act 1997 by a specified authority of a
participating jurisdiction, subject to subsection (4) and any other limitations
specified in the agreement; and

         (e)     authorise the performance of functions under a specified law of
another participating jurisdiction by the Commissioner, subject to any law
of that jurisdiction and any other limitations specified in the agreement;
and

         (f)     provide for participating jurisdictions to assist each other in
making timely and accurate determinations of taxes, interest and penalties
payable by sharing information available to them, including the results of
audits and investigations and any other information of a kind specified in
the agreement; and

         (g)     provide for any other measures or matters that the participating
jurisdictions consider necessary or expedient for achieving improvements in the
assessment or collection of taxes, interest and penalties or for
implementing processes established by the agreement for that
purpose.

     (3)     A multi-jurisdictional agreement operates for the period, and may be
varied or terminated in such a manner, as the participating jurisdictions
agree.

     (4)     A multi-jurisdictional agreement&#8212;

         (a)     must be consistent with this Act and the Taxation Administration
Act 1997; and

         (b)     cannot authorise a participating jurisdiction&#8212;

               (i)     to make a binding determination of the amount of tax, interest or
penalties payable by a keno entity under the laws of another participating
jurisdiction; or

               (ii)     to take enforcement action in respect of tax, interest or penalties
payable by a keno entity under the laws of another participating
jurisdiction.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 25
Guidelines for determining location

     (1)     The Commissioner may from time to time
publish guidelines, not inconsistent with this Act or the regulations, for
determining the location of a person who plays a keno game conducted by a
keno entity.

     (2)     Guidelines published under subsection (1) are not legislative
instruments within the meaning of the Subordinate Legislation
Act 1994.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 26
Extraterritorial operation

This Part applies in relation to a keno entity
that is located outside Victoria.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 27
Hospitals and Charities Fund and Mental Health Fund

     (1)     An amount equal to the amount of keno tax
paid into the Consolidated Fund must, in respect of each financial year, be paid
out of the Consolidated Fund, in the proportions determined by the Treasurer,
into&#8212;

         (a)     the Hospitals and Charities Fund; and

         (b)     the Mental Health Fund.

     (2)     The Consolidated Fund is appropriated to the necessary extent for
payment to be made under subsection (1).

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 28
Regulations for keno tax

The regulations may prescribe&#8212;

         (a)     methods for determining the location of persons playing keno games
conducted by a keno entity; and

         (b)     persons or classes of persons that are keno entities; and

         (c)     amounts to be TA or TP for the purpose of net keno
revenue.

Part
4&#8212;Taxation of wagering and betting

Division
1&#8212;Introduction

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 29
Definitions for Part 4

     (1)     In this Part&#8212;

"ANWR"&#8212;see section 44(1);

approved betting competition has the meaning given by
section 1.3(1) of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003;

approved simulated racing event has the meaning given by
section 4.1.2 of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003;

"bet" means&#8212;

         (a)     a wager or bet&#8212;

               (i)     on a wagering event, an approved betting competition or an
approved simulated racing event, or made through a betting exchange, under
Chapter 4 of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003; or

               (ii)     on an event, competition or product, or made through a service, that
is permitted under a law of another State or a Territory and that is
similar in nature to a wagering event, an approved betting competition,
an approved simulated racing event or a betting exchange; or

         (b)     a wager or bet of a kind prescribed by the regulations;

betting exchange has the meaning given by section 1.3(1)
of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003;

"business" means the business of a wagering and betting entity,
whether carried on by one person or 2 or more persons together;

"corporation" has the same meaning as in section 9 of the
Corporations Act;

"designated group entity" means an entity designated for a
group under section 47;

"free bet" means a bet made wholly or partly without the person
making the bet paying any monetary amount for the bet or part of
the bet;

"Gaming Minister" means the Minister administering Part 1 of
Chapter 4 of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003;

"group" means a group constituted under
Division 4;

multi-jurisdictional agreement has the meaning given by
section 53(1);

"net wagering revenue" of a wagering and betting entity
means&#8212;

         (a)     in respect of bets in relation to which the entity is not operating a
totalisator or betting exchange or acting as an agent, the sum
of&#8212;

               (i)     the total amount of all bets, including the face value of any free
bets, made with the entity by persons who were located in Victoria at the
time of making the bets; and

               (ii)     the total amount of any other amounts of a kind prescribed by the
regulations associated with making the bets&#8212;

less the sum of&#8212;

               (iii)     the total amount of all winnings paid or payable to the persons
making the bets, including net winnings paid in relation to free bets; and

               (iv)     the total of any other amounts of a kind prescribed by the
regulations; and

         (b)     in respect of bets in relation to which the entity is operating a
totalisator or acting as an agent, the sum of&#8212;

               (i)     the total amount of all commission received by the
entity for accepting bets made, or providing a service through
which bets are made, by persons who were located in Victoria at the time of
making the bets or using the service; and

               (ii)     the total amount of any other amounts of a kind prescribed
by the regulations associated with making the bets or using
the service; and

               (iii)     in the case of a totalisator, the total amount retained by the
entity as a consequence of the rounding down of fractions in
the calculation of dividends in respect of the bets (whether
under section 4.6.2(6) of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003 or
otherwise)&#8212;

less the total of any other amounts of a kind prescribed by the
regulations; and

         (c)     in respect of bets in relation to which the entity is operating a
betting exchange, the sum of&#8212;

               (i)     the total amount of all commission received by the entity in
relation to bets made through the betting exchange by persons who were located
in Victoria at the time the bets were made; and

               (ii)     the total amount of any other amounts of a kind prescribed by the
regulations associated with making the bets&#8212;

less the total of any other amounts of a kind prescribed by the
regulations;

"net winnings", in relation to a free bet, means the winnings
payable on the bet minus the face value of the bet;

"participating jurisdiction" means Victoria and another State
or a Territory that enters into a multi-jurisdictional
agreement;

"Racing Minister" means the Minister administering the
Racing Act 1958;

registered bookmaker has the meaning given by
section 1.3(1) of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003;

"registered designated group entity" means a designated group
entity that is registered under section 48;

"registered wagering and betting entity" means a wagering and
betting entity that is registered under section 36;

"tax-free threshold", in respect of a financial year, means
$1 000 000;

totalisator has the meaning given by section 1.3(1) of
the Gambling Regulation Act 2003;

"Victorian racing industry payment" means the proportion
of wagering and betting tax determined by the Treasurer under
section 33(1);

"wagering and betting entity" means any of the
following&#8212;

         (a)     a registered bookmaker;

         (b)     a wagering and betting licensee;

         (c)     any other person who is registered or licensed in Victoria to accept
bets or provide a service through which bets are made;

         (d)     a person who is registered or licensed in another State or in a
Territory to accept bets or provide a service through which bets are
made;

         (e)     a person, or person of a class, prescribed by the
regulations;

wagering and betting licensee has the meaning given by
section 1.3(1) of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003;

wagering event has the meaning given by section 1.3(1)
of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003.

     (2)     In determining the net wagering revenue of a wagering and betting
entity, including a member of a group, any amounts in respect of GST payable by
the entity in respect of supplies to which the revenue relates are to be
included.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 30
Bets made in foreign currency

For the purposes of this Part, if a bet is made
in a currency other than Australian currency, the amount of the bet is to be
converted to Australian currency at the exchange rate published by the Reserve
Bank of Australia&#8212;

         (a)     on the day on which the bet is made; or

         (b)     if the rate is not published on that day, on the last day on which the
rate was published before that day.

Division
2&#8212;Imposition, rate and hypothecation of tax

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 31
Imposition and rate of tax

     (1)     Subject to section 32 and Division 4, tax
is imposed on the net wagering revenue of a wagering and betting
entity&#8212;

         (a)     at the rate of 10% of the amount of net wagering revenue in excess of
the tax-free threshold on and after 1 July 2023 and before 1 July 2024;
and

         (b)     at the rate of 15% of the amount of net wagering revenue in excess of
the tax-free threshold on and after 1 July 2024.

     (2)     The wagering and betting entity is liable to pay wagering and betting
tax on the entity's net wagering revenue.

Note

Division 4 provides for tax payable by groups.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 32
Tax-free threshold where wagering and betting entity leaves a group

     (1)     This section applies if a wagering and
betting entity (the leaving entity) ceases to be a member of a
group during a financial year.

Note

See section 46 for the situation where the leaving entity joins or forms
another group during the financial year.

     (2)     Subject to subsection (3), for the purposes of section 31 the
leaving entity's tax-free threshold in respect of the remainder of the financial
year is reduced by an amount equal to the leaving entity's net wagering revenue
during the financial year while the leaving entity was a member of the
group.

     (3)     If the amount of the leaving entity's net wagering revenue
referred to in subsection (2) is equal to or exceeds the leaving entity's
tax&#8209;free threshold in respect of the financial year but for subsection
(2), the tax&#8209;free threshold for the leaving entity in respect of the
remainder of the financial year is zero.

Examples

1     A wagering and betting entity ceases to be a member of a group
on 1 October 2023. From 1 July to 30 September 2023 the entity's net
wagering revenue was $800 000. This amount is reduced from the entity's tax-free
threshold in respect of the remainder of the financial year, which would
otherwise be $1 000 000, so the entity's tax-free threshold in respect
of the remainder of the financial year is $200 000.

2     A wagering and betting entity ceases to be a member of a group on 1
March 2024. From 1 July 2023 to 29 February 2024 the entity's
net wagering revenue was $1 500 000. As this amount exceeds what would
otherwise be the entity's tax&#8209;free threshold in respect of the
financial year ($1 000 000), the entity's tax-free threshold in
respect of the remainder of the financial year is zero.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 33
Victorian racing industry payment

     (1)     The Treasurer, by notice published in the
Government Gazette, must determine from time to time a proportion of the
amount of wagering and betting tax paid or payable to be the Victorian racing
industry payment to be paid to an entity specified in the notice that, in
the Treasurer's opinion, represents or is connected with the Victorian racing
industry.

     (2)     Before determining the amount of the Victorian racing industry
payment, the Treasurer must consult the Gaming Minister and the Racing
Minister.

     (3)     The Victorian racing industry payment must be paid out of the
Consolidated Fund (which is appropriated to the necessary extent) each month to
the specified entity.

     (4)     The Victorian racing industry payment or any part of it must not
be used by the specified entity or any other entity to provide direct or
indirect financial or other support to a wagering and betting entity.

     (5)     A notice published under subsection (1) is not a legislative
instrument within the meaning of the Subordinate Legislation Act
1994.

     (6)     In this section&#8212;

"specified entity" means the entity specified in the notice
under subsection (1).

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 34
ANZAC Day Proceeds Fund

Before the end of each financial year the
Treasurer must pay out of the Consolidated Fund (which is appropriated to the
necessary extent) into the ANZAC Day Proceeds Fund established under the
ANZAC Day Act 1958 an amount equal to one-thirtieth of the amount of
wagering and betting tax paid or payable in respect of the month of April in
that financial year.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 35
Hospitals and Charities Fund

The following amounts must be paid out of the
Consolidated Fund (which is appropriated to the necessary extent) into the
Hospitals and Charities Fund&#8212;

         (a)     an amount equal to the amount of wagering and betting tax paid or
payable in respect of each month other than April less the Victorian racing
industry payment for that month;

         (b)     an amount equal to the amount of wagering and betting tax paid or
payable in respect of the month of April less&#8212;

               (i)     the Victorian racing industry payment for that month; and

               (ii)     the payment into the ANZAC Day Proceeds Fund under
section 34 in respect of that month.

Division
3&#8212;Registration and returns

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 36
Registration of wagering and betting entities

     (1)     Subject to subsection (2) and Division 4,
a wagering and betting entity that becomes liable to pay wagering and
betting tax must apply to the Commissioner, in the form approved by that
Commissioner, for registration under this Division before the end of the first
month in which the entity becomes liable.

Penalty:     500 penalty units in the case of a body corporate;

     100 penalty units in any other case.

Note

Section 130B of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 applies to
an offence against this subsection.

     (2)     A wagering and betting entity does not commit an offence against
subsection (1) if the entity has a reasonable excuse for not applying
for registration.

     (3)     The Commissioner must register a wagering and betting entity that
applies under subsection (1).

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 37
Cancellation of registration by Commissioner

     (1)     The Commissioner, by written notice to a
registered wagering and betting entity, may cancel the entity's
registration under this Division for any reason the Commissioner thinks
sufficient.

     (2)     A cancellation of registration has effect from the date specified
for the purpose by the Commissioner in the notice
of cancellation.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 38
Cancellation of registration by registered wagering and betting entity

     (1)     A registered wagering and betting entity
that ceases to incur any liability to pay wagering and betting tax and does not
expect to incur any such liability in the future must, within 14 days after
so ceasing&#8212;

         (a)     give written notice of that fact to the Commissioner; and

         (b)     unless previously lodged&#8212;

               (i)     lodge a return for the final month in respect of which they are liable
to pay wagering and betting tax under section 31; and

               (ii)     pay any wagering and betting tax to which the return
relates.

     (2)     The notice cancels the registered wagering and betting entity's
registration under this Division on the day on which it is received by the
Commissioner.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 39
Returns and payment of tax

     (1)     Subject to Division 4, every wagering and
betting entity that is registered or required to apply for registration under
this Division must, within 30 days after the end of each
month&#8212;

         (a)     lodge with the Commissioner a return in respect of the month;
and

         (b)     pay to the Commissioner any wagering and betting tax payable under
section 31 on net wagering revenue in respect of the month.

     (2)     A wagering and betting entity must lodge a return under
subsection (1) even if no wagering and betting tax is payable in respect of the
month.

     (3)     A return is to be in the form, and contain the information,
determined by the Commissioner.

Division
4&#8212;Grouping provisions

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 40
Constitution of groups

     (1)     A group is constituted by all the entities
forming a group that is not part of any larger group.

     (2)     The fact that an entity is not a member of a group constituted under a
provision of this Division does not prevent that entity from being a member of a
group constituted under another provision of this Division.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 41
Groups of corporations

Corporations constitute a group if they are
related bodies corporate within the meaning of the Corporations Act.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 42
Groups of commonly controlled businesses

     (1)     If a person or set of persons has a
controlling interest in each of 2 businesses, the persons who carry on those
businesses constitute a group.

     (2)     For the purposes of this section, a person or set of persons has a
controlling interest in a business if&#8212;

         (a)     in the case of one person&#8212;the person is the sole owner
(whether or not as trustee) of the business; or

         (b)     in the case of a set of persons&#8212;the persons are together as
trustees the sole owners of the business; or

         (c)     in the case of a business carried on by a corporation&#8212;

               (i)     the person or each of the set of persons is a director of the
corporation and the person or set of persons is entitled to exercise more than
50% of the voting power at meetings of the directors of the corporation;
or

               (ii)     a director or set of directors of the corporation that is entitled to
exercise more than 50% of the voting power at meetings of the directors of
the corporation is under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act
in accordance with the direction, instructions or wishes of that person
or set of persons; or

         (d)     in the case of a business carried on by a corporation that has a
share capital&#8212;that person or set of persons can, directly or indirectly,
exercise, control the exercise of, or substantially influence the exercise of,
more than 50% of the voting power attached to the voting shares, or any
class of voting shares, issued by the corporation; or

         (e)     in the case of a business carried on by a partnership&#8212;that
person or set of persons&#8212;

               (i)     own (whether beneficially or not) more than 50% of the capital of
the partnership; or

               (ii)     is entitled (whether beneficially or not) to more than 50% of
the profits of the partnership; or

         (f)     in the case of a business carried on under a trust&#8212;that person
or set of persons (whether or not as trustee of, or beneficiary under, another
trust) is the beneficiary in respect of more than 50% of the value of the
interests in the first&#8209;mentioned trust.

     (3)     If&#8212;

         (a)     2 corporations are related bodies corporate within the meaning of the
Corporations Act; and

         (b)     one of the corporations has a controlling interest in a
business&#8212;

the other corporation has a controlling interest in the
business.

     (4)     If&#8212;

         (a)     a person or set of persons has a controlling interest in a business;
and

         (b)     a person or set of persons who carry on the business has a controlling
interest in another business&#8212;

the person or set of persons referred to in paragraph (a) has a controlling
interest in that other business.

     (5)     If&#8212;

         (a)     a person or set of persons is the beneficiary of a trust in respect of
more than 50% of the value of the interests in the trust; and

         (b)     the trustee of the trust (whether alone or together with another
trustee or trustees) has a controlling interest in the business of
another trust&#8212;

the person or set of persons has a controlling interest in the
business.

     (6)     A person who may benefit from a discretionary trust as a result of the
trustee or another person, or the trustee and another person,
exercising or failing to exercise a power or discretion, is taken, for
the purposes of this Division, to be a beneficiary in respect of more than 50%
of the value of the interests in the trust.

     (7)     If&#8212;

         (a)     a person or set of persons has a controlling interest in the business
of a trust; and

         (b)     the trustee of the trust (whether alone or together with another
trustee or trustees) has a controlling interest in the business of a
corporation&#8212;

the person or set of persons is taken to have a controlling interest
in the business of the corporation.

     (8)     If&#8212;

         (a)     a person or set of persons has a controlling interest in the business
of a trust; and

         (b)     the trustee of the trust (whether alone or together with another
trustee or trustees) has a controlling interest in the business of
a partnership&#8212;

the person or set of persons is taken to have a controlling interest
in the business of the partnership.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 43
Smaller groups subsumed by larger groups

     (1)     If a person is a member of 2 or more
groups, the members of all the groups together constitute a group.

     (2)     If 2 or more members of a group have together a controlling
interest in a business (within the meaning of section 42), all the members
of the group and the person or persons who carry on the business together
constitute a group.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 44
Imposition and rate of tax

     (1)     Subject to section 45, tax is payable on
the net wagering revenue of a group in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

where&#8212;

          TR     is&#8212;

         (a)     10% on and after 1 July 2023 and before 1 July 2024;

         (b)     15% on and after 1 July 2024;

          ANWR     is the aggregate amount of the net wagering revenue of
the members of the group;

          TFT     is the tax-free threshold.

     (2)     Every member of the group, whether or not a wagering and betting
entity, is jointly and severally liable to pay wagering and betting
tax on the group's net wagering revenue.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 45
Supplementary provisions for determining tax for groups&#8212;members joining or forming groups during financial year

     (1)     This section applies if a wagering and
betting entity that is not a member of a group (the joining
entity) becomes a member of a group during a financial year, whether by
joining an existing group or forming a new group with another wagering and
betting entity.

Note

See section 46 for the situation where the joining entity was a member of
another group during the financial year.

     (2)     For the purposes of section 44&#8212;

         (a)     any net wagering revenue of the joining entity during that financial
year before the joining entity became a member is to be included in the ANWR of
the group in the month in which the joining entity becomes a member unless
wagering and betting tax was payable by the joining entity on that net wagering
revenue under section 31; and

         (b)     if wagering and betting tax was payable by the joining entity
under section 31 as referred to in paragraph (a), the tax-free threshold
for the group is zero in respect of the remainder of the financial year,
including the month in which the joining entity became a member.

Examples

1     A wagering and betting entity becomes a member of a group on 1 October
2023. From 1 July to 30 September 2023 the joining entity's net wagering
revenue was $800 000. As that is below the tax-free threshold for the
joining entity in respect of the financial year ($1 000 000),
tax is not payable by the joining entity under section 31. However,
the amount of $800 000 is to be included in the ANWR of the group for
October 2023.

2     A wagering and betting entity becomes a member of a group on 1
March 2024. From 1 July 2023 to 29 February 2024 the joining entity's
net wagering revenue was $1 500 000. As that exceeds the tax-free threshold
for the joining entity in respect of the financial year ($1 000 000),
tax is payable by the joining entity under section 31, and the tax-free
threshold for the group in respect of the remainder of the financial year (being
March to June 2024) is zero.

3     Wagering and betting entity A and wagering and betting entity B form a
group on 1 October 2023. From 1 July 2023 to 30 September 2023
A's net wagering revenue was $800 000 and B's net wagering revenue was
$1 500 000. As tax is not payable by A under section 31, the amount of
$800 000 is to be included in the ANWR of the group for October 2023.
Furthermore, as tax is payable by B under section 31, B's net wagering revenue
from July to September 2023 is not included in the ANWR of the group for October
2023 but the tax-free threshold for the group in respect of the remainder of the
financial year (being October 2023 to June 2024) is zero.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 46
Supplementary provisions for determining tax for groups&#8212;members leaving groups and joining other groups during financial year

     (1)     This section applies if a wagering and
betting entity (the transferring entity) ceases to be a member of
a group (group A) and becomes a member of another group
(group B) during a financial year, whether group B is an existing
group or a new group formed by the transferring entity and another wagering and
betting entity.

     (2)     For the purposes of section 44&#8212;

         (a)     if wagering and betting tax was payable by group A during that
financial year before the transferring entity ceased to be a member, the
tax-free threshold for group B is zero in respect of the remainder of the
financial year, including the month in which the transferring entity became a
member; and

         (b)     if all of the members of group B were members of group A before
joining or forming group B, any net wagering revenue of each of the transferring
entities during that financial year while they were members of group A is to be
included in the ANWR of group B in the month in which the transferring entities
became members of group B unless wagering and betting tax was payable by group A
on that net wagering revenue under section 44.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 47
Designated group entities

     (1)     The members of a group may, with the
approval of the Commissioner, designate a qualified member of the group to be
the designated group entity for the group for the purposes of this
Division.

     (2)     A member of a group is a qualified member if&#8212;

         (a)     the member's net wagering revenue in the previous financial year
exceeded the tax-free threshold; or

         (b)     the member's likely net wagering revenue in the current financial year
is likely to exceed the tax-free threshold.

     (3)     If none of the members of a group is a qualified member
but&#8212;

         (a)     the aggregate of the members' net wagering revenue in the previous
financial year exceeded the tax-free threshold; or

         (b)     in the opinion of the Commissioner, the aggregate of the members'
likely net wagering revenue in the current financial year is likely to exceed
the tax-free threshold&#8212;

the members may, with the approval of the Commissioner, designate any
member of the group to be the designated group entity for the group for the
purposes of this Division.

     (4)     The Commissioner must designate a member of a group as the
designated group entity for the group if the members of the group do not
designate a member under subsection (1) or (3) within 30 days after
the end of the month in which the group is established.

     (5)     The designated group entity of a group stops being the designated
group entity from and including the earlier of the following
days&#8212;

         (a)     the first day of the month following the month in which there is a
change in the membership of the group;

         (b)     the first day of the month following the month in which the
members of the group revoke the designation.

     (6)     The designation of a designated group entity under subsection (1) or
(3) must be by written notice.

     (7)     Such a notice&#8212;

         (a)     must be executed by or on behalf of each member of the group;
and

         (b)     must be served on the Commissioner.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 48
Registration of designated group entity

     (1)     Subject to subsection (2), the designated
group entity of a group must apply to the Commissioner, in the form approved by
the Commissioner, before the end of the first month in which the members of the
group become liable to pay tax under section 44, for registration under this
Division.

Penalty:     500 penalty units in the case of a body corporate;

     100 penalty units in any other case.

Note

Section 130B of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 applies to
an offence against this subsection.

     (2)     A designated group entity does not commit an offence against
subsection (1) if the entity has a reasonable excuse for not applying for
registration.

     (3)     The Commissioner must register a designated group entity that applies
under subsection (1).

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 49
Cancellation of registration by Commissioner

     (1)     The Commissioner, by written notice to a
registered designated group entity, may cancel the entity's registration under
this Division for any reason the Commissioner thinks sufficient.

     (2)     A cancellation of registration has effect from the date specified
for the purpose by the Commissioner in the notice
of cancellation.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 50
Cancellation of registration by registered designated group entity

     (1)     If the members of a group cease to incur
any liability to pay wagering and betting tax under section 44 and do not expect
to incur any such liability in the future, the registered designated group
entity must, within 14 days after so ceasing&#8212;

         (a)     give written notice of that fact to the Commissioner; and

         (b)     unless previously lodged&#8212;

               (i)     lodge a group return for the final month in respect of which the
members of the group are liable to pay wagering and betting tax under
section 44; and

               (ii)     pay any wagering and betting tax to which the group return
relates.

     (2)     The notice cancels the registered designated group entity's
registration under this Division on the day on which it is received by the
Commissioner.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 51
Group returns and payment of tax

     (1)     Every designated group entity that is
registered or required to apply for registration under this Division must,
within 30 days after the end of each month&#8212;

         (a)     lodge with the Commissioner a group return in respect of the month;
and

         (b)     pay to the Commissioner any wagering and betting tax payable under
section 44 on the group's net wagering revenue in respect of the
month.

     (2)     A designated group entity must lodge a group return under subsection
(1) even if no wagering and betting tax is payable in respect of the
month.

     (3)     A group return is to be in the form, and contain the information,
determined by the Commissioner.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 52
Supplementary provisions for joint and several liability of group members

     (1)     Each member of a group who is jointly and
severally liable to pay wagering and betting tax under section 44 is also
jointly and severally liable to pay&#8212;

         (a)     any amount payable to the Commissioner under this or any other Act in
relation to that tax, including any interest and penalty tax; and

         (b)     any costs and expenses incurred in relation to the recovery
of that tax that the Commissioner is entitled to recover from any such
member.

     (2)     A member of a group who pays an amount in accordance with the
liability imposed by this Division has such rights of contribution or
indemnity from the other member or members as is just.

Division
5&#8212;General

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 53
Multi-jurisdictional agreements

     (1)     The Treasurer may enter into an agreement
(a multi-jurisdictional agreement) with one or more
other States or one or more Territories, or both, to establish and implement
processes for achieving improvements in the assessment and collection of taxes,
interest and penalties imposed by the participating jurisdictions
on wagering and betting operations that are carried on in multiple
jurisdictions.

     (2)     A multi-jurisdictional agreement may&#8212;

         (a)     provide for collection of taxes, interest and penalties by a
participating jurisdiction on behalf of other participating jurisdictions and
for the distribution of amounts so collected; and

         (b)     provide for each participating jurisdiction to collect, on behalf
of all participating jurisdictions, taxes, interest and penalties payable
to those jurisdictions by wagering and betting entities whose businesses are
based in the collecting jurisdiction; and

         (c)     provide for participating jurisdictions to undertake audits or
investigations in respect of taxes, interest and penalties payable by a wagering
and betting entity under the law of another participating jurisdiction;
and

         (d)     authorise the performance of functions under this Act or the
Taxation Administration Act 1997 by a specified authority of a
participating jurisdiction, subject to subsection (4) and any other limitations
specified in the agreement; and

         (e)     authorise the performance of functions under a specified law of
another participating jurisdiction by the Commissioner, subject to any law
of that jurisdiction and any other limitations specified in the agreement;
and

         (f)     provide for participating jurisdictions to assist each other in
making timely and accurate determinations of taxes, interest and penalties
payable by sharing information available to them, including the results of
audits and investigations and any other information of a kind specified in the
agreement; and

         (g)     provide for any other measures or matters that the participating
jurisdictions consider necessary or expedient for achieving improvements in the
assessment or collection of taxes, interest and penalties or for
implementing processes established by the agreement for that
purpose.

     (3)     A multi-jurisdictional agreement operates for the period, and may be
varied or terminated in such a manner, as the participating jurisdictions
agree.

     (4)     A multi-jurisdictional agreement&#8212;

         (a)     must be consistent with this Act and the Taxation Administration
Act 1997; and

         (b)     cannot authorise a participating jurisdiction&#8212;

               (i)     to make a binding determination of the amount of tax, interest or
penalties payable by a wagering and betting entity under the laws of
another participating jurisdiction; or

               (ii)     to take enforcement action in respect of tax, interest or penalties
payable by a wagering and betting entity under the laws of another participating
jurisdiction.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 54
Guidelines for determining location

     (1)     The Commissioner may from time to time
publish guidelines, not inconsistent with this Act or the regulations, for
determining the location of a person who makes a bet with, or through a
service provided by, a wagering and betting entity.

     (2)     Guidelines published under subsection (1) are not legislative
instruments within the meaning of the Subordinate Legislation Act
1994.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 55
Extraterritorial operation

This Part applies in relation to a wagering and
betting entity, including a designated group entity, that is located outside
Victoria.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 56
Regulations for wagering and betting tax

The regulations may prescribe&#8212;

         (a)     kinds of wagering and betting that are bets; and

         (b)     amounts associated with the making of bets that are to be
included in net wagering revenue; and

         (c)     amounts associated with the making of bets that are not to be included
in net wagering revenue; and

         (d)     methods for determining the location of persons making bets with, or
through a service provided by, a wagering and betting entity; and

         (e)     persons or classes of persons that are wagering and betting
entities.

Part
5&#8212;General and transitional

Division
1&#8212;General

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 57
Regulations

     (1)     The Governor in Council may make
regulations for or with respect to any matter or thing required or permitted by
this Act to be prescribed or necessary to be prescribed to give effect to this
Act.

     (2)     Regulations made under this Act&#8212;

         (a)     may be of general or specially limited application; and

         (b)     may differ according to differences in time, place or circumstances;
and

         (c)     may impose penalties not exceeding 20 penalty units for a
contravention of the regulations.

Division
2&#8212;Transitional provisions

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SECT 58
Transitional provisions in Schedule 2

Schedule 2 has effect.

Pt 6 (Headings and ss 59&#8211;80)
repealed by No. 14/2023 s. 80.

     *     *     *     *     *

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SCHEDULE 1
Schedule 1&#8212;Amount of additional casino tax on gross gaming revenue 

Section 10

Table

      
      

Column 1

Column 2

Amount by which gross gaming revenue in a financial year exceeds the
base amount for that year

Amount of additional casino tax

Not exceeding $20 million

1% of the amount exceeding the base amount

Exceeding $20 million but not exceeding $40 million

$200 000 + 2% of the amount exceeding $20 million

Exceeding $40 million but not exceeding $60 million

$600 000 + 3% of the amount exceeding $40 million

Exceeding $60 million but not exceeding $80 million

$1 200 000 + 4% of the amount exceeding
$60 million

Exceeding $80 million but not exceeding $100 million

$2 000 000 + 5% of the amount exceeding
$80 million

Exceeding $100 million but not exceeding $120 million

$3 000 000 + 6% of the amount exceeding
$100 million

Exceeding $120 million but not exceeding $140 million

$4 200 000 + 7% of the amount exceeding
$120 million

Exceeding $140 million but not exceeding $160 million

$5 600 000 + 8% of the amount exceeding
$140 million

Exceeding $160 million but not exceeding $180 million

$7 200 000 + 9% of the amount exceeding
$160 million

Exceeding $180 million but not exceeding $200 million

$9 000 000 + 10% of the amount exceeding
$180 million

Exceeding $200 million but not exceeding $220 million

$11 000 000 + 11% of the amount exceeding
$200 million

Exceeding $220 million but not exceeding $240 million

$13 200 000 + 12% of the amount exceeding
$220 million

Exceeding $240 million but not exceeding $260 million

$15 600 000 + 13% of the amount exceeding
$240 million

Exceeding $260 million but not exceeding $280 million

$18 200 000 + 14% of the amount exceeding
$260 million

Exceeding $280 million but not exceeding $300 million

$21 000 000 + 15% of the amount exceeding
$280 million

Exceeding $300 million but not exceeding $320 million

$24 000 000 + 16% of the amount exceeding
$300 million

Exceeding $320 million but not exceeding $340 million

$27 200 000 + 17% of the amount exceeding
$320 million

Exceeding $340 million but not exceeding $360 million

$30 600 000 + 18% of the amount exceeding
$340 million

Exceeding $360 million but not exceeding $380 million

$34 200 000 + 19% of the amount exceeding
$360 million

Exceeding $380 million 

$38 000 000 + 20% of the amount exceeding
$380 million

Example

If the gross gaming revenue in a financial year is $2250 million and the
base amount for that financial year is $2000 million, the amount exceeding the
base amount is $250 million, and so the additional casino tax under section 10
for the financial year is $15 600 000 + 13% of $10 million
($250 million  $240 million) = $16 900 000.

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- SCHEDULE 2
Schedule 2&#8212;Transitional provisions 

Section 58

          1     Casino taxation

     (1)     This Act applies to casino tax, community
benefit levy and additional casino tax on a casino operator's gaming revenue
attributable to gaming machines, gaming revenue attributable to table games,
total gaming revenue or gross gaming revenue (as the case requires) in respect
of any period on and after 1 July 2023.

Note

See section 23 of the Casino (Management Agreement) Act 1993 in
relation to periods before 1 July 2023.

     (2)     For the purposes of calculating the casino tax of the Melbourne Casino
Operator for July 2023 under this Act&#8212;

         (a)     if no casino tax (within the meaning of the Agreement) is payable for
June 2023 under the Agreement because Gaming Revenue is less than zero, the
State Tax credit for that month is to be applied under section 8(6)(a) to the
Operator's total casino tax for July 2023; and

         (b)     if the casino tax (within the meaning of the Agreement) for June 2023
under the Agreement is less than the State Tax credit for that month, the excess
amount of the State Tax credit is to be applied under section 8(6)(b) to the
Operator's total casino tax for July 2023; and

         (c)     if the Commission Based Players' Gaming Revenue for June 2023 under
the Agreement is less than zero, the negative amount is to be applied under
section 12 to reduce the Operator's total commission based players gaming
revenue for July 2023.

     (3)     In this clause&#8212;

"Commission Based Players' Gaming Revenue" has the same meaning
as in the Agreement;

"Gaming Revenue" has the same meaning as in the
Agreement;

Melbourne Casino Operator has the meaning given by
section 4 of the Casino (Management Agreement) Act 1993;

"State Tax credit" has the same meaning as in the
Agreement;

the Agreement has the meaning given by section 4 of the
Casino (Management Agreement) Act 1993.

          2     Taxation of keno

     (1)     This Act applies to keno tax on the net
keno revenue of a keno entity in respect of any period on and after 1 July
2023.

Note

See clause 40.2 of Schedule 7 to the Gambling Regulation Act 2003 in
relation to periods before 1 July 2023.

     (2)     Section 19 applies on and after 1 July 2023 in relation to any
negative amount of net keno revenue in respect of a month before that day that
has not been applied to reduce net keno revenue in the next or a subsequent
month under section 6A.4A.6 of the Gambling Regulation
Act 2003.

     (3)     A keno entity that, immediately before 1 July 2023, was registered
under section 6A.4A.7 of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003 is taken, on
and after that day, to be registered under section 20.

          3     Taxation of wagering and betting

     (1)     This Act applies to wagering and betting
tax on the net wagering revenue of a wagering and betting entity in respect of
any period on and after 1 July 2023.

Note

See clause 40.1 of Schedule 7 to the Gambling Regulation Act 2003 in
relation to periods before 1 July 2023.

     (2)     A notice that was in effect under section 4.6A.5(1) of the Gambling
Regulation Act 2003 immediately before 1 July 2023 continues in effect on
and after that day as if it were a notice under section 33(1).

     (3)     A wagering and betting entity that, immediately before 1 July 2023,
was registered under section 4.6A.7 of the Gambling Regulation
Act 2003 is taken, on and after that day, to be registered under
section 36.

     (4)     A designation of an entity that was in effect under section 4.6A.17(1)
or (3) of the Gambling Regulation Act 2003 immediately before 1 July 2023
continues in effect on and after that day as if it were a designation under
section 47(1) or (3), as the case requires.

     (5)     An entity that, immediately before 1 July 2023, was registered as a
designated group entity under section 4.6A.18 of the Gambling Regulation
Act 2003 is taken, on and after that day, to be a designated group
entity registered under section 48.

&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- NOTES

Version No.
003

No. 14 of 2023Version incorporating amendments as at1 July 2024 

&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;&#9552;

Version No. 003 
Gambling Taxation Act 2023 
No. 14 of 2023

Version incorporating amendments as at1 July
2024

GAMBLING TAXATION ACT 2023
- NOTES Endnotes

Endnotes

     1     General information

See www.legislation.vic.gov.au for Victorian Bills, Acts and current
Versions of legislation and up-to-date legislative information.

Minister's second reading speech&#8212;

Legislative Assembly: 3 May 2023

Legislative Council: 30 May 2023

The long title for the Bill for this Act was "A Bill for an Act to
consolidate and amend various gambling taxes, to make consequential amendments
to the Casino Control Act 1991, the Casino (Management Agreement) Act
1993, the Gambling Regulation Act 2003 and the Taxation
Administration Act 1997 and for other purposes."

          Constitution Act 1975:

     Section 85(5) statement:

     Legislative Assembly: 3 May 2023

     Legislative Council: 30 May 2023

     Absolute majorities:

     Legislative Assembly: 18 May 2023

     Legislative Council: 30 May 2023

The Gambling Taxation Act 2023 was assented to on 6 June
2023 and came into operation on 1 July 2023: section 2.

INTERPRETATION OF LEGISLATION ACT 1984
(ILA)

Style changes

Section 54A of the ILA authorises the making of the style changes set out
in Schedule 1 to that Act.

References to ILA s. 39B

Sidenotes which cite ILA s. 39B refer to section 39B of the ILA which
provides that where an undivided section or clause of a Schedule is amended by
the insertion of one or more subsections or subclauses, the original section or
clause becomes subsection or subclause (1) and is amended by the insertion of
the expression "(1)" at the beginning of the original section or
clause.

Interpretation

As from 1 January 2001, amendments to section 36 of the ILA have the
following effects:

&#8226;     Headings

All headings included in an Act which is passed on or after 1 January 2001
form part of that Act.  Any heading inserted in an Act which was passed before 1
January 2001, by an Act passed on or after 1 January 2001, forms part of that
Act.  This includes headings to Parts, Divisions or Subdivisions in a Schedule;
sections; clauses; items; tables; columns; examples; diagrams; notes or forms. 
See section 36(1A)(2A).

&#8226;     Examples, diagrams or notes

All examples, diagrams or notes included in an Act which is passed on or
after 1 January 2001 form part of that Act.  Any examples, diagrams or notes
inserted in an Act which was passed before 1 January 2001, by an Act passed on
or after 1 January 2001, form part of that Act.  See section 36(3A).

&#8226;     Punctuation

All punctuation included in an Act which is passed on or after 1 January
2001 forms part of that Act.  Any punctuation inserted in an Act which was
passed before 1 January 2001, by an Act passed on or after 1 January 2001, forms
part of that Act.  See section 36(3B).

&#8226;     Provision numbers

All provision numbers included in an Act form part of that Act, whether
inserted in the Act before, on or after 1 January 2001.  Provision numbers
include section numbers, subsection numbers, paragraphs and subparagraphs.  See
section 36(3C).

&#8226;     Location of "legislative items"

A "legislative item" is a penalty, an example or a note.  As from 13
October 2004, a legislative item relating to a provision of an Act is taken to
be at the foot of that provision even if it is preceded or followed by another
legislative item that relates to that provision.  For example, if a penalty at
the foot of a provision is followed by a note, both of these legislative items
will be regarded as being at the foot of that provision.  See section
36B.

&#8226;     Other material

Any explanatory memorandum, table of provisions, endnotes, index and other
material printed after the Endnotes does not form part of an Act.  See
section 36(3)(3D)(3E).

     2     Table of Amendments

This publication incorporates amendments made to
the Gambling Taxation Act 2023 by Acts and subordinate
instruments.

&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;

Gambling Taxation Act 2023,
No. 14/2023

      
      

Assent Date:

6.6.23

Commencement Date:

S. 80 on 1.7.23: s. 2

Note:

S. 80 repealed Pt 6 (ss 59&#8211;80) on
1.7.24

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Gambling Taxation Act 2023 

State Taxation Amendment Act 2024,
No. 22/2024

      
      

Assent Date:

4.6.24

Commencement Date:

S. 5 on 5.6.24: s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Gambling Taxation Act 2023

&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;

     3     Explanatory details

No entries at date of publication.
