South Australia

   Land Tax Regulations 2025

   under the Land Tax Act 1936

   Contents
   1 Short title
   2 Commencement
   3 Interpretation
   4 Notification of changes in ownership
   5 Notification of change of address
   6 Prescribed associations and exemptions (section 4 of Act)
   7 Records
   8 Certificates in respect of liability to land tax (section 23 of Act)
   9 Execution of notices and other documents
   10 Misuse of written materials

   Schedule 1--Repeal of Land Tax Regulations 2010

   Legislative history

   1--Short title

   These regulations may be cited as the Land Tax Regulations 2025.

   2--Commencement

   These regulations come into operation on the day on which they are
   made.

   3--Interpretation

   In these regulations--

   Act means the Land Tax Act 1936.

   4--Notification of changes in ownership

   If--

   (a) a person ceases to be the owner of land that is registered under
   the Real Property Act 1886; and

   (b) the change of ownership has not been noted or registered on the
   title by the end of the financial year in which the change occurs,

   the person (or their personal representative) must, on or before the
   immediately following 31 July, give the Commissioner notice of the
   change in ownership in a form approved by the Commissioner.

   Maximum penalty: $125.

   5--Notification of change of address

   Unless the Commissioner otherwise determines, if an owner of land
   changes their postal or residential address, the owner must, within
   1 month, give the Commissioner notice of the change in a form approved
   by the Commissioner.

   Maximum penalty: $125.

   6--Prescribed associations and exemptions (section 4 of Act)

   (1) For the purposes of section 4(1)(k)(viii) of the Act, the following
   associations are prescribed:

   (a) Lakeside Villages Incorporated;

   (b) The Retirement Homes Association of Australia Incorporated.

   (2) For the purposes of section 4(1)(k)(viii) of the Act, but subject
   to subregulation (3), an association is of a prescribed kind if it
   holds land wholly or mainly for the purpose of providing services or
   support to the community, or a sector of the community, in relation to
   literature, science, languages, the arts or the preservation of
   historical, traditional or cultural heritage, or for a similar purpose.

   (3) An association is not of a prescribed kind for the purposes of
   section 4(1)(k)(viii) of the Act if--

   (a) the objects of the association include the making of a pecuniary
   profit; or

   (b) the activities of the association are not consistent with its
   objects or cause detriment to the community generally or to a sector of
   the community.

   (4) For the purposes of section 4(1)(m) of the Act, Aboriginal Hostels
   Limited is a prescribed body.

   7--Records

   (1) The Commissioner may alter, add to or correct any record kept by
   the Commissioner for the purposes of the Act.

   (2) If an alteration, addition or correction affects the incidence of
   taxation, the Commissioner must give written notice of the alteration,
   addition or correction to the relevant taxpayer (although a failure to
   give such notice does not invalidate or affect the alteration, addition
   or correction).

   8--Certificates in respect of liability to land tax (section 23 of Act)

   If, on an application under section 23 of the Act, the Commissioner is
   satisfied--

   (a) that the application is being made in conjunction with an
   application to the government department which contains the Office of
   the Registrar-General for information for the purposes of section 7 of
   the Land and Business (Sale and Conveyancing) Act 1994; and

   (b) that the applicant has paid an application fee to that department,

   no fee is payable on the application under section 23 of the Act.

   9--Execution of notices and other documents

   A notice or other document under the Act purporting to be issued under
   the authority of the Commissioner, or under the authority of a member
   of the Commissioner's staff apparently acting on behalf of, or under
   the authority of, the Commissioner, may be taken to be valid for the
   purposes of the Act.

   10--Misuse of written materials

   A person must not intentionally alter, damage or destroy a notice,
   return, form or other document belonging to, or issued by, the
   Commissioner, or use any such notice, return, form or other document
   except for the purposes of the Act.

   Maximum penalty: $125.

   Schedule 1--Repeal of Land Tax Regulations 2010

   The Land Tax Regulations 2010 are repealed.

   Legislative history

   Notes

   o For further information relating to the Act and subordinate
   legislation made under the Act see the Index of South Australian
   Statutes or www.legislation.sa.gov.au.

   Principal regulations

   Year
       No
         Reference
                                Commencement
   2025
       30
         Gazette 15.5.2025 p1226
                                15.5.2025: r 2
