LAND TAX ACT 2004 

- TABLE OF PROVISIONS

PART 1--PRELIMINARY 
1. Name of Act   
3. Dictionary  
4. Notes  
5. Offences against Act--application of Criminal Code etc   

PART 2--IMPOSITION AND PAYMENT OF LAND TAX
6. Pt 2 subject to pt 4   
7. Definitions--pt 2   
8. When is something rented for pt 2?   
8A. When is land tax payable on parcel of land for pt 2?   
9. Imposition of land tax   
10. Land exempted from s 9 generally   
11. Land exempted from land tax   
11A. Principal place of residence exemption   
11B. Moving out of principal place of residence   
11C. Moving into principal place of residence--new owner   
11CA. Moving into principal place of residence--ending rental   
11D. Exemption after death of owner   
11E. Decision on extension of period   
11F. Applications lodged out of time   
11G. Exemption for life tenant   
11H. Exemption if nil or nominal rent paid   
11I. Exemption if land becomes unfit for occupation   
12. Application for compassionate case exemption   
13. Decision on compassionate application   
13A. Exemption for land provided for affordable community housing   
14. Commissioner to be told of change in circumstances   
15. Multiple dwellings   
16. Land partly owned by corporation or trustee   
17. Payment of land tax   

PART 2A--FOREIGN OWNERSHIP SURCHARGE
17A. Definitions--pt 2A   
17B. What is a foreign corporation?--pt 2A   
17C. What is a foreign trust?--pt 2A   
17D. When is foreign ownership surcharge payable on parcel of land for pt   
17E. Imposition of foreign ownership surcharge   
17F. Land partly owned by foreign people   

PART 3--ENFORCEMENT 
18A. Meaning of land tax--pt 3   
19. Interest payable on overdue land tax   
19A. Interest and penalty tax payable on land tax if no disclosure   

PART 4--UNIT SUBDIVISIONS
26. Unit subdivisions   
27. Unit subdivisions--land tax   

PART 5--EXEMPTIONS, REMISSIONS AND CERTAIN INTEREST PAYMENTS 
33. Meaning of land tax--pt 5   
34. Exemption from land tax   
35. Remission of land tax   
36. Remission of interest   
37. Interest on refund   

PART 6--MISCELLANEOUS 
38. Objections  
39. Review of decisions by ACAT   
40. Working out amounts with fractions for Act   
41. Certificate of land tax and other charges   
42. Statement of amounts payable and payments made   
43. Determination of fees   
44. Regulation-making power   
DICTIONARY
ENDNOTES

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- LONG TITLE
An Act about land tax
       
       

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 1
Name of Act 
This Act is the Land Tax Act 2004.
Note     This Act is a tax law under the Taxation
Administration Act.  As a tax law, this Act is subject to provisions of the
Taxation Administration Act about the administration and enforcement of tax laws
generally.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 3
Dictionary
The dictionary at the end of this Act is part of this Act.
Note 1     The dictionary at the end of this Act defines certain terms
used in this Act, and includes references ("signpost definitions")
to other terms defined elsewhere.
For example, the signpost definition 'unit
subdivision--see the Rates Act 2004
, dictionary.' means that the term 'unit subdivision' is
defined in that dictionary and the definition applies to this Act.
Note 2     A definition in the dictionary (including a signpost
definition) applies to the entire Act unless the definition, or another
provision of the Act, provides otherwise or the contrary intention otherwise
appears (see Legislation Act 
, s 155 and s 156 (1)).

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 4
Notes
A note included in this Act is explanatory and is not part of this
Act.
Note     See Legislation Act 
, s 127 (1), (4) and (5) for the legal status of notes.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 5
Offences against Act--application of Criminal Code etc 
Other legislation applies in relation to offences against this Act.

Note 1     Criminal Code
The Criminal Code 
, ch 2 applies to all offences against this Act (see Code, pt 2.1). 

The chapter sets out the general principles of criminal responsibility
(including burdens of proof and general defences), and defines terms used for
offences to which the Code applies (eg "conduct",
"intention", recklessness and strict
liability).
Note 2     Penalty units
The Legislation Act 
, s 133 deals with the meaning of offence penalties that are expressed in
penalty units.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 6
Pt 2 subject to pt 4 
This part is subject to part 4 (Unit subdivisions).

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 7
Definitions--pt 2 
In this part:
"rent" means valuable consideration for which a tenant is
liable under a tenancy agreement in relation to the tenancy or a period of the
tenancy.
"tenancy agreement"--
         (a)     means an agreement under which a person gives someone else, for value,
a right of occupation of a parcel of land for use as a
residence--
               (i)     whether the right of occupation is exclusive or not; and
               (ii)     whether the agreement is express or implied; and
               (iii)     whether the agreement is in writing, is oral, or is partly in
writing and partly oral; but
         (b)     does not include an agreement giving a right of occupation only as a
boarder or lodger.
"tenant" means a person with a right of occupation under a
tenancy agreement.
"trustee" does not include a guardian or manager of the
property of a person with a legal disability.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 8
When is something rented for pt 2? 
     (1)     For this part, a parcel of land or dwelling is not taken to be
rented only because a tenant is liable to pay for rates, repairs,
maintenance or insurance in relation to the parcel or dwelling.
Note     For provision about multiple dwellings on a parcel of land, see
s 15.
     (2)     For this part, a parcel of land or dwelling is taken to be
rented if it is rented on the
1st day of a quarter.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 8A
When is land tax payable on parcel of land for pt 2? 
     (1)     For this part, land tax is payable on a parcel of land for a quarter
if it is payable on the 1st day of the quarter.
     (2)     Land tax is taken to be payable on a parcel of land on the 1st day of
a quarter if it is not exempt under this part from land tax on that
day.
     (3)     If an exemption under this part stops applying to a parcel of land,
land tax is payable on the 1st day of the quarter after the date the exemption
stops applying.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 9
Imposition of land tax 
     (1)     Land tax at the appropriate rate is imposed for a quarter on each
parcel of rateable land that is residential land.
     (2)     However, land tax is not imposed on a parcel of land that is exempt
under section 10 or section 11.
     (3)     The appropriate rate of land tax for a parcel of land
is--
         (a)     if section 27 (3) applies--the amount worked out under
section 27 (4), (5) or (6), whichever applies; or
         (b)     in any other case--the amount worked out for the parcel as
follows:

Note     Section 27 (3) applies to a unit owner in a registered units
plan whose unit is subject to land tax.
     (4)     In this section:
"AUV" means the average unimproved value of the parcel of land
under the Rates Act 2004 
.
"FC" means the fixed charge determined under the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 139 for the parcel of land.
"P" means the percentage rate determined under the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 139 for the parcel of land.
Note     Power to determine a fixed charge or percentage rate under the
Taxation Administration Act 
 includes the power to determine a different charge or rate for different
matters or classes of matter (see Legislation Act
, s 48).

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 10
Land exempted from s 9 generally 
     (1)     The following parcels of land are exempt from land tax imposed under
section 9:
         (a)     a parcel of land if exempted under the following provisions:
               (i)     section 11A (Principal place of residence exemption);
               (ii)     section 11B (Moving out of principal place of residence);
               (iii)     section 11C (Moving into principal place of residence--new
owner);
               (iv)     section 11CA (Moving into principal place of residence--ending
rental);
               (v)     section 11D (Exemption after death of owner);
               (vi)     section 11G (Exemption for life tenant);
               (vii)     section 11H (Exemption if nil or nominal rent paid);
               (viii)     section 11I (Exemption if land becomes unfit for
occupation);
         (b)     a parcel of residential land owned by an individual if the parcel is
exempted under section 13 (Decision on compassionate application) in relation to
the parcel;
Note     An exemption under s 13 is for 1 year or less.
         (c)     a parcel of land if exempted under section 13A (Exemption for land
provided for affordable community housing);
         (d)     a parcel of rural land;
         (e)     a parcel of land owned by the housing commissioner under the Housing Assistance Act 2007
;
         (f)     a parcel of land owned or leased by an entity declared under the Duties Act 1999
, section 73A (Transfers etc to entities for community housing);
         (g)     a parcel of land leased for a retirement village;
         (h)     a parcel of land leased for a nursing home;
               (i)     a parcel of land leased for a nursing home and a retirement
village;
         (j)     a parcel of land leased by a religious institution or order to provide
residential accommodation to a member of the institution or order and allow the
member to perform his or her duties as a member of the institution or
order;
         (k)     a parcel of land, other than a parcel of residential land leased to a
corporation or trustee, being used for a purpose prescribed under the
regulations.
     (2)     In this section:
"nursing home" means premises that--
         (a)     are approved, or taken to be approved, as a nursing home under the
National Health Act 1953 
 (Cwlth); and
         (b)     are built on land under a lease that allows the use of the
land--
               (i)     for residential accommodation and nursing care for patients who,
because of infirmity or illness, disease, incapacity or disability have a
continuing need for nursing care; and
               (ii)     if the land is also used, or to be used, as a retirement
village--for residential retirement accommodation.
"retirement village" means a complex of buildings (whether or
not including hostel units)--
         (a)     that is intended predominantly for retired people who are at least 55
years old, or couples, at least 1 of whom is at least 55 years old;
and
         (b)     each of which is, or is to be, occupied or used under a sublease,
licence or other arrangement (other than a lease); and
         (c)     each of which is intended, and able, to be occupied as a home;
and
         (d)     that is built on land under a lease that allows the use of the
land--
               (i)     for residential retirement accommodation; and
               (ii)     if the land is also used, or to be used, for a nursing home--for
residential accommodation and nursing care for patients who, because of
infirmity or illness, disease, incapacity or disability have a continuing need
for nursing care; and
         (e)     from which no business activity is conducted by the lessee, other than
a business connected with the conduct of--
               (i)     a retirement village; or
               (ii)     if a nursing home is also conducted under the same lease--the
nursing home.
"rural land" means--
         (a)     rateable land leased for the purpose of primary production only;
or
         (b)     rateable land leased for the purpose of primary production and other
purposes but used mainly for primary production; or
         (c)     a parcel of rateable land included in the common property of a
community title scheme under the Community Title Act 2001
, if no parcel of land in the scheme is--
               (i)     residential land; or
               (ii)     leased for a commercial purpose.
Note     Section 15 (2) disapplies this section in certain
circumstances.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 11
Land exempted from land tax 
     (1)     The following parcels of land are exempted from land tax:
         (a)     a parcel of land held under a development lease by a
corporation;
         (b)     a parcel of residential land owned by a not-for-profit housing
corporation.
     (2)     In this section:
"development lease", of land, means a lease for the development
of the land by the lessee, or at the lessee's expense, by clearing,
filling, grading, draining, levelling or excavating the land to make it suitable
for subdivision into parcels of land to be leased.
"not-for-profit housing corporation" means a corporation
registered under the Corporations Act 
 or the Co-operatives National Law (ACT) with a constitution
that--
         (a)     states that the main objective of the corporation is the provision of
housing; and
         (b)     prohibits the corporation from making a distribution (whether in
money, property or another way) to its members.
Note     Section 15 (2) disapplies this section in certain
circumstances.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 11A
Principal place of residence exemption 
     (1)     This section applies if a parcel of land is, on the 1st day of a
quarter--
         (a)     owned by someone other than a corporation or trustee; and
         (b)     occupied as the principal place of residence of 1 or more owners of
the parcel of land.
     (2)     The parcel of land is exempt from land tax.
Note     Under s 14 the commissioner must be told within 30 days if
there is a change in circumstances that would cause land tax to become payable
for the parcel.
     (3)     However, for 2 people in a domestic partnership with more than
1 parcel of land, only 1 parcel may be eligible for an exemption under this
section unless the commissioner is satisfied the people have separated and there
is no reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed.
Note     Under s 38 and the Taxation Administration Act 
, s 108, the commissioner must give the person a reviewable decision notice
in relation to a decision to refuse to exempt a parcel of land because the
commissioner is not satisfied 2 people in a domestic partnership have
separated.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 11B
Moving out of principal place of residence 
     (1)     This section applies if an owner of a parcel of land, other than a
parcel of land owned by a corporation or trustee--
         (a)     occupies the parcel as the principal place of residence; and
         (b)     stops occupying the parcel as the principal place of
residence.
     (2)     The parcel of land is exempt from land tax for the 1st quarter after
the date the owner stops occupying the parcel as the principal place of
residence.
Note     Under s 14 the commissioner must be told within 30 days if
there is a change in circumstances that would cause land tax to become payable
for the parcel.
     (3)     Subsection (2) does not apply if the parcel of land is rented by a
tenant.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 11C
Moving into principal place of residence--new owner 
     (1)     This section applies if a person, other than a corporation or trustee,
becomes the owner (the new owner) of a parcel of land, to be
occupied by the new owner as their principal place of residence.
     (2)     The parcel of land is exempt from land tax for the 1st quarter after
the date the new owner becomes the owner of the parcel.
Note     Under s 14 the commissioner must be told within 30 days if
there is a change in circumstances that would cause land tax to become payable
for the parcel.
     (3)     Subsection (2) does not apply if, within 3 months after the date the
new owner becomes the owner of the parcel--
         (a)     the new owner does not occupy the parcel as their principal place of
residence; or
         (b)     the parcel is rented by a tenant, other than the seller of the parcel
under an agreement with the new owner for a period of not longer than 3
months.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 11CA
Moving into principal place of residence--ending rental 
     (1)     This section applies if a parcel of land, other than a parcel of land
owned by a corporation or trustee, stops being rented so it can be occupied by
the owner of the parcel as their principal place of residence.
     (2)     The parcel of land is exempt from land tax for the 1st quarter after
the date the parcel stopped being rented.
Note     Under s 14 the commissioner must be told within 30 days if
there is a change in circumstances that would cause land tax to become payable
for the parcel.
     (3)     Subsection (2) does not apply if, within 3 months after the date the
parcel stopped being rented--
         (a)     the owner does not occupy the parcel as their principal place of
residence; or
         (b)     the parcel is rented by a tenant.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 11D
Exemption after death of owner 
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     a parcel of land, other than a parcel of land owned by a corporation
or trustee, is occupied as the principal place of residence by the owner of the
parcel; and 
         (b)     the owner dies.
     (2)     The parcel of land is exempt from land tax for 2 years after the date
of the owner's death if, during the 2-year period, the parcel is
registered in the name of--
         (a)     the deceased owner; or
         (b)     the personal representative. 
Note     Under s 14 the commissioner must be told within 30 days if
there is a change in circumstances that would cause land tax to become payable
for the parcel.
     (3)     Before the 2-year period ends, the personal representative may apply,
in writing, to the commissioner to extend the period.
     (4)     The application must set out the grounds on which it is
made.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 11E
Decision on extension of period 
     (1)     On receiving an application under section 11D, the commissioner may
extend the period mentioned in section 11D (2).
     (2)     The commissioner may extend the period if--
         (a)     the parcel of land--
               (i)     has not been rented since the date of the owner's death;
and
               (ii)     is not registered in the name of a person other than the deceased
owner or the deceased owner's personal representative; and
         (b)     the commissioner is satisfied that--
               (i)     a person is occupying the parcel of land as the person's
principal place of residence; and
               (ii)     the person is likely to be a person in whom the deceased
owner's interest in the parcel will vest in accordance with the
administration of the deceased's owner's estate.
     (3)     The commissioner must tell the personal representative, in writing, of
the decision under subsection (1) and--
         (a)     if the commissioner extends the period--state the extended
period; or
         (b)     if the commissioner refuses to extend the period--state the
reasons for the refusal.
Note     Under s 14 the commissioner must be told within 30 days if
there is a change in circumstances that would cause land tax to become payable
for the parcel.
     (4)     The commissioner may, by written notice given to the personal
representative, revoke an extension if satisfied that the extension should no
longer be given.
Note     Under s 38 and the Taxation Administration Act 
, s 108, the commissioner must also give the person a reviewable decision
notice in relation to a decision to--
         (a)      extend the period for less than the period applied for; or
         (b)      refuse to extend the period; or
         (c)      revoke an extension.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 11F
Applications lodged out of time 
     (1)     The commissioner may allow a person to lodge an application after the
2-year period mentioned in section 11D (Exemption after death of
owner).
     (2)     The person must state fully and in detail, in writing, the
circumstances concerning and the reasons for the failure to make the application
within the 2-year period.
     (3)     The commissioner may, after considering the circumstances concerning
and the reasons for the failure to make the application within the
period--
         (a)     if satisfied that it is just and fair for the application to be lodged
after the period--give permission unconditionally or subject to conditions;
or
         (b)     refuse permission.
     (4)     The commissioner must tell the person, in writing, of the decision
under subsection (3) and--
         (a)     if the commissioner gives permission subject to a
condition--state the condition; or
         (b)     if the commissioner refuses permission--state the reasons for the
refusal.
Note 1     Under s 38 and the Taxation Administration Act 
, s 108, the commissioner must also give the person a reviewable decision
notice in relation to a decision to--
         (a)     give permission subject to a condition; or
         (b)     refuse permission.
Note 2     Under s 14 the commissioner must be told within 30 days if
there is a change in circumstances that would cause land tax to become payable
for the parcel.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 11G
Exemption for life tenant 
     (1)     This section applies if a parcel of land is, on the 1st day of a
quarter--
         (a)     owned by someone other than a corporation or trustee; and
         (b)     occupied as the principal place of residence of a person having a life
or term interest in the parcel of land under a will.
     (2)     The parcel of land is exempt from land tax.
     (3)     Subsection (2) does not apply if the parcel of land is rented to the
person or another person.
Note     Under s 14 the commissioner must be told within 30 days if
there is a change in circumstances that would cause land tax to become payable
for the parcel.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 11H
Exemption if nil or nominal rent paid 
     (1)     This section applies if a parcel of land is, on the 1st day of a
quarter--
         (a)     owned by someone other than a corporation or trustee; and
         (b)     occupied by a person who--
               (i)     is liable only to pay an amount that is not more than the total amount
required for rates, repairs, maintenance and insurance in relation to the
parcel; or
               (ii)     pays no rent for the parcel.
     (2)     The parcel of land is exempt from land tax.
Note     Under s 14 the commissioner must be told within 30 days if
there is a change in circumstances that would cause land tax to become payable
for the parcel.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 11I
Exemption if land becomes unfit for occupation 
     (1)     This section applies if the commissioner is satisfied that a parcel of
land is, or has become, unfit for occupation as a place of residence.
Examples--unfit for
occupation
1     property under construction or being substantially renovated
2     property damaged by fire, flood or other natural disaster
3     property maliciously damaged
4     property which is otherwise unlawful to occupy under a territory
law
     (2)     The parcel of land is exempt from land tax after the date the parcel
became unfit for occupation as a place of residence, until--
         (a)     the end of the quarter following the quarter in which a certificate of
occupancy is issued for the parcel; or
         (b)     the commissioner is satisfied that the parcel is fit for occupation as
a place of residence.
     (3)     Subsection (2) does not apply if the parcel of land is rented by a
tenant.
Note 1     Under s 14 the commissioner must be told within 30 days if
there is a change in circumstances that would cause land tax to become payable
for the parcel.
Note 2     Under s 38 and the Taxation Administration Act
, s 108, the commissioner must give the person a reviewable decision notice
in relation to a decision to refuse to exempt a parcel of land because the
commissioner is not satisfied the land is, or has become, unfit for occupation
as a place of residence.
     (4)     In this section:
"certificate of occupancy"--see the Building Act 2004
, dictionary.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 12
Application for compassionate case exemption 
     (1)     This section applies if, on the 1st day of a quarter, a parcel of
residential land is owned by an individual (the owner) and not
exempt from land tax.
     (2)     The owner may apply in writing to the commissioner for a declaration
that the parcel of land be treated as exempt from land tax on compelling
compassionate grounds.
     (3)     The application must set out the grounds on which it is
made.
     (4)     In this section:
"land tax" includes a foreign ownership surcharge.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 13
Decision on compassionate application 
     (1)     On receiving an application under section 12 by the owner of a parcel
of land, the commissioner must--
         (a)     if satisfied that the owner is temporarily absent because of
compelling compassionate reasons and the parcel is not a parcel to which
subsection (2) relates--exempt the parcel from land tax; or
         (b)     in any other case--refuse to exempt the parcel from land
tax.
     (2)     The commissioner must not exempt a parcel of land under this section
if--
         (a)     a person carries on business as the proprietor of a boarding house on
the parcel; or
         (b)     the parcel is leased to a corporation or trustee.
     (3)     An exemption under subsection (1) in relation to a parcel of land must
state that the parcel is exempt from land tax for a stated period of
2 years or less.
     (4)     A notice of refusal under subsection (1) (b) must give reasons why the
commissioner is not satisfied that the parcel should be exempt from land tax
under this section.
     (5)     The commissioner may, by notice given to the owner of the parcel of
land, revoke an exemption under this section if satisfied that the parcel should
no longer be exempted.
     (6)     In this section:
"land tax" includes a foreign ownership surcharge.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 13A
Exemption for land provided for affordable community housing 
     (1)     This section applies if an owner of a parcel of land--
         (a)     enters into an agreement with a registered community housing provider;
and
         (b)     makes the parcel of land available under the agreement to the provider
for the purpose of affordable community housing.
     (2)     The parcel of land is exempt from land tax.
Note     Under s 14, the commissioner must be told within 30 days if
there is a change in circumstances that would cause land tax to become payable
for the parcel.
     (3)     An agreement under subsection (1) must require the registered
community housing provider to--
         (a)     take all reasonable steps to rent the parcel of land for affordable
community housing; and
         (b)     before the 1st day of a quarter, notify the commissioner whether or
not the parcel of land is rented.
     (4)     Subsection (2) does not apply if--
         (a)     the parcel of land is not rented within 3 months after the date the
parcel--
               (i)     is made available under the agreement to the registered community
housing provider; or
               (ii)     if rented, stops being rented; or
         (b)     any part of the parcel of land is rented for a purpose other than
affordable community housing under the agreement; or
         (c)     the owner does not satisfy the criteria determined under subsection
(5) (a); or
         (d)     the parcel of land would exceed the maximum number of parcels
determined under subsection (5) (b) (i); or
         (e)     the amount of land tax exempted would exceed the maximum value of land
tax determined under subsection (5) (b) (ii); or
         (f)     the parcel of land would exceed the maximum number of parcels for
which an owner is entitled determined under subsection (5) (b) (iii).
     (5)     The Minister may determine--
         (a)     criteria that an owner of a parcel of land must satisfy before being
eligible for an exemption under this section; and
         (b)     1 or more of the following:
               (i)     the maximum number of parcels of land that are entitled to an
exemption under this section;
               (ii)     the maximum value of land tax that may be exempted under this
section;
               (iii)     the maximum number of parcels of land for which an owner is entitled
to an exemption under this section.
     (6)     A determination is a disallowable instrument.
     (7)     In this section:
"affordable community housing" means community housing that
is--
         (a)     rented at a rate that is less than the current market rent;
and
         (b)     affordable by people on low or moderate incomes.
"community housing"--see the Community Housing Providers National Law (ACT)
, section 4 (1).
"Community Housing Providers National Law (ACT)" means the
provisions applying because of the Community Housing Providers National Law (ACT) Act 2013
, section 7.
"registered community housing provider"--see the Community Housing Providers National Law (ACT)
, section 4 (1). 

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 14
Commissioner to be told of change in circumstances 
     (1)     This section applies in relation to a parcel of land that is leased
for residential purposes if--
         (a)     land tax or a foreign ownership surcharge is not imposed on the
parcel; or
         (b)     the parcel is exempt from land tax or a foreign ownership
surcharge.
     (2)     A relevant person for the parcel of land must tell the
commissioner--
         (a)     of any change in circumstances in relation to the parcel that would
cause land tax or a foreign ownership surcharge to become payable for the
parcel; and
         (b)     the date of the change in circumstances.
Note 1     It is an offence to fail to notify the commissioner under
this section (see Taxation Administration Act 
, s 67 (2)).
Note 2     It is also an offence to knowingly avoid paying, or
disclosing a liability to pay, part or all of an amount of tax (see Taxation Administration Act 
, s 65 (1)).
     (3)     For subsection (2), the relevant person must tell the commissioner not
later than 30 days after the date the circumstances change.
Examples--s (2) and s (3)--changed
circumstances
1     a change of ownership of the parcel
2     the parcel is owned by an individual as trustee
3     the parcel is owned by a foreign person or an owner subsequently becomes
a foreign person
4     the parcel is no longer a principal place of residence
5     the parcel is rented
6     the parcel is otherwise no longer exempt from land tax or a foreign
ownership surcharge
     (4)     In this section:
"relevant person", for a parcel of land, means--
         (a)     the owner of the parcel of land; or
         (b)     if the owner has authorised an agent to act on the owner's
behalf in relation to the parcel--the agent; or
         (c)     if the owner has died--the personal representative.
Examples--par
        (b)--agent
accountant, real estate agent, solicitor

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 15
Multiple dwellings 
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     a parcel of residential land owned by someone other than a corporation
or trustee contains multiple dwellings; and
         (b)     at least 1 of the dwellings is occupied--
               (i)     as the principal place of residence of 1 or more owners of the parcel,
including an owner who is a personal representative of a deceased person;
or
               (ii)     as the principal place of residence of a person having a life or term
interest in the parcel of land under a will; or
               (iii)     by a person who pays no rent for the parcel, or is liable only to
pay an amount that is not more than the total amount required for rates,
repairs, maintenance and insurance in relation to the parcel; and
         (c)     at least 1 of the dwellings is rented by a tenant.
     (2)     Section 10 (Land exempted from s 9 generally) and section 11 (Land
exempted from land tax) do not apply to the parcel of land.
     (3)     In working out the land tax payable for the parcel of land under
section 9 (Imposition of land tax), the AUV of the parcel of land is the amount
worked out as follows:

     (4)     In working out the land tax payable for the parcel of land under
section 9 (Imposition of land tax), the FC for the parcel of land is the amount
worked out as follows:

     (5)     In this section:
"AUV" means the average unimproved value of the parcel of land
under the Rates Act 2004 
.
"dwelling"--
         (a)     means a room, or suite of rooms, used or capable of being used as a
separate residence; but
         (b)     does not include--
               (i)     a unit; or
               (ii)     a garage, carport, garden shed, veranda, pergola, patio, or any other
structure not used for living in.
"FA" means the floor area of the
rented dwelling.
"FC" means the fixed charge determined under the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 139 for section 9 (4), definition of "FC".
"TFA" means the total floor area of all dwellings on the parcel
of land.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 16
Land partly owned by corporation or trustee 
     (1)     This section applies to a parcel of residential land that is owned
by--
         (a)     1 or more people who are corporations or trustees; and
         (b)     1 or more people who are exempt from paying land tax for the parcel
under--
               (i)     section 10 (Land exempted from s 9 generally), other than section 10
(1) (a) (viii); or
               (ii)     section 11 (Land exempted from land tax).
     (2)     In working out the land tax payable for the parcel of land under
section 9 (Imposition of land tax), the AUV of the parcel of land is the amount
worked out as follows:
    (3)    In working out the land tax payable for theparcel of land under section 9 (Imposition of land tax), the FC for the parcelof land is the amount worked out as follows:

     (4)     In this section:
"AI" means the value of all interests in the parcel of
land.
"AUV" means the average unimproved value of the parcel of land
under the Rates Act 2004 
.
"C&TI" means the value of all interests in the parcel of
land held by corporations and trustees.
"FC "means the fixed charge determined under the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 139 for section 9 (4), definition of FC.
     (5)     Any land tax payable for the parcel of land is payable by the owners
of the land who are corporations or trustees.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 17
Payment of land tax 
     (1)     Land tax in relation to a parcel of land is payable to the
commissioner by the owner of the parcel.
     (2)     A person who is the owner of the parcel of land is liable to pay to
the commissioner any unpaid land tax payable in relation to the parcel, whether
the amount became payable before or after the person became the owner.
     (3)     However, if the owner of the parcel is a person to whom the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 56H (8) applies in relation to the unpaid land tax, the amount is
payable by the person who was the owner of the parcel for the period to which
the liability relates.
     (4)     The assessment notice for the land tax payable for a quarter for a
parcel of land must state a date for payment of the land tax
(the payment date).
     (5)     The payment date must not be earlier than 4 weeks after the date of
the notice.
     (6)     A person may pay the land tax in relation to which an assessment
notice has been given--
         (a)     if the amount payable is for a quarter and any arrears of land tax in
relation to previous quarters have been paid in full--by paying, on or
before the date for the payment of the land tax, the amount of the land tax;
or
         (b)     by paying the amounts on the days that the person wishes, but so that
the amount owing on the date for payment is paid no later than the date for
payment.
     (7)     In this section:
"assessment notice", in relation to land tax, means a notice of
assessment under the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 14 in relation to the land tax.
"land tax" includes a foreign ownership
surcharge.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 17A
Definitions--pt 2A 
In this part:
"Australian citizen"--see the Australian Citizenship Act 2007 
 (Cwlth), section 4.
"foreign individual" means an individual who, on the 1st day of
a quarter, is not--
         (a)     an Australian citizen; or
         (b)     a permanent resident; or
         (c)     ordinarily resident in Australia or an external territory.
"foreign person"--
         (a)     means--
               (i)     a foreign individual; or
               (ii)     a foreign corporation; or
               (iii)     a trustee of a foreign trust; but
         (b)     does not include a personal representative of a deceased
person.
"permanent resident" means--
         (a)     a person who holds a permanent visa under the Migration Act 1958 
 (Cwlth), section 30 (1); or
         (b)     a New Zealand citizen who holds a special category visa under the Migration Act 1958 
 (Cwlth), section 32.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 17B
What is a foreign corporation?--pt 2A 
     (1)     In this part:
"foreign corporation" means--
         (a)     a corporation incorporated outside Australia; or
         (b)     a corporation in which 1 or more foreign people hold a controlling
interest.
     (2)     A corporation is taken to be a corporation mentioned in
subsection (1), definition of "foreign corporation", paragraph
        (b) if, taking their interests together, 1 or more foreign people, or associated
people of the foreign people--
         (a)     are entitled to cast, or control the casting of, 50% or more of the
maximum number of votes at a general meeting of the corporation; or
         (b)     hold 50% or more of the shares in the corporation.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 17C
What is a foreign trust?--pt 2A 
     (1)     In this part, a trust is a foreign trust
if--
         (a)     for a trust with fixed beneficial interests--taking their
interests together, a beneficial interest of 50% or more of the capital of the
trust estate is held by--
               (i)     1 or more foreign people; or
               (ii)     an associated person of the foreign person; or
         (b)     for a discretionary trust--a foreign person is named in the trust
deed who, under the terms of the trust, takes the capital of the trust estate
if--
               (i)     there is an exercise of a power or discretion in favour of the person;
or
               (ii)     a power or discretion is not exercised.
     (2)     In this section:
"discretionary trust"--see the Duties Act 1999
, dictionary.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 17D
When is foreign ownership surcharge payable on parcel of land for pt 
2A?
     (1)     For this part, a foreign ownership surcharge is payable on a parcel of
land for a quarter if it is payable on the 1st day of the quarter.
     (2)     A foreign ownership surcharge is taken to be payable on a parcel of
land on the 1st day of a quarter if it is not exempt under this part from the
foreign ownership surcharge on that day.
     (3)     If an exemption under this part stops applying to a parcel of land, a
foreign ownership surcharge is payable on the 1st day of the quarter after the
date the exemption stops applying.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 17E
Imposition of foreign ownership surcharge 
     (1)     A foreign ownership surcharge at the appropriate rate is imposed for a
quarter on each parcel of rateable land that is--
         (a)     residential land; and
         (b)     on the 1st day of the quarter, owned by a foreign person.
     (2)     However, a foreign ownership surcharge is not imposed on a parcel of
land that is exempt under--
         (a)     section 10 (Land exempted from s 9 generally), other than section 10
(1) (a) (vii); or
         (b)     section 11 (Land exempted from land tax).
     (3)     The appropriate rate of the foreign ownership surcharge
for a parcel of land is--
         (a)     for a unit that is part of a unit subdivision--the amount worked
out for the parcel as follows:
 

         (b)     in any other case--the amount worked out for the parcel as
follows:
 

     (4)     In this section:
"AUV" means the average unimproved value of the parcel of land
under the Rates Act 2004 
.
"AUVRU" means the AUV of the parcel proportionate to the number
of residential units in the parcel, worked out as follows:
 

"AUVRUP" means the AUVRU adjusted by the applicable percentage
rate, worked out as follows:
 

"P" means the percentage rate determined under the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 139 for the parcel of land.
Note     Power to determine a percentage rate under the Taxation Administration Act 
 includes the power to determine a different rate for different matters or
different classes of matters (see Legislation Act
, s 48).
"residential unit" means a unit that is residential
land.
"TUE" means the total unit entitlement of all the units in the
units plan.
"TUER" means the total unit entitlement of all the residential
units in the units plan.
"UE" means the unit entitlement of the unit.
"unit entitlement"--see the Unit Titles Act 
, section 8.
"units plan" means a units plan under the Unit Titles Act 
, section 7.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 17F
Land partly owned by foreign people 
     (1)     This section applies to a parcel of residential land if on the 1st day
of a quarter--
         (a)     the parcel is owned by--
               (i)     1 or more people who are foreign people; and
               (ii)     1 or more people who are not foreign people; and
         (b)     a foreign ownership surcharge is payable for the parcel.
     (2)     The appropriate rate of foreign ownership surcharge payable under
section 17E for the parcel of land is--
         (a)     for a unit that is part of a unit subdivision--the amount worked
out for the parcel as follows:
 

         (b)     in any other case--the amount worked out for the parcel as
follows:
 

     (3)     In this section:
"AI" means the value of all interests in the parcel of
land.
"AUV"--see section 9 (4).
"AUVRU" means the AUV of the parcel proportionate to the number
of residential units in the parcel, worked out as follows:
 

"AUVRUP" means the AUVRU adjusted by the applicable percentage
rate, worked out as follows:

"FI" means the value of all interests in the parcel or unit
held by foreign people.
"P"--see section 17E (4).
Note     Power to determine a percentage rate under the Taxation Administration Act 
 includes the power to determine a different rate for different matters or
different classes of matters (see Legislation Act
, s 48).
"residential unit" means a unit that is residential
land.
"TUE" means the total unit entitlement of all the units in the
units plan.
"TUER" means the total unit entitlement of all the residential
units in the units plan.
"UE" means the unit entitlement of the unit.
"unit entitlement"--see the Unit Titles Act 
, section 8.
"units plan" means a units plan under the Unit Titles Act 
, section 7.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 18A
Meaning of land tax--pt 3 
In this part:
"land tax" includes a foreign ownership surcharge.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 19
Interest payable on overdue land tax 
     (1)     Interest on an amount of unpaid overdue land tax is worked
out--
         (a)     for each month that the amount remains unpaid; and
         (b)     on the 1st day of that month; and
         (c)     at the interest rate applying to that day; and
         (d)     on the total amount of overdue land tax that is unpaid on a day when
the interest is worked out.
Note     The Minister may determine an interest rate for this section
under the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 139.
     (2)     For subsection (1) (a), if an amount remains unpaid for part of a
month, interest is payable for the whole month.
Example
Fred's land tax is due on 15 August.  He doesn't pay it until 5
October.  Fred has to pay interest worked out for the overdue period from 16
August to 5 October.  Because of the operation of s (2), Fred has to pay
interest for the period from 16 August to 15 October.  Interest for the
month from 16 August to 15 September is at the rate applying on 16 August, which
is the 1st day of the
1st month that the amount remains unpaid (see
s (1)).  Interest for the month from 16 September to 15 October is at the
rate applying on 16 September, which is the
1st day of the
2nd month that the amount remains unpaid
(see s (1)).
     (3)     The Taxation Administration Act 
, section 25 (Interest in relation to tax defaults) does not apply to
unpaid overdue land tax.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 19A
Interest and penalty tax payable on land tax if no disclosure 
     (1)     This section applies if--
         (a)     land tax is imposed on a parcel of rateable land; and
         (b)     the owner of the parcel of land fails to comply with section 14
(Commissioner to be told of change in circumstances).
     (2)     The owner is liable to pay interest on the amount of land tax from the
end of 30 days after the 1st day of the 1st quarter for which the tax is
imposed.
     (3)     Interest on the amount of land tax is worked out--
         (a)     for each month that the amount is payable; and
         (b)     on the 1st day of that month; and
         (c)     at the interest rate applying to that day; and
         (d)     on the total amount of land tax that is payable on a day when the
interest is worked out.
Note     The Minister may determine an interest rate for this section
under the Taxation Administration Act 
, s 139.
     (4)     The Taxation Administration Act 
, division 5.2 (Penalty tax) applies to the owner of the parcel of land as
if--
         (a)     the owner's failure to comply with section 14 were a tax
default; and
         (b)     a reference to interest under division 5.1 were a reference to
interest under this section; and
         (c)     a reference to the amount of tax unpaid were a reference to the amount
of land tax payable.
     (5)     This section applies to land tax imposed before or after the
commencement of this section.
Note     Section 9 imposes land tax on unit subdivisions.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 26
Unit subdivisions 
     (1)     For this Act, if a parcel of land is a unit subdivision, the land
making up the parcel is taken to continue to be a single parcel of
land.
     (2)     However, in the application of this Act to a unit
subdivision--
         (a)     a reference to a parcel of land in relation to the assessment or
payment of land tax is a reference to a unit; and
         (b)     a reference to the owner is--
               (i)     in relation to the assessment or payment of land tax--a reference
to the unit owner; and
               (ii)     in relation to any other notice--a reference to the owners
corporation.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 27
Unit subdivisions--land tax 
     (1)     This section applies to a parcel of land that is a unit
subdivision.
     (2)     If land tax imposed for the parcel of land for the quarter when the
units plan is registered is not paid before registration of the units plan, it
is payable by the person who was the owner of the parcel on the day before the
day when the units plan was registered.
     (3)     On and after the 1st day of the
next quarter after the day when the units plan is registered or, if it is
registered on the 1st day of a quarter, on
and after that day--
         (a)     any land tax imposed for the parcel of land is payable by the unit
owners whose units are subject to land tax; and
         (b)     the amount payable by each unit owner whose unit is subject to land
tax is the amount worked out under subsection (4), (5) or (6), whichever
applies; and
         (c)     no land tax for the parcel is payable by the owners
corporation.
     (4)     If a unit that is part of a unit subdivision--
         (a)     is owned by someone other than a corporation or trustee; and
         (b)     contains multiple dwellings; and
         (c)     has at least 1 of the dwellings in the unit occupied--
               (i)     as the principal place of residence by 1 or more owners of the unit,
including an owner who is a personal representative of a deceased person;
or
               (ii)     as the principal place of residence by a person having a life or term
interest in the unit under a will; or
               (iii)     by a person who pays no rent for the unit, or is liable only to pay
an amount that is not more than the total amount required for rates, repairs,
maintenance and insurance in relation to the unit; and
         (d)     has at least 1 of the dwellings rented by a tenant;
the amount worked out for the unit is as follows:

     (5)     If a unit that is part of a unit subdivision--
         (a)     is owned by either a corporation or trustee, and
         (b)     another person who is exempt from paying land tax for the parcel
under--
               (i)     section 10 (Land exempted from s 9 generally), other than section 10
(1) (a) (viii); or
               (ii)     section 11 (Land exempted from land tax);
the amount worked out for the unit is as follows:

     (6)     If a unit is part of a unit subdivision, and subsections (4) and (5)
do not apply--the amount worked out for the unit is as follows:

     (7)     In this section:
"AI" means the value of all interests in the unit.
"AUV"--see section 9 (4).
"AUVRU" means the AUV of the parcel proportionate to the number
of residential units in the parcel, worked out as follows:

"AUVRUP" means the AUVRU adjusted by the applicable percentage
rate, worked out as follows:

"C&TI" means the value of all interests in the unit held by
corporations and trustees.
"dwelling"--
         (a)     means a room, or suite of rooms, used or capable of being used as a
separate residence; but
         (b)     does not include a garage, carport, garden shed, veranda, pergola,
patio, or any other structure not used for living in.
"FA" means the floor area of the dwelling that is
rented.
"FC"--see section 9 (4).
"P"--see section 9 (4).
"residential unit "means a unit that is residential
land.
"TFA" means the total floor area of the unit.
"TUE "means the total unit entitlement of all the units in the
units plan.
"TUER "means the total unit entitlement of all the residential
units in the units plan.
"UE" means the unit entitlement of the unit.
"unit entitlement"--see the Unit Titles Act 
, section 8.
"units plan" means a units plan under the Unit Titles Act 
, section 7.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 33
Meaning of land tax--pt 5 
In this part:
"land tax" includes a foreign ownership surcharge.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 34
Exemption from land tax 
     (1)     The Minister may exempt the owner of a parcel of land from payment of
land tax owing for any period in relation to the parcel, or from payment of a
stated part of the land tax.
     (2)     An exemption is a notifiable instrument.
     (3)     The Minister may make guidelines for the exercise of a function under
this section.
     (4)     Guidelines are a disallowable instrument.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 35
Remission of land tax 
     (1)     The Minister may remit the land tax, or part of the land tax, payable
for a parcel of land if the Minister is satisfied that it is fair and reasonable
in the circumstances.
     (2)     The Minister may make guidelines for the exercise of a function under
this section.
     (3)     Guidelines are a disallowable instrument.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 36
Remission of interest 
The commissioner may, if the commissioner considers it appropriate in the
circumstances, remit interest payable by a person in relation to land tax by any
amount.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 37
Interest on refund 
     (1)     This section applies if the commissioner is satisfied
that--
         (a)     an assessment of land tax payable for a parcel of land has been
wrongly made because of an administrative error; and
         (b)     because of the error, a person has overpaid land tax for the
parcel.
     (2)     The commissioner may pay interest to the owner of the
parcel--
         (a)     at the market rate component determined under the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 26; and
         (b)     worked out from the date when the overpayment was made or a later date
the commissioner considers appropriate.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 38
Objections
The following decisions of the commissioner are prescribed for the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 100 (Objection):
         (a)     a decision under section 11A (3) to refuse to exempt a parcel of land
from land tax because the commissioner is not satisfied 2 people in a
domestic partnership have separated;
         (b)     a decision under section 11E (1) to extend the period of exemption
after the death of an owner of a parcel of land for less than the period applied
for;
         (c)     a decision under section 11E (1) to refuse to extend the period of
exemption after the death of an owner of a parcel of land;
         (d)     a decision under section 11E (4) to revoke an extension;
         (e)     a decision under section 11F (3) to give permission subject to a
condition or refuse permission;
         (f)     a decision under section 11I (1) to refuse to exempt a parcel of land
from land tax because the commissioner is not satisfied the land is, or has
become, unfit for occupation as a place of residence;
         (g)     a decision under section 13 (1) (b) to refuse to exempt a parcel of
land from land tax on compassionate grounds;
         (h)     a decision under section 13 (5) revoking an exemption given on
compassionate grounds;
               (i)     a decision under section 36 to refuse to remit interest payable by a
person in relation to land tax;
         (j)     a decision under section 37 to refuse to pay interest on an
overpayment or to pay interest other than from the date when the overpayment was
made.
Note     Assessments are made under the Taxation Administration Act 
 and objections may be made under that Act 
, s 100 (1) (a).  For example, if a person is given an assessment for land
tax and the person is dissatisfied with the assessment because land tax was not
payable in relation to the parcel of land, the person may object under that
paragraph.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 39
Review of decisions by ACAT 
     (1)     This section applies to a determination by the commissioner of an
objection to a decision mentioned in section 38, other than a decision mentioned
in section 38 (i).
     (2)     The determination is prescribed for the Taxation Administration Act 
, section 107A (Meaning of reviewable decision etc--div
10.2).
Note      Applications for review by the ACAT may be made in relation to
a determination by the commissioner of a decision on an objection to an
assessment.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 40
Working out amounts with fractions for Act 
     (1)     If an amount worked out under this Act contains a fraction of a cent,
the amount must be rounded to the nearest cent, with 1/2 a cent being
disregarded.
     (2)     However, in working out the average unimproved value under
section 15 (3) (Multiple dwellings), section 16 (2) (Land partly owned by
corporation or trustee) or section 27 (4), (5) or (6) (Unit
subdivisions--land tax), any fraction of a dollar in the amount worked out
must be disregarded.
     (3)     The Taxation Administration Act 
, section 123 (Adjustments of amounts) does not
apply in working out an amount under this Act.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 41
Certificate of land tax and other charges 
     (1)     A relevant person for a parcel of land may apply to the commissioner
for a certificate of--
         (a)     the land tax assessed to be payable under this Act for the parcel for
the current financial year; and
         (b)     the land tax and other amounts immediately payable to the commissioner
under this Act in relation to the parcel.
     (2)     The commissioner must give the applicant the certificate.
     (3)     The certificate is conclusive proof for an honest buyer for value of
the parcel of land of the matters certified.
Note     The certificate may include a certificate of amounts payable
under the Rates Act 2004 
 in relation to the parcel (see Legislation Act
, s 49).
     (4)     For this section, land tax and other amounts are taken to be payable
immediately even if any necessary time after service of a notice has not
ended.
     (5)     In this section:
"land tax" includes a foreign ownership surcharge.
"relevant person", for a parcel of land, means--
         (a)     the owner of the parcel; or
         (b)     a buyer who has entered into a contract to buy the parcel;
or
         (c)     a mortgagee of the parcel.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 42
Statement of amounts payable and payments made 
     (1)     A person may apply to the commissioner for a statement
of--
         (a)     the amounts that became payable to the commissioner under this Act in
relation to a parcel of land in a stated financial year; and
         (b)     the payments received by the commissioner in the financial year for
amounts that became payable under this Act in relation to the parcel.
     (2)     The commissioner must give the applicant the statement.
Note     The statement may include a statement of rates payable and
received under the Rates Act 2004 
 in relation to the parcel of land (see Legislation Act
, s 49).

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 43
Determination of fees 
     (1)     The Minister may determine fees for this Act.
     (2)     A determination is a disallowable instrument.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- SECT 44
Regulation-making power 
The Executive may make regulations for this Act.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- NOTES Dictionary

Dictionary
(see s 3)
Note 1     The Legislation Act 

 contains definitions and other provisions relevant to this Act.
Note 2     For example, the Legislation Act

, dict, pt 1 defines the following terms:
               o      ACAT
               o      Australia
               o      commissioner for revenue
               o      corporation
               o      domestic partnership (see s 169 (2))
               o      external territory
               o      financial year
               o      function
               o      interest
               o      month
               o      person (see s 160)
               o      quarter
               o      territory law
               o      under.
"associated person"--see the Duties Act 1999

, section 77A.
"Australian citizen", for part 2A (Foreign ownership
surcharge)--see section 17A.
"commissioner "means the commissioner for revenue.
"foreign corporation", for part 2A (Foreign ownership
surcharge)--see section 17B.
"foreign individual", for part 2A (Foreign ownership
surcharge)--see section 17A.
"foreign ownership surcharge" includes--
         (a)     penalty tax; and
         (b)     the total of--
               (i)     the costs and expenses reasonably
incurred by the Territory in attempting to recover the foreign ownership
surcharge; and
               (ii)     interest payable in relation to the
foreign ownership surcharge.
"foreign person", for part 2A (Foreign ownership
surcharge)--see section 17A.
"foreign trust", for part 2A (Foreign ownership
surcharge)--see section 17C.
"land sublease"--see the Planning Act 2023

, dictionary.
"land tax--"
         (a)     for this Act generally, includes--
               (i)     penalty tax; and
               (ii)     the total of--
     (A)     the costs and expenses reasonably
incurred by the Territory in attempting to recover the land tax;
and
     (B)     interest payable in relation to the land tax; and
         (b)     for part 3 (Enforcement)--see section 18A; and
         (c)     for part 5 (Exemptions, remissions and certain interest
payments)--see section 33.
"lease" means a lease from the Commonwealth or the Territory,
and includes an agreement with the Commonwealth or the
Territory--
         (a)     for a lease of a parcel of land; or
         (b)     for the tenancy or occupation of a parcel of land.
"owner", of a parcel of land means--
         (a)     the registered proprietor of an interest in the parcel (other than an
interest in a lease granted by a person other than the Territory or the
Commonwealth); or
         (b)     if the registered proprietor has sold the interest to another person
(the new owner) and the new owner is in possession of the parcel
but not yet registered as the proprietor--the new owner; or
         (c)     a mortgagee in possession of the parcel; or
         (d)     a person holding the parcel under a sublease from the Territory, if
the Territory holds the parcel under a lease from the Commonwealth; or
         (e)     for a parcel held under a land sublease--the sublessee.
"owners corporation"--see the Unit Titles (Management) Act 2011

, dictionary.
"parcel" includes a part of a parcel of land that is separately
held by an occupier, tenant, lessee or owner.
"permanent resident", for part 2A (Foreign ownership
surcharge)--see section 17A.
"personal representative", in relation to a deceased person,
means--
         (a)     an executor of the deceased person's will; or 
         (b)     an administrator of the deceased person's estate.
"primary production" means--
         (a)     production resulting directly from--
               (i)     cultivation of land; or
               (ii)     keeping animals for their sale, bodily produce or natural increase;
or
               (iii)     fishing operations; or
               (iv)     forest operations; and
         (b)     the manufacture of dairy produce by the person who produced the raw
material used in that manufacture.
"rateable land"--see the Rates Act 2004

, section 8.
"rates"--see the Rates Act 2004

, dictionary.
"rent", for part 2 (Imposition and payment of land
tax)--see section 7.
"rented", for part 2 (Imposition and payment of land
tax)--see section 8.
"residential land" means--
         (a)     rateable land leased for residential purposes only; or
         (b)     rateable land leased for residential purposes and other purposes but
used for residential purposes only; or
         (c)     a parcel of rateable land included in the common property of a
community title scheme under the Community Title Act 2001

, if--
               (i)     at least 1 parcel of land in the scheme is residential land under
paragraph (a) or (b); and
               (ii)     no parcel of land in the scheme is leased for a commercial
purpose.
"Taxation Administration Act" means the Taxation Administration Act 1999

.
"tenancy agreement", for part 2 (Imposition and payment of land
tax)--see section 7.
"tenant", for part 2 (Imposition and payment of land
tax)--see section 7.
"trustee", for part 2 (Imposition and payment of land
tax)--see section 7.
"unit" means a unit under the Unit Titles Act 

, section 9.
"unit owner" means--
         (a)     the registered proprietor of the lease of a unit; or
         (b)     if the registered proprietor has sold the interest to another person
(the new owner) and the new owner is in possession of the unit but
not yet registered as the proprietor--the new owner. 
"unit subdivision"--see the Rates Act 2004

, dictionary.
"Unit Titles Act" means the Unit Titles Act 2001

.

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- NOTES Endnotes

Endnotes
1     About
the endnotes
Amending and modifying laws are annotated in the legislation history and
the amendment history.  Current modifications are not included in the
republished law but are set out in the endnotes.
Not all editorial amendments made under the Legislation Act 2001
, part 11.3 are annotated in the amendment history.  Full details of any
amendments can be obtained from the Parliamentary Counsel's
Office.
Uncommenced amending laws are not included in the republished law.  The
details of these laws are underlined in the legislation history.  Uncommenced
expiries are underlined in the legislation history and amendment
history.
If all the provisions of the law have been renumbered, a table of
renumbered provisions gives details of previous and current numbering. 

The endnotes also include a table of earlier republications.
2     Abbreviation
key

      
      

A = Act

NI = Notifiable instrument

AF = Approved form

o = order

am = amended

om = omitted/repealed

amdt = amendment

ord = ordinance

AR = Assembly resolution

orig = original

ch = chapter

par = paragraph/subparagraph

CN = Commencement notice

pres = present

def = definition

prev = previous

DI = Disallowable instrument

(prev...) = previously

dict = dictionary

pt = part

disallowed = disallowed by the Legislative

r = rule/subrule

Assembly

reloc = relocated

div = division

renum = renumbered

exp = expires/expired

R[X] = Republication No

Gaz = gazette

RI = reissue

hdg = heading

s = section/subsection

IA = Interpretation Act 1967

sch = schedule

ins = inserted/added

sdiv = subdivision

LA = Legislation Act 2001

SL = Subordinate law

LR = legislation register

sub = substituted

LRA = Legislation (Republication) Act
1996

underlining = whole or part not
commenced

mod = modified/modification

or to be expired

3     Legislation
history
Land Tax Act 2004 A2004-4
notified LR 18 February 2004
s 1, s 2 commenced 18 February 2004 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 1 July 2004 (s 2)
as amended by
Statute Law Amendment Act 2005 
 A2005-20 sch 3 pt 3.32
notified LR 12 May 2005
s 1, s 2 taken to have commenced 8 March 2005 (LA s 75
(2))
sch 3 pt 3.32 commenced 2 June 2005 (s 2
(1))
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2005 
 A2005-29 pt 3
notified LR 28 June 2005
s 1, s 2 commenced 28 June 2005 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 3 commenced 29 June 2005 (s 2 (2))
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2006 
 A2006-19 pt 3
notified LR 17 May 2006
s 1, s 2 commenced 17 May 2006 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 3 commenced 18 May 2006 (s 2 (3))
Housing Assistance Act 2007 
 A2007-8 sch 1 pt 1.5
notified LR 10 May 2007
s 1, s 2 commenced 10 May 2007 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.5 commenced 10 November 2007 (s 2 and LA s
79)
Land Tax (Interest and Penalty) Amendment Act 2007
 A2007-20
notified LR 14 June 2007
s 1, s 2 commenced 14 June 2007 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 15 June 2007 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2007 
 A2007-21 pt 3
notified LR 19 June 2007
s 1, s 2 commenced 19 June 2007 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 3 commenced 20 June 2007 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation (Housing Affordability Initiatives) Amendment Act 2007
 A2007-29 pt 3
notified LR 2 October 2007
s 1, s 2 commenced 2 October 2007 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 3 commenced 3 October 2007 (s 2)
Land Rent Act 2008 
 A2008-16 sch 1 pt 1.1
notified LR 30 June 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 30 June 2008 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.1 commenced 1 July 2008 (s 2 and CN2008-10 
)
ACT Civil and Administrative Tribunal Legislation Amendment Act 2008 (No 2)
 A2008-37 sch 1 pt 1.62
notified LR 4 September 2008
s 1, s 2 commenced 4 September 2008 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.62 commenced 2 February 2009 (s 2 (1) and see
ACT Civil
and Administrative Tribunal Act 2008
 A2008-35, s 2 (1) and CN2009-2 
)
Rates and Land Tax Legislation Amendment Act 2009
 A2009-52 pt 2
notified LR 18 December 2009
s 1, s 2 commenced 18 December 2009 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 1 January 2010 (s 2)
Land Tax Amendment Act 2011 
 A2011-33
notified LR 1 September 2011
s 1, s 2 commenced 1 September 2011 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 2 September 2011 (s
2)
Unit Titles (Management) Act 2011 
 A2011-41 sch 5 pt 5.5
notified LR 3 November 2011
s 1, s 2 commenced 3 November 2011 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 5 pt 5.5 commenced 30 March 2012 (s 2 and CN2012-6 
)
Rates and Land Tax Legislation Amendment Act 2012
 A2012-37 pt 2
notified LR 18 June 2012
s 1, s 2 commenced 18 June 2012 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 2 commenced 1 July 2012 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation (Tax Reform) Amendment Act 2013
 A2013-17 sch 1 pt 1.1
notified LR 22 May 2013
s 1, s 2 commenced 22 May 2013 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.1 commenced 23 May 2013 (s
2)
Land Tax Amendment Act 2014 
 A2014-36
notified LR 22 August 2014
s 1, s 2 commenced 22 August 2014 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 1 October 2014 (s
2)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2014 (No 2) 
 A2014-44 sch 3 pt 3.7
notified LR 5 November 2014
s 1, s 2 commenced 5 November 2014 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.7 commenced 19 November 2014 (s
2)
Planning and Development (University of Canberra and Other Leases) Legislation Amendment Act 2015
 A2015-19 pt 10
notified LR 11 June 2015
s 1, s 2 commenced 11 June 2015 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 10 commenced 1 July 2015 (s 2 and CN2015-9 
)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2015 
 A2015-49 pt 5
notified LR 24 November 2015
s 1, s 2 commenced 24 November 2015 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 5 commenced 25 November 2015 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2017 
 A2017-1 sch 1 pt 1.4
notified LR 22 February 2017
s 1, s 2 commenced 22 February 2017 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.4 commenced 18 September 2017 (s 2 (1) and CN2017-5 
)
Co-operatives National Law (ACT) Act 2017
 A2017-8 sch 2 pt 2.3
notified LR 4 April 2017
s 1, s 2 commenced 4 April 2017 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 2 pt 2.3 commenced 1 May 2017 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2017 (No 2)
 A2017-11 pt 3
notified LR 16 May 2017
s 1, s 2 commenced 16 May 2017 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 3 commenced 1 July 2017 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2018 
 A2018-2 sch 1 pt 1.5
notified LR 28 February 2018
s 1, s 2 commenced 28 February 2018 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.5 commenced 1 March 2018 (s
2)
Land Tax Amendment Act 2018 
 A2018-15
notified LR 16 May 2018
s 1, s 2 commenced 16 May 2018 (LA s 75
(1))
remainder commenced 1 July 2018 (s 2)
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2019 
 A2019-7 sch 1 pt 1.4
notified LR 27 March 2019
s 1, s 2 commenced 27 March 2019 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.4 commenced 28 March 2019 (s 2
(1))
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2019 (No 2)
 A2019-46 pt 4
notified LR 9 December 2019
s 1, s 2 commenced 9 December 2019 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 4 commenced 10 December 2019 (s 2
(1))
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2021 
 A2021-10 sch 1 pt 1.2
notified LR 19 May 2021
s 1, s 2 commenced 19 May 2021 (LA s 75
(1))
amdt 1.11 commenced 20 May 2021 (s 2 (2)
        (a))
sch 1 pt 1.2 remainder commenced 20 May 2021 (s 2
(1))
Statute Law Amendment Act 2021
 A2021-12 sch 3 pt 3.31
notified LR 9 June 2021
s 1, s 2 commenced 9 June 2021 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 3 pt 3.31 commenced 23 June 2021 (s 2
(1))
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2023 
 A2023-6 pt 3, sch 1 pt 1.2
notified LR 11 April 2023
s 1, s 2 commenced 11 April 2023 (LA s 75
(1))
pt 3 commenced 12 April 2023 (s 2 (1))
sch 1 pt 1.2 commenced 1 October 2023 (s 2 (3) and see
CN2023-8 
)
Planning (Consequential Amendments) Act 2023
 A2023-36 sch 1 pt 1.39
notified LR 29 September 2023
s 1, s 2 commenced 29 September 2023 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 1 pt 1.39 commenced 27 November 2023 (s 2 (1) and
see Planning Act 2023 
 A2023-18, s 2 (2) and CN2023-10 
)
Statute Law Amendment Act 2025 
 A2025-29 sch 4 pt 4.107
notified LR 6 November 2025
s 1, s 2 commenced 6 November 2025 (LA s 75
(1))
sch 4 pt 4.107 commenced 26 December 2025 (s 2
(7))
4     Amendment
history
Commencements
2     om LA s 89 (4)
Definitions--pt
2s 7     sub A2019-46 
 s
22     def rent am A2018-15 
 s 4     sub
A2019-46 
 s
22     def residential tenancy
agreement ins A2018-15 
 s 5     om
A2019-46 
 s
22     def tenancy agreement om
A2018-15 
 s 6     ins
A2019-46 
 s
22     def tenant sub A2018-15 
 s 7; A2019-46 
 s
22     def trustee sub A2018-15 
 s 8; A2019-46 
 s 22
When is something rented for
pt 2?s 8     am A2018-15 
 s 9, s 10
When is land tax payable on parcel of land
for pt 2?s 8A     ins A2018-15 
 s 11
Imposition of land
taxs 9     am A2005-29 
 s 11; A2013-17 
 amdt 1.1, amdt 1.2; A2014-36 
 s 4, s 5; A2017-11 
 s 10; A2018-15 
 ss 12-14; ss renum
R25 LA
Land exempted from s 9
generallys 10     am A2007-29 
 s 14; pars renum R8 LA; A2007-8 
 amdt 1.11; A2014-44 
 amdt 3.30; A2018-15 
 s 15; pars renum R25 LA; A2019-7 
 amdt 1.28; pars renum R26 LA; A2019-46 
 s 23, s 24; pars renum R27
LA
Land exempted from land
taxs 11     am A2015-49 
 s 24; A2017-8 
 amdt 2.4; A2018-15 
 s 16, s 17; ss renum R25
LA
Principal place of residence
exemptions 11A     ins A2018-15 
 s 18     am
A2021-10 
 amdt 1.7
Moving out of principal place of
residences 11B     ins A2018-15 
 s 18     am
A2021-10 
 amdt 1.8
Moving into principal place of
residence--new owners 11C     ins A2018-15 
 s
18     sub A2019-46 
 s 25     am
A2021-10 
 amdt 1.9
Moving into principal place of
residence--ending rentals
11CA     ins A2019-46 
 s 25     am
A2021-10 
 amdt 1.10
Exemption after death of
owners 11D     ins A2018-15 
 s 18     am
A2021-10 
 amdt 1.10
Decision on extension of
periods 11E     ins A2018-15 
 s 18
Applications lodged out of
times 11F     ins A2018-15 
 s 18
Exemption for life
tenants 11G     ins A2018-15 
 s 18
Exemption if nil or nominal rent
paids 11H     ins A2018-15 
 s 18
Exemption if land becomes unfit for
occupations 11I     ins A2018-15 
 s 18     am
A2019-46 
 s 26; ss renum R27 LA
Application for compassionate case
exemptions 12     am A2018-15 
 s 19, s 20
Decision on compassionate
applications 13     am A2018-15 
 s 21; A2019-46 
 s 27
Exemption for land provided for affordable
community housings 13A     ins A2019-7 
 amdt
1.29     am A2021-10 
 amdt 1.11; ss renum R28 LA; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.107
Commissioner to be told of change in
circumstancess 14     sub A2009-52 
 s 4; A2018-15 
 s 22; A2019-46 
 s 28, s
29     am A2021-12 
 amdt 3.76
Commissioner to be told if residential land
owned by an individual as trustees
14A     ins A2011-33 
 s 4     om
A2018-15 
 s 23
Multiple
dwellingss 15     am A2005-29 
 s 12; A2014-36 
 s 6, s 7; ss renum R17 LA; A2018-15 
 s 24, s 25; pars renum R25 LA; A2019-46 
 s 30
Land partly owned by corporation or
trustees 16     am A2005-29 
 s 13; A2014-36 
 s 8, s 9; ss renum R17 LA; A2018-15 
 s 26; A2023-6 
 s 46, s 47
Payment of land
taxs 17     am A2007-21 
 s 9; ss renum R7 LA; A2014-44 
 amdt 3.31; A2018-2 
 amdt 1.14; A2018-15 
 s 27, s 28; pars renum R25 LA; A2023-6 
 s 48
Foreign ownership
surchargept 2A hdg     ins A2018-15 
 s 29
Definitions--pt
2As 17A     ins A2018-15 
 s
29     def Australian citizen
ins A2018-15 
 s
29     def foreign individual
ins A2018-15 
 s
29     def foreign person ins
A2018-15 
 s
29     def permanent resident
ins A2018-15 
 s 29
What is a foreign
corporation?--pt 2As 17B     ins
A2018-15 
 s 29
What is a foreign trust?--pt
2As 17C     ins A2018-15 
 s 29
When is foreign ownership surcharge payable
on parcel of land for pt 2A?s 17D     ins
A2018-15 
 s 29
Imposition of foreign ownership
surcharges 17E     ins A2018-15 
 s 29     am
A2023-6 
 s 49
Land partly owned by foreign
peoples 17F     ins A2018-15 
 s 29     am
A2019-7 
 amdt 1.30
Land tax for part of
quarters 18     am A2005-29 
 s 14; A2015-49 
 s 25     om
A2018-15 
 s 30
Meaning of land tax--pt
3s 18A     ins A2018-15 
 s 31
Interest payable on overdue land
taxs 19     am A2014-44 
 amdt 3.32
Interest and penalty tax payable on land tax
if no disclosures 19A     ins A2007-20 
 s 4     am
A2014-44 
 amdt 3.32; A2015-49 
 ss 26-28; A2018-15 
 ss 32-34; ss renum R25 LA
Charge of land tax on rateable
lands 20     om A2015-49 
 s 29
Notice of land tax in
arrearss 21     om A2015-49 
 s 29
Unoccupied land--letting for unpaid
land taxs 22     om A2015-49 
 s 29
Entitlement to possession of land held by
commissioners 23     om A2015-49 
 s 29
Sale of land for nonpayment of land
taxs 24     sub A2006-19 
 s 20     am
A2008-16 
 amdt 1.1, amdt
1.2     om A2015-49 
 s 29
Application may relate to more than 1
parcels 25     am A2006-19 
 s 21     om
A2015-49 
 s 29
Application of Act to unit
subdivisionsdiv 4.1 hdg     om A2013-17 
 amdt 1.3
Unit subdivisions--land
taxs 27     am A2005-20 
 amdt 3.185; A2014-36 
 s 10; A2017-11 
 s 11, s 12; A2018-15 
 ss 35-37; A2019-46 
 s 31; A2023-6 
 s 50
Certain proposed unit
subdivisionsdiv 4.2 hdg     om A2013-17 
 amdt 1.4
Meaning of qualifying parcel of land
for div 4.2s 28     om A2013-17 
 amdt 1.4
When div 4.2 applies to parcel of
lands 29     om A2013-17 
 amdt 1.4
Imposition of land tax--qualifying
parcels of lands 30     am A2005-29 
 s 15     om
A2013-17 
 amdt 1.4
End of application of div
4.2s 31     om A2013-17 
 amdt 1.4
Reassessment--completion of
developments 32     om A2013-17 
 amdt 1.4
Meaning of land tax--pt
5s 33     om A2013-17 
 amdt
1.4     ins A2018-15 s 38
Exemption from land
taxs 34     am A2014-44 
 amdt 3.33; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.107
Remission of land
taxs 35     am A2025-29 
 amdt 4.107
Remission of
interests 36     sub A2019-7 
 amdt 1.31
Interest on
refunds 37     am A2005-29 
 s 16
Objectionss
38     am A2015-49 
 s 30; pars renum R20
LA     sub A2018-15 
 s 39     am
A2019-7 
 amdt 1.32
Review of decisions by
ACATs 39     sub A2008-37 
 amdt
1.286     am A2015-49 
 s 31; A2018-15 
 s 40
Working out amounts with fractions for
Acts 40     am A2017-11 
 s 13
Certificate of land tax and other
chargess 41     am A2008-16 
 amdt 1.3; A2017-1 
 amdt 1.101; A2018-15 
 s 41; A2019-7 
 amdts 1.33-1.35; A2021-12 
 amdt 3.76; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.107
Statement of amounts payable and payments
mades 42     am A2021-12 
 amdt 3.76; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.107
Determination of
feess 43     am A2014-44 
 amdt 3.34; A2025-29 
 amdt 4.107
Regulation-making
powers 44     am A2025-29 
 amdt 4.107
Transitionalpt
7 hdg     exp 1 July 2005 (s 57)
Meaning of repealed Act for pt
7s 45     exp 1 July 2005 (s
57)
Special provision for period to 30 June
1987s 46     exp 1 July 2005 (s
57)
Meaning of
assessments 47     exp 1 July 2005
(s 57)
Land tax payable under repealed
Acts 48     exp 1 July 2005 (s
57)
Land to which repealed Act, pt 4A
applieds 49     exp 1 July 2005 (s
57)
Right to object if no objection
lodgeds 50     exp 1 July 2005 (s
57)
Objections lodged under repealed
Acts 51     exp 1 July 2005 (s
57)
Applications for review if no application
lodgeds 52     exp 1 July 2005 (s
57)
Application for review if application
lodgeds 53     exp 1 July 2005 (s
57)
Notice of land tax in
arrearss 54     exp 1 July 2005 (s
57)
Statements under s
42s 55     exp 1 July 2005 (s
57)
Modification of pt 7's
operations 56     exp 1 July 2005 (s
57)
Expiry of pt
7s 57     exp 1 July 2005 (s
57)
Transitional--Land Tax Amendment Act
2018pt 8 hdg     ins A2019-46 
 s
32     exp 30 June 2021 (s
60)
Commissioner to be told if vacant parcel
became subject to land tax or foreign ownership surcharge on 1 July
2018s 58     ins A2019-46 
 s
32     exp 30 June 2021 (s
60)
Interest and penalty tax payable if no
disclosure under s 58s 59     ins A2019-46 
 s
32     exp 30 June 2021 (s
60)
Expiry--pt
8s 60     ins A2019-46 
 s
32     exp 30 June 2021 (s
60)
Dictionarydict     am
A2008-37 
 amdt 1.287; A2014-44 
 amdt 3.35; A2018-15 

s 42     def assessment notice
om A2014-44 
 amdt
3.36     def associated person
ins A2018-15 
 s
43     sub A2023-6 
 amdt
1.4     def Australian citizen
ins A2018-15 
 s
43     def foreign corporation
ins A2018-15 
 s
43     def foreign individual
ins A2018-15 
 s
43     def foreign ownership
surcharge ins A2018-15 
 s
43     def foreign person ins
A2018-15 
 s
43     def foreign trust ins A2018-15 
 s
43     def land sublease ins A2015-19 
 s
52     sub A2023-36 
 amdt
1.207     def land tax sub A2018-15 
 s
44     def owner am A2009-52 
 s 5, pars renum R12
LA;     A2015-19 
 s
53     def owners corporation
sub A2011-41 
 amdt
5.9     def permanent resident
ins A2018-15 
 s
45     def personal
representative ins A2018-15 
 s
45     def qualifying parcel of
land om A2013-17 
 amdt
1.5     def residential land
sub A2012-37 
 s 4     def
residential tenancy agreement ins A2018-15 
 s 45     om
A2019-46 
 s
33     def rural land sub A2012-37 
 s 4     om
A2014-44 
 amdt
3.37     def tenancy agreement
om A2018-15 
 s
46     ins A2019-46 
 s
34     def unit owner sub A2009-52 
 s 6
5     Earlier
republications
Some earlier republications were not numbered. The number in column 1
refers to the publication order.  
Since 12 September 2001 every authorised republication has been published
in electronic pdf format on the ACT legislation register.  A selection of
authorised republications have also been published in printed format. These
republications are marked with an asterisk (*) in column 1.  Electronic and
printed versions of an authorised republication are identical. 

      
      
      
      

Republication No and date

Effective

Last amendment made by

Republication for

R11 July
2004

1 July
2004-1 June 2005

not amended

new Act

R22 June
2005

2 June
2005-28 June 2005

A2005-20 

amendments by A2005-20 

R329
June 2005

29 June
2005-1 July 2005

A2005-29 

amendments by A2005-29 

R42 July
2005

2 July
2005-17 May 2006

A2005-29 

commenced expiry

R518 May
2006

18 May
2006-14 June 2007

A2006-19 

amendments by A2006-19 

R615
June 2007

15 June
2007-19 June 2007

A2007-20 

amendments by A2007-20 

R720
June 2007

20 June
2007-2 Oct 2007

A2007-21 

amendments by A2007-21 

R83 Oct
2007

3 Oct
2007-9 Nov 2007

A2007-29 

amendments by A2007-29 

R910 Nov
2007

10 Nov
2007-30 June 2008

A2007-29 

amendments by A2007-8 

R101
July 2008

1 July
2008-1 Feb 2009

A2008-16 

amendments by A2008-16 

R112 Feb
2009

2 Feb
2009-31 Dec 2009

A2008-37 

amendments by A2008-37 

R12*1
Jan 2010

1 Jan
2010-1 Sept 2011

A2009-52 

amendments by A2009-52 

R132
Sept 2011

2 Sept
2011-29 Mar 2012

A2011-33 

amendments by A2011-33 

R1430
Mar 2012

30 Mar
2012-30 June 2012

A2011-41 

amendments by A2011-41 

R151
July 2012

1 July
2012-22 May 2013

A2012-37 

amendments by A2012-37 

R1623
May 2013

23 May
2013-30 Sept 2014

A2013-17 

amendments by A2013-17 

R171 Oct
2014

1 Oct
2014-18 Nov 2014

A2014-36 

amendments by A2014-36 

R1819
Nov 2014

19 Nov
2014-30 June 2015

A2014-44 

amendments by A2014-44 

R191
July 2015

1 July
2015-24 Nov 2015

A2015-19 

amendments by A2015-19 

R2025
Nov 2015

25 Nov
2015-30 Apr 2017

A2015-49 

amendments by A2015-49 

R211 May
2017

1 May
2017-30 June 2017

A2017-8 

amendments by A2017-8 

R221
July 2017

1 July
2017-17 Sept 2017

A2017-11 

amendments by A2017-11 

R2318
Sept 2017

18 Sept
2017-28 Feb 2018

A2017-11 

amendments by A2017-1 

R241 Mar
2018

1 Mar
2018-30 June 2018

A2018-2 

amendments by A2018-2 

R251
July 2018

1 July
2018-27 Mar 2019

A2018-15 

amendments by A2018-15 

R2628
Mar 2019

28 Mar
2019-9 Dec 2019

A2019-7 

amendments by A2019-7 

R2710
Dec 2019

10 Dec
2019-19 May 2021

A2019-46 

amendments by A2019-46 

R2820
May 2021

20 May
2021-22 June 2021

A2021-10 

amendments by A2021-10 

R2923
June 2021

23 June
2021-30 June 2021

A2021-12 

amendments by A2021-12 

R301
July 2021

1 July
2021-11 Apr 2023

A2021-12 

expiry of transitional provisions (pt
8)

R3112
Apr 2023

12 Apr
2023-30 Sept 2023

A2023-6 

amendments by A2023-6 

R321 Oct
2023

1 Oct
2023-26 Nov 2023

A2023-6 

amendments by A2023-6 

R3327
Nov 2023

27 Nov
2023-25 Dec 2025

A2023-36 

amendments by A2023-36 
6     Expired
transitional or validating provisions
This Act may be affected by transitional or validating provisions that have
expired.  The expiry does not affect any continuing operation of the provisions
(see Legislation Act 2001 
, s 88 (1)).
Expired provisions are removed from the republished law when the expiry
takes effect and are listed in the amendment history using the abbreviation
'exp' followed by the date of the expiry.
To find the expired provisions see the version of this Act before the
expiry took effect.  The ACT legislation register has point-in-time versions of
this Act.
(c)  Australian Capital Territory
2025

LAND TAX ACT 2004
- NOTES
Australian Capital Territory

    
A2004-4
Republication No 34
Effective: 26 December 2025 Republication date: 26 December 2025 Last amendment made by A2025-29

About this republication The republished law
This is a republication of the Land Tax Act
2004
 (including any amendment made under the Legislation Act 2001
, part 11.3 (Editorial changes)) as in force on 26 December 2025 
.  It also includes any commencement, amendment, repeal or expiry
affecting this republished law to 26 December 2025 
.  
The legislation history and amendment history of the republished law are
set out in endnotes 3 and 4. 
Kinds of republications
The Parliamentary Counsel's Office prepares 2 kinds of republications
of ACT laws (see the ACT legislation register at www.legislation.act.gov.au 
):
               o     authorised republications to which the Legislation Act 2001
 applies
               o     unauthorised republications.
The status of this republication appears on the bottom of each
page.
Editorial changes
The Legislation Act 2001 
, part 11.3 authorises the Parliamentary Counsel to make editorial
amendments and other changes of a formal nature when preparing a law for
republication.  Editorial changes do not change the effect of the law, but have
effect as if they had been made by an Act commencing on the republication date
(see Legislation Act 2001 
, s 115 and s 117).  The changes are made if the Parliamentary Counsel
considers they are desirable to bring the law into line, or more closely into
line, with current legislative drafting practice.  
This republication does not include amendments made under part 11.3 (see
endnote 1).
Uncommenced provisions and
amendments
If a provision of the republished law has not commenced, the symbol
 U  appears immediately before the provision
heading.  Any uncommenced amendments that affect this republished law are
accessible on the ACT legislation register (www.legislation.act.gov.au 
). For more information, see the home page for this law on the
register.
Modifications
If a provision of the republished law is affected by a current
modification, the symbol  M  appears
immediately before the provision heading.  The text of the modifying provision
appears in the endnotes.  For the legal status of modifications, see the Legislation Act 2001
, section 95.
Penalties
At the republication date, the value of a penalty unit for an offence
against this law is $160 for an individual and $810 for a corporation (see Legislation Act 2001
, s 133).
Australian Capital
Territory

Land Tax Act
2004

    
Endnotes49 

Australian Capital
Territory

Land Tax Act 2004
