LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
 
 
- As at 3 December 2025
 
- Act 26 of 1956
 
 
 
 
 

TABLE OF PROVISIONS
 

TABLE OF PROVISIONS

PART 1 - PRELIMINARY
1. Name of Act

2. Construction

3. Definitions

3A. Special trust--meaning

3B. Concessional trust--meaning

3C. Application of Act to corporate collective investment vehicles

PART 2 - ADMINISTRATION
4. Taxation Administration Act 1996

4A-6. (Repealed)

PART 3 - LAND TAX
7. Land tax on taxable value of land

8. Date of ownership for purposes of land tax

9. Taxable value

9AA. Average value of land

9A. Concession for unutilised land value

9B. Strata

9BA. Colliery holdings

9C. Reduction in land value for flats on mixed development land or mixed use
land

9D. Reduction in land value for single dwellings on mixed use land

9E. Reduction in land value for certain build-to-rent properties--time limited

9F. Reduction in land value for certain build-to-rent properties--general

10. Land exempted from tax

10AA. Exemption for land used for primary production

10A. Land used for several purposes

10B. Taxation of land owned by SAS Trustee Corporation

10C. (Repealed)

10CA. Taxation of land owned by Place Management NSW

10D. Taxation of land owned by certain statutory corporations

10E. Taxation of land acquired for Urban Land Council

10F-10O. (Repealed)

10P. Limitation on exemption for charitable, educational, religious or non-
profit bodies

10Q. Low cost accommodation--exemption/reduction

10R. Retirement villages--exemption/reduction

10S. Tax liability in respect of certain housing schemes

10T, 10U. (Repealed)

11. Limitation of exemption

PART 4 - RETURNS AND LIABILITY
12. Taxpayer to furnish returns

13. (Repealed)

14. Assessments to be made

15. Notice of assessment to contain certain matters

16-19. (Repealed)

20. Holder of limited estate taken to be owner

21. Conditional purchases etc

21A. Company title units taken to be lots

21B. Joint owners of block of flats deemed to be owners of lots

21C. Liability of lessees of land owned by Crown or local government bodies

21CA. Government lessor to notify lessee of land tax liability

21CB. Recovery of land tax from non-complying lessor

21D. Liability of lessees of leasehold strata lots

22. Mortgagees

23. Mortgages

24. Trustees

25. Equitable owner

25A. Classification of trust as special trust

26. Purchaser and vendor

27. Joint owners

28. (Repealed)

29. Related companies

30-32. (Repealed)

33. Deductions to prevent double taxation

34. Meaning of land tax payable in respect of certain land

PART 5 - (Repealed)
None

PART 6 - COLLECTION AND RECOVERY OF LAND TAX
39. Date for payment of land tax

40. Discount for early payment

41-44. (Repealed)

45. Statutes of limitations

46. Remedy against other persons where taxpayer makes default

46A. (Repealed)

47. Land tax to be first charge on land

48, 49. (Repealed)

50. Functions of Hardship Review Board

50A. (Repealed)

51. Definition of land tax for certain purposes of this Part

52, 53. (Repealed)

PART 7 - VALUATION OF LAND
Divisions 1-2A - (Repealed)
None

Division 3 - Unutilised value allowances
62I. Purpose and interpretation of Division

62J. Land that is eligible to have unutilised value ascertained

62K. Unutilised value allowance to be ascertained on application of owner

62L. How unutilised value allowance is ascertained

62M. Unutilised value allowance to be reascertained in certain cases

62N. Unutilised value allowance can be objected to

Division 4 - Tax threshold and premium rate threshold
62O. (Repealed)

62P. Tax threshold

62Q, 62R. (Repealed)

62S. Premium rate threshold

62T. Review of thresholds

62U. (Repealed)

Divisions 4A, 5 - (Repealed)
None

PART 8 - MISCELLANEOUS
63. Powers of entry and investigation

63A. (Repealed)

63B. Application of Act to persons or bodies having Crown immunity

64. Agents and trustees

65-67. (Repealed)

68. Valuer-General to furnish copies of Register of Land Values to Chief
Commissioner

68A. Keeping of records by owners of land

69-71. (Repealed)

72. Failure to furnish returns or information

73. Special provisions for land subject to property tax

74-77. (Repealed)

78. General penalty

79, 80. (Repealed)

81. Repeals and refunds

82. Regulations

83. Savings and transitional provisions

84. Owners of land under Help to Buy arrangement

PART 9 - (Repealed)
None

SCHEDULE 1AA
SCHEDULE 1A
SCHEDULE 1
SCHEDULE 2

 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- LONG TITLE
 
 
An Act to make provision relating to the imposition, assessment and collection
of a land tax upon unimproved values of certain lands; to repeal the Land and
Income Tax Assessment Act of 1895 and certain other Acts; to amend the Landlord
and Tenant (Amendment) Act 1948, as amended; and for purposes connected
therewith.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 1
Name of Act
 
 
1 Name of Act
     (1) This Act may be cited as the Land Tax Management Act 1956.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 2
Construction
 
 
2 Construction
This Act shall be read and construed subject to the Commonwealth of Australia
Constitution Act, and so as not to exceed the legislative power of the State to
the intent that where any provision of this Act, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this Act, and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 3
Definitions
 
 
3 Definitions
     (1) In this Act, unless the context or subject-matter otherwise
     indicates or requires--

     "Act" includes regulations.

     "Agent" includes every person who in the State, for or on behalf of
     any person out of the State (in this definition termed "the
     principal") has the control or disposal of any land belonging to the
     principal, or the control, receipt, or disposal of any rents, issues,
     or proceeds derived from any such land.

     "assessment" means an assessment or reassessment by the Chief
     Commissioner under Part 3 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996.

     "asset", of a sub-fund of a CCIV, has the same meaning as in the
     Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth, section 1233H.

     "CCIV" means a corporate collective investment vehicle within the
     meaning of the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth.

     "Chief Commissioner" means the Chief Commissioner of State Revenue
     referred to in section 60 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996.

     "Company" includes all bodies or associations corporate or
     unincorporate.

     "concessional trust" has the meaning given by section 3B.

     "Crown" includes a statutory body representing the Crown.

     "flat" means a room or a suite of rooms (whether or not forming part
     of a building or a detached building)--
          (a) used or occupied as a separate dwelling, or
          (b) so constructed, designed or adapted as to be capable of
          being used or occupied as a separate dwelling.

     "joint organisation" has the same meaning as in the Local Government
     Act 1993.

     "Joint owners" means persons who own land jointly or in common,
     whether as partners or otherwise, and includes persons who have a
     life or greater interest in shares of the income from the land and
     persons who by virtue of this Act are deemed to be joint owners.

     "lease" includes an agreement to lease.

     "liabilities", in relation to a sub-fund of a CCIV, has the same
     meaning as in the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth, section
     1233L.

     "member", in relation to a sub-fund of a CCIV, has the same meaning
     as in the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth, section 1222Q
     (3).

     "Mortgage" includes any charge whatever upon land, or interest
     therein, howsoever created, for the securing of money.

     "Mortgagee" includes every person entitled at law or in equity to a
     mortgage or any part thereof.

     "Owned" and similar expressions have a meaning corresponding with
     that of owner.

     "Owner" includes--
          (a) in relation to land, every person who jointly or
          severally, whether at law or in equity--
               (i) is entitled to the land for any estate of
               freehold in possession, or
               (ii) is entitled to receive, or is in receipt of,
               or if the land were let to a tenant would be
               entitled to receive, the rents and profits
               thereof, whether as beneficial owner, trustee,
               mortgagee in possession, or otherwise,
          (c) in relation to any leasehold estate in land, whether
          legal or equitable (other than under any lease to which
          section 21C or 21D applies), a person, or a person who is a
          member of a class or description of persons, prescribed for
          the purposes of this paragraph, and
          (d) a person who, by virtue of this Act, is deemed to be
          the owner.

     "Person" includes a company.

     "Planning instrument" means an environmental planning instrument,
     within the meaning of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act
     1979, and includes a deemed environmental planning instrument within
     the meaning of that Act.

     "Prescribed" means prescribed by this Act or by the regulations
     thereunder.

     "principal place of residence" of a person means the one place of
     residence that is, among the one or more places of residence of the
     person within and outside Australia, the principal place of residence
     of the person.

     "Public authority" means a person or body declared by the regulations
     to be a public authority for the purposes of this Act.

     "record" means--
          (a) a documentary record, or
          (b) a record made by an electronic, electromagnetic,
          photographic or optical process, or
          (c) any other kind of record.

     "referable", in relation to a sub-fund and a share in a CCIV, has the
     same meaning as in the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth,
     section 1230(1).

     "Register" means the Register of Land Values kept under section 14CC
     of the Valuation of Land Act 1916.

     "Regulations" means regulations made under this Act.

     "Residential unit" means a flat that--
          (a) forms part of a building comprising two or more flats,
          and
          (b) is used and occupied as a principal place of residence,
          and for no other purpose, by a person who is a joint owner
          (otherwise than as a trustee) of the parcel of land on
          which the building is erected and who has entered into an
          arrangement with the other joint owners of that land under
          which the person has the exclusive right to occupy that
          flat (whether jointly with one or more of the co-owners or
          not).

     "special trust" has the meaning given by section 3A.

     "sub-fund", of a CCIV, has the same meaning as in the Corporations
     Act 2001 of the Commonwealth, section 1222Q(1).

     "Tax year" or
     "Land tax year" means a period of 12 months starting on 1 January for
     which land tax is leviable and payable.

     "Taxpayer" means any person chargeable with land tax.

     "Trustee", in addition to every person appointed or constituted
     trustee by act of parties by order or declaration of a court or by
     operation of law, includes--
          (a) an executor or administrator, guardian, committee,
          receiver, or liquidator, and
          (b) every person having or taking upon himself or herself
          the administration or control of land affected by any
          express or implied trust, or acting in any fiduciary
          capacity, or having the possession, control or management
          of the land of a person under any legal or other
          disability.

     "Trustee company" means a trustee company within the meaning of the
     Trustee Companies Act 1964 or the NSW Trustee and Guardian.

     "unit trust" means a trust in respect of which the beneficiaries of
     the trust are owners of units in the trust and each unit holder, or
     each unit holder of a particular class--
          (a) is entitled, as a beneficiary of the trust, to
          participate in any income or capital distributions (or
          both) of the trust, and
          (b) the amount or proportion of any income or capital
          distribution to which the unit holder is entitled is based
          on the number or class of units owned by the person (or
          both).
          Note : The Interpretation Act 1987 contains definitions and
          other provisions that affect the interpretation and
          application of this Act.
     (2) For the purposes of the definition of
     "Residential unit" in subsection (1) a flat used and occupied as the
     person's principal place of residence by a person referred to in the
     definition does not cease to be used and occupied by that person as
     the person's principal place of residence and for no other purpose by
     reason of the occupation under lease or licence for residential
     purposes of not more than one room in the flat.
     (3) For the purposes of the definition of
     "flat" in subsection (1), a building, or part of a building, used and
     occupied for residential purposes does not cease to be considered to
     be used and occupied as a separate dwelling merely because the
     building, or part of the building, is used for the purpose of another
     residential occupancy, if that residential occupancy may be
     disregarded for the purposes of the principal place of residence
     exemption under Schedule 1A.
     (4) Notes included in this Act do not form part of this Act.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 3A
Special trust--meaning
 
 
3A Special trust--meaning
     (1) For the purposes of this Act, a trust is a
     "special trust" if--
          (a) the trust property includes land, and
          (b) the trustee of the trust is the owner of the legal
          estate in the land, and
          (c) the trust is not a fixed trust.
     (2) For the purposes of this section, a trust is a
     "fixed trust" if the equitable estate in all of the land that is the
     subject of the trust is owned by a person or persons who are owners
     of the land for land tax purposes (disregarding section 25 (3)).
     (3) For the purpose of determining whether a trust is a fixed trust
     under this section, any equitable interest of the trustee as trustee
     of the trust is to be disregarded.
     (3A) If a trust satisfies the relevant criteria, the persons who are
     beneficiaries of the trust under the trust deed are taken to be
     owners of an equitable estate in the land that is the subject of the
     trust and, accordingly, the trust is taken to be a fixed trust.
          Note : Under section 25, owners of an equitable estate or
          interest in land are liable in respect of land tax as if
          they were legal owners of the land. Owners of an equitable
          estate in land are treated as secondary taxpayers.
     (3B) For the purposes of this section, the
     "relevant criteria" are as follows--
          (a) the trust deed specifically provides that the
          beneficiaries of the trust--
               (i) are presently entitled to the income of the
               trust, subject only to payment of proper expenses
               by and of the trustee relating to the
               administration of the trust, and
               (ii) are presently entitled to the capital of the
               trust, and may require the trustee to wind up the
               trust and distribute the trust property or the
               net proceeds of the trust property,
          (b) the entitlements referred to in paragraph (a) cannot be
          removed, restricted or otherwise affected by the exercise
          of any discretion, or by a failure to exercise any
          discretion, conferred on a person by the trust deed,
          (c) if the trust is a unit trust--
               (i) there must be only one class of units issued,
               and
               (ii) the proportion of trust capital to which a
               unit holder is entitled on a winding up or
               surrender of units must be fixed and must be the
               same as the proportion of income of the trust to
               which the unit holder is entitled.
     (4) A trust is not a
     "special trust" --
          (a) if the trust is solely a charitable trust, or
          (b) if clause 9 of Schedule 1A applies in respect of the
          land that is the subject of the trust, or
          (c) if the trust is a concessional trust, or
          (d) in relation to any land tax year in which it is a
          superannuation trust, or
          (e) if the trust is established by will, but only during
          the period ending on the expiration of 2 years after the
          date of death of the testator, or
          (f) in relation to any land tax year in which it is a
          family unit trust, as provided by Schedule 1AA.
     (5) For the purposes of this section, a trust is a
     "superannuation trust" in relation to a land tax year if--
          (a) the trust was established on or before 30 June in the
          year before that land tax year and, in relation to the year
          of income ending in that year, the trust is--
               (i) a complying superannuation fund (within the
               meaning of section 42 or 42A of the Commonwealth
               Act), or
               (ii) a complying approved deposit fund (within
               the meaning of section 43 of the Commonwealth
               Act), or
               (iii) a pooled superannuation trust (within the
               meaning of section 44 of the Commonwealth Act),
               or
          (b) the trust was established after 30 June in the year
          before that land tax year and, as at midnight on 31
          December in that year, the trust is--
               (i) a regulated superannuation fund (within the
               meaning of the Commonwealth Act) or is taken to
               be a regulated superannuation fund under that
               Act, or
               (ii) an approved deposit fund (within the meaning
               of the Commonwealth Act), or
               (iii) a pooled superannuation trust (within the
               meaning of the Commonwealth Act).
     (6) Despite anything to the contrary in this section, a trust is
     taken to be a special trust in relation to a land tax year if the
     trust is classified as a special trust in respect of that land tax
     year under section 25A, and the classification has effect in respect
     of that land tax year.
     (7) In this section--

     "Commonwealth Act" means the Superannuation Industry (Supervision)
     Act 1993 of the Commonwealth.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 3B
Concessional trust--meaning
 
 
3B Concessional trust--meaning
     (1) For the purposes of this Act, a trust is a
     "concessional trust" if--
          (a) the trust property includes land, and
          (b) each person who is a beneficiary of the trust is--
               (i) a person under the age of 18 years, or
               (ii) a person in respect of whom a guardianship
               order is in force under the Guardianship Act
               1987, or
               (iii) a person in the relevant group within the
               meaning of the Coroners Act 2009.
     (2) For the purposes of this section, a person is a
     "beneficiary" of a trust if the person is a person, or a member of a
     class of persons--
          (a) in whose favour, by the terms of the trust, capital or
          income the subject of the trust may be applied--
               (i) in the event of the exercise of a power or
               discretion in favour of the person, or
               (ii) in the event that a discretion conferred
               under the trust is not exercised, or
          (b) entitled or permitted, under the terms of the trust, to
          use and occupy land that is the subject of the trust.
     (3) For the purposes of this Act--
          (a) a
          "special disability trust" (within the meaning of section
          1209L of the Social Security Act 1991 of the Commonwealth
          or section 52ZZZW of the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 of
          the Commonwealth) is taken to be a concessional trust, and
          (b) the principal beneficiary of the special disability
          trust, as referred to in section 1209M of the Social
          Security Act 1991 of the Commonwealth or section 52ZZZWA of
          the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 of the Commonwealth, is
          taken to be a beneficiary of the trust.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 3C
Application of Act to corporate collective investment vehicles
 
 
3C Application of Act to corporate collective investment vehicles
     (1) For this Act, each sub-fund of a CCIV is taken to be a unit trust
     of which--
          (a) the CCIV is the trustee, and
          (b) the business, assets and liabilities of the sub-fund
          are the trust property, and
          (c) the members of the sub-fund are the beneficiaries.
     (2) For a sub-fund that is taken to be a unit trust--
          (a) a share in the CCIV that is referable to the sub-fund
          is taken to be a unit in the unit trust, and
          (b) a shareholder of the share, as a member of the sub-
          fund, is taken to be a unit holder of the unit in the unit
          trust, and
          (c) the rights, entitlements, obligations and other
          characteristics attaching to the share are taken, as far as
          practicable, to be the same rights, entitlements,
          obligations and other characteristics attaching to the
          unit.
     (3) For this Act, a CCIV is taken to be a separate person in relation
     to each unit trust of which it is the trustee under subsection (1).
     (4) This Act does not apply to a CCIV or the members of a sub-fund of
     a CCIV except as provided for by this section.
     (5) Despite another provision of this Act, a sub-fund of a CCIV,
     taken to be a unit trust under this section, is taken to be a special
     trust.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 4
Taxation Administration Act 1996
 
 
4 Taxation Administration Act 1996
This Act is to be read together with the Taxation Administration Act 1996 which
makes provision for the administration and enforcement of this Act and other
taxation laws.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 7
Land tax on taxable value of land
 
 
7 Land tax on taxable value of land
Land tax at such rates as may be fixed by any Act is to be levied and paid on
the taxable value of all land situated in New South Wales which is owned by
taxpayers (other than land which is exempt from taxation under this Act).
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 8
Date of ownership for purposes of land tax
 
 
8 Date of ownership for purposes of land tax
Land tax shall be charged on land as owned at midnight on the thirty-first day
of December immediately preceding the year for which the land tax is levied.
In this section
"year" means the period of twelve months commencing on the first day of
January.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 9
Taxable value
 
 
9 Taxable value
     (1) Land tax is payable by the owner of land on the taxable value of
     all the land owned by that owner which is not exempt from taxation
     under this Act.
     (2) The taxable value of that land is the total sum of the average
     value of each parcel of that land.
     (3) The average value of a parcel of land is to be calculated, as
     provided for by section 9AA, on the basis of the land value of the
     land.
     (4) The land value of land, in relation to a land tax year, is the
     value entered in the Register as the land value of the land as at 1
     July in the previous year.
     (5) The fact that there is no land value entered in the Register on
     31 December in a year as the land value of the land as at 1 July in
     that year does not prevent land tax being levied and charged and
     becoming payable for any following tax year once that land value is
     entered in the Register and the average value is ascertained.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 9AA
Average value of land
 
 
9AA Average value of land
     (1) For the purposes of this Act, the
     "average value" of a parcel of land is the average of the land value
     of the land in relation to the year for which the average value is
     being ascertained (the
     "current land tax year") and the land value of the land in relation
     to the 2 preceding land tax years (the
     "preceding land tax years").
     (2) If a land value adjustment is required in relation to a parcel in
     the current land tax year, the average value is to be determined
     before that land value adjustment is made (that is, on the basis of
     the land value without that land value adjustment) and, despite any
     other provision of this Act, the Valuation of Land Act 1916 or the
     Heritage Act 1977, the land value adjustment is to be applied, for
     the purpose of assessing land tax, to the average value of the land
     for that land tax year (and not the land value).
     (3) For the purposes of this section, a
     "land value adjustment" is--
          (a) a
          "land value reduction", being any reduction that is
          required to be made to the land value of land under this
          Act for the purpose of assessing land tax, or
          (c) a
          "special allowance", being any allowance made in respect of
          the land value of land under Division 3 or 4 of Part 1B of
          the Valuation of Land Act 1916.
     (4) In the case of a land value reduction, the land value adjustment
     is to be applied to the average value of land by applying any
     provision of this Act that specifies that the land value is to be
     reduced for the purpose of assessing land tax as if a reference to
     the land value of land were a reference to the average value of land.
          Note : For example, the reductions provided for by sections
          9A, 9BA, 9C, 9D, 9E, 10 (2), (2A) and (2C), 10Q (4) and 10R
          (3) will now apply to the average value of the land in a
          land tax year and not to the land value of the land.
     (6) In the case of a special allowance, the land value adjustment is
     to be applied to the average value of the land by deducting the
     allowance from the average value.
     (7) If a parcel of land did not exist on 31 December immediately
     before either or both of the preceding land tax years, the average
     value of the land is taken to be--
          (a) if the parcel did exist on 31 December immediately
          before one of the preceding land tax years--the average of
          the land value of the land in relation to the current land
          tax year and the land value of the land in relation to the
          preceding land tax year immediately before which it did
          exist, or
          (b) in any other case--the land value of the land in
          relation to the current land tax year.
     (8) Subsection (2) applies in relation to an average value determined
     as provided for by subsection (7) in the same way as it applies to an
     average value determined as provided for by subsection (1).
          Note : For example, if the newly created parcel qualifies
          for an allowance for subdivision under Division 4 of Part
          1B of the Valuation of Land Act 1916 in the current land
          tax year, the allowance would be applied to the average
          value calculated as provided for by subsection (7).
     (9) The average value of a parcel of land that is heritage-protected,
     and that was not heritage-protected on 31 December immediately before
     either or both of the preceding land tax years, is to be determined
     as provided for by subsection (7) (as if the parcel did not exist on
     the date or dates of 31 December on which it was not heritage-
     protected).
     (10) If the land value of land in relation to a land tax year is
     altered (whether as a result of being reascertained or on objection
     or appeal or for the correction of a clerical error or
     misdescription), the average value of the land must be reascertained
     on the basis of the altered land value.
     (11) If the average value of a parcel of land, after applying a land
     value adjustment, is less than zero, the average value of the parcel
     is taken to be zero.
     (12) For the purposes of this section, land is
     "heritage-protected" if it is either heritage restricted (within the
     meaning of section 14G of the Valuation of Land Act 1916) or the
     subject of a heritage valuation under Division 6 of Part 6 of the
     Heritage Act 1977, or both.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 9A
Concession for unutilised land value
 
 
9A Concession for unutilised land value
     (1) This section applies to land if an unutilised value allowance (as
     ascertained under Division 3 of Part 7) is entered in the Register in
     respect of the land.
     (2) For the purpose of assessing land tax, the land value of the land
     is to be reduced by the unutilised value allowance.
     (3) However, if the land is sold or otherwise disposed of or it
     ceases to be used or occupied solely as the site of a single
     dwelling-house, a person whose liability to pay land tax in respect
     of the land has been assessed in accordance with this section must,
     within 1 month, inform the Chief Commissioner of the date on which
     the land was sold or otherwise disposed of or ceased to be so used or
     occupied.
     (4) Liability for land tax in respect of the year in which the land
     is sold, disposed of, or ceases to be used or occupied solely as the
     site of a single dwelling-house, and in each of the preceding years
     (up to a maximum of 4 preceding years) in which the person's
     liability to pay land tax was assessed in accordance with this
     section is to be reassessed as if subsection (2) had not applied to
     the land.
     (5) For the purposes of section 9 (3) (c) of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1996, any such reassessment is authorised to be
     made more than 5 years after the initial assessment.
     (6) Any such re-assessment is not a relevant land tax assessment for
     the purposes of section 35 (1) (b) of the Valuation of Land Act 1916
     if it is based on the same land value or average value on which the
     original land tax assessment was based (before the reduction was made
     under subsection (2) of this section).
     (7) In this section,
     "single dwelling-house" has the same meaning as in Division 2 of Part
     8 of Chapter 15 of the Local Government Act 1993.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 9B
Strata
 
 
9B Strata
     (1) Land tax, in the case of land subject to the Strata Schemes
     Development Act 2015, is to be levied and paid in respect of each lot
     comprised in a parcel.
     (2) For the purposes of this Act--
          (a) the land value of a lot comprised in a parcel is an
          amount that bears to the land value of the parcel (within
          the meaning of section 9 (4)) the same proportion as the
          unit entitlement of the lot bears to the aggregate unit
          entitlement, and
          (b) the average value of the lot is to be ascertained on
          the basis of the land value of the lot, as determined under
          paragraph (a).
     (3) Expressions used in this section have the same meanings as in the
     Strata Schemes Development Act 2015.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 9BA
Colliery holdings
 
 
9BA Colliery holdings
For the purpose of assessing land tax, the land value of land within a colliery
holding (within the meaning of the Mining Act 1992) is to be reduced by the
amount recorded in the Register in relation to each parcel as the amount by
which the presence of coal in that parcel increases the value of that parcel.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 9C
Reduction in land value for flats on mixed development land or mixed use land
 
 
9C Reduction in land value for flats on mixed development land or mixed use
land
     (1) For the purpose of assessing land tax, the land value of mixed
     development land or mixed use land on which is situated a flat is to
     be reduced by the allowable proportion in relation to the flat.
     (2) The allowable proportion for a flat is as determined in
     accordance with whichever of the following paragraphs is applicable
     in the particular case--
          (a) if there is an apportionment factor entered in the
          Register in respect of that land value--the proportion
          determined in accordance with the following calculation--
               [graphic]
          (b) if paragraph (a) is not applicable--the proportion
          specified in an application for a reduction under this
          section as the fair and reasonable proportion of the land
          value of the land to be attributed to the flat, subject to
          subsections (2A) and (2AA).
     (2A) If there is no apportionment factor entered in the Register in
     respect of the land value of the land, the Chief Commissioner may
     request the Valuer-General to determine the apportionment factor in
     respect of the land concerned.
     (2AA) If a request is made under subsection (2A)--
          (a) the Valuer-General must determine the apportionment
          factor concerned and enter it in the Register, and
          (b) the allowable proportion for the flat must be
          determined in accordance with subsection (2) (a).
     (2AB) Apportionment factors for the purposes of this section are to
     be ascertained in accordance with Division 5 or Division 5A of Part
     1B of the Valuation of Land Act 1916, as appropriate to the land
     concerned. If such an apportionment factor is expressed as a
     percentage, the apportionment factor is, for the purposes of this
     section, to be converted to a fraction.
          Note : Divisions 5 and 5A of Part 1B of the Valuation of
          Land Act 1916 allow objections to be made against the
          amount of an apportionment factor.
     (3) The reduction under this section applies only if the following
     requirements are satisfied--
          (a) the flat must be used and occupied by the owner of the
          land (or one of the owners) as his or her principal place
          of residence and for no other purpose, in which connection
          the use of the land for the purpose of one, but not more
          than one, residential occupancy other than that of the
          owner under lease or licence from the owner may be
          disregarded if it is an excluded residential occupancy
          (within the meaning of clause 4 of Schedule 1A),
          (c) an owner of the land who occupies the flat must not be
          an owner merely because of being a trustee,
          (d) the land must not be owned, or jointly owned, by a
          person in the person's capacity as trustee of a special
          trust,
          (e) the owner of the land must not be a company or company
          jointly with another person or other persons, except in
          either case a trustee company acting in its representative
          capacity.
     (4) For the purposes of determining whether a flat has been used and
     occupied by an owner of land as his or her principal place of
     residence under subsection (3) (a), clauses 8, 9 and 10 of Schedule
     1A apply in respect of the flat, and that part of the land on which
     the flat is situated, in the same way as they apply in respect of
     land under the principal place of residence exemption.
          Note : The effect of this provision is to deem a flat to be
          used and occupied by the owner of the land as a principal
          place of residence in certain circumstances, similar to the
          principal place of residence exemption. As a consequence,
          the land value of the mixed development land or mixed use
          land on which the flat is situated can be reduced by the
          allowable proportion under this section.
     (5) Unless the land concerned is land to which subsection (2) (a)
     applies, there is to be no reduction under this section unless--
          (a) application has been made for the reduction by all the
          owners of the land, specifying the proportion that in their
          opinion is a fair and reasonable proportion of the land
          value of the land to be attributed to the flat, and
          (b) the application is made in a form approved by the Chief
          Commissioner.
     (6) There is to be no reduction under this section if the building on
     the land, or the buildings on the land together, comprise 2 flats and
     the land is exempted from taxation under this Act.
     (6A) For avoidance of doubt, if a reduction in the land value of land
     is required under this section and the land is jointly owned, then,
     for the purposes of section 27 (3) (a), the individual interest of
     each of the owners of the land (including the owner who occupies the
     flat) is to be assessed on the basis of the land value of the land as
     reduced under this section.
     (7) This section does not apply to land to which section 9D or 21B
     applies.
     (8) In this section--

     "mixed development land" has the same meaning as in Division 5 of
     Part 1B of the Valuation of Land Act 1916.

     "mixed use land" has the same meaning as in Division 5A of Part 1B of
     the Valuation of Land Act 1916.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 9D
Reduction in land value for single dwellings on mixed use land
 
 
9D Reduction in land value for single dwellings on mixed use land
     (1) For the purpose of assessing land tax, the land value of mixed
     use land on which is situated one single dwelling is to be reduced by
     the allowable proportion in relation to the dwelling.
     (2) The allowable proportion for the dwelling is to be determined in
     accordance with whichever of the following paragraphs is applicable
     in the particular case--
          (a) if there is an apportionment factor entered in the
          Register in respect of that land value--the proportion
          determined by deducting that apportionment factor from 1,
          (b) if paragraph (a) is not applicable--the proportion
          specified in an application for a reduction under this
          section as the fair and reasonable proportion of the land
          value of the land to be attributed to the dwelling, subject
          to subsections (3) and (4).
     (3) If there is no apportionment factor entered in the Register in
     respect of the land value of the land, the Chief Commissioner may
     request the Valuer-General to determine the apportionment factor in
     respect of the land concerned.
     (4) If a request is made under subsection (3)--
          (a) the Valuer-General must determine the apportionment
          factor concerned and enter it in the Register, and
          (b) the allowable proportion for the dwelling must be
          determined in accordance with subsection (2) (a).
     (5) Apportionment factors for the purposes of this section are to be
     ascertained in accordance with Division 5A of Part 1B of the
     Valuation of Land Act 1916. If such an apportionment factor is
     expressed as a percentage, the apportionment factor is, for the
     purposes of this section, to be converted to a fraction.
          Note : Division 5A of Part 1B of the Valuation of Land Act
          1916 allows objections to be made against the amount of an
          apportionment factor.
     (6) The reduction under this section applies only if the following
     requirements are satisfied--
          (a) the single dwelling must be used and occupied by the
          owner of the land (or one of the owners) as his or her
          principal place of residence and for no other purpose, in
          which connection the use of the land for the purpose of
          one, but not more than one, residential occupancy other
          than that of the owner under lease or licence from the
          owner may be disregarded if it is an excluded residential
          occupancy (within the meaning of clause 4 of Schedule 1A),
          (b) an owner of the land who occupies the dwelling must not
          be an owner merely because of being a trustee,
          (c) the owner of the land must not be a company or company
          jointly with another person or other persons, except in
          either case a trustee company acting in its representative
          capacity.
     (6A) For the purposes of determining whether a single dwelling has
     been used and occupied by an owner of land as his or her principal
     place of residence under subsection (6) (a), clauses 8, 9 and 10 of
     Schedule 1A apply in respect of the single dwelling, and that part of
     the land on which the dwelling is situated, in the same way as they
     apply in respect of land under the principal place of residence
     exemption.
          Note : The effect of this provision is to deem a single
          dwelling to be used and occupied by the owner of the land
          as a principal place of residence in certain circumstances,
          similar to the principal place of residence exemption. As a
          consequence, the land value of the mixed use land on which
          the single dwelling is situated can be reduced by the
          allowable proportion under this section.
     (7) Unless the land concerned is land to which subsection (2) (a)
     applies, there is to be no reduction under this section unless--
          (a) application has been made for the reduction by all the
          owners of the land, specifying the proportion that in their
          opinion is a fair and reasonable proportion of the land
          value of the land to be attributed to the dwelling, and
          (b) the application is made in a form approved by the Chief
          Commissioner.
     (8) For avoidance of doubt, if a reduction in the land value of land
     is required under this section and the land is jointly owned, then,
     for the purposes of section 27 (3) (a), the individual interest of
     each of the owners of the land (including the owner who occupies the
     dwelling) is to be assessed on the basis of the land value of the
     land as reduced under this section.
     (9) For the purposes of applying this section in respect of land on
     which there is a single dwelling and a residential occupancy other
     than that of the owner, the use of the land for the purpose of that
     other residential occupancy may be disregarded if that residential
     occupancy may be disregarded under the principal place of residence
     exemption under Schedule 1A.
     (10) This section does not apply to land to which section 21B
     applies.
     (11) In this section--

     "mixed use land" has the same meaning as in Division 5A of Part 1B of
     the Valuation of Land Act 1916.

     "single dwelling" has the same meaning as it has in Division 5A of
     Part 1B of the Valuation of Land Act 1916.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 9E
Reduction in land value for certain build-to-rent properties--time limited
 
 
9E Reduction in land value for certain build-to-rent properties--time limited
     (1) This section applies in respect of land owned by a person at
     midnight on 31 December in any year (ending with midnight at the end
     of 31 December 2039).
          Note : Under section 3AL of the Land Tax Act 1956, land tax
          is charged, levied, collected and paid for the period of 12
          months commencing on 1 January in the next succeeding year
          for land owned at midnight on 31 December in any year. So
          this reduction provision applies until the end of the 2040
          land tax year.
     (2) For the purpose of assessing land tax, the land value of a parcel
     of land is to be reduced by 50% if--
          (a) a building is situated on the land, and
          (b) construction of the building commenced on or after 1
          July 2020, and
          (c) the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that a significant
          proportion of the labour force hours spent on the
          construction of the building involves or involved work
          performed by persons whom the Chief Commissioner considers
          belong to any one or more of the following classes of
          worker--
               (i) apprentices or trainees,
               (ii) long-term unemployed workers,
               (iii) workers requiring upskilling,
               (iv) workers with barriers to employment (such as
               persons with disability),
               (v) Aboriginal jobseekers,
               (vi) graduates, and
          (d) the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that the building
          is being used and occupied for a build-to-rent property in
          accordance with guidelines approved by the Treasurer for
          the purposes of this section, and
          (e) an application for the reduction is made in accordance
          with this section.
     (3) The guidelines may include provisions with respect to the
     following--
          (a) the circumstances in which a building is taken to be a
          build-to-rent property, including in relation to the
          following--
               (i) the planning or development standards that
               must be complied with,
               (ii) the minimum lease conditions that must be
               offered to tenants of the build-to-rent property,
               (iii) the minimum scale of a building to qualify
               as a build-to-rent property,
               (iv) the nature of the ownership and management
               of the building and the land on which the
               building is situated,
          (b) the circumstances in which the applicant is required to
          give an undertaking to not subdivide the land or otherwise
          divide the ownership of the land,
          (c) other matters relating to build-to-rent properties and
          the land on which build-to-rent properties are situated as
          the Treasurer determines appropriate.
     (4) The guidelines must include policies to promote the development
     of new affordable housing and social housing in build-to-rent
     properties.
     (5) Without limiting the other ways in which this section may cease
     to apply to a person, it ceases to apply to a person if the person
     breaches an undertaking given as referred to in subsection (3)(b).
     (6) A guideline may--
          (a) apply generally or be limited in its application by
          reference to specified exceptions or factors, or
          (b) apply differently according to different factors of a
          specified kind,
     or both.
     (7) If the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that only part of a parcel
     of land is being used and occupied for a build-to-rent property, the
     reduction in land value under subsection (2) is to be proportionately
     decreased in accordance with guidelines approved by the Treasurer for
     the purposes of this section.
     (8) This section does not apply to an owner of land in respect of a
     tax year unless--
          (a) the owner applies to the Chief Commissioner for the
          reduction, in the form approved by the Chief Commissioner,
          and
          (b) the owner furnishes the Chief Commissioner with the
          evidence that the Chief Commissioner requests for the
          purpose of enabling the Chief Commissioner to determine
          whether there is an entitlement to the reduction.
     (9) However, if, within the period of 15 years after subsection (2)
     first applied to reduce the land value of a parcel of land, the land
     is subdivided or the ownership of the land is otherwise divided--
          (a) a person whose liability to pay land tax in respect of
          the land has been assessed in accordance with this section
          must, within 1 month, inform the Chief Commissioner of the
          date on which the land was subdivided or the ownership of
          the land was otherwise divided, and
          (b) liability for land tax in respect of the following
          years is to be reassessed as if subsection (2) had not
          applied to the person--
               (i) the year in which the land is subdivided or
               the ownership of the land is otherwise divided,
               (ii) each preceding year in which a person's
               liability to pay land tax was assessed in
               accordance with this section, but not more than
               15 preceding years, and
          (c) the subdivision or division is taken to be a tax
          default for the purposes of Part 5 of the Taxation
          Administration Act 1996.
     (10) For the purposes of section 9(3)(c) of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1996, any such reassessment is authorised to be
     made more than 5 years after the initial assessment.
     (11) Any reassessment is not a relevant land tax assessment for the
     purposes of section 35(1)(b) of the Valuation of Land Act 1916 if it
     is based on the same land value or average value on which the
     original land tax assessment was based (before the reduction was made
     under subsection (2) of this section).
     (12) In this section--

     "affordable housing" has the same meaning as in the Environmental
     Planning and Assessment Act 1979.

     "social housing" means residential accommodation provided by a social
     housing provider within the meaning of the Residential Tenancies Act
     2010.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 9F
Reduction in land value for certain build-to-rent properties--general
 
 
9F Reduction in land value for certain build-to-rent properties--general
     (1) This section applies in relation to land owned by a person at
     midnight on 31 December in any year after 2024.
     (2) For the purpose of assessing land tax payable by the owner of the
     land, the land value of a parcel of land is to be reduced by 50% if--
          (a) a building is situated on the parcel of land, and
          (b) construction of the building commenced on or after 1
          July 2020, and
          (c) the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that--
               (i) the building is being used and occupied for a
               build-to-rent property in accordance with
               guidelines approved by the Treasurer for this
               section (the
               "Treasurer's guidelines"), and
               (ii) the building has not, at any time, been used
               and occupied for a purpose other than for a
               build-to-rent property in accordance with the
               Treasurer's guidelines, and
               (iii) the building was constructed in accordance
               with the Treasurer's guidelines, and
          (d) a reduction in land value under section 9E has not
          occurred in relation to the parcel of land in connection
          with the building in any year, and
          (e) an application for the reduction is made in accordance
          with this section.
     (3) If the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that only part of the
     parcel of land, or only part of a building on the parcel of land, is
     being used and occupied for a build-to-rent property under this
     section, the reduction in land value under subsection (2) must be
     proportionately decreased in accordance with the Treasurer's
     guidelines.
     (4) For section 9E(7) and subsections (2)(d) and (3), section 9E and
     this section may, subject to this Act, apply to the same parcel of
     land at the same time so long as 1 section applies only to 1 part of
     the parcel of land and the other section applies only to another part
     of the parcel of land.
     (5) This section does not apply to an owner of land in relation to a
     tax year unless--
          (a) the owner applies to the Chief Commissioner for the
          reduction in the form approved by the Chief Commissioner,
          and
          (b) the owner gives the Chief Commissioner any evidence
          requested by the Chief Commissioner to enable the Chief
          Commissioner to determine whether the owner is entitled to
          the reduction.
     (6) Without limiting the other ways in which this section may cease
     to apply to a person, this section ceases to apply if the person
     breaches an undertaking given by the person in circumstances referred
     to in subsection (11)(b)(iii).
     (7) If, within the period of 15 years after subsection (2) first
     applied to reduce the land value of a parcel of land, the parcel of
     land is subdivided or the ownership of the parcel of land is
     otherwise divided--
          (a) a person whose liability to pay land tax in relation to
          the parcel of land has been assessed in accordance with
          this section must, within 1 month, inform the Chief
          Commissioner of the date on which the parcel of land was
          subdivided or the ownership of the parcel of land was
          otherwise divided, and
          (b) liability for land tax in relation to the following
          years is to be reassessed as if subsection (2) had not
          applied to the person--
               (i) the year in which the parcel of land is
               subdivided or the ownership of the parcel of land
               is otherwise divided,
               (ii) each preceding year in which a person's
               liability to pay land tax was assessed in
               accordance with this section, but not more than
               15 preceding years, and
          (c) the subdivision or division of ownership is taken to be
          a tax default for the Taxation Administration Act 1996,
          Part 5.
     (8) Subsection (7)(b) and (c) do not apply in relation to--
          (a) a parcel of land that is subdivided if the part of the
          parcel of land that is subject to the reduction in land
          value under this section is not subdivided, or
          (b) a parcel of land the ownership of which is otherwise
          divided if the ownership of the part of the parcel of land
          that is subject to the reduction in land value under this
          section is not divided.
     (9) For the Taxation Administration Act 1996, section 9(3)(c), a
     reassessment under subsection (7)(b) is authorised to be made more
     than 5 years after the initial assessment.
     (10) A reassessment under the Taxation Administration Act 1996,
     section 9 is not a relevant land tax assessment for the Valuation of
     Land Act 1916, section 35(1)(b) if the reassessment is based on the
     same land value or average value on which the original land tax
     assessment was based before the reduction was made under subsection
     (2).
     (11) The Treasurer's guidelines--
          (a) must include policies to promote the development of new
          affordable housing and social housing in build-to-rent
          properties, and
          (b) may include provisions in relation to the following--
               (i) the circumstances in which a building is
               taken to be a build-to-rent property, including
               in relation to the following--
                    (A) the planning or development
                    standards that must be complied with,
                    (B) the minimum lease conditions that
                    must be offered to tenants of the
                    build-to-rent property,
                    (C) the minimum scale of a building to
                    qualify as a build-to-rent property,
                    (D) the nature of the ownership and
                    management of the building and the land
                    on which the building is situated,
               (ii) requirements relating to the construction of
               the building, including requirements about--
                    (A) particular classes of workers who
                    must be or must have been involved in
                    the construction of the building, and
                         Examples of classes of
                         workers--: apprentices or
                         trainees, long-term
                         unemployed workers, workers
                         requiring upskilling, workers
                         with barriers to employment,
                         Aboriginal and Torres Strait
                         Island jobseekers, graduate
                         workers
                    (B) the proportion of labour force
                    hours spent on the construction that
                    must involve or must have involved work
                    performed by particular classes of
                    workers,
               (iii) the circumstances in which the applicant is
               required to give an undertaking to not subdivide
               the land or otherwise divide the ownership of the
               land,
               (iv) other matters relating to build-to-rent
               properties and the land on which build-to-rent
               properties are situated as the Treasurer
               determines appropriate, and
          (c) may--
               (i) apply generally or be limited in application
               by reference to specified exceptions or factors,
               or
               (ii) apply differently according to different
               factors of a specified kind, or
               (iii) do both.
     (12) The Chief Commissioner must keep and maintain a public register
     of parcels of land that are subject to the reduction in land value
     under this section in accordance with the regulations.
     (13) In this section--

     "affordable housing" has the same meaning as in the Environmental
     Planning and Assessment Act 1979.

     "social housing" means residential accommodation provided by a social
     housing provider within the meaning of the Residential Tenancies Act
     2010.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 10
Land exempted from tax
 
 
10 Land exempted from tax
     (1) Except where otherwise expressly provided in this Act the
     following lands shall, subject to sections 10B, 10D, 10E and 10P, be
     exempted from taxation under this Act--
          (b) land owned by any marketing board constituted under the
          Rice Marketing Act 1983, an agricultural industry services
          committee constituted by the Agricultural Industry Services
          Act 1998 or Local Land Services,
          (c) land owned by or in trust for a public health
          organisation within the meaning of the Health Services Act
          1997,
          (d) land owned by or in trust for a charitable body,
          (e) land owned by or in trust for a religious society if
          the society, however formed or constituted, is carried on
          solely for religious, charitable or educational purposes,
          including the support of the aged or infirm clergy or
          ministers of the society, or their wives or widows or
          children, and not for pecuniary profit,
          (f) land owned by or in trust for, and used and occupied
          solely by--
               (i) an association of employers or employees
               registered as an organisation under Part IX of
               the Industrial Relations Act 1988 of the
               Commonwealth,
               (iii) an industrial organisation of employers or
               employees within the meaning of the Industrial
               Relations Act 1996,
               (iv) Unions NSW or any other association of
               bodies of a kind referred to in subparagraph (i)
               or (iii), or
               (v) a company in which shares representing not
               less than 85 per cent of the paid-up capital
               thereof are held by or in trust for a body
               referred to in subparagraph (i), (iii) or (iv),
          not being land of which any part is used for the purpose of
          a commercial activity open to members of the public,
          (f1) land owned by the New South Wales Aboriginal Land
          Council or a Local Aboriginal Land Council constituted
          under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act 1983 or a registered
          native title body corporate within the meaning of the
          Native Title Act 1993 of the Commonwealth,
          (g) land owned by or in trust for any person or society and
          used or occupied by that person or society solely as a site
          for--
               (i) a place of worship for a religious society,
               or a place of residence for any clergy or
               ministers or order of a religious society,
               (iii) a building (not being a building of which
               any part is used for the purpose of a commercial
               activity open to members of the public) owned and
               solely occupied by a society, club or association
               not carried on for pecuniary profit,
               (iv) a charitable body,
               (v) a public cemetery or crematorium,
               (vi) a public garden, public recreation ground or
               public reserve,
               (vii) a fire brigade, ambulance or mines rescue
               station,
               (viii) a private health facility (within the
               meaning of the Private Health Facilities Act
               2007) not carried on for pecuniary profit,
               (ix) an authorised hospital within the meaning of
               the Mental Health Act 1990 not carried on for
               pecuniary profit,
          (h) land owned by, or in trust for, any club or body of
          persons, and used primarily and principally for the
          purposes of any game or sport and not used for the
          pecuniary profit of the members of that club or body,
          (i) land owned by, or in trust for, any club or body of
          persons, formed for promoting or controlling horse-racing,
          trotting-racing or greyhound-racing and used primarily and
          principally for the holding of meetings for horse-racing,
          trotting-racing or greyhound-racing,
          (j) land used and occupied for the purpose of holding
          agricultural shows, or shows of a like nature and owned by,
          or held in trust for, a society which is established for
          the purpose of holding such shows and is not carried on for
          the pecuniary profit of its members and applies its
          revenues substantially towards the promotion or holding of
          such shows,
          (k) land owned by a friendly society,
          (l) association property that is vested in an association
          under the Community Land Development Act 2021 and is used
          primarily and principally--
               (i) as an open access way or private access way
               within a community scheme, precinct scheme or
               neighbourhood scheme under the Community Land
               Development Act 2021, or
               (ii) for the recreation of participants in such a
               scheme and their invitees,
          but is not used for a commercial purpose,
          (m) land owned by a State owned corporation (within the
          meaning of the State Owned Corporations Act 1989) specified
          in the regulations to the extent, and from the date
          (whether that date is before or after the commencement of
          the regulations), prescribed by the regulations in respect
          of the corporation,
          (n) land owned by any gas or electricity supply authority
          specified in the regulations (being an energy services
          corporation within the meaning of the Energy Services
          Corporations Act 1995, a distributor that holds a licence
          to operate a distribution system under the Electricity
          Supply Act 1995 or a gas distributor that holds an
          authorisation under the Gas Supply Act 1996) to the extent,
          and from the date (whether that date is before or after the
          commencement of the regulations), prescribed by the
          regulations in respect of such authority,
          (o) land owned by the Returned Sailors, Soldiers and
          Airmen's Imperial League of Australia (New South Wales
          Branch) and being the site of Anzac House,
          (p) land that is the subject of a biodiversity stewardship
          agreement under the Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016,
          (p1) land that is the subject of a conservation agreement
          under the Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016 or the
          National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974, being an agreement
          that remains in force in perpetuity (that is, an agreement
          that remains in force for an indefinite period and that
          cannot be unilaterally terminated by the owner of the
          land),
          (p1A) land that is the subject of a registered Trust
          agreement that was referred to in section 36 of the Nature
          Conservation Trust Act 2001 (being an agreement that is
          continued in force by clause 50 of the Biodiversity
          Conservation (Savings and Transitional) Regulation 2017 and
          that remains in force in perpetuity, as referred to in
          paragraph (p1)),
          (p2) land in which the Biodiversity Conservation Trust
          holds an interest,
          (p3) land that is vested in, owned by, held on trust by or
          for, or leased by a joint government enterprise that has
          the function of allocating funds for water savings
          projects,
          (q) land used solely as a police station,
          (r) land that is exempt from taxation under the principal
          place of residence exemption, as provided for by Schedule
          1A,
          (r1) with respect to taxation leviable or payable in
          respect of the year commencing on 1 January 1987 or any
          succeeding year, land approved for multiple occupancy, and
          occupied, in accordance with an environmental planning
          instrument within the meaning of the Environmental Planning
          and Assessment Act 1979,
          (s) land used solely as a site for a school registered
          under the Education Act 1990,
          (t) with respect to taxation leviable or payable in respect
          of the year commencing on 1 January 1975 or any succeeding
          year, land owned by a co-operative under the Co-operatives
          National Law (NSW) that has as its objects any of the
          objects listed in section 7 of the Co-operation Act 1923,
          (u) land that is used solely for the provision of an
          approved education and care service (within the meaning of
          the Children (Education and Care Services) National Law
          (NSW)), but only if--
               (i) the service is provided by an approved
               provider under that Law, and
               (ii) the land is the place where children are
               educated or cared for by the service,
          (v) land that is used solely for the provision of an
          approved education and care service (within the meaning of
          the Children (Education and Care Services) Supplementary
          Provisions Act 2011), but only if--
               (i) the service is a centre based education and
               care service within the meaning of that Act, and
               (ii) the service is provided by an approved
               provider under that Act, and
               (iii) the land is the place where children are
               educated or cared for by the service.
     (2) Where--
          (a) a building is erected on land to which the provisions
          of subsection (1) (f) or (g) (iii) or of section 10B or 10D
          (2) would apply if the building were solely occupied by the
          persons or bodies referred to in those provisions, and
          (b) the building is partly used or occupied, or is intended
          to be partly used or occupied, by persons other than those
          persons or bodies,
     the land value of that land shall, for the purposes of the assessment
     of those persons or bodies, be reduced to an amount which bears the
     same proportion to that land value as the rental value of the part so
     used or occupied, or intended to be so used or occupied, by those
     other persons bears to the total rental value of the building.
     (2A) Where--
          (a) part of any land or part of a building is used, or
          intended to be used, for the purpose of a commercial
          activity open to members of the public, and
          (b) the provisions of subsection (1) (f) or (g) (iii) would
          apply to the land or building if no part of the land or
          building were so used, or intended to be so used,
     the land value of that land or of the land on which that building is
     erected shall, for the purposes of the assessment of land tax, be
     reduced to an amount which bears the same proportion to that land
     value as the rental value of the part so used, or intended to be so
     used, bears to the total rental value of that land or building, as
     the case may be.
     (2B) For the purposes of subsection (1) (f), the use or occupation of
     any land or part of any land by any body, being a body of a kind
     referred to in subsection (1) (f)--
          (a) which is affiliated with the body by, or in trust for,
          which the land is owned,
          (b) with which the body referred to in paragraph (a) is
          affiliated, or
          (c) which is controlled by, or controls, the body referred
          to in paragraph (a),
     shall not be deemed to be use or occupation by a person other than
     the body by, or in trust for, which the land is owned.
     (2C) If part of any land is the subject of any of the following
     agreements, the land value of that land is, for the purposes of the
     assessment of land tax, to be reduced by an amount that bears the
     same proportion to that land value as the area of the part that is
     the subject of the agreement bears to the area of the whole of the
     land--
          (a) a biodiversity stewardship agreement under the
          Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016,
          (b) a conservation agreement under the Biodiversity
          Conservation Act 2016 or the National Parks and Wildlife
          Act 1974, being an agreement that remains in force in
          perpetuity (that is, an agreement that remains in force for
          an indefinite period and that cannot be unilaterally
          terminated by the owner of the land),
          (c) land that is the subject of a registered Trust
          agreement that was referred to in section 36 of the Nature
          Conservation Trust Act 2001 (being an agreement that is
          continued in force by clause 50 of the Biodiversity
          Conservation (Savings and Transitional) Regulation 2017 and
          that remains in force in perpetuity, as referred to in
          paragraph (b)).
     (3) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (g) of
     subsection (1), the use or occupation of any building or part of any
     building by any society, institution, club or association not carried
     on for pecuniary profit, which is affiliated with the owner of the
     land on which the building is erected, or with which that owner is
     affiliated, or which is controlled by or controls that owner, shall
     not be deemed to be use or occupation by a person other than the
     owner.
     (4) Subsection (1) (g) (iii), and the other provisions of this
     section as they relate to that subparagraph, apply in respect of
     premises comprised in a strata lot as if those premises were a
     building erected on the site of the strata lot (and a reference to a
     building is to be construed as a reference to the strata lot).
     (5) In this section--

     "charitable body" means a body corporate, society, institution or
     other body carried on solely for charitable or educational purposes
     and not for pecuniary profit.

     "strata lot" means a lot under the Strata Schemes Development Act
     2015.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 10AA
Exemption for land used for primary production
 
 
10AA Exemption for land used for primary production
     (1) Land that is rural land is exempt from taxation if it is land
     used for primary production.
     (2) Land that is not rural land is exempt from taxation if it is land
     used for primary production and that use of the land--
          (a) has a significant and substantial commercial purpose or
          character, and
          (b) is engaged in for the purpose of profit on a continuous
          or repetitive basis (whether or not a profit is actually
          made).
     (3) For the purposes of this section,
     "land used for primary production" means land the dominant use of
     which is for--
          (a) cultivation, for the purpose of selling the produce of
          the cultivation, or
          (b) the maintenance of animals (including birds), whether
          wild or domesticated, for the purpose of selling them or
          their natural increase or bodily produce, or
          (c) commercial fishing (including preparation for that
          fishing and the storage or preparation of fish or fishing
          gear) or the commercial farming of fish, molluscs,
          crustaceans or other aquatic animals, or
          (d) the keeping of bees, for the purpose of selling their
          honey, or
          (e) a commercial plant nursery, but not a nursery at which
          the principal cultivation is the maintenance of plants
          pending their sale to the general public, or
          (f) the propagation for sale of mushrooms, orchids or
          flowers.
     (4) For the purposes of this section, land is
     "rural land" if--
          (a) the land is zoned rural, rural residential, non-urban
          or large lot residential under a planning instrument, or
          (b) the land has another zoning under a planning
          instrument, and the zone is a type of rural zone under the
          standard instrument prescribed under the Environmental
          Planning and Assessment Act 1979, section 3.20, or
          (c) the land is not within a zone under a planning
          instrument but the Chief Commissioner is satisfied the land
          is rural land.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 10A
Land used for several purposes
 
 
10A Land used for several purposes
     (1) If land is used for more than one purpose and each of those
     purposes is an exempt purpose, the land is exempt from taxation.
     (2) A purpose for which land is used is an
     "exempt purpose" if land used solely for that purpose would be exempt
     from taxation because of its use for that purpose.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 10B
Taxation of land owned by SAS Trustee Corporation
 
 
10B Taxation of land owned by SAS Trustee Corporation
Nothing in this Act operates to exempt from taxation under this Act any land
owned by the SAS Trustee Corporation that is not land solely occupied by the
SAS Trustee Corporation as offices from which to exercise and perform its
powers, authorities, duties and functions.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 10CA
Taxation of land owned by Place Management NSW
 
 
10CA Taxation of land owned by Place Management NSW
     (1) Nothing in this Act operates to exempt from land tax, or to
     otherwise affect the liability to land tax of, a lessee of any land--
          (a) that is owned by Place Management NSW, and
          (b) that was owned by the Sydney Cove Redevelopment
          Authority immediately before its dissolution on 1 February
          1999, and
          (c) in respect of which the Sydney Cove Redevelopment
          Authority was, immediately before 1 February 1999, liable
          for land tax under section 10C of this Act as then in force
          for the land tax year starting on 1 January 1999,
     while that land remains in the ownership of Place Management NSW.
     (2) For the purposes of this section, it is immaterial whether the
     lease was entered into before, on or after 1 January 1991.
     (3) This section applies to and in respect of land tax chargeable on
     land for the land tax year starting on 1 January 2001 and subsequent
     land tax years.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 10D
Taxation of land owned by certain statutory corporations
 
 
10D Taxation of land owned by certain statutory corporations
     (1) In this section
     "prescribed authority" means--
          (b) a corporation constituted under section 4 or 23A of the
          Growth Centres (Development Corporations) Act 1974, or
          (c) the New South Wales Planning and Environment Commission
          in respect of the development of the Sydney South West
          Sector.
     (2) Nothing in this Act operates to exempt from taxation under this
     Act any land owned by a prescribed authority that is--
          (a) occupied by the authority as offices from which to
          exercise and perform its powers, authorities, duties and
          functions unless the land is solely so occupied, or
          (b) land leased by the authority for commercial or
          industrial purposes.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 10E
Taxation of land acquired for Urban Land Council
 
 
10E Taxation of land acquired for Urban Land Council
Nothing in this Act operates to exempt from taxation under this Act any land
owned by the Housing Commission of New South Wales or the New South Wales
Planning and Environment Commission or any other corporation for the purposes
of the Urban Land Council being land (other than land held for open space
purposes) held for development.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 10P
Limitation on exemption for charitable, educational, religious or non-profit
bodies
 
 
10P Limitation on exemption for charitable, educational, religious or non-
profit bodies
     (1) The exemption provided for in section 10 (1) (d), (e), (g) (iii),
     (g) (iv), (g) (vi), (h) or (p2) does not apply to a body referred to
     in any of those provisions if the Chief Commissioner is of the
     opinion that the constitution (by whatever name called) of the body
     makes provision for the distribution of the property of the body, in
     a dissolution of the body, in a manner that--
          (a) would operate to vest some or all of that property in
          one or more of the members or former members of the body,
          or
          (b) would ultimately lead (whether or not as a direct
          result of that dissolution) to some or all of the property
          of the body vesting in one or more of the members or former
          members of the body.
     (1A) The exemption provided for in section 10 (1) (g) (vi) does not
     apply if the land is--
          (a) owned by a natural person, otherwise than as a trustee,
          or
          (b) owned by a natural person in trust for--
               (i) another natural person, or
               (ii) a body in respect of which the Chief
               Commissioner forms an opinion on the grounds
               referred to in subsection (1).
     (2) In subsection (1)--

     "property" includes proceeds of the sale or other disposal of
     property.
     (3) The Chief Commissioner may exempt a body from the operation of
     subsection (1) (either in respect of the current tax year or that
     year and specified prior tax years) if satisfied that--
          (a) the body is not involved in a scheme or arrangement for
          the avoidance or evasion of land tax, and
          (b) the constitution of the body will be altered within 6
          months so that the constitution does not make provision as
          referred to in subsection (1).
     (4) An exemption under subsection (3) ceases if the constitution of
     the body is not so altered within 6 months after the exemption is
     granted.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 10Q
Low cost accommodation--exemption/reduction
 
 
10Q Low cost accommodation--exemption/reduction
     (1) Land is exempted from taxation under this Act leviable or payable
     in respect of the year commencing on 1 January 1995 or any succeeding
     year if--
          (a) the land is used and occupied primarily for low cost
          accommodation, and
          (b) application for the exemption is made in accordance
          with this section, and
          (c) the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that the land is so
          used and occupied in accordance with guidelines approved by
          the Treasurer for the purposes of this section.
     (2) The guidelines may include provisions with respect to the
     following--
          (a) the circumstances in which accommodation is taken to be
          low cost accommodation,
          (b) the types and location of premises in which low cost
          accommodation may be provided,
          (c) the number and types of persons for whom the
          accommodation must be provided,
          (d) the circumstances in which, and the arrangements under
          which, the accommodation is provided,
          (e) maximum tariffs for the accommodation,
          (f) periods within which tariffs may not be increased,
          (g) the circumstances in which the applicant is required to
          give an undertaking to pass on the benefit of the exemption
          from taxation (or, if subsection (4) applies, the reduction
          in taxation) to the persons for whom the accommodation is
          provided in the form of lower tariffs.
     (3) A guideline may--
          (a) apply generally or be limited in its application by
          reference to specified exceptions or factors, or
          (b) apply differently according to different factors of a
          specified kind,
     or both.
     (4) If the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that part only of land or
     premises is used and occupied primarily for low cost accommodation in
     accordance with the Treasurer's guidelines, the land value of the
     land is to be reduced for the purposes of land tax in accordance with
     the principles in section 10R (3)-(3C).
     (5) This section does not apply to an owner of land in respect of a
     tax year unless--
          (a) the owner applies to the Chief Commissioner for the
          exemption or reduction, in the form approved by the Chief
          Commissioner, and
          (b) the owner furnishes the Chief Commissioner with such
          evidence as the Chief Commissioner may request for the
          purpose of enabling the Chief Commissioner to determine
          whether there is an entitlement to the exemption or
          reduction.
     (6) Without limiting the other ways in which this section may cease
     to apply to a person, it ceases to apply to a person if the person
     breaches an undertaking given as referred to in subsection (2) (g).
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 10R
Retirement villages--exemption/reduction
 
 
10R Retirement villages--exemption/reduction
     (1) In this section--

     "aged care establishment" means--
          (a) any building or any part of a building used or intended
          to be used for the provision of residential care, within
          the meaning of the Aged Care Act 1997 of the Commonwealth,
          by an approved provider under that Act, or
          (b) any building or any part of a building used or intended
          to be used for the provision of respite care, within the
          meaning of the Aged Care Act 1997 of the Commonwealth, by
          an approved provider under that Act.

     "retirement village" has the same meaning as in the Retirement
     Villages Act 1999.
     (2) Land is exempt from taxation under this Act if the land is used
     and occupied as any of the following, or any combination of the
     following, and for no other purpose--
          (a) an aged care establishment,
          (b) a retirement village.
     (3) If the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that part only of land is
     used and occupied as referred to in subsection (2), the land value of
     the land is to be reduced for the purposes of land tax by an amount
     calculated as follows--
          [graphic]

          "R" = the reduction in land value.

          "A" = the land value of the land before reduction.

          "B" = the area of the land used and occupied as referred to
          in subsection (2).

          "C" = the total area of the land.
     (3A) If part only of a building is used and occupied as referred to
     in subsection (2), a proportion (
     "the allowable proportion") of the area of the land occupied by the
     building is to be included as part of the area of the land so used
     and occupied for the purpose of determining the value of "B" in the
     calculation under subsection (3).
     (3B) The allowable proportion under subsection (3A) is the proportion
     specified in an application under subsection (3C) in respect of the
     land, subject to subsections (3D)-(3F).
     (3C) Subsection (3A) does not apply unless application has been made
     to the Chief Commissioner by the owner of the land specifying the
     proportion that in the owner's opinion is a fair and reasonable
     proportion of the area of land occupied by the building to be
     attributed to use and occupation as referred to in subsection (2).
     The application must be in a form approved by the Chief Commissioner
     and be accompanied by such supporting information as the Chief
     Commissioner may request.
     (3D) Despite subsection (3B), the Chief Commissioner may request the
     Valuer-General to determine the reduced land value to be attributed,
     for the purposes of assessing land tax, to that part of the land that
     is used or occupied otherwise than as referred to in subsection (2).
     (3E) If a request is made under subsection (3D)--
          (a) the Valuer-General must determine the reduced land
          value concerned, and
          (b) the reduced land value so determined is (subject to
          subsection (3F)) the value of the land for land tax
          purposes (instead of the value obtained under subsections
          (3) and (3A)), and is to be entered in the Register
          accordingly.
     (3F) Part 3 (Notices and objections) and Part 4 (Appeals to Land and
     Environment Court) of the Valuation of Land Act 1916 apply in respect
     of the reduced land value determined under subsection (3E) in the
     same way as those Parts apply in respect of a valuation under that
     Act.
     (4) For the purposes of this section, land does not cease to be used
     and occupied for the purpose of an aged care establishment or a
     retirement village merely because any building or improvement on the
     land is used or occupied for a purpose ancillary to that purpose.
     (5) This section applies to land tax payable in respect of the year
     commencing on 1 January 1991 and any succeeding year.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 10S
Tax liability in respect of certain housing schemes
 
 
10S Tax liability in respect of certain housing schemes
     (1) In this section--

     "eligible land" means--
          (a) land owned by N.S.W. Housing No. 1 Pty. Limited that
          the Chief Commissioner is satisfied is the subject of an
          arrangement known as the Public Equity Partnership
          Arrangement in which the New South Wales Land and Housing
          Corporation is a participant,
          (b) land of which the trustee of the FANMAC Pooled
          Superannuation Trust No. 1 is an owner and which the Chief
          Commissioner is satisfied is the subject of a scheme known
          as the Rent/Buy Scheme in which the New South Wales Land
          and Housing Corporation is a participant.
     (2) Land is exempt from taxation under this Act if the land is
     eligible land.
     (3) This section applies in respect of the year commencing 1 January
     2006 and any succeeding year.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 11
Limitation of exemption
 
 
11 Limitation of exemption
     (1) With respect to land which under section 10 is exempt from land
     tax the exemption shall be limited to the owner specified in that
     section, and shall not extend to any other person who is the owner of
     any estate or interest in the land.
     (2) This section does not apply in respect of the principal place of
     residence exemption (within the meaning of Schedule 1A).
          Note : See clause 2 (3) of Schedule 1A.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 12
Taxpayer to furnish returns
 
 
12 Taxpayer to furnish returns
     (1) The Chief Commissioner may by order published in the Gazette
     require all persons or specified classes of persons to furnish land
     tax returns for a specified year or years or for a specified year and
     each subsequent year.
     (1A) Every person subject to such a requirement in force in respect
     of a year shall furnish a land tax return to the Chief Commissioner
     on or before 31 January in that year.
     (1B) A land tax return required to be furnished by a person must--
          (a) set out a full and complete statement of all land owned
          by the person at midnight on 31 December in the previous
          year, and
          (b) set out, or be accompanied by, any information, as to
          the following, that may be required to complete the return-
          -
               (i) the person's land ownership,
               (ii) the eligibility of the land for an exemption
               from land tax or for a reduction in the taxable
               value of the land.
     (1C) If land is the subject of a trust, the land tax return must
     also--
          (a) set out, or be accompanied by, such information in
          relation to the trust and the beneficiaries of the trust as
          may be required to complete the return, and
          (b) state the trustee's opinion as to whether the trust is
          a special trust.
     (1D) If 2 or more trustees are legal owners of the land that is the
     subject of the trust, the return is to be lodged jointly by those
     trustees.
     (2) The Chief Commissioner may at any time require any person to
     furnish a return or a further and fuller return setting forth a full
     and complete statement of all or any land owned by the person, or in
     respect of which the person is agent or trustee, at midnight on the
     thirty-first day of December in any year including the year one
     thousand nine hundred and seventy-three or at midnight on the thirty-
     first day of October in any preceding year, with such other
     particulars as the Chief Commissioner requires, and whether or not
     any return has previously been made by that person in respect of land
     owned by the person, or in respect of which the person is agent or
     trustee, on that date.
     (3) All the provisions of this Act shall extend and apply to any
     return made or required in accordance with subsection (2).
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 14
Assessments to be made
 
 
14 Assessments to be made
     (1) Subject to this Act and the Taxation Administration Act 1996, the
     Chief Commissioner shall from the returns and from any other
     information in the Commissioner's possession or from any one or both
     of those sources, and whether any return has been furnished or not,
     cause an assessment to be made of the taxable value of the land owned
     by any taxpayer and of the land tax payable thereon.
     (2) An assessment can be made even if the time for lodging returns
     has not yet expired.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 15
Notice of assessment to contain certain matters
 
 
15 Notice of assessment to contain certain matters
A notice of assessment under section 14 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996
in relation to land tax must include a statement as to the taxable value of the
land, together with such information as to the amounts determined under the
Valuation of Land Act 1916 as to--
     (a) the land value (or other relevant value) of the land, and
     (b) any allowances or apportionment factors relevant to the land,
from which the taxable value of the land has been derived.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 20
Holder of limited estate taken to be owner
 
 
20 Holder of limited estate taken to be owner
     (1) The following persons are taken to be owners of land and are to
     be assessed for land tax accordingly--
          (a) the owner of any freehold estate in land less than the
          fee-simple (a
          "limited estate"),
          (b) any person entitled to an estate in the land in
          reversion or remainder.
     (2) For that purpose--
          (a) the owner of the limited estate is taken to be the
          primary taxpayer, and
          (b) the person entitled to an estate in the land in
          reversion or remainder is taken to be the secondary
          taxpayer, and
          (c) there is to be deducted from the land tax payable by
          the secondary taxpayer in respect of the land such amount
          (if any) as is necessary to prevent double taxation.
     (3) If the limited estate is a life estate, the life tenant under the
     life estate is taken to be an owner of the land to the exclusion of
     any person entitled to an estate in the land in reversion or
     remainder, but only if--
          (a) the life estate was created by the express terms of a
          will (and not by the exercise of a discretion conferred by
          a will), and
          (b) the duration of the life estate is based on the life of
          the tenant and not the life of some other person.
     (4) This section does not apply if the limited estate is a freehold
     estate arising by virtue of a lease for life under a lease or an
     agreement for lease.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 21
Conditional purchases etc
 
 
21 Conditional purchases etc
Any person to whom the Crown has contracted to transfer the fee-simple in any
land under the Crown Land Management Act 2016 or under any other Act relating
to the alienation or disposal of lands of the Crown, and any person who under
any such Act holds land under a lease from the Crown in perpetuity, shall be
deemed to be the owner of the land in fee-simple.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 21A
Company title units taken to be lots
 
 
21A Company title units taken to be lots
     (1) This section applies to land if--
          (a) the land is owned by a company in which all the issued
          shares are owned by persons each of whom, because of that
          share ownership, has an exclusive right to occupy a part of
          a building on the land or one of 2 or more buildings on the
          land, and
          (b) the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that the whole of
          the land is reasonably used in connection with the
          occupation of the building or buildings.
     (2) For the purposes of assessing land tax in respect of land to
     which this section applies--
          (a) each shareholder is deemed to be the owner of that part
          of the building or that building that the shareholder is
          entitled to occupy because of that share ownership, and
          (b) each such part of the building, or each such building,
          is deemed to be a lot in a freehold strata scheme under the
          Strata Schemes Development Act 2015, and
          (c) the company is not to be regarded as the owner of the
          land.
     (3) For the purposes of the application of section 9B to and in
     respect of a part of a building, or a building, deemed by this
     section to be a lot, the proportion that the unit entitlement of that
     lot bears to the aggregate unit entitlement is--
          (a) unless paragraph (b) applies, the proportion that the
          deemed owner's shareholding in respect of the lot bears to
          the total issued share capital of the company, or
          (b) if the Chief Commissioner is not satisfied as to the
          fairness and reasonableness of the proportion obtained in
          accordance with paragraph (a), the proportion arrived at by
          the Chief Commissioner on a redetermination in accordance
          with subsection (4).
     (4) The Chief Commissioner's redetermination is to be by reference
     to--
          (a) the proportion that the floor area of the deemed lot
          bears to the total floor area that is separately occupied,
          or capable of being used for separate occupation, in the
          building, or
          (b) in the case of an entitlement to occupy one of 2 or
          more buildings, the proportion that the floor area of the
          deemed lot bears to the total floor area that is separately
          occupied, or capable of being used for separate occupation,
          in all of those buildings.
     (5) This section applies to land tax payable in respect of the year
     commencing on 1 January 1991 and any succeeding year.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 21B
Joint owners of block of flats deemed to be owners of lots
 
 
21B Joint owners of block of flats deemed to be owners of lots
     (1) This section applies to land if--
          (a) the land is owned by joint owners, and
          (b) the ownership of an interest in the jointly owned land
          gives the owner an exclusive right to occupy part of a
          building on the land (whether jointly with one or more of
          the co-owners or not), and
          (c) part or all of the building comprises at least one
          flat, and
          (d) the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that the whole of
          the land is reasonably used in connection with the
          occupation of the building.
     (2) For the purposes of assessing land tax in respect of land to
     which this section applies--
          (a) each part of a building in which such an exclusive
          right of occupancy exists is deemed to be a separate parcel
          (the
          "notional parcel"), and
          (b) each person who has that exclusive right of occupancy
          is deemed to be the owner (or the persons who jointly have
          that exclusive right of occupancy are deemed to be joint
          owners) of the notional parcel, and
          (c) each such notional parcel is deemed to be a lot in a
          freehold strata scheme under the Strata Schemes Development
          Act 2015, and
          (d) section 27 does not apply to the joint ownership of the
          whole of the land but does apply to the joint ownership (if
          applicable) of each notional parcel.
     (3) For the purposes of the application of section 9B to and in
     respect of a notional parcel that under this section is deemed to be
     a lot, the proportion that the unit entitlement of that lot bears to
     the aggregate unit entitlement is--
          (a) unless paragraph (b) applies, the proportion
          represented by the owner's or joint owners' interest in the
          land, or
          (b) if the Chief Commissioner is not satisfied as to the
          fairness and reasonableness of the proportion obtained in
          accordance with paragraph (a), the proportion arrived at by
          the Chief Commissioner on a redetermination in accordance
          with subsection (4).
     (4) The Chief Commissioner's redetermination is to be by reference to
     the proportion that the floor area of the notional parcel concerned
     bears to the total floor area that is separately occupied, or is
     capable of being used for separate occupation, on the land.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 21C
Liability of lessees of land owned by Crown or local government bodies
 
 
21C Liability of lessees of land owned by Crown or local government bodies
     (1) The Crown, a local council, a county council or a joint
     organisation is not liable for land tax in respect of land it owns
     (except as specifically provided by Part 3).
     (2) A lessee (other than a sub-lessee) of land or part of land owned
     by the Crown, a local council, a county council or a joint
     organisation is for land tax purposes deemed to be the owner of a
     parcel of land (
     "the notional parcel") consisting of the land or part leased. The
     Crown, local council, county council or joint organisation is then
     not to be considered owner of the notional parcel.
     (3) If there are joint lessees, they are deemed to be joint owners of
     the notional parcel.
     (4) For the purposes of determining the lessee's land tax liability
     when the notional parcel consists of a part of land, the land value
     of the notional parcel is the land value of the entire parcel
     multiplied by the apportionment factor.
     (4A) For the purposes of this section, the
     "apportionment factor" is the proportion that the rental value of the
     notional parcel bears to the rental value of the entire parcel.
     (4B) The Chief Commissioner may request the Valuer-General to
     determine the land value of the notional parcel.
     (4BA) If a request is made under subsection (4B)--
          (a) the Valuer-General must determine the land value of the
          notional parcel, and
          (b) the land value so determined is, subject to subsection
          (4C), the value of the notional parcel for land tax
          purposes, and is to be entered in the Register accordingly.
     (4BB) For the purpose of determining the average value of the
     notional parcel under section 9AA, if the notional parcel was not
     leased on 31 December immediately before either or both of the
     preceding land tax years (within the meaning of section 9AA (1)), the
     average value of the notional parcel is to be determined as provided
     for by section 9AA (7) (as if the notional parcel did not exist on
     the date or dates of 31 December on which it was not leased).
     (4C) Part 3 (Notices and objections) and Part 4 (Appeals to Land and
     Environment Court) of the Valuation of Land Act 1916 apply in respect
     of the apportionment factor determined under subsection (4BA) in the
     same way as those Parts apply in respect of a valuation under that
     Act.
     (5) In this section,
     "part of land" includes a building on land and part of a building on
     land.
     (6) This section does not apply to the following leases--
          (a) a lease or a lease of a class prescribed as exempt from
          this section,
          (b) a lease to which section 21 applies,
          (c) a lease of land from the Crown entered into or renewed
          before 1 January 1987 the terms of which relating to rental
          payable have not been varied since that date,
          (d) a lease of land from a local council, a county council
          or a joint organisation entered into or renewed before 1
          January 1991 the terms of which relating to rental payable
          have not been varied since that date,
          (e) a lease of land in respect of which the Crown is liable
          for land tax (otherwise than under section 21CB),
          (f) a lease the term of which (including any term available
          under an option) is less than 12 months,
          (g) a lease in respect of which the lessee is the Crown, a
          local council, a county council or a joint organisation,
          (h) a lease of land on any part of the Island under the
          Lord Howe Island Act 1953.
     (7) This section is taken to have applied on and from 31 December
     1988 to land owned by the Crown.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 21CA
Government lessor to notify lessee of land tax liability
 
 
21CA Government lessor to notify lessee of land tax liability
     (1) A Government entity that enters into a lease of land owned by the
     Government entity must give the lessee a land tax disclosure
     statement, in writing, before the lessee enters into the lease.
     (2) A
     "land tax disclosure statement" is a statement that advises the
     lessee that the lessee will be liable for land tax in respect of the
     land during the term of the lease if land tax is payable on the land.
     (3) Without limiting subsection (2), a land tax disclosure statement
     may be made--
          (a) in the terms of the lease, or
          (b) as part of a disclosure statement for the lease that is
          given to the lessee before the lease is entered into.
     (4) A lessee enters into a lease when any of the following occurs
     (whichever happens first)--
          (a) the lessee executes the lease,
          (b) the lessee enters into possession of the land under the
          lease,
          (c) the lessee begins to pay rent under the lease.
     (5) The renewal of a lease is considered to be entry into a new lease
     for the term of the renewal.
     (6) The onus is on a Government entity to establish that it gave a
     land tax disclosure statement to a lessee before the lessee entered
     into the lease.
     (7) A Government entity that enters into a lease of land owned by the
     Government entity and that fails to comply with this section is a
     "non-complying lessor" for any land tax on the land that becomes
     payable during the term of the lease.
          Note : See section 21CB, which enables the Chief
          Commissioner to recover the land tax from the non-complying
          lessor if the lessee fails to pay the land tax.
     (8) This section applies to a lease only if the lessee under the
     lease is considered to be the owner of the land for land tax purposes
     because of section 21C.
     (9) In this section--

     "Government entity" means the Crown, a local council or any other
     entity not liable for land tax in respect of land it owns under
     section 21C.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 21CB
Recovery of land tax from non-complying lessor
 
 
21CB Recovery of land tax from non-complying lessor
     (1) If a lessee of land fails to pay a land tax amount in accordance
     with a notice of assessment issued by the Chief Commissioner, and
     there is a non-complying lessor for the land tax to which the
     assessment relates, the Chief Commissioner may serve a notice on the
     non-complying lessor notifying the lessor that--
          (a) the lessee has failed to pay the land tax amount, and
          (b) if the land tax amount is not paid by the date
          specified in the notice, the lessor will be liable for the
          land tax amount.
     (2) The date specified must be at least 21 days after service of the
     notice.
     (3) If the land tax amount is not paid by the date specified in the
     notice, the non-complying lessor is jointly and severally liable with
     the lessee to pay the land tax amount.
     (4) A non-complying lessor that is liable to pay a land tax amount
     under this section is entitled to be indemnified by the lessee for
     any payments made by the non-complying lessor to the Chief
     Commissioner to discharge liability for the land tax amount.
     (5) This section applies to a non-complying lessor that is a council
     despite section 741 of the Local Government Act 1993.
     (6) In this section--

     "land tax amount" means--
          (a) the amount of land tax that a lessee has been assessed
          as being liable to pay, as set out in a notice of
          assessment issued to the lessee, and
          (b) any interest or penalty tax payable in respect of that
          amount of tax.

     "lessee" includes a former lessee.

     "non-complying lessor" has the meaning given by section 21CA.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 21D
Liability of lessees of leasehold strata lots
 
 
21D Liability of lessees of leasehold strata lots
     (1) The lessee of land that is a leasehold strata lot is taken to be
     the owner of the leasehold strata lot for land tax purposes. The
     lessor of the lot is not to be considered to be the owner of the lot
     (unless the lessor is the lessee for the purposes of the Strata
     Schemes Development Act 2015).
     (2) Accordingly, the lessee is liable for any land tax payable in
     respect of the leasehold strata lot.
     (3) If there are joint lessees, they are deemed to be joint owners of
     the leasehold strata lot.
     (4) This section does not apply in respect of land to which section
     21C applies (land owned by the Crown, a local council, a county
     council or a joint organisation).
     (5) In this section--

     "leasehold strata lot" means a lot in a leasehold strata scheme
     within the meaning of the Strata Schemes Development Act 2015.

     "lessee", in relation to a leasehold strata lot, means an owner,
     within the meaning of the Strata Schemes Development Act 2015, of the
     lot.

     "lessor" means a lessor within the meaning of the Strata Schemes
     Development Act 2015.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 22
Mortgagees
 
 
22 Mortgagees
No deduction from the land value of any land shall be allowed in respect of any
mortgage, or in respect of any unpaid purchase money; and a mortgagor or person
who holds land subject to payment of any unpaid purchase money shall be
assessed and liable for land tax as if he or she were the owner of an
unencumbered estate.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 23
Mortgages
 
 
23 Mortgages
     (1) A mortgagee or other person owning any estate or interest in land
     by way of security for money shall not be liable to land tax in
     respect of that mortgage, estate or interest--
     Provided that a mortgagee in possession of land, or any other person
     in possession of land by way of security for money shall, so long as
     such possession continues (though not to the exclusion of the
     liability of any other person) be deemed to be the owner of the land;
     and the mortgagor shall be deemed to be the primary taxpayer, and the
     mortgagee in possession to be the secondary taxpayer; and there shall
     be deducted from the land tax payable by the latter in respect of the
     land such amount (if any) as is necessary to prevent double taxation-
     -
     Provided further that the foregoing proviso shall not apply--
          (a) to any mortgagee or person in possession whose
          possession began before the first day of November one
          thousand nine hundred and fifty-six until a period of three
          years has elapsed since that date, or
          (b) to any mortgagee or person in possession whose
          possession began on or after the first day of November one
          thousand nine hundred and fifty-six until a period of three
          years after he or she has entered into possession.
     (2) For the purposes of this section a mortgagee in possession shall
     include a mortgagee of land who is using such land, or who is in
     receipt of the rents or profits of such land, or who is in receipt of
     the income from any business carried on on such land, or who has
     appointed a receiver of the rents or profits of such land.
     (3) Nothing in this section affects section 46.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 24
Trustees
 
 
24 Trustees
Any person in whom land is vested as a trustee shall be assessed and liable in
respect of land tax as if he or she were beneficially entitled to the land--
Provided that where he or she is the owner of different lands in severalty, in
trust for different persons who are not for any reason liable to be jointly
assessed, the land tax so payable by the person shall be separately assessed in
respect of each of those lands--
Provided also that when a trustee is also the beneficial owner of other land,
he or she shall be separately assessed for that land, and for the land of which
he or she is a trustee, unless for any reason he or she is liable to be jointly
assessed independently of this section.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 25
Equitable owner
 
 
25 Equitable owner
     (1) The owner of any equitable estate or interest in land is liable
     in respect of land tax as if he or she were the legal owner of the
     estate or interest and land tax is to be assessed accordingly.
     (2) For that purpose--
          (a) the owner of the legal estate is taken to be the
          primary taxpayer and the owner of the equitable estate is
          taken to be the secondary taxpayer, and
          (b) there is to be deducted from the land tax payable by
          the secondary taxpayer in respect of the land such amount
          (if any) as is necessary to prevent double taxation.
     (3) This section does not apply in respect of land that is subject to
     a special trust.
     (4) This section is subject to the other provisions of this Act, in
     particular sections 25A and 26.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 25A
Classification of trust as special trust
 
 
25A Classification of trust as special trust
     (1) If land is subject to a trust, the Chief Commissioner may
     classify the trust as a special trust for land tax purposes--
          (a) on the application of the trustee of the trust, or
          (b) on the Chief Commissioner's own motion.
     (2) Without limiting subsection (1) (b), the Chief Commissioner may
     classify a trust as a special trust in relation to a land tax year if
     any information required to be provided for that land tax year in
     relation to the trust, the land that is the subject of the trust or
     the beneficiaries of the trust is not provided as required under this
     Act.
     (3) A classification of a trust as a special trust that is made on
     the application of the trustee of a trust has effect in respect of
     any assessment of land tax liability (being an initial assessment of
     land tax liability) that is made on or after the date on which the
     trust is classified as a special trust, and does not affect any
     assessment of land tax liability made before that classification.
     (4) However, if an application for classification of a trust as a
     special trust is duly made by the trustee within the period allowed
     for the lodging of an objection to a notice of assessment of land tax
     liability (being a notice that relates to an initial assessment of
     land tax liability)--
          (a) the classification of the trust as a special trust is
          taken to extend to the land tax year in respect of which
          that notice of assessment was issued, and
          (b) liability for that land tax is to be re-assessed
          accordingly.
     (5) The Chief Commissioner may revoke the classification of a trust
     as a special trust--
          (a) on the application of the trustee of the trust, or
          (b) on the Chief Commissioner's own motion.
     (6) The Chief Commissioner must revoke the classification of a trust
     as a special trust if the trust was classified as a special trust on
     the application of the trustee and an application for revocation is
     duly made by the trustee of the trust.
     (7) A revocation of a classification that is made on the application
     of the trustee of a trust has effect in respect of any assessment of
     land tax liability (being an initial assessment of land tax
     liability) that is made on or after the date on which the
     classification is revoked, and does not affect any assessment of land
     tax liability that was made before that revocation.
     (8) However, if an application for revocation is duly made by the
     trustee within the period allowed for the lodging of an objection to
     a notice of assessment of land tax liability (being an initial
     assessment of land tax liability), and the Chief Commissioner revokes
     the classification--
          (a) the revocation is taken to extend to the land tax year
          in respect of which that notice of assessment was issued,
          and
          (b) liability for land tax is to be re-assessed
          accordingly.
     (9) An application under this section is to be made in a form
     approved by the Chief Commissioner, and is to include such supporting
     information as the Chief Commissioner requires.
     (10) The Chief Commissioner may, despite anything to the contrary in
     this section--
          (a) reject any application under this section if it is made
          in contravention of the trust or trust deed that declares
          the trust concerned, and
          (b) reject any application for revocation of the
          classification of a trust as a special trust if any
          information required to be provided in relation to the
          trust, the land that is the subject of the trust or the
          beneficiaries of the trust has not been provided as
          required under this Act or the Taxation Administration Act
          1996, and
          (c) assess or re-assess any land tax liability for land the
          subject of a trust that is not a fixed trust on the basis
          of the trust being a special trust, including land tax
          liability in respect of land tax years that commenced or
          occurred before the trust was classified as a special
          trust.
     (11) In this section--

     "fixed trust" has the meaning given by section 3A.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 26
Purchaser and vendor
 
 
26 Purchaser and vendor
     (1) If land under the provisions of the Real Property Act 1900 is the
     subject of an agreement for sale that has not been completed by
     transfer of the land, the person who is registered as the proprietor
     of the land under the Real Property Act 1900 is taken, for the
     purposes of this Act, to be the owner of the land, to the exclusion
     of the liability of the purchaser.
     (2) If land, not being land under the provisions of the Real Property
     Act 1900, is the subject of an agreement for sale that has not been
     completed by conveyance of the land, the vendor of the land is taken,
     for the purposes of this Act, to be the owner of the land, to the
     exclusion of the liability of the purchaser.
     (3) However, the purchaser under the agreement for sale is taken, for
     the purposes of this Act, to be the owner of the land (to the
     exclusion of the liability of the registered proprietor or vendor) if
     under the terms of the agreement for sale--
          (a) the purchaser is entitled to receive, if the land is
          let to a tenant, any rents and profits derived from the
          tenancy, or
          (b) the purchaser is entitled to exclusive possession of
          the land and has taken possession of the land.
     (4) In this section--

     "agreement for sale" means an agreement for sale of land that is in
     force.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 27
Joint owners
 
 
27 Joint owners
     (1) Joint owners of land shall be assessed and liable for land tax in
     accordance with the provisions of this section.
     (2) Joint owners (except those of them whose interests are exempt
     from taxation under this Act) are to be jointly assessed and liable
     in respect of the aggregate value of their proportionate interests in
     the land as if the land were owned by one person, without regard to
     their respective interests therein and without taking into account
     any land owned by any one of them in severalty or as joint owner with
     any other person (but by excluding the proportionate value of the
     interest of any joint owner so exempt).
     (2A) Where a joint owner of land is--
          (a) a trustee under a special trust to which the land is
          subject, or
          (b) a company classified under section 29 as a non-
          concessional company,
     no regard shall be had to the existence of the special trust or
     classification, as the case may be, in relation to the joint
     assessment and liability of the joint owners of the land as referred
     to in subsection (2), but regard shall be had to the existence of the
     special trust or classification, as the case may be, in relation to
     the separate assessment and liability of the joint owners as referred
     to in subsection (3).
     (3) Each joint owner of land shall in addition be separately assessed
     and liable in respect of--
          (a) his or her individual interest in the land (as if he or
          she were the owner of a part of the land in proportion to
          his or her interest), together with
          (b) any other land owned by him or her in severalty, and
          (c) his or her individual interests in any other land.
     (4) The joint owners in respect of their joint assessment shall be
     deemed to be the primary taxpayer, and each joint owner in respect of
     his or her separate assessment to be a secondary taxpayer; and from
     the land tax payable in respect of his or her interest in the land by
     each joint owner under subsection (3) there shall be deducted such
     amount (if any) as is necessary to prevent double taxation.
     (5) A joint owner of land who is not otherwise exempt from taxation
     under this Act is not exempt merely because the person is a joint
     owner with the Commonwealth, and the person is to be assessed and
     liable under this section accordingly (with the interest of the
     Commonwealth being treated as the interest of a joint owner exempt
     from taxation under this Act).
     Note : See also Schedule 1AA in relation to family unit trusts.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 29
Related companies
 
 
29 Related companies
     (1) For the purposes of this section, 2 companies are related to each
     other--
          (a) if one of those companies holds a controlling interest
          in the other company, or
          (b) if the same person holds, or the same persons together
          hold, a controlling interest in both companies, or
          (c) if--
               (i) more than one-half of the issued share
               capital of one of those companies (in this
               paragraph referred to as
               "the first company") is held by the other company
               (in this paragraph referred to as
               "the second company") together with the
               shareholders of the second company, and
               (ii) the proportion of the issued share capital
               of the second company held by shareholders of the
               first company is more than the difference between
               one-half and the proportion of the issued share
               capital of the first company held by the second
               company, or
          (d) if one of those companies is related to a company to
          which the other of those companies is related (including a
          company which is related to the other of those companies by
          reason of another application or other applications of this
          paragraph).
     (1A) A person holds, or persons together hold, a
     "controlling interest" in a company if--
          (a) the person, or the persons acting together, can control
          the composition of the board of directors of the company,
          or
          (b) the person is, or the persons acting together are, in a
          position to cast or control the casting of more than half
          of the maximum number of votes that might be cast at a
          general meeting of the company, or
          (c) the person holds, or the persons acting together hold,
          more than half of the issued share capital of the company.
     (2) For the purposes of determining whether companies are related,
     the following provisions apply--
          (a) companies may be related to each other notwithstanding
          that those companies do not own land in New South Wales,
          (a1) in subsections (1) (b) and (1A),
          "person" includes company,
          (b) a reference to the issued share capital of a company
          does not include a reference to any part of that issued
          share capital that carries no right to participate beyond a
          specified amount in a distribution of either profits or
          capital,
          (c) any shares held or power exercisable by a person or
          company as a trustee or a nominee for another person or
          company--
               (i) are to be treated as held or exercisable by
               that other person or company, if the trust is a
               fixed trust, and
               (ii) are to be treated as not held or exercisable
               by the trustee or nominee (whether or not the
               trust is a fixed trust),
          (d) any shares held or power exercisable by a person or
          company by virtue of the provisions of any debentures of
          another company, or of a trust deed for securing any issue
          of any such debentures, shall be disregarded,
          (e) any shares held or power exercisable by, or by a
          nominee for, any person or company (not being held or
          exercisable as mentioned in paragraph (d)) shall be treated
          as not held or exercisable by that person or company if the
          ordinary business of that person or company includes the
          lending of money and the shares are held or the power is
          exercisable only by way of security given for the purposes
          of a transaction entered into in the ordinary course of
          business in connection with the lending of money, not being
          a transaction entered into with a person associated with
          that person or company within the meaning of Division 2 of
          Part 1.2 of the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth,
          (f) without limiting by implication the circumstances in
          which the composition of a company's board of directors is
          to be taken to be controlled by a person or another
          company, the composition of a company's board of directors
          shall be taken to be controlled by a person or another
          company if that person or other company, by the exercise of
          some power exercisable whether with or without the consent
          or concurrence of any other person, can appoint or remove
          all or a majority of the directors.
     (3) The Chief Commissioner, in assessing the land tax payable by
     companies that are related to each other and that own land in New
     South Wales--
          (a) may assess--
               (i) all those companies separately,
               (ii) all those companies jointly, or
               (iii) any 2 or more of those companies jointly
               and the remainder separately, and
          (b) shall classify--
               (i) 1 of those companies, or, where a joint
               assessment is made, the companies jointly
               assessed, as a concessional company, and
               (ii) the remainder (if any) as non-concessional
               companies,
     and the companies shall be liable accordingly.
     (4) Where 2 or more companies are jointly assessed under subsection
     (3), those companies shall, for the purposes of that assessment, be
     deemed to be a single company.
     (5) Where 2 or more companies related to each other are liable for
     land tax (whether assessed separately or jointly), each company is
     liable jointly and severally to pay that tax.
     (6) Section 45 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996 applies to an
     amount payable under subsection (5).
     (7) If a company is classified as a non-concessional company, the
     company, and each of the companies that are related to it, are
     members of the same group.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 33
Deductions to prevent double taxation
 
 
33 Deductions to prevent double taxation
Where under this Act--
     (a) any person is deemed to be the secondary taxpayer in respect of
     any land or interest, and
     (b) it is provided that there shall be deducted from the land tax
     payable by the secondary taxpayer, in respect of the land or
     interest, such amount (if any) as is necessary to prevent double
     taxation,
the amount of the deduction (if any) shall be the lesser of the following
amounts--
     (i) the amount of land tax payable in respect of the land or interest
     by the secondary taxpayer, or
     (ii) the amount of land tax (if any) payable in respect of the land
     or interest by the primary taxpayer aggregated with the amount of
     land tax (if any) payable in respect of the land or interest by a
     precedent secondary taxpayer (if any)--
Provided that the secondary taxpayer shall be assessed and liable in respect of
the land or interest, notwithstanding that the primary taxpayer is exempt from
taxation in respect of the land or interest, or that there is no primary
taxpayer in respect of the land or interest.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 34
Meaning of land tax payable in respect of certain land
 
 
34 Meaning of land tax payable in respect of certain land
     (1) Where in this Act reference is made to the land tax payable by a
     person in respect of any land or interest, the reference is to so
     much of the whole land tax payable by the person as bears to the
     whole land tax payable by the person the proportion which the average
     value of the land or interest referred to bears to the average value
     of all the land (including any interest in land) owned by the person.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 39
Date for payment of land tax
 
 
39 Date for payment of land tax
     (1) Land tax payable by a taxpayer is due and payable as required by
     the relevant notice of assessment served on the taxpayer concerned.
     (3) No payment of land tax is required earlier than 30 days after
     service of the notice of assessment on the taxpayer.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 40
Discount for early payment
 
 
40 Discount for early payment
     (1) A person who pays land tax within 30 days after service of the
     notice of assessment of the land tax is entitled to a discount of the
     amount of land tax specified in the assessment excluding overdue land
     tax if--
          (a) the whole of the amount specified in the assessment is
          paid, and
          (b) no other liability in relation to land tax, interest or
          penalty tax is, at the time of payment, payable by the
          person to the Chief Commissioner (including a liability
          subject to objection, appeal or other dispute) or any such
          liability is paid in full when making the payment.
     (2) The discount is to be at the rate determined by order of the
     Treasurer published in the Gazette. A rate may be determined in
     respect of assessments generally or in relation to assessments issued
     in a specified land tax year.
     (3) This section has effect despite any other provision of this Act
     or the Land Tax Act 1956.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 45
Statutes of limitations
 
 
45 Statutes of limitations
No statute of limitations at any time in force shall bar or affect any action
or remedy for recovery of land tax.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 46
Remedy against other persons where taxpayer makes default
 
 
46 Remedy against other persons where taxpayer makes default
     (1) Where a taxpayer makes a default in the payment of land tax then,
     without in any way releasing him or her from his or her liability,
     the following provisions shall apply as long as the default
     continues--
          (a) If the land tax is payable in respect of land subject
          to any mortgage or lease or occupied by any person, then
          the mortgagee, lessee or occupier shall, upon being served
          with a notice by the Chief Commissioner requiring payment
          thereof, be responsible for the payment of the land tax,
          and it may be recovered from him or her as if he or she
          were the defaulting taxpayer.
          (b) All payments made under this section by a mortgagee,
          lessee or occupier shall be deemed to be made on behalf of
          the defaulting taxpayer--
     Provided that the responsibility of the lessee or occupier under this
     section shall only be to the extent of any rent or payments due by
     him or her to the taxpayer at the time of the demand for payment made
     by the Chief Commissioner, or from time to time accruing due
     thereafter.
     (2) Any payment to the Chief Commissioner under this section shall be
     a valid discharge to the lessee or occupier for such rent or payment
     due by the lessee or occupier to the taxpayer as against all other
     persons whomsoever.
     (3) A reference in this section to a mortgagee includes a reference
     to a person owning an estate or interest in land by way of security
     for money.
     (4) The Chief Commissioner may release a mortgagee, lessee or
     occupier from a liability under this section on payment of an amount
     that the Chief Commissioner estimates to be not less than the
     proportion of the land tax payable by the defaulting taxpayer in
     respect of the land mortgaged, leased or occupied.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 47
Land tax to be first charge on land
 
 
47 Land tax to be first charge on land
     (1) Land tax shall until payment be a first charge upon the land
     taxed in priority over all other encumbrances whatever, and where the
     land taxed comprises two or more parcels the land tax payable on the
     land taxed shall be a first charge on each and every such parcel and
     notwithstanding any disposition of the land or any part thereof the
     land or part shall continue to be liable in the hands of any
     purchaser or holder for the payment of the land tax so long as it
     remains unpaid.
     (1A) The Chief Commissioner--
          (a) on the application of any person, and
          (b) on payment of a fee determined by the Chief
          Commissioner (or the making of arrangements satisfactory to
          the Chief Commissioner for its payment),
     is to issue a certificate showing if there is any land tax charged on
     land the subject of the application.
     The Chief Commissioner may include in the certificate the land value
     of the land and average value of the land in relation to a specified
     land tax year.
     (1AA) In relation to an application for a certificate--
          (a) the application is to be in a form approved by the
          Chief Commissioner, and
          (b) a separate application must be made for each parcel of
          land that is separately valued under the Valuation of Land
          Act 1916 or otherwise separately valued for the purposes of
          land tax assessment, and
          (c) the Chief Commissioner may require further information
          or evidence with respect to the land concerned, or to any
          other land owned by the owner of that land, before issuing
          the certificate.
     (1B) The application fee for a certificate is to be paid in such
     manner as may be approved by the Chief Commissioner.
     (1BA) The Chief Commissioner may determine--
          (a) the means by which a certificate may be issued,
          including electronically, and
          (b) the form of a certificate, including as a document or
          in an electronic form or a form that may be produced from
          an electronic message.
     (1C) A certificate issued by the Chief Commissioner under this
     section is conclusive evidence of the matter certified against the
     Chief Commissioner and in favour of any person (whether or not the
     person is the person to whom the certificate was issued) except a
     person who--
          (a) had notice, when the certificate was issued, of land
          tax charged on the land that the certificate failed to
          disclose, or
          (b) was an owner of the land (other than a genuine
          purchaser for value who has not obtained possession of the
          land) when the certificate was issued.
     (1D) If a certificate issued under this section (
     "the original certificate") is conclusive evidence in favour of a
     person, the person is entitled, on application and payment of the
     prescribed fee under subsection (1A), to be issued with a certificate
     that is to the same effect as the original certificate and such a
     certificate is to be regarded as having been issued when the original
     certificate was issued.
     (2) The Chief Commissioner may release the land taxed, or any part of
     the land, from the charge imposed by subsection (1)--
          (a) on payment of an amount the Chief Commissioner
          estimates to be not less than the proportion of land tax
          referable to the land or part, or
          (b) without payment of land tax if--
               (i) the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that
               there is no significant risk that the land tax
               for which the charge is imposed will not be paid,
               and
               (ii) a person who is or may become liable to pay
               the land tax is not in arrears in payment of any
               land tax.
     (2A) Where any land sold under section 713 of the Local Government
     Act 1993 is liable to a charge under subsection (1), the Chief
     Commissioner may release the land from the charge on payment of that
     part of the proceeds of sale under sections 718 and 719 of that Act
     that is available to pay the land tax in respect of the land.
     (3) The provisions of this section have effect despite anything
     contained in--
          (a) section 34 or any other provision of this Act, or
          (b) section 42 of the Real Property Act 1900.
     (4) Subsection (1) does not apply to land to which section 21A
     (Company title units taken to be strata lots) or section 21C
     (Liability of lessees of land owned by Crown or council) applies.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 50
Functions of Hardship Review Board
 
 
50 Functions of Hardship Review Board
The Hardship Review Board constituted under the State Debt Recovery Act 2018
may exercise its functions under that Act and the Taxation Administration Act
1996 in relation to land tax payable under this Act.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 51
Definition of land tax for certain purposes of this Part
 
 
51 Definition of land tax for certain purposes of this Part
For the purposes of sections 45, 46, 47 and 50,
"land tax" includes interest and penalty tax imposed under section 72, or under
section 47 or Part 5 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 62I
Purpose and interpretation of Division
 
 
62I Purpose and interpretation of Division
     (1) This Division applies for the purposes of section 9A (Concession
     for unutilised land value).
     (2) Expressions used in this Division have the same meanings as in
     Division 2 of Part 8 of Chapter 15 of the Local Government Act 1993,
     except to the extent that such a meaning would be inconsistent with
     the meaning given by this Act.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 62J
Land that is eligible to have unutilised value ascertained
 
 
62J Land that is eligible to have unutilised value ascertained
     (1) Land is eligible to have an unutilised value allowance
     ascertained for its land value as at 1 July in a year if it satisfies
     the description in either of the following paragraphs as at midnight
     on 30 June in that year--
          (a) a parcel of land used or occupied solely as the site of
          a single dwelling-house and which is, under an
          environmental planning instrument, zoned or otherwise
          designated for use for the purposes of industry, commerce
          or the erection of residential flat buildings,
          (b) a parcel of land (which may comprise one or more lots
          or portions in a current plan within the meaning of the
          Conveyancing Act 1919) used or occupied solely as the site
          of a single dwelling-house and which is, under an
          environmental planning instrument, zoned or otherwise
          designated, so as to permit its subdivision for residential
          purposes.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 62K
Unutilised value allowance to be ascertained on application of owner
 
 
62K Unutilised value allowance to be ascertained on application of owner
     (1) The owner of land may apply to the Chief Commissioner for an
     unutilised value allowance to be ascertained for the land value of
     the land. The application must be in the form required by the Chief
     Commissioner and be accompanied by such supporting information as the
     Chief Commissioner may request.
     (1A) If satisfied that the land to which such an application relates
     satisfies the description in any of the paragraphs of section 62J
     (1), the Chief Commissioner must refer the application to the Valuer-
     General for determination of an unutilised value allowance.
     (2) The Valuer-General must then ascertain the allowance if the land
     is eligible to have that allowance ascertained.
     (3) An allowance ascertained by the Valuer-General under this
     Division is to be entered by the Valuer-General in the Register in
     respect of the land value to which it relates and is to be shown in
     any assessment to which it is applicable.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 62L
How unutilised value allowance is ascertained
 
 
62L How unutilised value allowance is ascertained
     (1) The unutilised value allowance for a land value is the amount
     calculated by deducting from the land value of the land the value
     that the land would have if it could be used only as the site of a
     single dwelling-house.
     (2) However, no account is to be taken of any portion of the land
     which is in excess of that which is reasonably necessary to be
     occupied or used in conjunction with the single dwelling-house.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 62M
Unutilised value allowance to be reascertained in certain cases
 
 
62M Unutilised value allowance to be reascertained in certain cases
If the land value of land in respect of which an unutilised value allowance was
ascertained is altered (whether as the result of being reascertained or on
objection or appeal or for the correction of a clerical error or
misdescription), the Valuer-General must reascertain an unutilised value
allowance for that land value.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 62N
Unutilised value allowance can be objected to
 
 
62N Unutilised value allowance can be objected to
     (1) An objection under Part 3 of the Valuation of Land Act 1916 may
     be made to an allowance ascertained under this Division as if it were
     a land value.
     (2) The right to object in respect of the land value of land includes
     the right to object on the ground that an allowance under this
     Division has not been ascertained for that land value.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 62P
Tax threshold
 
 
62P Tax threshold
The tax threshold for the following land tax years is as follows--
     (a) 2006--$352,000,
     (b) 2007--$352,000,
     (c) 2008--$359,000,
     (d) 2009--$368,000,
     (e) 2010--$376,000,
     (f) 2011--$387,000,
     (g) 2012--$396,000,
     (h) 2013--$406,000,
     (i) 2014--$412,000,
     (j) 2015--$432,000,
     (k) 2016--$482,000,
     (l) 2017--$549,000,
     (m) 2018--$629,000,
     (n) 2019--$692,000,
     (o) 2020--$734,000,
     (p) 2021--$755,000,
     (q) 2022--$822,000,
     (r) 2023--$969,000,
     (s) for a land tax year after the 2023 land tax year--$1,075,000.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 62S
Premium rate threshold
 
 
62S Premium rate threshold
The premium rate threshold for the following land tax years is as follows--
     (a) 2009--$2,250,000,
     (b) 2010--$2,299,000,
     (c) 2011--$2,366,000,
     (d) 2012--$2,421,000,
     (e) 2013--$2,482,000,
     (f) 2014--$2,519,000,
     (g) 2015--$2,641,000,
     (h) 2016--$2,947,000,
     (i) 2017--$3,357,000,
     (j) 2018--$3,846,000,
     (k) 2019--$4,231,000,
     (l) 2020--$4,488,000,
     (m) 2021--$4,616,000,
     (n) 2022--$5,026,000,
     (o) 2023--$5,925,000,
     (p) for a land tax year after the 2023 land tax year--$6,571,000.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 62T
Review of thresholds
 
 
62T Review of thresholds
     (1) The Treasurer must review the tax threshold and the premium rate
     threshold to determine whether the thresholds continue to be
     appropriate in the circumstances.
     (2) The review must be undertaken by 1 June 2027.
     (3) A report on the outcome of the review must be tabled in each
     House of Parliament as soon as practicable after 1 June 2027.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 63
Powers of entry and investigation
 
 
63 Powers of entry and investigation
A Judge or assessor of the Land and Environment Court is an authorised officer
(within the meaning of the Taxation Administration Act 1996) for the purposes
of this Act.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 63B
Application of Act to persons or bodies having Crown immunity
 
 
63B Application of Act to persons or bodies having Crown immunity
     (1) The Governor may, by order published in the Gazette, apply the
     whole or any specified provisions of this Act to any specified person
     or body (whether statutory or otherwise) that has Crown immunity.
     (2) While any such order is in force, the specified person or body is
     subject to the requirements of this Act accordingly.
     Editorial note : For orders under this section see Gazettes No 49 of
     19.4.1996, p 1830, No 31 of 27.3.1997, p 1717 and No 76 of 2.7.1999,
     p 4643. From April 2021, PCO is no longer updating notes in
     provisions of in force titles about related gazette notices. To
     search for related gazette notices, please use the Gazette Search
     functionality.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 64
Agents and trustees
 
 
64 Agents and trustees
With respect to every agent, and with respect also to every trustee, the
following provisions shall apply--
     (a) He or she shall be answerable as taxpayer for the doing of all
     such things as are required to be done by virtue of this Act in
     respect of the land controlled or held by him or her in his or her
     representative capacity and the payment of land tax thereon.
     (b) He or she shall in respect of such land make the returns and be
     assessed thereon, but in his or her representative capacity only, and
     each return and assessment shall, except as otherwise provided by
     this Act, be separate and distinct from any other.
     (c) If he or she is an executor or administrator, the returns shall
     be the same as far as practicable as the deceased person, if living,
     would have been liable to make.
     (d) Where as agent or trustee he or she pays land tax, he or she is
     hereby authorised to recover the amount so paid from the person on
     whose behalf he or she paid it, or to deduct it from any money in his
     or her hands belonging to that person.
     (e) He or she is hereby authorised and required to retain from time
     to time out of any money which comes to him or her in his or her
     representative capacity so much as is sufficient to pay the land tax
     which is or will become due in respect of the land.
     (f) He or she is hereby made personally liable for the land tax
     payable in respect of the land if, while the land tax remains unpaid,
     he or she alienates, charges, or disposes of any real or personal
     property which is controlled or held by him or her in his or her
     representative capacity but he or she shall not be otherwise
     personally liable for the land tax.
     (g) If he or she is a trustee he or she may raise whatever moneys are
     necessary in order to pay the land tax by mortgage or charge with or
     without power of sale of any real or personal property held by him or
     her as such trustee, and may apply the money so raised or any other
     moneys in his or her possession as such trustee in paying the land
     tax.
     (h) He or she is hereby indemnified for all payments which he or she
     makes in pursuance of this Act, or by requirement of the Chief
     Commissioner.
     (i) For the purpose of ensuring the payment of land tax, the Chief
     Commissioner shall have the same remedies against all land or other
     property of any kind vested in or under the control or management or
     in the possession of any agent or trustee, as he or she would have
     against the land or other property of any other taxpayer in respect
     of land tax, and in as full and ample a manner.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 68
Valuer-General to furnish copies of Register of Land Values to Chief
Commissioner
 
 
68 Valuer-General to furnish copies of Register of Land Values to Chief
Commissioner
On request made by the Chief Commissioner, the Valuer-General must furnish to
the Chief Commissioner such copies of the Register of Land Values, and of any
valuation list or supplementary list prepared by the Valuer-General, as the
Chief Commissioner may require.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 68A
Keeping of records by owners of land
 
 
68A Keeping of records by owners of land
     (1) The regulations may make provision requiring owners of land or
     specified classes of owners of land to keep specified records
     concerning land owned by them.
     (2) The regulations may specify the form in which any such record is
     to be kept and the particulars it is to contain.
     (3) A person to whom such a requirement applies--
          (a) must comply with the requirement, and
          (b) must, unless the regulations otherwise provide, retain
          a record made for the purposes of such a requirement for at
          least 5 years after the end of the tax year to which the
          ownership of the land concerned related.
          : Maximum penalty--10 penalty units.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 72
Failure to furnish returns or information
 
 
72 Failure to furnish returns or information
     (1) A taxpayer who fails or neglects duly to furnish any return or
     information as and when required by this Act or the Chief
     Commissioner, or who fails to include in any return any land owned by
     the taxpayer, is taken to have committed a tax default for the
     purposes of Part 5 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996.
     (2) In relation to the tax default--
          (a) interest is payable in accordance with Part 5 of the
          Taxation Administration Act 1996 but accrues on the amount
          of land tax assessable to the taxpayer for the period
          commencing on the last day allowed for furnishing the
          return or information, or the correct particulars of land
          ownership, and ending on--
               (i) the day on which the return or information is
               furnished or the correct particulars are
               furnished, or
               (ii) the day on which the assessment calculated
               on the basis of the return or information that is
               required, or the correct particulars that are
               required, is made, or
               (iii) the day on which the whole of the land tax
               assessable to the person is paid,
          whichever occurs first, and
          (b) penalty tax is payable in accordance with Part 5 of the
          Taxation Administration Act 1996 on the amount of tax
          unpaid.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 73
Special provisions for land subject to property tax
 
 
73 Special provisions for land subject to property tax
     (1) A reference in section 34(1) to the average value of land owned
     by a person does not include the value of land subject to property
     tax if the person is an included owner of the land.
     (2) If the land subject to property tax is hybrid land, the value of
     the land subject to property tax means the value of the proportion of
     the land subject to property tax divided among the included owners of
     the land in proportion to their ownership shares.
     (3) Despite section 47, unpaid land tax is not a charge on land
     subject to property tax if the land was subject to property tax
     before the liability for the land tax arose.
     (4) Subsection (3) does not apply to hybrid land.
     (5) To avoid doubt, land becoming subject to property tax does not
     affect an existing charge on the land.
     (6) Terms used in this section have the same meanings as in the
     Property Tax (First Home Buyer Choice) Act 2022.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 78
General penalty
 
 
78 General penalty
Any person guilty of a breach of this Act for which no penalty is otherwise
provided shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding 2 penalty units.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 81
Repeals and refunds
 
 
81 Repeals and refunds
     (1) The Acts specified in Schedule 1, and to the extent to which they
     have not been already repealed, are hereby repealed.
     (3) Any person who has paid land tax pursuant to any of the Acts
     specified in Schedule 1 in respect of the year that commenced on the
     first day of January one thousand nine hundred and fifty-six shall be
     refunded an amount equal to one-sixth of the land tax so paid by the
     person.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 82
Regulations
 
 
82 Regulations
     (1) The Governor may make regulations not inconsistent with this Act,
     prescribing all matters which by this Act are required or permitted
     to be prescribed, or which are necessary or convenient to be
     prescribed, for giving effect to this Act.
     (3) The regulations may impose penalties not exceeding 1 penalty unit
     for any breach thereof.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 83
Savings and transitional provisions
 
 
83 Savings and transitional provisions
Schedule 2 has effect.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SECT 84
Owners of land under Help to Buy arrangement
 
 
84 Owners of land under Help to Buy arrangement
     (1) For the purposes of assessing land tax on land purchased under a
     Help to Buy arrangement, no account is to be taken of an interest the
     Commonwealth or Housing Australia has in the land.
     (2) In this section--

     "Help to Buy arrangement" has the same meaning as in the Help to Buy
     Act 2024 of the Commonwealth.

     "Housing Australia" has the same meaning as in the Housing Australia
     Act 2018 of the Commonwealth.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SCHEDULE 1AA
 
 
SCHEDULE 1AA - Family unit trusts--special provisions
(Section 3A (4) (f))
2 Family unit trust--special concession
     (1) A unit trust is a
     "family unit trust" in relation to the land tax year commencing on 1
     January 2006 if, at midnight on 31 December 2005--
          (a) the trust property includes land (other than land that
          is exempt from taxation under this Act), and
          (b) the taxable value of that land does not exceed
          $1,000,000, and
          (c) the unit holders in the unit trust have fixed
          entitlements under the trust, and
          (d) the units in the unit trust are family-owned.
     (2) The unit trust continues to be a family unit trust in relation to
     each subsequent land tax year unless, before the commencement of that
     land tax year--
          (a) the trust acquires additional land and, as a result of
          that acquisition, the taxable value of the land that is the
          subject of the trust (and that is not exempt from taxation)
          exceeds $1,000,000 (with the taxable value of the land
          being the taxable value for the land tax year during which
          the acquisition was made), or
          (b) the unit holders cease to have fixed entitlements under
          the trust, or
          (c) the units in the unit trust cease to be family-owned.
     (3) If the unit trust ceases to be a family unit trust in relation to
     a subsequent land tax year, it cannot then become a family unit trust
     again (despite any changes in the land holdings or any other
     circumstances of the trust).
     (4) Unit holders in a unit trust have
     "fixed entitlements" under the trust if--
          (a) the unit holders are entitled to a fixed proportion of
          the income or capital distributions of the trust (if any
          are made) based on the number or class of units owned by
          them, and
          (b) the entitlements referred to in paragraph (a) cannot be
          removed, restricted or otherwise affected by the exercise
          of a discretion, or by a failure to exercise a discretion,
          conferred on any person under the trust.
     (5) Units in a unit trust are
     "family-owned" if--
          (a) in the case of a unit trust where the units are owned
          by one person--
               (i) the person is a non-trustee, or
               (ii) the person is a family trustee, or
          (b) in the case of a unit trust where the units are owned
          by 2 or more persons, not less than 95% of the units in the
          unit trust are owned by non-trustees or family trustees (or
          a combination of both) who are members of the same family.
     (6) A person is a member of the same family as another person if--
          (a) the person is married to the other person or is the de
          facto partner of the other person, or
               Note : "De facto partner" is defined in section
               21C of the Interpretation Act 1987.
          (b) the person is the child of the other person (whether by
          birth, adoption or marriage), or
          (c) the Chief Commissioner is satisfied, on the basis of
          any other relationship between the persons, that they can
          be considered to be members of the same family.
     (7) If a person owns a unit in a unit trust as a family trustee, the
     person is treated as a member of the same family as another person
     only if the beneficiaries of the trust of which the person is family
     trustee--
          (a) are members of the same family as the other person, or
          (b) if the other person is also a family trustee, are
          members of the same family as the beneficiaries of the
          trust of which the other person is family trustee.
     (8) In this clause--

     "family trustee" means a person who owns a unit in a unit trust as
     trustee of another trust which--
          (a) has only one beneficiary, who is a natural person, or
          (b) has 2 or more beneficiaries, who are all natural
          persons and members of the same family.

     "non-trustee" means a natural person who owns a unit in a unit trust
     otherwise than as trustee of another trust.
     (9) For the purposes of this clause, if a person owns a unit in a
     unit trust as trustee of a trust that is a superannuation trust in
     relation to the land tax year (within the meaning of section 3A), the
     members of that superannuation trust are taken to be beneficiaries of
     the trust.
3 Unit holders taken to be joint owners of land
     (1) If a unit trust is a family unit trust in relation to a land tax
     year, the unit holders in that unit trust are taken, for the purposes
     of section 27, to be joint owners of the land that is the property of
     the trust--
          (a) in the same proportion as the number of units held by
          them, or
          (b) if there are different classes of units in the unit
          trust, in the same proportion as the number of units held
          by them of a class that entitle the holders to participate
          in capital distributions of the trust.
     (2) This clause does not apply to unit holders in a unit trust which
     is a superannuation trust in relation to the land tax year (within
     the meaning of section 3A).
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SCHEDULE 1A
 
 
SCHEDULE 1A - Principal place of residence exemption
(Section 10 (1) (r))
Part 1 - Preliminary 1 Definitions
     (1) In this Schedule--

     "principal place of residence exemption" --see clause 2.

     "residential land" --see clause 3.

     "strata lot" means a lot under the Strata Schemes Development Act
     2015.

     "taxing date" --means midnight on the thirty-first day of December.
     (2) For the purposes of this Schedule, a reference to the owner of
     land includes, if there are joint owners, any one or more of those
     joint owners.
Part 2 - Principal place of residence exemption 2 Principal place of residence
exemption
     (1) Land used and occupied by the owner as the principal place of
     residence of the owner of the land, and for no other purpose, is
     exempt from taxation under this Act, in respect of the year
     commencing 1 January 2005 or any succeeding year, if the land is--
          (a) a parcel of residential land, or
          (b) a strata lot or, subject to this Schedule, land
          comprised of 2 or more strata lots.
     (2) Land is not used and occupied as the principal place of residence
     of a person unless--
          (a) the land, and no other land, has been continuously used
          and occupied by the person for residential purposes and for
          no other purposes since 1 July in the year preceding the
          tax year in which land tax is levied, or
          (b) in any other case, the Chief Commissioner is satisfied
          that the land is used and occupied by the person as the
          person's principal place of residence.
     (3) If the owner of land is entitled to the exemption conferred by
     this Schedule, no other person is liable to be assessed for taxation
     under this Act in respect of the land during the period of the
     owner's entitlement to the exemption.
     (4) The exemption conferred by this Schedule is referred to as the
     "principal place of residence exemption".
     (5) The principal place of residence exemption is subject to the
     restrictions set out in Part 4.
3 Residential land--meaning
     (1) In this Schedule,
     "residential land" means land that is used and occupied for
     residential purposes and for no other purpose, that use and
     occupation being use and occupation of a building or buildings
     designed, constructed or adapted for residential purposes, other than
     a building or buildings--
          (a) comprised of strata lots or residential units, or
          (b) containing (out of the total of all rooms in the
          building or buildings) occupancies other than that of the
          owner, or
          (c) from any part of which income is derived.
     (2) Land does not cease to be used and occupied as provided by
     subclause (1) by reason of there being on that land any building or
     improvement that is used or occupied for a purpose ancillary to the
     purposes for which the building is, or the buildings are, designed,
     constructed or adapted.
     Note : Clause 4 allows one residential occupancy to be disregarded in
     applying the principal place of residence exemption. Clause 5 allows
     the use of land for purposes ancillary to a business conducted at a
     different place to be disregarded in certain circumstances.
Part 3 - Concessions in application of principal place of residence exemption 4
Concession for land on which there is one other residential occupancy
     (1) For the purposes of the principal place of residence exemption,
     if a building or buildings used or occupied for residential purposes
     contains or contain a residential occupancy other than that of the
     owner, the use of the building or buildings for the purpose of that
     residential occupancy may be disregarded if--
          (a) the residential occupancy is an excluded residential
          occupancy, and
          (b) the building contains or buildings contain (out of a
          total of all rooms in the building or buildings) not more
          than one of those excluded residential occupancies (not
          including the occupancy of the owner).
     (2) For the purposes of this clause, each of the following
     residential occupancies is an
     "excluded residential occupancy" --
          (a) one room,
          (b) one suite of rooms (not being a flat) each room of
          which all occupants of the suite are entitled to occupy,
          (c) one flat,
          (d) one suite of rooms (not being a flat) each room of
          which all occupants of the suite are entitled to occupy,
          and one room,
          (e) one flat and one room,
          (f) 2 rooms, each of which is separately occupied.
     (3) Accordingly, land does not cease to be residential land because
     there is on the land one, but not more than one, such excluded
     residential occupancy, even if income is derived from the residential
     occupancy.
     (4) If land is comprised of 2 or more lots or strata lots, the
     excluded residential occupancy must be located on a lot or strata lot
     that is also used and occupied by the owner of the land for
     residential purposes.
5 Concession for land used for incidental business purposes
     (1) For the purposes of the principal place of residence exemption,
     if land owned by a person is used and occupied by the owner primarily
     for residential purposes but not more than one room is used primarily
     for business purposes, the use of the land for the purpose of the
     business may be disregarded if the business is primarily conducted
     elsewhere.
     (2) Accordingly, land does not cease to be residential land because
     of the use of one room primarily for business purposes, even if
     income is derived from the use of the land for that purpose.
     (3) Nothing in this clause affects, or is affected by, clause 3.
6 Concession for unoccupied land intended to be owner's principal place of
residence
     (1) An owner of unoccupied land is entitled to claim the land as the
     owner's principal place of residence if the owner intends to use and
     occupy the land solely as the owner's principal place of residence.
     In such a case, the owner is taken, for the purpose of the principal
     place of residence exemption, to use and occupy the unoccupied land
     as the owner's principal place of residence.
          Note : It is an offence under section 55 of the Taxation
          Administration Act 1996 to make a statement to a tax
          officer, or give information to a tax officer, orally or in
          writing, knowing that it is false or misleading in a
          material particular.
     (2) This clause does not apply unless--
          (a) the land is unoccupied because the owner intends to
          carry out, or is carrying out, building or other works
          necessary to facilitate the owner's intended use and
          occupation of the land as a principal place of residence,
          and
          (b) if those building or other works have physically
          commenced on the land, no income has been derived from the
          use and occupation of the land since that commencement, and
          (c) the intended use and occupation of the land is not
          unlawful.
     (3) This clause applies in respect of the assessment of a person's
     ownership of land only in the period of--
          (a) 4 tax years immediately following the year in which the
          person became owner of the land, or
          (b) if, after the person became owner and before the
          building or other works physically commence, the land is
          used and occupied for residential purposes by another
          person--4 tax years immediately following the tax year in
          which the other person ceases to use and occupy the land
          for those purposes.
     (4) Without limiting subclause (3) (a)--
          (a) this clause does not apply in respect of the assessment
          of a person's ownership of land in a period referred to in
          subclause (3) (b) unless the Chief Commissioner is
          satisfied that, by the end of the first of the 4 tax years
          concerned--
               (i) the building or other works will be, or have
               been, physically commenced, or
               (ii) significant steps will be, or have been,
               taken to enable those works to physically
               commence, and
          (b) if the building or other works are not physically
          commenced by the end of that tax year (or the Chief
          Commissioner is not satisfied that, by the end of that tax
          year, significant steps have been taken to enable those
          works to physically commence)--
               (i) the principal place of residence exemption
               applying by operation of this clause to the land
               is taken not to have applied to the land in
               respect of that tax year (unless subclause (3)
               (a) applied to the assessment in that tax year),
               and
               (ii) land tax liability is to be assessed or
               reassessed accordingly.
     (5) If the principal place of residence exemption applies by
     operation of this clause to land not actually used and occupied by a
     person as the person's principal place of residence on a taxing date,
     that exemption is revoked if the person fails to actually use and
     occupy the land as the person's principal place of residence by the
     end of the period in which this clause applies in respect of the
     assessment of the person's ownership of the land and to continue to
     so use and occupy the land for at least 6 months.
     (6) The effect of the revocation is that the principal place of
     residence exemption is taken not to have applied to the land in
     respect of any tax year to which, but for the revocation, it would
     have applied. Land tax liability is to be assessed or reassessed
     accordingly.
     (6A) For the purposes of section 9 (3) (c) of the Taxation
     Administration Act 1996, any reassessment under this clause is
     authorised to be made more than 5 years after the initial assessment.
     (7) This clause does not apply in respect of land owned by a person
     if--
          (a) the person or any member of the person's family (within
          the meaning of clause 12) is entitled to have the person's
          or member's actual use and occupation of other land taken
          into account under section 9C or 9D or under this Schedule,
          or
          (b) the person owns land outside New South Wales that is
          the principal place of residence of the person or a member
          of the person's family (within the meaning of clause 12),
          or
          (c) the land, or the land if combined with any adjoining
          land of which the person is an owner, is capable of having
          more than 2 residences or residential units lawfully built
          on it.
     (7A) The Chief Commissioner may extend the period of 4 tax years in
     subclause (3)(a) or (b) to a period of up to 6 tax years if the Chief
     Commissioner is satisfied--
          (a) there has been a delay in the completion of the
          building or other works necessary to facilitate the owner's
          intended use and occupation of the land as a principal
          place of residence, and
          (b) the delay is due primarily to exceptional circumstances
          beyond the control of the owner, and
          (c) the delay could not reasonably have been avoided by the
          owner.
     (7B) The Treasurer may, for the purposes of subclause (7A), approve
     guidelines by publishing the guidelines in the Gazette.
     (7C) The Chief Commissioner must, when making a decision under
     subclause (7A), consider any guidelines approved under subclause
     (7B).
     (8) For the purposes of this clause--

     "unoccupied land" means land that is not being used or occupied for
     any purpose.
7 Concession for change to principal place of residence
     (1) If the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that, on a taxing date (
     "the relevant taxing date")--
          (a) a person is the owner of land (
          "the former residence") that was the principal place of
          residence of the person on the relevant taxing date or was
          the principal place of residence of the person on the
          preceding taxing date, and
          (b) the person is the owner of other land (
          "the new residence") that is being or is intended to be
          used and occupied by the person as the person's principal
          place of residence,
     both the former residence and the new residence are taken, for the
     purpose of the principal place of residence exemption, to be used and
     occupied by the person as the person's principal place of residence
     on the relevant taxing date.
     (2) This clause applies in respect of land owned by a person only if
     the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that--
          (a) the former residence has not been used or occupied
          except as the person's principal place of residence, and no
          income has been derived from the use or occupation of the
          residence, since the preceding 1 July, except--
               (i) income derived from an excluded residential
               occupancy (within the meaning of clause 4), or
               (ii) income derived under a lease or licence
               entered into by the purchaser under a contract
               for the sale of the former residence for a period
               pending completion of the sale, and
          (b) the person became the owner of the new residence within
          the period of 6 months before the relevant taxing date, and
          (c) since the person became owner of the new residence the
          new residence has not been used or occupied except--
               (i) as the person's principal place of residence,
               or
               (ii) by a tenant under a lease entered into by
               the previous owner.
     (3) The principal place of residence exemption cannot be claimed for
     both a former residence and a new residence under this clause for
     more than one taxing date.
     (3A) A principal place of residence exemption that applies, by
     operation of this clause, to land not actually used and occupied by a
     person at the relevant taxing date is revoked if the person is not
     actually using and occupying the new residence as the person's
     principal place of residence by the next taxing date immediately
     following the relevant taxing date.
     (4) The effect of the revocation is that the principal place of
     residence exemption is taken not to have applied in respect of the
     tax year to which, but for the revocation, it would have applied.
     Land tax liability is to be assessed or reassessed accordingly.
8 Concession for absences from former residence
     (1) A person is taken, for the purpose of the principal place of
     residence exemption, to continue to use and occupy land formerly used
     and occupied by the person as a principal place of residence (a
     "former residence"), after the person ceases to so use and occupy the
     former residence, if the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that--
          (a) the person used and occupied the former residence as a
          principal place of residence for a continuous period of at
          least 6 months, and
          (b) the person does not own any other land used and
          occupied by the person as a principal place of residence.
     (2) The maximum period for which a person may be taken, under this
     clause, to continue to use and occupy a former residence as a
     principal place of residence is 6 years starting at the end of the
     last period (of at least 6 months) during which the former residence
     was used and occupied by the person as a principal place of residence
     (not including any period for which the person may be taken, under
     clause 7 or this clause, to have used and occupied the former
     residence as a principal place of residence).
     (3) If the principal place of residence exemption applies to the
     former residence of a person by operation of this clause, the
     exemption ceases to have effect if the person is the owner of the
     former residence at the end of the 6-year period referred to in
     subclause (2) and fails--
          (a) to resume actual use and occupation of the residence as
          a principal place of residence by the end of that period,
          and
          (b) to continue that use and occupation for at least 6
          months.
     (3A) The principal place of residence exemption also ceases to have
     effect if the land ceases to be capable of being used and occupied as
     a residence and remains incapable of being so used and occupied for a
     period exceeding 4 years.
     (4) Any period during which a person is in full time care is not to
     be counted toward the maximum period referred to in subclause (2).
     Accordingly, a person who is in full time care may continue to be
     taken to use and occupy the person's former residence as the person's
     principal place of residence during any period in which he or she is
     in full time care.
     (5) For the purposes of this clause, a person is in
     "full time care" during any period in which the person--
          (a) resides at a hospital or mental hospital as a patient
          of the hospital, or
          (b) resides at an aged care establishment (within the
          meaning of section 10R) while being provided with
          residential care, or respite care, or
          (c) resides with another person (a
          "carer") who is eligible for a carer payment under the
          Social Security Act 1991 of the Commonwealth because the
          carer provides care to the person.
     (6) This clause applies in respect of the assessment of a person's
     ownership of land in a tax year only if the Chief Commissioner is
     satisfied that no income has been derived from the use or occupation
     of the former residence in the preceding tax year, except as
     permitted by subclause (7).
     (7) Income may be derived from the use or occupation of the former
     residence in a tax year if--
          (a) the income is derived from a lease, licence or other
          arrangement under which a person has a right to occupy the
          former residence and the period for which any such right of
          occupation is conferred does not exceed a continuous period
          of 6 months, or a total period of 182 days, in the tax
          year, or
          (b) the income is derived from any arrangement under which
          a person occupies the former residence, but the income is
          no more than is reasonably required to cover council, water
          and energy rates and charges and maintenance costs of the
          owner in respect of the residence.
     (7A) For the purposes of subclause (7), each overnight stay counts as
     one day.
     (8) This clause is subject to clause 12 (which limits members of a
     family to one principal place of residence exemption).
     (9) In this clause--

     "hospital" means an institution at which relief is given to sick or
     injured people through the provision of care or treatment.

     "mental hospital" means an institution conducted principally for the
     treatment of mentally ill persons, and includes a hospital within the
     meaning of the Mental Health Act 1990.
9 Concession on death of owner
     (1) If, immediately before the death of a person, the person was an
     owner of land and used and occupied the land as the person's
     principal place of residence, liability for land tax in respect of
     the land is to be assessed as if the person had not died and had
     continued to so use and occupy the land.
     (2) Subclause (1) operates only until whichever of the following
     happens first--
          (a) a period of 2 years expires after the date of the
          deceased person's death,
          (b) the land is transferred to any person (other than the
          deceased person's personal representative, or a beneficiary
          of the deceased person's estate).
     (3) The Chief Commissioner may extend (and further extend) the period
     of 2 years referred to in subclause (2) (a) if--
          (a) the land has not been leased to any person since the
          date of the deceased person's death, and
          (b) the land has not been transferred to any person (other
          than the deceased person's personal representative), and
          (c) the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that--
               (i) a person is using and occupying the land as
               the person's principal place of residence, and
               (ii) that person is likely to be a person in whom
               the deceased's interest in the land vests
               pursuant to the administration of the deceased's
               estate.
     (4) Such an extension or further extension by the Chief Commissioner
     can only be granted in writing and can be withdrawn by the Chief
     Commissioner at any time by notice in writing given to the deceased's
     personal representative.
     (5) For the purposes of this section, if the deceased is a registered
     proprietor under the Real Property Act 1900 in respect of the
     deceased's interest in the land, the deceased's interest in the land
     is taken to vest in another person when that other person is
     registered as the proprietor of that interest under that Act.
10 Concession for tenancy following death of owner
     (1) For the purposes of the principal place of residence exemption,
     if the owner of land dies and the land is used and occupied as the
     principal place of residence of--
          (a) a person using and occupying the land under a right of
          occupancy created by the will of that owner, or
          (b) a person (other than a tenant) who resided with that
          owner immediately before the owner's death and who
          continues to use and occupy the land with the permission of
          the deceased person's personal representative, or of any
          other person, granted under a power or right conferred by
          the will of that owner or with the permission of any other
          person to whom the land is transferred following that
          death,
     then the person who so uses and occupies the land is taken to be the
     owner of the land, but only while that use and occupation continues.
     (2) A person who is taken to be the owner of land under this clause
     is taken to be the owner to the exclusion of any company that owns
     the land in its capacity as the deceased person's personal
     representative.
10A Concession for first home owners who purchase under shared equity
arrangements
     (1) The principal place of residence exemption extends to land used
     and occupied as the principal place of residence of a natural person
     who owns the land, even if the land is jointly owned by a
     disqualified person, if--
          (a) the agreement or transfer under which the land was
          acquired by the natural person was eligible under a first
          home owner's duty concession scheme for a shared equity
          concession, and
          (b) an application in respect of the agreement or transfer
          under the relevant scheme is approved by the Chief
          Commissioner.
     (2) For the purposes of this clause, a
     "disqualified person" means--
          (a) a company, other than a trustee company acting in its
          representative capacity or a company acting in its capacity
          as trustee of a concessional trust, or
          (b) a person who is a trustee acting in the person's
          capacity as trustee of a special trust.
          Note : Under clause 11, the principal place of residence
          exemption cannot be claimed in respect of land that is
          jointly owned by a disqualified person except in specified
          circumstances. This clause provides for a further exception
          to that general principle.
     (3) However, the principal place of residence exemption does not
     extend to a disqualified person or to the interest of a disqualified
     person in the land, and clause 2 (3) does not apply to the
     disqualified person.
     (4) Accordingly, a disqualified person who jointly owns the land is
     liable to be assessed for taxation under this Act in respect of the
     land, as provided for by section 27, exclusive of the interest of any
     joint owner who is exempt from taxation under the principal place of
     residence exemption or under clause 2 (3).
     (5) This clause ceases to apply in respect of land, and is taken
     never to have applied, if the Chief Commissioner revokes the Chief
     Commissioner's approval under a first home owner's duty concession
     scheme of the application in respect of the agreement or transfer
     concerned.
     (6) This clause applies despite clause 11.
     (7) In this clause--

     "first home owner's duty concession scheme" means the First Home
     Buyers Assistance Scheme under Division 1 of Part 8 of Chapter 2 of
     the Duties Act 1997 or any of the predecessors to that scheme under
     that Act.
10AA Concession for home owners who purchase under approved shared equity
schemes
The principal place of residence exemption extends to land used and occupied as
the principal place of residence of a natural person who owns the land, even if
the land is jointly owned by any other person, if the land was acquired by the
natural person under an approved shared equity scheme (within the meaning of
the Duties Act 1997).
10B Concession for multiple-occupancy land
     (1) This clause applies if land owned by one person, or by 2 or more
     joint owners, is the site of a flat that is used and occupied by the
     owner, or by one of them, as a principal place of residence, and
     there is also situated on the land one or more other flats that are
     used, or adapted for use, as a separate occupation to that of the
     owner (not being an excluded residential occupancy that may be
     disregarded under clause 4).
     (2) Section 9C applies in respect of the land as if the land were
     mixed use land.
     (3) For the purposes of applying Division 5A of Part 1B of the
     Valuation of Land Act 1916 to the land, a reference in that Division
     to that part of the land that is occupied or used for non-residential
     purposes is to be read as a reference to that part of the land that
     is adapted for use as a separate occupation to that of the owner (and
     which is not an excluded residential occupancy that may be
     disregarded under clause 4).
     (4) This clause does not apply to land comprised of one or more
     strata lots.
Part 4 - Restrictions 11 Exemption does not apply to land owned by companies
and trustees
     (1) Land is not exempt from taxation under the principal place of
     residence exemption if--
          (a) the land is owned, or jointly owned, by a company,
          unless the land is owned or jointly owned by a trustee
          company acting in its representative capacity or a company
          acting in its capacity as trustee of a concessional trust,
          or
          (b) the owner of the land, or each of the joint owners, who
          use and occupy the land as a principal place of residence
          is an owner only by reason of being a trustee, or
          (c) the land is owned, or jointly owned, by a person who is
          a trustee acting in the person's capacity as trustee of a
          special trust.
          Note : The expression
          "trustee company" (as referred to in subclause (1) (a)) is
          defined in section 3 (1).
     (2) For the purposes of the principal place of residence exemption,
     land that is owned by a company acting in its capacity as trustee of
     a concessional trust is taken to be used and occupied as the
     principal place of residence of the owner of the land only if the
     person, or one of the persons, who so uses and occupies the land is a
     person who is a beneficiary of the trust.
     (3) For the purposes of this clause, land that is a parcel of
     residential land or a lot in a freehold strata scheme under the
     Strata Schemes Development Act 2015 is owned by a company if--
          (a) the land is owned by a company, or
          (b) the land is owned on behalf of a company and is land of
          which a mortgagee or person (by way of security for money)
          is in possession, or
          (c) the land is owned by a trustee for or on behalf of a
          company, or
          (d) a company is a joint owner of the land with any other
          person.
     (4) For the purposes of this clause, land that is a lot in a
     leasehold strata scheme under the Strata Schemes Development Act 2015
     is owned by a company if--
          (a) the lot is leased by a company, or
          (b) the lot is leased on behalf of a company and is land of
          which a mortgagee or person (by way of security for money)
          is in possession, or
          (c) the lot is leased by a trustee for or on behalf of a
          company, or
          (d) a company is jointly assessable in respect of the lot
          with any other person.
     (5) For the purposes of this clause, a person is a
     "beneficiary" of a trust if the person is a person, or a member of a
     class of persons--
          (a) in whose favour, by the terms of the trust, capital or
          income the subject of the trust may be applied--
               (i) in the event of the exercise of a power or
               discretion in favour of the person, or
               (ii) in the event that a discretion conferred
               under the trust is not exercised, or
          (b) entitled or permitted, under the terms of the trust, to
          use and occupy land that is the subject of the trust.
     (5A) To avoid doubt, land that is taken to be owned by more than one
     person under this Act is taken, for the purposes of this clause, to
     be jointly owned by them.
          Note : See, for example, sections 20 and 25.
     (6) This clause does not prevent the principal place of residence
     exemption applying to land owned by a company if a provision of this
     Act deems a natural person to be the owner of the land, to the
     exclusion of the company.
     Note : Section 20 provides for circumstances in which a life tenant
     is taken to be the owner of land, to the exclusion of another owner
     (including a company). Section 21A provides that a company title unit
     is not to be regarded as being owned by the company in which the
     relevant shares are held. Section 26 provides for circumstances in
     which a purchaser or vendor of land (including a company purchaser or
     vendor) is to be regarded as the owner of the land when the purchase
     is not complete.
     See also clause 10 (2).
12 Only one principal place of residence for all members of same family
     (1) For the purposes of the principal place of residence exemption,
     only one place of residence may be treated as the principal place of
     residence of all members of the same family.
     (2) If members of a family own (whether jointly or separately) more
     than one residence used and occupied by any of them as a principal
     place of residence, the Chief Commissioner is to treat the one place
     of residence elected as the principal place of residence of the
     family as the principal place of residence of all members of the
     family in respect of a tax year.
     (3) Such an election is to be made, by or on behalf of the members of
     the family, in writing and must be lodged with the Chief Commissioner
     within the period for the lodging of objections under section 89 of
     the Taxation Administration Act 1996.
     (4) An election may be made, in respect of a tax year, by the end of
     the period allowed for the lodging of an objection to a notice of
     assessment of land tax liability (being an initial assessment of land
     tax liability) for that tax year.
     (5) If an election is not made, the Chief Commissioner is to treat
     the residence that has the highest land value for land tax purposes
     as the principal place of residence of all members of the family.
     (6) For the purposes of this clause, a
     "family" consists of the following--
          (a) a person and the person's spouse (if any),
          (b) any dependent child or dependent step-child of the
          person and the person's spouse (or of either of them) who
          ordinarily resides with the person or the person's spouse.
     (7) A person is the
     "spouse" of another person if--
          (a) they are legally married, or
          (b) the person is the de facto partner of the other person.
     (8) However, if the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that a person--
          (a) is legally married to or is in a registered
          relationship or an interstate registered relationship,
          within the meaning of the Relationships Register Act 2010,
          with another person but not cohabiting with that other
          person, and
          (b) has no intention of resuming cohabitation with that
          other person,
     the person is not to be regarded as the spouse of that other person
     and if a dependent child or dependent step-child of the person has a
     joint interest in the principal place of residence of the spouse,
     that interest is to be disregarded.
     (9) A person who is the child or step-child of another person is a
     "dependent child" or a
     "dependent step-child" if the person is under 18 years of age and is
     not legally married.
     (10) Nothing in this clause prevents more than one residence from
     being treated as the principal place of residence of members of a
     family under clause 7 (Concession for change to principal place of
     residence).
13 Application of exemption to residence comprised of 2 or more lots (other
than strata lots)
     (1) The principal place of residence exemption does not extend to a
     parcel of residential land that is comprised of 2 or more lots of
     land, and that is used and occupied by the owner of the lots (or by
     one of them) as a principal place of residence, unless--
          (a) the lots are adjoining, and
          (b) the lots are in the same ownership, and
          (c) the lots are the site of a single residence (excluding
          any additional residential occupancy that may be
          disregarded under clause 4).
     (1A) Lots are in the same ownership if--
          (a) the lots are owned by the same person or, if any of the
          lots are jointly owned, the lots are all jointly owned by
          the same persons, or
          (b) each lot is beneficially owned by the same person or,
          if any of the lots have more than one beneficial owner,
          each lot is beneficially owned by the same persons (subject
          to clause 11).
     (2) For the purposes of this clause--
          (a) separate lots are not to be regarded as adjoining
          merely because one lot has a single corner point on its
          boundary that is common to the boundary of another lot, and
          (a1) separate lots that are divided by a fence, wall or
          other structure are not to be regarded as adjoining unless
          access is readily available between the lots, by means of
          gates, doors, steps, stiles, elevators or openings or by
          similar means, and
          (b) separate buildings erected on separate lots are not to
          be regarded as a single residence if the buildings are
          separately occupied or capable of being used for separate
          occupation.
     (3) This clause does not apply to land comprised of 2 or more strata
     lots.
14 Application of exemption to residence comprised of 2 or more lots in a
strata plan
     (1) The principal place of residence exemption does not extend to
     land that is comprised of 2 or more strata lots, and that is used and
     occupied by the owner of the lots (or by one of them) as a principal
     place of residence, unless--
          (a) the strata lots (excluding any ancillary lot) have
          adjoining walls or floors, and
          (b) the strata lots are in the same ownership, and
          (c) the strata lots comprise a single residence (excluding
          any additional residential occupancy that may be
          disregarded under clause 4).
     (1A) Strata lots are in the same ownership if--
          (a) the lots are owned by the same person or, if any of the
          lots are jointly owned, the lots are all jointly owned by
          the same persons, or
          (b) each lot is beneficially owned by the same person or,
          if any of the lots have more than one beneficial owner,
          each lot is beneficially owned by the same persons (subject
          to clause 11).
     (2) For the purposes of this clause, 2 or more strata lots are not to
     be regarded as comprising a single residence unless there is internal
     access between all the strata lots (other than any ancillary lot),
     such as internal connecting doors or internal staircases.
     (3) In this clause--

     "ancillary lot" means a strata lot that is used for purposes
     ancillary to another strata lot and which is not used or adapted for
     habitation (for example, a garage or storage area).
15 Minimum interest to be held by person to claim exemption
     (1) A person is not entitled to a principal place of residence
     exemption in relation to land unless all the persons who use and
     occupy the land as a principal place of residence together own at
     least a 25% interest in the land.
     (2) This clause does not apply to a home buyer who is a participant
     in a shared equity scheme that is approved by the Chief Commissioner
     under the Duties Act 1997, section 281.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SCHEDULE 1
 
 
SCHEDULE 1
(Section 81)
 ____________________________________________________________
|____________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________|
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- SCHEDULE 2
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 - Savings and transitional provisions
(Section 83)
Part 1 - Preliminary 1A Regulations
     (1) The regulations may contain provisions of a savings or
     transitional nature consequent on the enactment of the following
     Acts--
          State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act 1995
          State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 1997
          State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act 1997
          Environmental Planning and Assessment Amendment Act 1997
          Strata Schemes (Leasehold Development) Amendment Act 1999
          State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2000
          State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act 2000
          Valuation of Land Amendment Act 2000
          State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment (No 2) Act 2001
          (to the extent that it amends this Act)
          State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2002
          State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act 2003 (to
          the extent that it amends this Act)
          State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2004
          State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act 2004 (to
          the extent that it amends this Act)
          State Revenue Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act
          2005
          State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act 2005
          Land Tax Management Amendment (Tax Threshold) Act 2006
          State Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment (Budget
          Measures) Act 2006
          State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2006
          State Revenue Legislation Amendment (Tax Concessions) Act
          2006
          Duties Amendment (First Home Plus One) Act 2007 (to the
          extent that it amends this Act)
          State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2008
          State Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment (Budget
          Measures) Act 2008
          State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2010
          State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act 2010
          State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2012
          Any Act that amends this Act
     (2) Any such provision may, if the regulations so provide, take
     effect from the date of assent to the Act concerned or a later day.
     (3) To the extent to which any such provision takes effect from a
     date that is earlier than the date of its publication in the Gazette,
     the provision does not operate so as--
          (a) to affect, in a manner prejudicial to any person (other
          than the State or an authority of the State), the rights of
          that person existing before the date of its publication, or
          (b) to impose liabilities on any person (other than the
          State or an authority of the State) in respect of anything
          done or omitted to be done before the date of its
          publication.
1 Mortgages entered into before 31 December 1983
Section 46 does not apply to a mortgagee in respect of a mortgage entered into
before 31 December 1983.
Part 2 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Land Tax Management (Amendment)
Act 1988 2 Land tax certificates
Section 47 (as amended by the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act 1988) applies
to and in respect of a certificate issued under that section before the
commencement of that Act.
3 Lessees from councils and public authorities
The amendment made by the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act 1988 to the
definition of
"Owner" in section 3 (1) does not apply in respect of a tax year before the tax
year that commences on 1 January 1992.
4 Refunds of stamp duty
Section 10A applies to a person even if the conveyance referred to in
subsection (2) (a) of that section took effect before the commencement of the
Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act 1988.
5 Application of amendments concerning charitable, educational and religious
bodies
The amendments made by the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act 1988 to section
10 (1) (d) and (e) apply in respect of the tax year that commences on 1 January
1987 and each subsequent tax year.
6 Persons required to furnish land tax returns
Until an order is published under section 12 (1), that section as in force
immediately before the commencement of the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act
1988 continues to apply.
7 Pending objections
Part 5 as in force immediately before the commencement of the Land Tax
Management (Amendment) Act 1988 continues to apply to and in respect of an
objection made under that Part before that commencement (including for the
purposes of an appeal under that Part).
8 Public companies--exemptions for primary production
Land used for primary production and owned by a public company that was,
immediately before the commencement of the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act
1988, entitled for a tax year commencing before 1 January 1989 to be declared
by the Governor to be a company to which section 10 (1) (s), as then in force,
applied is exempt from taxation leviable or payable in respect of that tax
year.
Part 3 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Land Tax Management (Amendment)
Act 1989 9 Pending objections
     (1) In this clause--

     "1988 amending Act" means the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act
     1988.

     "1989 amending Act" means the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act
     1989.

     "new appeal provisions" means the provisions of Part 5, as amended by
     the 1989 amending Act.
     (2) An objection made under the provisions of Part 5 as in force
     before the commencement of the new appeal provisions is to be dealt
     with under the new appeal provisions unless--
          (a) in the case of an objection made under the provisions
          of Part 5 as in force immediately before the commencement
          of the 1988 amending Act, the objector has (before the
          commencement of the new appeal provisions) requested the
          objection to be treated as an appeal or the time for making
          such a request has expired, and
          (b) in the case of an objection made under the provisions
          of Part 5 as in force immediately before the commencement
          of the 1989 amending Act, the objector has (before the
          commencement of the new appeal provisions) required a case
          to be stated to the Supreme Court or the time for requiring
          a case to be stated has expired.
Part 4 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Land Tax (Amendment) Act 1990
and Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act 1990 10 Amendments not to affect
previous liabilities
The amendments made by the Land Tax (Amendment) Act 1990 and the Land Tax
Management (Amendment) Act 1990 do not affect any existing liability for land
tax, except as provided by clause 11.
11 Special provision for retrospective changes to Land Tax Act 1956
     (1) This clause applies to an assessment of land tax on the taxable
     value of land owned by a person at midnight on 31 December 1989.
     (2) The Chief Commissioner is, under section 16, to make such
     amendments to an assessment to which this clause applies as may be
     necessary to give effect to section 3AE (Levy of land tax after 31
     December 1989) of the Land Tax Act 1956.
     (3) A person's liability under an assessment to which this clause
     applies is to be regarded as the liability under that assessment as
     required to be amended by the Chief Commissioner (whether or not the
     assessment has actually been amended).
     (4) If a certificate is issued under section 47 that conflicts with
     an earlier certificate under that section because of an amendment to
     an assessment required by this clause--
          (a) the later certificate replaces the earlier certificate,
          and
          (b) the earlier certificate has no further operation.
12 Land tax certificates
Section 47 (as amended by the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act 1990) applies
to a certificate issued under that section before (as well as after) the
commencement of the amendments made to that section by that Act.
13 Applications for reductions--residential units and flats
An application for a reduction under section 3A or 3C of the Land Tax Act 1956
is to be regarded as an application for a reduction under section 9B or 9C, as
appropriate, of this Act.
Part 5 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Land Tax Management (Further
Amendment) Act 1990 14 Payment by instalments
The amendments made by the Land Tax Management (Further Amendment) Act 1990 to
sections 39, 40 and 41 do not apply in respect of a tax year before the tax
year that commences on 1 January 1992.
15 Increased tax-free threshold for residential land
The amendments made by the Land Tax Management (Further Amendment) Act 1990 to
section 10 (4) and (5) apply to land tax payable in respect of the year
commencing on 1 January 1991 and any succeeding year.
Part 6 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Stamp Duties (Miscellaneous
Amendments) Act 1990 16 Stamp duty exemptions--effect on land tax
If a conveyance of land executed after 31 December 1990 and lodged with the
Chief Commissioner of Stamp Duties before 1 July 1991 is exempt from duty under
the Stamp Duties Act 1920, pursuant to Schedule 2D to that Act, the transferee
under the conveyance is to be considered to have been the owner of the land on
31 December 1990 for the purposes of this Act.
Part 7 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Land Tax Management (Amendment)
Act 1991 17 Operation of amendments
The amendments made by the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act 1991 (except the
amendment made to clause 3 of this Schedule) do not apply in respect of a tax
year before the tax year that commences on 1 January 1992 and do not affect any
existing liability for land tax.
Part 8 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Land Tax Management (Amendment)
Act 1992 18 Operation of amendments
The amendments made by the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act 1992 do not
(except as specifically provided) apply in respect of a tax year before the tax
year that commences on 1 January 1993 and do not affect any existing liability
for land tax.
19 Lessees of Crown land
     (1) For the purposes of the application of section 21C to land owned
     by the Crown in respect of the tax years commencing on 1 January
     1989, 1990, 1991 and 1992, the amendments made by Schedule 1 (13)-
     (16) of the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act 1991 are taken to
     have commenced on 31 December 1988.
     (2) Clause 17 has effect subject to subclause (1) of this clause.
20 Retirement villages/nursing homes
The amendments made to section 10R by the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act
1992 operate on and from 31 December 1990.
21 Amounts postponed under section 9A
A reference in section 9A to an amount of land tax postponed under that section
includes a reference to an amount of land tax postponed under that section
before its substitution by the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act 1992.
22 Ascertainment of land value before commencement
The fact that a land value was ascertained under the provisions of Part 7 as
substituted by the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act 1992 after the date of
assent to that Act but before the commencement of that Act does not affect the
validity of such a land value and it is taken to have been validly ascertained.
Part 9 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
(Amendment) Act 1994 23 Leases from public authorities
The amendments made to section 21C by the State Revenue Legislation (Amendment)
Act 1994 do not create a liability for land tax in respect of a lease exempted
from the operation of that section by section 21C (6) (d) before the date of
commencement of the amendments.
Part 10 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Further Amendment Act 1997 24 Discretionary trusts and special trusts
A declaration made in relation to a land tax year by the Land Tax Management
Regulation 1992, as in force immediately before its repeal by the State Revenue
Legislation Further Amendment Act 1997, that a trust was not a discretionary
trust or a special trust for the purposes of this Act continues to have effect
in relation to the 1995, 1996 and 1997 land tax years despite the repeal of
that regulation.
Part 11 - Strata Schemes (Leasehold Development) Amendment Act 1999 25
Operation of amendments
Section 21D, as inserted by the Strata Schemes (Leasehold Development)
Amendment Act 1999, does not impose any liability for land tax for a tax year
that commenced before the commencement of that amendment and does not affect
any liability for land tax for any such tax year.
Part 12 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Valuation of Land Amendment Act
2000 26 Definition
In this Part,
"the 2000 amending Act" means the Valuation of Land Amendment Act 2000.
27 Application of section 62K
Section 62K (1A), as inserted by the 2000 amending Act, applies to an
application made under section 62K (1) before the commencement of that Act in
the same way as it applies to an application made under that subsection after
that commencement.
28 Application of section 62N
Section 62N (1), as amended by the 2000 amending Act, applies to an objection
relating to an allowance determined before the commencement of that Act in the
same way as it applies to an objection relating to an allowance determined
after that commencement.
Part 13 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Further Amendment (No 2) Act 2001 29 Postponement of land tax attributable to
unutilised value
     (1) The former section 9A continues to apply in respect of land tax
     payable for a tax year commencing on or before 1 January 2001,
     subject to this clause.
     (2) The new section 9A extends to a tax year commencing on or before
     1 January 2001 if--
          (a) a person postponed the payment of land tax under former
          section 9A in any assessment made in respect of such a tax
          year, and
          (b) the person did not cease to be entitled to the
          postponement of land tax under former section 9A before
          that date.
     (3) For the purpose of applying the new section 9A to such a person,
     the person is taken to have had their liability for land tax in that
     year, and in the previous year or years in which payment of the land
     tax was postponed, assessed in accordance with the new section 9A.
     (4) In this clause--

     "former section 9A" means section 9A as in force immediately before
     its substitution by the State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment
     (No 2) Act 2001.

     "new section 9A" means section 9A as substituted by the State Revenue
     Legislation Further Amendment (No 2) Act 2001.
30 Repeal of certain provisions
The repeal of sections 10M-10O, and sections 30, 31 and 32, by the State
Revenue Legislation Further Amendment (No 2) Act 2001 does not affect the
application of those sections to or in respect of a tax year commencing before
the repeal of those sections and does not affect any existing liability for
land tax.
31 Amendments to section 10R
The amendments made to section 10R by the State Revenue Legislation Further
Amendment (No 2) Act 2001 apply in respect of a land tax year commencing on or
after the commencement of those amendments, despite section 10R (5).
Part 14 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2002 32 Amendments to principal place of residence exemption
The amendments made to section 10, and the insertion of section 10AA, by the
State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2002 apply in respect of a land tax
year commencing on or after the commencement of section 10AA and do not affect
any existing liability for land tax.
Part 15 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Further Amendment Act 2003 33 Definition
In this Part--

"2003 amending Act" means the State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act
2003.
34 Amendment to definition of "special trust"
The amendment made to section 3A by the 2003 amending Act is taken to have had
effect from 31 December 2002.
35 Application of principal place of residence exemption amendments
     (1) The amendments made to this Act by the 2003 amending Act (other
     than the amendments referred to in clause 34) apply in respect of a
     land tax year commencing on or after 1 January 2004 and do not affect
     any existing liability for land tax.
     (2) Subject to subclause (1), a reference in Schedule 1A to the
     principal place of residence exemption, in relation to land owned and
     occupied as a principal place of residence before 31 December 2003,
     is a reference to section 10 (1) (r) of this Act (as in force
     immediately before its substitution by the 2003 amending Act).
     (3) Subject to subclause (1), a reference in clause 8 of Schedule 1A
     to a period in which land was actually used and occupied as a
     principal place of residence by the owner extends to any such period
     that occurred, or started, before 31 December 2003.
Part 16 - Provisions consequent on repeal of Premium Property Tax Act 1998 36
Repeal of Premium Property Tax Act 1998
     (1) The amendments made to this Act by Schedule 3 to the State
     Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2004, and the repeal of the Premium
     Property Tax Act 1998, apply in respect of a land tax year commencing
     on or after 1 January 2005 and do not affect any existing liability
     for land tax.
     (2) This Act and the Taxation Administration Act 1996, as in force
     immediately before those amendments were made, and the Premium
     Property Tax Act 1998, as in force immediately before its repeal,
     continue to apply in respect of any such liability.
Part 17 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Further Amendment Act 2005 37 Application of amendments--general
     (1) The amendments made to this Act by the State Revenue Legislation
     Further Amendment Act 2005 apply in respect of the assessment of land
     tax in the land tax year commencing on 1 January 2006 and any
     subsequent land tax year.
     (2) Except as otherwise provided by this Part, the amendments made to
     this Act by the State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act 2005
     do not apply in respect of the assessment of land tax in the land tax
     year commencing on 1 January 2005 or any previous land tax year.
     (3) Accordingly, the provisions of this Act, as in force immediately
     before the date of assent to the State Revenue Legislation Further
     Amendment Act 2005, continue to apply in respect of the assessment of
     any land tax liability for the land tax year commencing on 1 January
     2005 or any previous land tax year.
38 Amendments to principal place of residence exemption
     (1) The amendment made to section 3A of this Act by the State Revenue
     Legislation Further Amendment Act 2005 has effect as if it had
     commenced on 31 December 2003 and accordingly extends to the
     assessment of any land tax payable for the land tax year commencing
     on 1 January 2004 or 1 January 2005.
     (2) The amendments made to clause 8 of Schedule 1A to this Act by the
     State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act 2005 have effect as
     if those amendments had commenced on 31 December 2004 and accordingly
     extend to the assessment of any land tax payable for the land tax
     year commencing on 1 January 2005.
     (3) Anything done or omitted to be done before the date of assent to
     the State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act 2005, that would
     have been validly done or omitted if the amendments made to section
     3A and clause 8 of Schedule 1A to this Act had been in force at the
     time that it was done or omitted, is taken to have been validly done
     or omitted.
Part 18 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2006 39 Application of amendments
     (1) Section 10S, as in force immediately before the amendments made
     by the State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2006, continues to
     apply in respect of the land tax payable in the year commencing 1
     January 1991 or any subsequent year before the year commencing 1
     January 2006.
     (2) The amendments made to clauses 9 and 10 of Schedule 1A by the
     State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2006 apply to the assessment
     of liability for land tax payable in the year commencing 1 January
     2007 or any subsequent year, even if the owner of the land died
     before the commencement of the amendments.
Part 19 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue and Other
Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2006 40 Amendments to land
valuation methods
     (1) The amendments made to this Act by the State Revenue and Other
     Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2006 apply in respect of
     a land tax year commencing on or after 1 January 2007 and do not
     affect any liability for land tax in respect of a land tax year
     commencing before that date.
     (2) This Act, as in force immediately before 31 December 2006,
     continues to apply in respect of any such liability.
Part 20 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment (Tax Concessions) Act 2006 41 Amendments relating to trusts
     (1) The trust amendments apply as if those amendments had commenced
     on 31 December 2005.
     (2) Liability for land tax in respect of the land tax year commencing
     on 1 January 2006 and subsequent land tax years is to be assessed or
     reassessed accordingly.
     (3) Anything done or omitted to be done before the date of assent to
     the State Revenue Legislation Amendment (Tax Concessions) Act 2006
     that would have been validly done or omitted to be done if the trust
     amendments had been in force at the time that it was done or omitted
     to be done is taken to have been validly done or omitted to be done.
     (4) In this clause, the
     "trust amendments" means the amendments made to section 3A by the
     State Revenue Legislation Amendment (Tax Concessions) Act 2006, and
     the provisions of Schedule 1AA, as inserted by that Act.
42 Restructuring of unit trust for land tax purposes--concession
     (1) This clause applies in respect of a unit trust (within the
     meaning of Schedule 1AA) if--
          (a) an instrument is executed on or after 6 June 2006 and
          before 1 January 2008 that effects a variation to a trust
          deed for a unit trust, and
          (b) before the instrument is executed, unit holders in the
          unit trust have fixed entitlements under the trust, and
          (c) the purpose of the variation is to enable the unit
          trust to satisfy the relevant criteria (within the meaning
          of section 3A) and, accordingly, to be treated as a fixed
          trust under that section, and
          (d) the variation does not directly or indirectly result in
          a change in the proportion of any income or capital to
          which a unit holder is entitled under the trust.
     (2) Any land tax payable in respect of the land the subject of the
     unit trust is to be assessed or reassessed as if the variation to the
     trust deed took effect on 31 December 2005.
     (3) Unit holders in a unit trust have
     "fixed entitlements" under the trust if--
          (a) the unit holders are entitled to a fixed proportion of
          the income or capital distributions of the trust (if any
          are made) based on the number or class of units owned by
          them, and
          (b) the entitlements referred to in paragraph (a) cannot be
          removed, restricted or otherwise affected by the exercise
          of a discretion, or by a failure to exercise a discretion,
          conferred on any person under the trust.
     (4) Anything done or omitted to be done on or after 6 June 2006 and
     before the date of assent to the State Revenue Legislation Amendment
     (Tax Concessions) Act 2006 that would have been validly done or
     omitted to be done if this clause had been in force at the time that
     it was done or omitted to be done is taken to have been validly done
     or omitted to be done.
43 Determinations made by Valuer-General before commencement of budget measures
     (1) Anything done by the Valuer-General before the commencement of
     Schedule 3 to the State Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment
     (Budget Measures) Act 2006 that would have been validly done under
     section 62TBA of this Act (as substituted by that Act) if Schedule 3
     to that Act had commenced and it had been done before 15 October
     2006, is taken to have been validly done under that section and has
     effect as if that Schedule had been in force at the time that it was
     done.
     (2) Anything omitted to be done by the Valuer-General before the
     commencement of Schedule 3 to the State Revenue and Other Legislation
     Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2006 that would have been validly
     omitted to be done if Schedule 3 to that Act had commenced at the
     time that it was omitted is taken to have been validly omitted to be
     done.
Part 21 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Duties Amendment (First Home
Plus One) Act 2007 44 Application of concession for shared equity arrangements
The amendments made to this Act by the Duties Amendment (First Home Plus One)
Act 2007 apply in respect of a land tax year commencing on or after 1 January
2008 and do not affect any liability for land tax in respect of a land tax year
commencing before that date.
Part 22 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2008 45 Application of amendments
The amendments made to this Act by the State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act
2008 apply in respect of a land tax year commencing on or after the date of
commencement of the amendments and do not affect any liability for land tax in
respect of any land tax year commencing before that date.
Part 23 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Further Amendment Act 2009 46 Application of amendments
The amendments made to this Act by the State Revenue Legislation Further
Amendment Act 2009 (the
"2009 amending Act") apply in respect of a land tax year commencing on or after
the date of commencement of the amendments and do not affect any liability for
land tax in respect of any land tax year commencing before that date, except as
otherwise provided by this Part.
47 Lord Howe Island leases
The amendment made to section 21C by the 2009 amending Act has effect as if it
had commenced on the commencement of section 21C.
Part 24 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2010 48 Definition
In this Part--

"amending Act" means the State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2010.
49 Application of amendments
The amendments made to this Act by the amending Act apply in respect of a land
tax year commencing on or after the date of commencement of the amendments and
do not affect any liability for land tax in respect of any land tax year
commencing before that date, except as otherwise provided by this Part.
50 Repeal of section 65A
     (1) The repeal of section 65A by the amending Act is taken to have
     had effect on and from the relevant date.
     (2) The repeal revokes the power that was conferred on the Chief
     Commissioner by that section, including in relation to a tax year
     occurring or commencing before the relevant date.
     (3) The amending Act does not affect the validity of any assessment,
     reassessment or compromise assessment of land tax made on the basis
     of section 65A before the relevant date.
     (4) The amending Act does not affect any objection lodged or other
     proceedings commenced before the relevant date that have not been
     finally determined and section 65A continues to apply for those
     purposes only.
     (5) In this clause, the
     "relevant date" means the date of introduction of the Bill for the
     State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2010 into the Legislative
     Assembly.
51 Concession for unoccupied land intended to be owner's principal place of
residence
Clause 6 of Schedule 1A, as in force immediately before its amendment by the
amending Act, continues to apply in respect of a claim for the principal place
of residence exemption that is made by a person in respect of the 2011 tax year
or a subsequent tax year if clause 6 of Schedule 1A applied in respect of the
assessment of the person's ownership of the land in the 2010 tax year or a
previous tax year.
Part 25 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Further Amendment Act 2010 52 Application of amendments
The amendments made to this Act by the State Revenue Legislation Further
Amendment Act 2010 apply only--
     (a) in respect of a death occurring on or after 1 January 2010, and
     (b) to the assessment of land tax liability in respect of the 2011
     land tax year and subsequent land tax years.
Part 26 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2012 53 Amendment relating to special trusts
The amendment made to section 3A by the State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act
2012 is taken to apply to the assessment of land tax liability in respect of
the 2000 land tax year and subsequent land tax years.
54 Amendments relating to concessional trusts
The amendments made to section 3B by the State Revenue Legislation Amendment
Act 2012 are taken to apply to the assessment of land tax liability in respect
of the 2011 land tax year and subsequent land tax years.
Part 27 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2014 55 General application of amendments
The amendments made to this Act by the State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act
2014 apply to the assessment of land tax liability in respect of the 2014 land
tax year and subsequent land tax years.
56 Amendments relating to child care services
Section 10 (1) (u) and (v), as inserted by the State Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2014, extend to the assessment of land tax liability in respect
of the 2013 land tax year.
57 Fixed trusts
A unit trust that satisfies the relevant criteria referred to in section 3A, as
amended by the State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2014, by the end of 30
June 2013 is taken to be a fixed trust under section 3A (3) in relation to the
2013 land tax year.
Part 28 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Further Amendment Act 2014 58 General application of amendments
An amendment made to this Act by the State Revenue Legislation Further
Amendment Act 2014 applies to an assessment of land tax liability in respect of
a land tax year that commences after the commencement of the amendment.
Part 29 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2016 59 General application of amendments
The amendments made to this Act by the State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act
2016 apply to the assessment of land tax liability in respect of the 2017 land
tax year and subsequent land tax years.
Part 30 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2017 60 Amendment applies to new leases only
     (1) Section 21CA, as inserted by the State Revenue Legislation
     Amendment Act 2017, applies only to leases entered into or renewed on
     or after 1 January 2018.
     (2) Accordingly, section 21CB, as inserted by that Act, does not
     apply to any land tax amount that is payable for the land tax year
     commencing on 1 January 2018 or a previous land tax year.
          Note--: Land tax liability arises at midnight on 31
          December.
Part 31 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue and Other
Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2017 61 Amendments relating to
shared equity schemes
The amendments made to Schedule 1A by the State Revenue and Other Legislation
Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2017 apply to the assessment of land tax
liability in respect of the 2018 land tax year and subsequent land tax years.
62 Amendments to Land Tax Act 1956
     (1) The amendments made to the Land Tax Act 1956 by Schedule 2.2 [2]
     and [4] to the State Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment (Budget
     Measures) Act 2017 apply to the assessment of land tax liability in
     respect of the 2018 land tax year and subsequent tax years.
62A Refund of surcharge land tax for 2017 land tax year
     (1) The Chief Commissioner must assess or reassess the surcharge land
     tax chargeable on residential land on the basis that no surcharge
     land tax is chargeable on the residential land for the land tax year
     starting on 1 January 2017 if--
          (a) a liability for surcharge land tax arose at midnight on
          31 December 2016, and
          (b) a relevant determination is made by the Chief
          Commissioner before 1 January 2018 and is approved by the
          Treasurer for the purposes of this clause, and
          (c) the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that no surcharge
          land tax would have been chargeable on the residential land
          had the relevant determination been made before the
          liability for surcharge land tax arose.
     (2) A
     "relevant determination" is a determination made under section 104I
     (2) of the Duties Act 1997 (as inserted by the State Revenue and
     Other Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2017).
     (3) In the case of a reassessment, the Chief Commissioner must refund
     any surcharge land tax paid on the residential land if an application
     for the refund of the land tax is made within 5 years after the
     initial assessment.
     (4) In this clause,
     "residential land" has the same meaning as in Chapter 2A of the
     Duties Act 1997.
     (5) Subclauses (1)-(4) re-enact clause 3 of the Land Tax Management
     (Transitional) Regulation 2018 and are transferred provisions to
     which section 30A of the Interpretation Act 1987 applies.
Part 32 - Provision consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment (Surcharge) Act 2017 63 Surcharge land tax--new home development by
Australian-based developers
Section 5C of the Land Tax Act 1956 applies to the assessment of land tax
liability in respect of the 2017 land tax year and subsequent tax years.
Part 33 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue and Other
Legislation Amendment Act 2019 64 Definition
In this Part--

"amending Act" means the State Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act
2019.
65 Surcharge land tax--retirement visa holders
The amendments made to the Land Tax Act 1956 by Schedule 2.2 to the amending
Act apply to the assessment of land tax liability in respect of the 2020 land
tax year and subsequent land tax years.
Part 34 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Further Amendment Act 2020 66 Amendments relating to discretionary trusts
     (1) Section 5D of the Land Tax Act 1956 applies to the assessment of
     land tax liability in respect of the 2017 land tax year and
     subsequent land tax years.
     (2) If the trustee of a discretionary trust is liable in that
     capacity as a foreign person for surcharge land tax in respect of the
     2017, 2018, 2019 or 2020 land tax year--
          (a) the trustee is exempt from that land tax if the terms
          of the trust have been amended, before payment of the land
          tax is due and before midnight on 31 December 2020, so that
          the trust prevents a foreign person from being a
          beneficiary, or
          (b) if that land tax has been paid, the trustee is entitled
          to a refund of that land tax if the terms of the trust have
          been amended, before midnight on 31 December 2020, so that
          the trust prevents a foreign person from being a
          beneficiary.
     (3) A trust that satisfies the no foreign beneficiary requirement
     under section 5D of the Land Tax Act 1956 immediately before the
     commencement of that section is considered for the purposes of that
     section to prevent a foreign person from being a beneficiary of the
     trust (without having to satisfy the no amendment requirement under
     that section).
     (4) Despite section 5D of the Land Tax Act 1956, the trustee of an
     Australian testamentary trust is not in that capacity a foreign
     person for the purposes of the application of section 5A of that Act
     to residential land owned by a foreign person if--
          (a) liability for land tax is required (under clause 9 of
          Schedule 1A to this Act) to be assessed as if the deceased
          had not died and had continued to use and occupy the land
          as his or her principal place of residence, or
          (b) any of the following apply (even if the trust does not
          prevent a foreign person from being a beneficiary of the
          trust)--
               (i) for a trust arising from a will or codicil--
               the will or codicil was executed on or before 31
               December 2020,
               (ii) for a trust arising from the administration
               of an intestate estate--the deceased died before,
               or within 2 years after, the commencement of
               section 5D of the Land Tax Act 1956,
               (iii) for a trust resulting from an order of a
               court varying the application of the provisions
               of a will or codicil or of the rules governing
               the distribution of an intestate estate--the
               order was made on or before 31 December 2020.
     (5) The Chief Commissioner may in a particular case extend the date
     by which payment of surcharge land tax by a trustee is due so that
     the trustee qualifies for exemption from that surcharge land tax
     under this clause if the terms of the trust have been amended before
     midnight on 31 December 2020 (but after the date by which payment
     would otherwise be due) so that the trust prevents a foreign person
     from being a beneficiary.
     (6) In this clause--

     "Australian testamentary trust" means a discretionary trust arising
     from a will or codicil or the administration of an intestate estate
     (or as a result of an order of a court varying the application of the
     provisions of a will or codicil or of the rules governing the
     distribution of an intestate estate) where the deceased was not a
     foreign person immediately before his or her death.
     (7) Expressions in this clause have the same meanings as in section
     5D of the Land Tax Act 1956.
Part 35 - Provision consequent on enactment of Revenue Legislation Amendment
Act 2023 67 Extending period during which unoccupied land may be treated as
principal place of residence
Schedule 1A, clause 6(7A) is taken to permit the Chief Commissioner to extend a
period ending before the commencement of the subclause if the period ended on
or after 31 December 2019.
Part 36 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Treasury and Revenue
Legislation Amendment Act 2023 68 Repeal of Part 7, Division 4A
The repeal of Part 7, Division 4A does not affect an amount of a tax threshold
or a premium rate threshold determined under the division except as otherwise
provided in this part.
69 Validation of tax threshold and premium rate threshold
     (1) An amount set out in section 62P for a land tax year is taken to
     be the tax threshold for the land tax year.
     (2) An amount set out in section 62S for a land tax year is taken to
     be the premium rate threshold for the land tax year.
70 Principal place of residence exemption
     (1) Schedule 1A, clause 15 does not prevent a person from being
     entitled to a principal place of residence exemption in relation to
     land if the person was previously entitled to the exemption in
     relation to the land.
     (2) This clause ceases to apply at the end of 31 December 2025.
 

LAND TAX MANAGEMENT ACT 1956
- NOTES
 

Historical notes
See also Land Tax Act
1956; Strata Schemes (Freehold
Development) Act 1973; Strata Schemes
(Leasehold Development) Act 1986; and Heritage Act 1977, sec 128. Table of
amending instrumentsLand Tax Management Act
1956 No 26. Assented to 31.10.1956. This Act has been amended as follows--

 _____________________________________________________________________________
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act                             |
||1957|No 62 |1957. Assented to 9.12.1957.                                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act                             |
||    |      |1960. Assented to 28.4.1960.                                    |
||1960|No 35 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of sec 2 (1), paragraphs (c), (d) (vii) and|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||1961|No 32 |Land Tax Management                                             |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Valuation of Land and Local Government                          |
||    |      |(Further Amendment) Act 1961. Assented to 11.12.1961.           |
||    |No 67 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement (except where otherwise expressly          |
||    |      |provided), 22.12.1961, sec 1 (4) and GG No 137 of 22.12.1961, p |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||1963|No 40 |Land Tax (Amendment) Act                                        |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||1964|No 40 |Land Tax Management                                             |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Decimal Currency Act                                            |
||    |      |1965. Assented to 20.12.1965.                                   |
||1965|No 33 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of sec 4, 14.2.1966, secs 1 (3), 2 (1) and |
||    |      |the Currency Act 1965 (Commonwealth), sec 2 (2). Amended by a   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Permanent Building Societies Act                                |
||    |      |1967. Assented to 23.3.1967.                                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
||1967|No 18 |Date of commencement, 1.7.1967, sec 1 (2) and GG No 62 of       |
||    |      |9.6.1967, p 2002. Amended by Permanent Building Societies       |
||    |      |(Amendment) Act 1967 No 81. Assented to 14.12.1967. Date of     |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax (Amendment) Act                                        |
||    |No 59 |1967. Assented to 29.11.1967.                                   |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax (Amendment) Act                                        |
||    |      |1968. Assented to 16.12.1968.                                   |
||1968|No 62 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of sec 2 (b), 1.11.1968, sec 1 (4) (a);    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax (Amendment) Act                                        |
||    |      |1969. Assented to 27.11.1969.                                   |
||1969|No 69 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of sec 2 (d), 1.11.1968, sec 1 (2) (a);    |
||    |      |date of commencement of sec 2 (a) (b) (c) (e), 1.11.1969, sec 1 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax (Amendment) Act                                        |
||1970|No 64 |1970. Assented to 19.11.1970.                                   |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Aggregation Tax Management Act                             |
||1971|No 18 |1971. Assented to 25.5.1971.                                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax (Amendment) Act                                        |
||    |No 48 |1971. Assented to 14.12.1971.                                   |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act                             |
||    |No 75 |1972. Assented to 4.12.1972.                                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Aborigines (Amendment) Act                                      |
||    |      |1973. Assented to 8.5.1973.                                     |
||1973|No 35 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of sec 12, 18.6.1973, sec 2 (3) and GG No  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Strata Titles Act                                               |
||    |      |1973. Assented to 18.10.1973.                                   |
||    |      |                                                                |
||    |No 68 |Date of commencement, 1.7.1974, sec 2 and GG No 72 of 21.6.1974,|
||    |      |p 2179. Amended by Strata Titles (Amendment) Act                |
||    |      |1974 No 35. Assented to 19.4.1974. Date of commencement of sec 4|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax (Amendment) Act                                        |
||    |No 70 |1973. Assented to 19.10.1973.                                   |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act                             |
||    |      |1975. Assented to 17.12.1975.                                   |
||1975|No 97 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of sec 3, 31.12.1974, sec 2 (2); date of   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (Planning)                                   |
||    |      |Repeal and Amendment Act 1979. Assented to 21.12.1979.          |
||1979|No 205|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2, Part 1, 1.9.1980, sec 2 (4) and  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (Crown Land Titles)                          |
||    |      |Amendment Act 1980. Assented to 22.12.1980.                     |
||1980|No 196|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1 (except as provided in sec 2 (4)- |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (Rating and                                  |
||    |      |Valuation) Amendment Act 1981. Assented to 18.12.1981.          |
||1981|No 119|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1 (except as provided in sec 2 (4)- |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (Companies)                                  |
||    |      |Amendment Act 1981. Assented to 30.12.1981.                     |
||    |No 123|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 8 (except as provided in sec 2 (6)  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Administration)                            |
||    |      |Amendment Act 1983. Assented to 19.4.1983.                      |
||1983|No 14 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1, 22.4.1983, sec 2 (2) and GG No 63|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Aboriginal Land Rights Act                                      |
||    |      |1983. Assented to 4.5.1983.                                     |
||    |No 42 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 3, 10.6.1983, sec 2 (2) and GG No 84|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act                             |
||    |No 171|1983. Assented to 31.12.1983.                                   |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act                             |
||1984|No 129|1984. Assented to 4.12.1984.                                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |No 153|Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||1985|No 147|Land Tax Management                                             |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Further                                    |
||    |      |Amendment) Act 1985. Assented to 11.12.1985.                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
||    |No 215|Date of commencement of Sch 1, Sch 1 (1) (c) (ii), (4) and (5)  |
||    |      |excepted, 31.12.1985, sec 2 (5); date of commencement of Sch 1  |
||    |      |(1) (c) (ii) and (5), 31.12.1981, sec 2 (3); date of            |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |No 223|Land Tax Management                                             |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (Area Health                                 |
||    |      |Services) Amendment Act 1986. Assented to 14.5.1986.            |
||1986|No 53 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1, 1.7.1986, sec 2 (2) and GG No 99 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |No 90 |Land Tax Management                                             |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Further                                    |
||    |      |Amendment) Act 1986. Assented to 18.12.1986.                    |
||    |No 186|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1, 31.12.1985, sec 2 (2); date of   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (Water                                       |
||    |      |Administration) Amendment Act 1986. Assented to 18.12.1986.     |
||    |No 205|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2, 1.1.1987, sec 2 (2) and GG No 195|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (Leasehold Strata                            |
||    |      |Schemes) Amendment Act 1986. Assented to 23.12.1986.            |
||    |No 220|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, secs 1 and 2 excepted, 1.3.1989, sec 2 (2)|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions)                          |
||    |      |Act (No 1) 1987. Assented to 28.5.1987.                         |
||1987|No 48 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 32, except as provided by sec 2     |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (Community Welfare)                          |
||    |      |Repeal and Amendment Act 1987. Assented to 29.5.1987.           |
||    |No 58 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of the provision of Sch 3 relating to the  |
||    |      |Land Tax Management Act                                         |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (Education and                               |
||    |      |Public Instruction) Repeal and Amendment Act 1987. Assented to  |
||    |No 63 |3.6.1987.                                                       |
||    |      |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2, 17.8.1987, sec 2 (2) and GG No   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Information                                |
||    |      |Disclosure) Amendment Act 1987. Assented to 12.6.1987.          |
||    |No 88 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1, 26.6.1987, sec 2 (2) and GG No   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions)                          |
||    |No 209|Act (No 2) 1987. Assented to 9.12.1987.                         |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act                             |
||    |No 229|1987. Assented to 16.12.1987.                                   |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act                             |
||1988|No 128|1988. Assented to 30.12.1988.                                   |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Stamp Duties (Amendment) Act                                    |
||1989|No 113|1989. Assented to 24.8.1989.                                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Grain Handling Authority                                        |
||    |      |(Corporatisation) Act 1989. Assented to 27.9.1989.              |
||    |No 135|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.10.1989, sec 2 and GG No 98 of          |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (Community Land)                             |
||    |      |Amendment Act 1989. Assented to 21.12.1989.                     |
||    |No 204|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.8.1990, sec 2 and GG No 82 of 29.6.1990,|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act                             |
||    |      |1989. Assented to 21.12.1989.                                   |
||    |No 222|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, Schs 1 (3) and 3 excepted, 1.1.1990, sec 2|
||    |      |(1); date of commencement of Schs 1 (3) and 3, assent, sec 2    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act                             |
||    |      |1990. Assented to 22.6.1990.                                    |
||1990|No 35 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1 (1), (2) and (4)-(6), 31.12.1990, |
||    |      |sec 2 (2); date of commencement of Sch 1 (3), 31.12.1989, sec 2 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Further                                    |
||    |      |Amendment) Act 1990. Assented to 7.12.1990.                     |
||    |No 88 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, Sch 1 (2) excepted, 31.12.1990, sec 2 (1);|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Stamp Duties (Miscellaneous                                     |
||    |No 95 |Amendments) Act 1990. Assented to 7.12.1990.                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Debits Tax Act                                                  |
||    |      |1990. Assented to 18.12.1990.                                   |
||    |No 112|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2, 1.1.1991, sec 2 (1) and GG No 174|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions)                          |
||    |      |Act 1991. Assented to 3.5.1991.                                 |
||1991|No 17 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of the provision of Sch 1 relating to the  |
||    |      |Land Tax Management Act                                         |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act                             |
||    |      |1991. Assented to 11.12.1991.                                   |
||    |No 47 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1 (1)-(11) and (13)-(18),           |
||    |      |31.12.1991, sec 2 (1); date of commencement of Sch 1 (12),      |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Co-operatives Act                                               |
||    |      |1992. Assented to 14.5.1992.                                    |
||1992|No 18 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 21.5.1993, sec 2 and GG No 49 of          |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions)                          |
||    |      |Act (No 2) 1992. Assented to 8.10.1992.                         |
||    |No 57 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of the provisions of Sch 1 relating to the |
||    |      |Land Tax Management Act                                         |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act                             |
||    |No 84 |1992. Assented to 27.11.1992.                                   |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Penalties) Act                                     |
||    |No 112|1992. Assented to 8.12.1992.                                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions)                          |
||    |      |Act 1993. Assented to 15.6.1993.                                |
||1993|No 46 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of the provisions of Sch 1 relating to the |
||    |      |Land Tax Management Act                                         |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation (Amendment)                           |
||    |      |Act 1994. Assented to 2.6.1994.                                 |
||    |      |                                                                |
||1994|No 48 |Date of commencement of Sch 5, Sch 5 (2)-(4), (8) and (14) (e)  |
||    |      |excepted, and Sch 12, assent, sec 2 (1); date of commencement of|
||    |      |Sch 5 (2)-(4), 31.12.1992, sec 2 (4); date of commencement of   |
||    |      |Sch 5 (8), 28.1.1994, sec 2 (5); date of commencement of Sch 5  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation (Further                              |
||    |No 72 |Amendment) Act 1994. Assented to 23.11.1994.                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law Revision (Local                                     |
||    |      |Government) Act 1995. Assented to 9.6.1995.                     |
||1995|No 11 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1.71, 23.6.1995, sec 2 (1) and GG No|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Electricity Supply Act                                          |
||    |      |1995. Assented to 21.12.1995.                                   |
||    |No 94 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 5.6, 10.5.1996, sec 2 and GG No 57  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Further                               |
||    |No 98 |Amendment Act 1995. Assented to 21.12.1995.                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions)                          |
||    |No 99 |Act (No 2) 1995. Assented to 21.12.1995.                        |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Gas Supply Act                                                  |
||    |      |1996. Assented to 25.6.1996.                                    |
||1996|No 38 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1.9, 12.7.1996, sec 2 and GG No 84  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Superannuation Administration Act                               |
||    |      |1996. Assented to 25.6.1996.                                    |
||    |No 39 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.7.1996, sec 2 and GG No 77 of 28.6.1996,|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Valuation of Land Amendment Act                                 |
||    |      |1996. Assented to 27.9.1996.                                    |
||    |No 67 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.11.1996, sec 2 and GG No 119 of         |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Taxation Administration (Consequential                          |
||    |      |Amendments) Act 1996. Assented to 26.11.1996.                   |
||    |No 98 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.1.1997, sec 2 and GG No 150 of          |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions)                          |
||    |      |Act (No 2) 1996. Assented to 3.12.1996.                         |
||    |No 121|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 4.33, 4 months after assent, sec 2  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Building Services Corporation                                   |
||    |      |Legislation Amendment Act 1996. Assented to 3.12.1996.          |
||    |No 122|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.5.1997, sec 2 and GG No 43 of 24.4.1997,|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |No 125|(Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1996. Assented to 3.12.1996.     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Strata Schemes Management                                       |
||    |      |(Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1996. Assented to 16.12.1996.    |
||    |      |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.7.1997, sec 2 and GG No 68 of 27.6.1997,|
||    |No 139|p 4770. Amended by Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions)       |
||    |      |Act 1997 No 55. Assented to 2.7.1997. Date of commencement of   |
||    |      |Sch 2.18, assent, sec 2 (2). Amended by Statute Law             |
||    |      |(Miscellaneous Provisions)                                      |
||    |      |Act (No 2) 1997 No 147. Assented to 17.12.1997. Date of         |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Friendly Societies (New South Wales)                            |
||    |      |Act 1997. Assented to 21.5.1997.                                |
||1997|No 11 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.10.1997, sec 2 and GG No 104 of         |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Amendment                             |
||    |No 37 |Act 1997. Assented to 25.6.1997.                                |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Further                               |
||    |No 41 |Amendment Act 1997. Assented to 30.6.1997.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions)                          |
||    |No 55 |Act 1997. Assented to 2.7.1997.                                 |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Business Franchise Licences                                     |
||    |No 109|(Repeal) Act 1997. Assented to 9.12.1997.                       |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions)                          |
||    |No 147|Act (No 2) 1997. Assented to 17.12.1997.                        |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Environmental Planning and Assessment                           |
||    |      |Amendment Act 1997. Assented to 19.12.1997.                     |
||    |No 152|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.7.1998, sec 2 and GG No 101 of 1.7.1998,|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Health Services Act                                             |
||    |      |1997. Assented to 19.12.1997.                                   |
||    |No 154|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.7.1998, sec 2 and GG No 97 of 26.6.1998,|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Co-operative Housing and                                        |
||    |      |Starr-Bowkett Societies Act 1998. Assented to 15.5.1998.        |
||1998|No 11 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 6.13, 1.9.2000, sec 2 and GG No 112 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Amendment                             |
||    |No 44 |Act 1998. Assented to 26.6.1998.                                |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Agricultural Industry Services                                  |
||    |      |Act 1998. Assented to 26.6.1998.                                |
||    |No 45 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 14.8.1998, sec 2 and GG No 120 of         |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions)                          |
||    |No 54 |Act 1998. Assented to 30.6.1998.                                |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Premium Property Tax Act                                        |
||    |      |1998. Assented to 14.7.1998.                                    |
||    |No 79 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 31.8.1998, sec 2 and GG No 120 of         |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Further                               |
||    |      |Amendment Act 1998. Assented to 14.7.1998.                      |
||    |No 81 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 3, 31.8.1998, sec 2 (1) and GG No   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |No 104|(Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1998. Assented to 2.11.1998.     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Heritage Amendment Act                                          |
||    |      |1998. Assented to 8.12.1998.                                    |
||    |No 138|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 2.4.1999, sec 2 and GG No 27 of 5.3.1999, |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Children and Young Persons                                      |
||    |      |Legislation (Repeal and Amendment) Act 1998. Assented to        |
||    |      |14.12.1998.                                                     |
||    |No 158|                                                                |
||    |      |Sch 2.19 was not commenced and was repealed by the State Revenue|
||    |      |Legislation Amendment Act 2010 No                               |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Sydney Harbour Foreshore                                        |
||    |      |Authority Act 1998. Assented to 14.12.1998.                     |
||    |No 170|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 3, 1.2.1999, sec 2 (1) and GG No 12 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |      |Amendment Act 1999. Assented to 9.6.1999.                       |
||1999|No 10 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 4 [1], 31.1.2000, sec 2 (3) and GG  |
||    |      |No 7 of 21.1.2000, p 335; date of commencement of Sch 4 [2]-[7],|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||    |No 31 |Provisions) Act 1999. Assented to 7.7.1999.                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Strata Schemes (Leasehold                                       |
||    |      |Development) Amendment Act 1999. Assented to 16.11.1999.        |
||    |No 52 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 31.12.1999, sec 2 and GG No 144 of        |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Albury-Wodonga Development Repeal                               |
||    |      |Act 2000. Assented to 30.5.2000.                                |
||2000|No 18 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1, 1.3.2004, sec 2 and GG No 47 of  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |No 51 |Amendment Act 2000. Assented to 27.6.2000.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Administrative Decisions Tribunal                               |
||    |      |Legislation Amendment (Revenue) Act 2000. Assented to           |
||    |      |17.10.2000.                                                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
||    |No 72 |The amendments made by Sch 3.2 [1]-[3] were without effect as   |
||    |      |the provisions being amended were repealed by the Valuation of  |
||    |      |Land Amendment Act 2000. Amended by Valuation of Land Amendment |
||    |      |Act                                                             |
||    |      |2000 No 106. Assented to 13.12.2000. Date of commencement of Sch|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Water Management Act                                            |
||    |      |2000. Assented to 8.12.2000.                                    |
||    |No 92 |                                                                |
||    |      |The amendments made by Sch 8.15 were not commenced and were     |
||    |      |repealed by the Statute Law (Miscellaneous                      |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Further                               |
||    |No 105|Amendment Act 2000. Assented to 13.12.2000.                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Valuation of Land Amendment Act                                 |
||    |      |2000. Assented to 13.12.2000.                                   |
||    |No 106|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 3, 31.12.2000, sec 2 and GG No 168  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Electricity Supply Amendment Act                                |
||    |      |2000. Assented to 20.12.2000.                                   |
||    |No 109|                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2.4, 1.7.2001, sec 2 and GG No 103  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Nature Conservation Trust Act                                   |
||    |      |2001. Assented to 18.4.2001.                                    |
||2001|No 10 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 5, 29.6.2001, sec 2 and GG No 103 of|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Corporations (Consequential                                     |
||    |      |Amendments) Act 2001. Assented to 28.6.2001.                    |
||    |No 34 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2.29, 15.7.2001, sec 2 (1) and      |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Further                               |
||    |      |Amendment (No 2) Act 2001. Assented to 11.12.2001.              |
||    |      |                                                                |
||    |No 96 |Date of commencement of Sch 2.2 [1]-[4], [9] and [13]-[15],     |
||    |      |31.12.2001, sec 2 (3) and GG No 199 of 28.12.2001, p 10827; date|
||    |      |of commencement of Sch 2.2 [5]-[8] and [10]-[12], 31.12.2002,   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||2002|No 53 |Provisions) Act 2002. Assented to 4.7.2002.                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Threatened Species Conservation                                 |
||    |      |Amendment Act 2002. Assented to 2.10.2002.                      |
||    |No 78 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2.4, 31.1.2003, sec 2 and GG No 33  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |No 108|Amendment Act 2002. Assented to 29.11.2002.                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Further                               |
||2003|No 80 |Amendment Act 2003. Assented to 27.11.2003.                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |      |Amendment Act 2004. Assented to 24.5.2004.                      |
||2004|No 33 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2.2 [1]-[9], 31.12.2004, sec 2 (2); |
||    |      |date of commencement of Schs 2.2 [10] and 5.2, assent, sec 2    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Further                               |
||    |No 67 |Amendment Act 2004. Assented to 6.7.2004.                       |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Health Legislation Further                                      |
||    |      |Amendment Act 2004. Assented to 30.11.2004.                     |
||    |No 87 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.1.2005, sec 2 and GG No 200 of          |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||2005|No 42 |Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2005. Assented to 16.6.2005.    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||    |No 64 |Provisions) Act 2005. Assented to 1.7.2005.                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |First State Superannuation                                      |
||    |      |Legislation Amendment (Conversion) Act 2005. Assented to        |
||    |No 91 |24.11.2005.                                                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 3.5, 1.5.2006, sec 2 (1) and GG No  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Further                               |
||    |No 111|Amendment Act 2005. Assented to 7.12.2005.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax Management Amendment                                   |
||2006|No 11 |(Tax Threshold) Act 2006. Assented to 3.4.2006.                 |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue and Other                                         |
||    |      |Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2006. Assented to   |
||    |No 50 |20.6.2006.                                                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |      |Amendment Act 2006. Assented to 20.6.2006.                      |
||    |No 51 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2 [1] [2] and [4]-[7], 31.12.2006,  |
||    |      |sec 2 (2); date of commencement of Sch 2 [3] and [8]-[11],      |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||    |No 58 |Provisions) Act 2006. Assented to 20.6.2006.                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |      |Amendment (Tax Concessions) Act 2006. Assented to 2.11.2006.    |
||    |No 87 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2, Sch 2 [4]-[8] excepted, assent,  |
||    |      |sec 2 (1); date of commencement of Sch 2 [4]-[8], 31.12.2006,   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Threatened Species Conservation                                 |
||    |      |Amendment (Biodiversity Banking) Act 2006. Assented to          |
||    |No 125|4.12.2006.                                                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Private Health Facilities Act                                   |
||    |      |2007. Assented to 15.6.2007.                                    |
||2007|No 9  |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.3.2010, sec 2 and 2010 (53) LW          |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Duties Amendment (First Home Plus                               |
||    |No 24 |One) Act 2007. Assented to 4.7.2007.                            |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||2008|No 67 |Amendment Act 2008. Assented to 2.7.2008.                       |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Rural Lands Protection Amendment                                |
||    |No 112|Act 2008. Assented to 10.12.2008.                               |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue and Other                                         |
||    |      |Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2008. Assented to   |
||    |No 122|10.12.2008.                                                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Real Property and Conveyancing                                  |
||2009|No 17 |Legislation Amendment Act 2009. Assented to 13.5.2009.          |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |NSW Trustee and Guardian Act                                    |
||    |      |2009. Assented to 26.6.2009.                                    |
||    |No 49 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.7.2009, sec 2 and 2009 (305) LW         |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Further                               |
||    |No 51 |Amendment Act 2009. Assented to 26.6.2009.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Relationships Register Act                                      |
||2010|No 19 |2010. Assented to 19.5.2010.                                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |No 46 |Amendment Act 2010. Assented to 28.6.2010.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Further                               |
||    |No 118|Amendment Act 2010. Assented to 29.11.2010.                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||2012|No 20 |Amendment Act 2012. Assented to 11.4.2012.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Further                               |
||    |No 76 |Amendment Act 2012. Assented to 29.10.2012.                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Local Land Services Act                                         |
||2013|No 51 |2013. Assented to 1.7.2013.                                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||2014|No 19 |Amendment Act 2014. Assented to 20.5.2014.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Disability Inclusion Act                                        |
||    |      |2014. Assented to 26.8.2014.                                    |
||    |No 41 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 3.12.2014, sec 2 and 2014 (745) LW        |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Further                               |
||    |No 56 |Amendment Act 2014. Assented to 23.10.2014.                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||    |No 88 |Provisions) Act (No 2) 2014. Assented to 28.11.2014.            |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Electricity Network Assets                                      |
||2015|No 5  |(Authorised Transactions) Act 2015. Assented to 4.6.2015.       |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Strata Schemes Development Act                                  |
||    |      |2015. Assented to 5.11.2015.                                    |
||    |No 51 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 30.11.2016, sec 2 and 2016 (658) LW       |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||2016|No 14 |Amendment Act 2016. Assented to 11.5.2016.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||    |No 27 |Provisions) Act 2016. Assented to 7.6.2016.                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Greyhound Racing Prohibition Act                                |
||    |      |2016. Assented to 26.8.2016.                                    |
||    |No 36 |                                                                |
||    |      |The amendment was not commenced and the Act was repealed by the |
||    |      |Greyhound Racing Act                                            |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||2017|No 11 |Amendment Act 2017. Assented to 11.4.2017.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Crown Land Legislation Amendment                                |
||    |      |Act 2017. Assented to 17.5.2017.                                |
||    |No 17 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 4, 1.7.2018, sec 2 (1) and 2018     |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||    |No 22 |Provisions) Act 2017. Assented to 1.6.2017.                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue and Other                                         |
||    |      |Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2017. Assented to   |
||    |No 33 |27.6.2017.                                                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Local Government Amendment                                      |
||    |      |(Regional Joint Organisations) Act 2017. Assented to 30.11.2017.|
||    |No 65 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 15.12.2017, sec 2 and 2017 (730) LW       |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |      |Amendment (Surcharge) Act 2017. Assented to 30.11.2017.         |
||    |No 67 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 3, 5.3.2018, sec 2 (1) and 2018 (69)|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Debt Recovery Act                                         |
||    |      |2018. Assented to 21.3.2018.                                    |
||2018|No 11 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 3.8, 27.8.2018, sec 2 and 2018 (462)|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||    |No 68 |Provisions) Act (No 2) 2018. Assented to 31.10.2018.            |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue and Other                                         |
||2019|No 8  |Legislation Amendment Act 2019. Assented to 1.7.2019.           |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Further                               |
||2020|No 14 |Amendment Act 2020. Assented to 24.6.2020.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Amendment                             |
||    |No 19 |(COVID-19 Housing Response) Act 2020. Assented to 11.8.2020.    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Community Land Development Act                                  |
||    |      |2021. Assented to 26.3.2021.                                    |
||2021|No 6  |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.12.2021, sec 2 and 2021 (598) LW        |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||2022|No 26 |Provisions) Act 2022. Assented to 16.6.2022.                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Disability Inclusion Amendment Act                              |
||    |No 35 |2022. Assented to 1.7.2022.                                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||    |No 59 |Provisions) Act (No 2) 2022. Assented to 26.10.2022.            |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Property Tax (First Home Buyer                                  |
||    |      |Choice) Act 2022. Assented to 11.11.2022.                       |
||    |No 60 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 16.1.2023, sec 2 and 2022 (682) LW        |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Revenue Legislation Amendment Act                               |
||2023|No 2  |2023. Assented to 31.5.2023.                                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Revenue, Fines and Other Legislation                            |
||    |No 18 |Amendment Act 2023. Assented to 4.9.2023.                       |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Treasury and Revenue Legislation                                |
||    |      |Amendment Act 2023. Assented to 27.9.2023.                      |
||    |No 26 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 3[1]-[4] and [6], assent, sec 2(d); |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Revenue Legislation Amendment Act                               |
||2024|No 38 |2024. Assented to 24.6.2024.                                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Revenue Legislation Further Amendment                           |
||    |No 90 |Act 2024. Assented to 2.12.2024.                                |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Help to Buy (Commonwealth Powers)                               |
||    |      |Act 2025. Assented to 11.6.2025.                                |
||2025|No 31 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 3.12.2025, sec 2 and 2025 (651) LW        |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Land Tax (Build-to-Rent Concessions)                            |
||    |No 59 |Amendment Act 2025 No 59. Assented to 23.9.2025.                |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
This Act has also been amended pursuant to an order under secs 8 (2) and 9 (3)
of the Reprints Act
1972 No 48 (formerly Acts Reprinting
Act 1972). Order dated 12.4.1976, and published in GG No 54 of 15.4.1976, p
1706, declaring that--
     (a) the Land Tax
     Management Act 1956 is an enactment to which sec 8 (2) of the Acts
     Reprinting Act 1972 applies, and

     (b) the Land Tax
     Management Act 1956, the words "of this subsection" wherever
     occurring in sec 9 (3) (c) and (d) excepted, is an enactment to which
     sec 9 (3) of the Acts Reprinting
     Act 1972 applies.
Table of amendmentsNo reference is made to certain amendments made by the
Decimal Currency Act
1965, the Reprints Act
1972, and Schedule 3 (amendments replacing gender-specific language) to the
Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act
1997.

 _________________________________________________________________________
||Sec 1                          |Am 1981 No 119, Sch 1; 1988 No 128, Sch |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1969 No 69, sec 2 (a); 1973 No 70,   |
||                               |sec 5 (a); 1975 No 97, Sch 2; 1981 No   |
||                               |119, Sch 1; 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (1); 1983 |
||                               |No 171, Sch 1 (1); 1985 No 147, Sch 1   |
||                               |(1); 1985 No 215, Sch 1 (1); 1985 No    |
||                               |223, Sch 1 (1); 1986 No 205, Sch 2; 1987|
||                               |No 88, Sch 1 (1); 1988 No 128, Sch 1    |
||                               |(2); 1989 No 135, Sch 1; 1989 No 222,   |
||                               |Sch 1 (1); 1990 No 35, Sch 1 (1); 1990  |
||                               |No 88, Sch 1 (1)-(3); 1990 No 112, Sch  |
||                               |2; 1991 No 47, Sch 1 (13) (17); 1992 No |
||                               |84, Sch 1 (1); 1994 No 48, Sch 5 (5);   |
||Sec 3                          |1995 No 11, Sch 1.71 [1]; 1996 No 98,   |
||                               |Sch 1.3 [1] [2]; 1996 No 125, Sch 4.2   |
||                               |[1]; 1997 No 41, Sch 2 [1] [2]; 1997 No |
||                               |109, Sch 1.3; 1998 No 54, Sch 2.21; 1998|
||                               |No 79, Sch 2.3 [1]; 1999 No 52, Sch 2.1 |
||                               |[1]; 2000 No 105, Sch 3 [1]; 2000 No    |
||                               |106, Sch 3 [1]; 2002 No 108, Sch 2.2    |
||                               |[1]-[4]; 2003 No 80, Sch 4 [1]; 2004 No |
||                               |33, Schs 2.2 [1]-[3], 3.2 [1]; 2005 No  |
||                               |111, Sch 4 [1]; 2008 No 67, Sch 4 [1]-  |
||                               |[4]; 2009 No 49, Sch 2.33; 2014 No 19,  |
||                               |Sch 2 [1]; 2017 No 11, Sch 2 [1]; 2017  |
||                               |No 65, Sch 2.17 [1]; 2024 No 90, Sch 4  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1997 No 41, Sch 2 [3]. Subst 2002 No|
||                               |108, Sch 2.2 [5]. Am 2003 No 80, Sch 4  |
||Sec 3A                         |[2]; 2005 No 111, Sch 4 [2]; 2006 No 87,|
||                               |Sch 2 [1]-[3]; 2010 No 118, Sch 3 [1];  |
||                               |2012 No 20, Sch 2 [1]; 2014 No 19, Sch 2|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 2002 No 108, Sch 2.2 [5]. Am 2010 No|
||Sec 3B                         |46, Sch 6 [1]; 2012 No 20, Sch 2 [2]    |
||                               |[3]; 2014 No 41, Sch 5.6; 2022 No 35,   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Subst 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (2). Am 1985 No |
||Sec 4                          |223, Sch 1 (2); 1987 No 88, Sch 1 (2);  |
||                               |1994 No 48, Sch 5 (13). Subst 1996 No   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Secs 4A, 4B                    |Ins 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (2). Rep 1996 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 5                          |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (3); 1985 No 223,  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1968 No 62, sec 2 (a); 1971 No 18,   |
||                               |Sch, Part 1; 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (4); 1986|
||Sec 6                          |No 90, sec 2. Subst 1987 No 88, Sch 1   |
||                               |(3). Am 1987 No 209, Sch 43; 1992 No 57,|
||                               |Sch 1; 1992 No 112, Sch 1; 1994 No 48,  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1981 No 119, Sch 1; 1985 No 147, Sch |
||Sec 7                          |1 (2). Subst 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (2); 2006|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1960 No 35, sec 2 (1) (a); 1961 No   |
||                               |32, sec 2; 1963 No 40, sec 2 (a); 1964  |
||                               |No 40, sec 2; 1965 No 33, First Sch (am |
||                               |GG No 120 of 4.11.1966, p 4516 (as on   |
||                               |and from 14.2.1966)); 1967 No 59, sec 2 |
||                               |(1); 1968 No 62, sec 2 (b); 1969 No 69, |
||                               |sec 2 (b); 1970 No 64, sec 2 (a); 1971  |
||Sec 9                          |No 48, sec 2 (a); 1972 No 75, sec 3;    |
||                               |1973 No 70, sec 4; 1975 No 97, Sch 3    |
||                               |(1); 1981 No 119, Sch 1; 1983 No 14, Sch|
||                               |1 (5); 1983 No 171, Sch 1 (2); 1984 No  |
||                               |129, Sch 1 (1); 1985 No 147, Sch 1 (2); |
||                               |1988 No 128, Sch 1 (3). Subst 1992 No   |
||                               |84, Sch 1 (3). Am 1997 No 37, Sch 3 [1];|
||                               |1998 No 79, Sch 2.3 [2]; 2000 No 106,   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 9AA                        |Ins 2006 No 50, Sch 3 [3]. Am 2006 No   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1963 No 40, sec 2 (b). Am 1968 No   |
||                               |62, sec 2 (c); 1973 No 70, sec 3 (b);   |
||                               |1981 No 119, Sch 1; 1983 No 14, Sch 1   |
||Sec 9A                         |(5); 1985 No 147, Sch 1 (3); 1985 No    |
||                               |215, Sch 1 (2). Subst 1992 No 84, Sch 1 |
||                               |(4). Am 1995 No 11, Sch 1.71 [2]. Subst |
||                               |2001 No 96, Sch 2.2 [1]. Am 2006 No 50, |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1994 No 72, Sch 2 (1). Am 1996 No   |
||                               |139, Sch 2.20 [1] [1A] (am 1997 No 55,  |
||Sec 9B (previously sec 9AA)    |Sch 2.18 [1] [2]; 1997 No 147, Sch 2.27 |
||                               |[2]). Renumbered 2006 No 50, Sch 3 [5]. |
||                               |Am 2006 No 50, Sch 3 [6]; 2015 No 51,   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1990 No 35, Sch 1 (2). Am 1990 No   |
||Sec 9B                         |88, Sch 1 (4). Rep 1991 No 47, Sch 1    |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1990 No 35, Sch 1 (2). Am 1991 No   |
||                               |47, Sch 1 (9); 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (5)    |
||                               |(6); 1997 No 37, Sch 3 [2] [3]; 1998 No |
||Sec 9C                         |79, Sch 2.3 [3]; 2000 No 106, Sch 3 [3];|
||                               |2002 No 108, Sch 2.2 [6]-[9]; 2004 No   |
||                               |33, Sch 2.2 [4]-[8]; 2008 No 67, Sch 4  |
||                               |[5]; 2010 No 46, Sch 6 [2]; 2024 No 90, |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 2004 No 33, Sch 2.2 [9]. Am 2008 No |
||Sec 9D                         |67, Sch 4 [6] [7]; 2010 No 46, Sch 6    |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 9E                         |Ins 2020 No 19, Sch 3[2]. Am 2025 No 59,|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1967 No 18, sec 125 (1) (ins 1967 No |
||                               |81, sec 2); 1969 No 69, sec 2 (c); 1970 |
||                               |No 64, sec 2 (b); 1971 No 48, sec 2 (b);|
||                               |1973 No 35, sec 12; 1973 No 68, Sch 3   |
||                               |(am 1974 No 35, Sch); 1973 No 70, secs 3|
||                               |(c), 5 (b); 1975 No 97, Schs 1, 3 (2);  |
||                               |1979 No 205, Sch 2, Part 1; 1981 No 119,|
||                               |Sch 1; 1981 No 123, Sch 8; 1983 No 14,  |
||                               |Sch 1 (5); 1983 No 42, Sch 3; 1983 No   |
||                               |171, Sch 1 (3); 1985 No 147, Sch 1 (2); |
||                               |1985 No 215, Sch 1 (3); 1986 No 53, Sch |
||                               |1; 1986 No 186, Schs 1, 2 (1); 1986 No  |
||                               |220, Sch 1; 1987 No 58, Sch 3; 1987 No  |
||                               |63, Sch 2; 1987 No 229, Sch 1; 1988 No  |
||                               |128, Sch 1 (4); 1989 No 204, Sch 1; 1990|
||                               |No 88, Sch 1 (6)-(8); 1991 No 47, Sch 1 |
||                               |(1) (14); 1992 No 18, Sch 7; 1992 No 84,|
||                               |Schs 1 (5), 2 (1); 1994 No 48, Sch 5    |
||                               |(14); 1994 No 72, Sch 2 (2); 1995 No 94,|
||                               |Sch 5.6; 1995 No 98, Sch 4 [1]; 1996 No |
||                               |38, Sch 1.9; 1996 No 121, Sch 4.33; 1996|
||                               |No 139, Sch 2.20 [2]-[5] (am 1997 No 55,|
||Sec 10                         |Sch 2.18 [1] [2]); 1997 No 11, Sch 1.11;|
||                               |1997 No 37, Sch 3 [4] [5]; 1997 No 154, |
||                               |Sch 6.20; 1998 No 44, Sch 2 [1]; 1998 No|
||                               |45, Sch 3.3; 1998 No 79, Sch 2.3 [4];   |
||                               |1998 No 170, Sch 3.7 [1] [2]; 1999 No   |
||                               |52, Sch 2.1 [2]; 2000 No 51, Sch 3 [1]  |
||                               |[2]; 2000 No 106, Sch 3 [4]; 2000 No    |
||                               |109, Sch 2.4; 2001 No 10, Sch 5.3 [1];  |
||                               |2001 No 96, Sch 2.2 [2]; 2002 No 78, Sch|
||                               |2.4; 2002 No 108, Sch 2.2 [10]-[14];    |
||                               |2003 No 80, Sch 4 [3]-[6]; 2004 No 67,  |
||                               |Sch 2 [1] [2]; 2004 No 87, Sch 6.9 [1]; |
||                               |2005 No 64, Sch 2.31; 2005 No 111, Sch 4|
||                               |[3]-[7]; 2006 No 125, Sch 2.4 [1] [2];  |
||                               |2007 No 9, Sch 5.17; 2008 No 67, Sch 4  |
||                               |[8] [9]; 2008 No 112, Sch 6.16; 2010 No |
||                               |46, Sch 6 [4]-[6]; 2013 No 51, Sch 7.25;|
||                               |2014 No 19, Sch 2 [3]-[7]; 2014 No 88,  |
||                               |Sch 2.33; 2015 No 5, Sch 8.17; 2015 No  |
||                               |51, Sch 9.12 [2]; 2017 No 22, Sch 2.23  |
||                               |[1]; 2018 No 68, Sch 1.14 [1] [2]; 2021 |
||                               |No 6, Sch 5.9; 2022 No 26, Sch 2.15;    |
||                               |2023 No 18, Sch 4[1] [2]; 2024 No 90,   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 2002 No 108, Sch 2.2 [15]. Rep 2003 |
||Sec 10AA                       |No 80, Sch 4 [7]. Ins 2005 No 111, Sch 4|
||                               |[8]. Am 2014 No 19, Sch 2 [8]; 2022 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1975 No 97, Sch 3 (3). Am 1981 No   |
||                               |123, Sch 8; 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5). Rep  |
||                               |1985 No 215, Sch 1 (4). Ins 1988 No 128,|
||                               |Sch 1 (5). Rep 1989 No 113, sec 4. Ins  |
||Sec 10A                        |1990 No 35, Sch 1 (3). Am 1996 No 139,  |
||                               |Sch 2.20 [6]; 1998 No 44, Sch 2 [2];    |
||                               |1998 No 104, Sch 4 [1] [2]; 2001 No 96, |
||                               |Sch 2.2 [3]. Subst 2003 No 80, Sch 4    |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1975 No 97, Sch 3 (3). Am 1994 No   |
||Sec 10B                        |48, Sch 5 (15); 1996 No 39, Sch 4.5;    |
||                               |1996 No 122, Sch 7.7. Subst 2005 No 91, |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1975 No 97, Sch 3 (3). Am 1983 No   |
||Sec 10C                        |171, Sch 1 (4). Rep 1998 No 170, Sch 3.7|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 10CA                       |Ins 2000 No 105, Sch 3 [2]. Am 2017 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 10D                        |Ins 1975 No 97, Sch 3 (3). Am 1985 No   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 10E                        |Ins 1975 No 97, Sch 3 (3). Am 1985 No   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 10F                        |Ins 1985 No 215, Sch 1 (6). Rep 2000 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1985 No 215, Sch 1 (6). Am 1998 No  |
||Sec 10G                        |11, Sch 6.13. Rep 2005 No 111, Sch 4    |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (6). Am 1991 No  |
||Sec 10H                        |47, Sch 1 (2); 1996 No 139, Sch 2.20    |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 10I                        |Ins 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (6). Rep 2003 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (6). Am 1991 No  |
||Sec 10J                        |47, Sch 1 (3); 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (5).   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Secs 10K, 10L                  |Ins 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (6). Rep 2005 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (6). Am 1996 No  |
||Sec 10M                        |98, Sch 1.3 [4]; 1996 No 139, Sch 2.20  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Secs 10N, 10O                  |Ins 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (6). Rep 2001 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (6). Am 2000 No  |
||Sec 10P                        |105, Sch 3 [3] [4]; 2001 No 10, Sch 5.3 |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1989 No 222, Sch 1 (2). Am 1991 No  |
||Sec 10Q                        |47, Sch 1 (4); 1992 No 84, Sch 2 (2).   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1990 No 88, Sch 1 (9). Am 1992 No   |
||Sec 10R                        |84, Schs 1 (5), 2 (3); 2001 No 96, Sch  |
||                               |2.2 [5]-[8]; 2002 No 108, Sch 2.2 [16]  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 10S                        |Ins 1990 No 88, Sch 1 (10). Am 2006 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1991 No 47, Sch 1 (5). Am 1993 No   |
||                               |46, Sch 1; 1994 No 48, Sch 5 (8) (16);  |
||Sec 10T                        |1996 No 125, Sch 4.2 [2] [3]; 1997 No   |
||                               |37, Sch 3 [6]-[9]; 1998 No 44, Sch 2    |
||                               |[3]; 2001 No 96, Sch 2.2 [9]. Rep 2003  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 10U                        |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 2 (4). Rep 1997 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1973 No 70, sec 3 (d); 1983 No 14,   |
||Sec 12                         |Sch 1 (5); 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (7); 1996 |
||                               |No 98, Sch 1.3 [6] [7]; 2002 No 108, Sch|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 14                         |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5); 1990 No 88,   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5). Rep 1996 No   |
||Sec 15                         |98, Sch 1.3 [10]. Ins 2000 No 106, Sch 3|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5); 1988 No 128,  |
||Sec 16                         |Sch 1 (8); 1991 No 47, Sch 1 (6); 1992  |
||                               |No 84, Sch 1 (7). Rep 1996 No 98, Sch   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (6); 1985 No 223,  |
||Sec 18                         |Sch 1 (3); 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (8). Rep   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 19                         |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5). Rep 1996 No   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 21                         |Am 1980 No 196, Sch 1; 2017 No 17, Sch  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1990 No 88, Sch 1 (5). Am 1994 No   |
||                               |72, Sch 2 (4); 1996 No 139, Sch 2.20 [9]|
||Sec 21A                        |(am 1997 No 55, Sch 1.18 [1]); 1997 No  |
||                               |37, Sch 3 [11]; 2000 No 51, Sch 3 [3]-  |
||                               |[8]; 2006 No 50, Sch 3 [8]; 2015 No 51, |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1991 No 47, Sch 1 (10). Am 1994 No  |
||                               |72, Sch 2 (5); 1995 No 99, Sch 2.9 [1]; |
||Sec 21B                        |1996 No 139, Sch 2.20 [10] (am 1997 No  |
||                               |55, Sch 2.18 [1]); 1997 No 37, Sch 3    |
||                               |[12]; 2006 No 50, Sch 3 [8]; 2015 No 51,|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1991 No 47, Sch 1 (15). Am 1992 No  |
||                               |84, Schs 1 (5), 2 (5); 1994 No 48, Sch 5|
||                               |(6); 1995 No 98, Sch 4 [2]; 1995 No 99, |
||Sec 21C                        |Sch 2.9 [2] [3]; 2002 No 108, Sch 2.2   |
||                               |[19]-[21]; 2006 No 50, Sch 3 [9] [10];  |
||                               |2006 No 87, Sch 2 [8]; 2009 No 51, Sch 4|
||                               |[1]; 2017 No 11, Sch 2 [2]; 2017 No 65, |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1999 No 52, Sch 2.1 [3]. Am 2015 No |
||Sec 21D                        |51, Sch 9.12 [7] [8]; 2017 No 65, Sch   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 22                         |Am 1981 No 119, Sch 1; 1985 No 147, Sch |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 25                         |Subst 2001 No 96, Sch 2.2 [10]. Am 2002 |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 2001 No 96, Sch 2.2 [10]. Subst 2002|
||Sec 25A                        |No 108, Sch 2.2 [23]. Am 2010 No 46, Sch|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5); 1984 No 129,  |
||Sec 26                         |Sch 1 (2); 1994 No 48, Sch 5 (9). Subst |
||                               |2001 No 96, Sch 2.2 [11]. Am 2010 No 46,|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1960 No 35, sec 2 (1) (b); 1963 No   |
||                               |40, sec 2 (c); 1969 No 69, sec 2 (d);   |
||                               |1973 No 70, sec 6; 1975 No 97, Sch 4;   |
||                               |1981 No 119, Sch 1; 1983 No 171, Sch 1  |
||Sec 27                         |(6); 1984 No 129, Sch 1 (3); 1985 No    |
||                               |147, Sch 1 (2); 1985 No 215, Sch 1 (7); |
||                               |1990 No 35, Sch 1 (5); 1991 No 47, Sch 1|
||                               |(11); 2002 No 108, Sch 2.2 [24] [25];   |
||                               |2006 No 87, Sch 2 [9]; 2009 No 51, Sch 4|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1960 No 35, sec 2 (1) (c); 1983 No   |
||Sec 28                         |14, Sch 1 (5). Rep 2002 No 108, Sch 2.2 |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5). Subst 1983 No |
||                               |171, Sch 1 (7). Am 1990 No 35, Sch 1    |
||Sec 29                         |(4); 2000 No 105, Sch 3 [5] [6]; 2001 No|
||                               |34, Sch 2.29; 2008 No 122, Sch 3.2 [1]; |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 32                         |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5). Rep 2001 No   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1981 No 119, Sch 1; 1985 No 147, Sch |
||Sec 34                         |1 (2); 1985 No 215, Sch 1 (8); 1990 No  |
||                               |35, Sch 1 (6); 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (5);   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1981 No 119, Sch 1; 1983 No 14, Sch 1|
||                               |(5); 1985 No 147, Sch 1 (4). Subst 1988 |
||Sec 35                         |No 128, Sch 1 (9). Am 1989 No 222, Sch 2|
||                               |(1); 1992 No 84, Schs 1 (9), 2 (6); 1996|
||                               |No 98, Sch 1.3 [11]-[13]. Rep 2000 No   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 36                         |Subst 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (9). Rep 1992  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5). Subst 1988 No |
||Sec 37                         |128, Sch 1 (9). Am 1992 No 84, Sch 1    |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1987 No 48, Sch 32. Subst 1988 No    |
||Sec 38                         |128, Sch 1 (9). Rep 1992 No 84, Sch 1   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (9). Subst 1989  |
||Sec 38A                        |No 222, Sch 2 (2). Am 1992 No 84, Sch 1 |
||                               |(13). Subst 1996 No 98, Sch 1.3 [15].   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (9). Subst 1989  |
||Sec 38B                        |No 222, Sch 2 (2). Am 1992 No 84, Sch 1 |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1989 No 222, Sch 2 (2). Am 1992 No  |
||Sec 38BA                       |84, Sch 1 (15). Rep 1996 No 98, Sch 1.3 |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1989 No 222, Sch 2 (2). Am 1992 No  |
||Sec 38BB                       |84, Sch 1 (16). Rep 1996 No 98, Sch 1.3 |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1989 No 222, Sch 2 (2). Am 1992 No  |
||Sec 38BC                       |84, Sch 1 (17). Rep 1996 No 98, Sch 1.3 |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Secs 38BD-38BF                 |Ins 1989 No 222, Sch 2 (2). Rep 1996 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Secs 38C, 38D                  |Ins 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (9). Rep 1996 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 39                         |Subst 1990 No 88, Sch 1 (12). Am 1996 No|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5). Subst 1983 No |
||                               |171, Sch 1 (8). Am 1990 No 88, Sch 1    |
||Sec 40                         |(13); 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (18). Rep 1996  |
||                               |No 98, Sch 1.3 [18]. Ins 1999 No 10, Sch|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5); 1983 No 171,  |
||Sec 41                         |Sch 1 (9). Subst 1990 No 88, Sch 1 (14).|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Secs 42-44                     |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5). Rep 1996 No   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 46                         |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5); 1983 No 171,  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1990 No 35, Sch 1 (7). Am 1995 No   |
||Sec 46A                        |99, Sch 2.9 [4]. Rep 1996 No 98, Sch 1.3|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1963 No 40, sec 2 (d); 1968 No 62,   |
||                               |sec 2 (d); 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5); 1983  |
||                               |No 171, Sch 1 (11); 1986 No 186, Sch 2  |
||                               |(2); 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (11); 1989 No   |
||                               |222, Sch 3; 1990 No 35, Sch 1 (8); 1991 |
||Sec 47                         |No 47, Sch 1 (16); 1994 No 48, Sch 5    |
||                               |(10); 1995 No 11, Sch 1.71 [3] [4]; 1997|
||                               |No 41, Sch 2 [4]-[6]; 1999 No 10, Sch 4 |
||                               |[2]-[4]; 2000 No 51, Sch 3 [9]; 2002 No |
||                               |53, Sch 1.11; 2006 No 50, Sch 3 [12];   |
||                               |2009 No 17, Sch 3.11; 2009 No 51, Sch 4 |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 49                         |Am 1985 No 147, Sch 1 (5); 1992 No 84,  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1975 No 97, Sch 5; 1983 No 14, Sch 1 |
||                               |(5); 1983 No 171, Sch 1 (12); 1992 No   |
||Sec 50                         |84, Sch 2 (7); 1993 No 46, Sch 1; 1997  |
||                               |No 147, Sch 2.14. Subst 2000 No 105, Sch|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 50A                        |Ins 1991 No 47, Sch 1 (7). Rep 1996 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 51                         |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5). Subst 2000 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 52                         |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5); 1988 No 128,  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 53                         |Am 1996 No 98, Sch 1.3 [19]; 1999 No 10,|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19) (For         |
||                               |information concerning this Part before |
||Part 7                         |the commencement of the Land            |
||                               |Tax Management (Amendment) Act 1992, see|
||                               |the Historical table of amendments in   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Part 7, Div 1                  |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 54                         |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Am 1994 No  |
||Sec 55                         |48, Sch 5 (11). Rep 2000 No 106, Sch 3  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Am 1996 No  |
||Sec 56                         |67, Sch 2 [1] [2]. Rep 2000 No 106, Sch |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Secs 57, 58                    |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 59                         |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 1998 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Am 1998 No  |
||Sec 60                         |138, Sch 2.5 [2]. Rep 2000 No 106, Sch 3|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Am 1994 No  |
||Sec 61                         |48, Sch 5 (1). Rep 2000 No 106, Sch 3   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 61A                        |Ins 1994 No 48, Sch 5 (2). Rep 2000 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Subst 1994  |
||Sec 62                         |No 48, Sch 5 (3). Rep 2000 No 106, Sch 3|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62A                        |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Part 7, Div 2                  |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Secs 62B-62G                   |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Am 1996 No  |
||Sec 62H                        |98, Sch 1.3 [20]. Rep 2000 No 106, Sch 3|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Part 7, Div 2A                 |Ins 1994 No 48, Sch 5 (4). Rep 2000 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Secs 62HA-62HD                 |Ins 1994 No 48, Sch 5 (4). Rep 2000 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1994 No 48, Sch 5 (4). Am 1996 No   |
||Sec 62HE                       |98, Sch 1.3 [21]. Rep 2000 No 106, Sch 3|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Am 1995 No  |
||Sec 62I                        |11, Sch 1.71 [5]; 2001 No 96, Sch 2.2   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Am 1994 No  |
||Sec 62J                        |48, Sch 5 (12); 1997 No 152, Sch 4.20   |
||                               |[1]; 2000 No 106, Sch 3 [9] [10]; 2023  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62K                        |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Am 2000 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62M                        |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Am 2000 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Am 1996 No  |
||Sec 62N                        |98, Sch 1.3 [22]; 2000 No 106, Sch 3    |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
||Part 7, Div 4                  |106, Sch 3 [8]. Ins 2023 No 26, Sch 3   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
||Sec 62O                        |106, Sch 3 [8]. Ins 2023 No 26, Sch 3   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
||Sec 62P                        |106, Sch 3 [8]. Ins 2023 No 26, Sch 3   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
||Sec 62Q                        |106, Sch 3 [8]. Ins 2023 No 26, Sch 3   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Am 1996 No  |
||Sec 62R                        |98, Sch 1.3 [23]. Rep 2000 No 106, Sch 3|
||                               |[8]. Ins 2023 No 26, Sch 3[1]. Rep 2024 |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
||Sec 62S                        |106, Sch 3 [8]. Ins 2023 No 26, Sch 3   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
||                               |106, Sch 3 [8]. Ins 2004 No 33, Sch 2.2 |
||Sec 62T                        |[10]. Rep 2005 No 42, Sch 3 [2]. Ins    |
||                               |2023 No 26, Sch 3[1]. Subst 2024 No 38, |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Am 1999 No  |
||Sec 62U                        |10, Sch 4 [6]. Rep 2000 No 106, Sch 3   |
||                               |[15]. Ins 2023 No 26, Sch 3[1]. Rep 2024|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Part 7, Div 4A, heading        |Ins 1998 No 81, Sch 3. Am 2008 No 122,  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Part 7, Div 4A                 |Ins 1998 No 81, Sch 3. Rep 2023 No 26,  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Part 7, Div 4A, note           |Ins 2005 No 42, Sch 3 [1]. Rep 2023 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62TA                       |Ins 1998 No 81, Sch 3. Am 2005 No 42,   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62TB                       |Ins 1998 No 81, Sch 3. Am 2005 No 42,   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 2005 No 42, Sch 3 [7]. Am 2006 No   |
||Sec 62TBA                      |11, Sch 1 [1]. Subst 2006 No 50, Sch 3  |
||                               |[13]. Am 2008 No 122, Sch 3.2 [3]. Rep  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62TBB                      |Ins 2005 No 42, Sch 3 [7]. Rep 2023 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62TBC                      |Ins 2008 No 122, Sch 3.2 [4]. Rep 2023  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62TC                       |Ins 1998 No 81, Sch 3. Am 2005 No 42,   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Part 7, Div 5                  |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2023 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62V                        |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62VA                       |Ins 1999 No 10, Sch 4 [7]. Rep 2000 No  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62W                        |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62X                        |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Subst 1996  |
||Sec 62Y                        |No 98, Sch 1.3 [24]. Renumbered as sec  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62Z                        |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 1996 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 62ZA                       |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Rep 2000 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 63 (as originally enacted) |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5); 1992 No 112,  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1992 No 84, Sch 1 (19). Subst 1996  |
||Sec 63 (previously 62Y)        |No 98, Sch 1.3 [24]. Renumbered 2023 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 63A                        |Ins 1984 No 129, Sch 1 (5). Rep 2005 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 65                         |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5). Rep 1996 No   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (13). Subst 1992 |
||                               |No 84, Sch 2 (8). Am 1996 No 139, Sch   |
||Sec 65A                        |2.20 [11] [12] (am 1997 No 55, Sch 2.18 |
||                               |[1] [2]); 2000 No 51, Sch 3 [10]. Rep   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 67                         |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5); 1987 No 88,   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5); 1995 No 11,   |
||Sec 68                         |Sch 1.71 [6]. Subst 2000 No 106, Sch 3  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 69                         |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5); 1987 No 88,   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 70                         |Am 1992 No 112, Sch 1. Rep 1996 No 98,  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5); 1987 No 88,   |
||Sec 71                         |Sch 1 (6); 1992 No 112, Sch 1. Rep 1996 |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5); 1983 No 171,  |
||Sec 72                         |Sch 1 (13); 1985 No 147, Sch 1 (9).     |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 73                         |Am 1992 No 112, Sch 1. Rep 1996 No 98,  |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 80                         |Am 1983 No 14, Sch 1 (5). Rep 1996 No   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 81                         |Am 1960 No 35, sec 2 (1) (f); 1988 No   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 82                         |Am 1987 No 48, Sch 32; 1992 No 112, Sch |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 2006 No 87, Sch 2 [10]. Am 2010 No  |
||Sch 1AA                        |19, Sch 3.53 [1] [2]; 2014 No 19, Sch 2 |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 2003 No 80, Sch 4 [11]. Am 2004 No  |
||                               |33, Sch 3.2 [2]; 2005 No 111, Sch 4     |
||                               |[12]-[17]; 2006 No 51, Sch 2 [3]-[9];   |
||                               |2007 No 24, Sch 2 [1]; 2008 No 67, Sch 4|
||                               |[10]-[15]; 2009 No 51, Sch 4 [5]-[9];   |
||                               |2010 No 19, Sch 3.53 [3] [4]; 2010 No   |
||Sch 1A                         |46, Sch 6 [14]-[30]; 2010 No 118, Sch 3 |
||                               |[2]; 2012 No 76, Sch 5.1 [1]-[3]; 2014  |
||                               |No 19, Sch 2 [11]-[18]; 2015 No 51, Sch |
||                               |9.12 [9]-[11]; 2016 No 14, Sch 3 [1]-   |
||                               |[3]; 2016 No 27, Sch 2.24; 2017 No 33,  |
||                               |Sch 1.3 [1] [2]; 2018 No 68, Sch 1.14   |
||                               |[3]; 2023 No 2, sec 4(1); 2023 No 18,   |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||Sch 1, heading (previously Sch,|Subst 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (16).          |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
||                               |Ins 1988 No 128, Sch 1 (17). Am 1989 No |
||                               |222, Schs 1 (3), 2 (3); 1990 No 35, Sch |
||                               |1 (10); 1990 No 88, Sch 1 (15); 1990 No |
||                               |95, Sch 4; 1991 No 47, Sch 1 (12) (18); |
||                               |1992 No 84, Sch 2 (9); 1993 No 46, Sch  |
||                               |1; 1994 No 48, Sch 5 (7); 1995 No 98,   |
||                               |Sch 4 [4]; 1997 No 37, Sch 3 [13]; 1997 |
||                               |No 41, Sch 2 [7] [8]; 1997 No 152, Sch  |
||                               |4.20 [2]; 1999 No 31, Sch 5.58 [1]-[11];|
||                               |1999 No 52, Sch 2.1 [4] [5]; 2000 No 51,|
||                               |Sch 3 [11]; 2000 No 105, Sch 3 [8]; 2000|
||                               |No 106, Sch 3 [17] [18]; 2001 No 96, Sch|
||                               |2.2 [14] [15]; 2002 No 108, Sch 2.2 [27]|
||                               |[28]; 2003 No 80, Sch 4 [12] [13]; 2004 |
||                               |No 33, Schs 3.2 [3], 5.2; 2004 No 67,   |
||                               |Sch 2 [3]; 2005 No 42, Sch 3 [9]; 2005  |
||Sch 2                          |No 111, Sch 4 [18] [19]; 2006 No 11, Sch|
||                               |1 [2]; 2006 No 50, Sch 3 [14] [15]; 2006|
||                               |No 51, Sch 2 [10] [11]; 2006 No 87, Sch |
||                               |2 [11] [12]; 2007 No 24, Sch 2 [2] [3]; |
||                               |2008 No 67, Sch 4 [16] [17]; 2008 No    |
||                               |122, Sch 3.2 [5]; 2009 No 51, Sch 4     |
||                               |[10]; 2010 No 46, Sch 6 [31] [32]; 2010 |
||                               |No 118, Sch 3 [3] [4]; 2012 No 20, Sch 2|
||                               |[4] [5]; 2014 No 19, Sch 2 [19]; 2014 No|
||                               |56, Sch 2 [8]; 2016 No 14, Sch 3 [4];   |
||                               |2017 No 11, Sch 2 [4]; 2017 No 33, Schs |
||                               |1.3 [3], 2.3 [2]; 2017 No 67, Sch 3 [1] |
||                               |[2]; 2018 No 68, Sch 3 (cl 62A          |
||                               |transferred from the Land Tax Management|
||                               |(Transitional) Regulation               |
||                               |2018, cl 3); 2019 No 8, Sch 2.3; 2020 No|
||                               |14, Sch 3; 2023 No 2, sec 4(2); 2023 No |
|_________________________________________________________________________|
Historical table of amendmentsInformation concerning Part 7 before the
commencement of the Land Tax Management (Amendment) Act
1992 --

 _____________________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                      |Am 1957 No 62, sec 2; 1960 No 35, sec 2 (1) (d); 1961|
||                      |No 67, sec 5 (2) (a); 1969 No 69, sec 2 (e); 1973 No |
||Sec 54                |70, sec 3 (e); 1975 No 97, Sch 6; 1981 No 119, Sch 1;|
||                      |1984 No 129, Sch 1 (4); 1984 No 153, Sch 16; 1985 No |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 54B               |Ins 1984 No 129, Sch 2. Am 1985 No 147, Sch 1 (2)    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
