PARTNERSHIP ACT 1891 - As at 1 July 2025 - Act 7 of 1891
 
TABLE OF PROVISIONS

**** TABLE OF PROVISIONS ****

CHAPTER 1 - PRELIMINARY
PART 1 - CITATION
      1.  Short title

      2.  Notes in text

PART 2 - INTERPRETATION
      3.  Definitions

      4.  Meaning of firm and firm-name

      5.  Meaning of partnership

PART 3 - APPLICATION
     5A.  Application of laws of partnership to limited partnerships and
incorporated limited partnerships

CHAPTER 2 - PARTNERSHIPS GENERALLY
PART 1 - NATURE OF PARTNERSHIP
      6.  Rules for deciding existence of partnership

      7.  Postponement of rights of person lending or selling in consideration
of share of profits in case of insolvency

PART 2 - RELATIONS OF PARTNERS TO PERSONS DEALING WITH THEM
      8.  Power of partner to bind the firm

      9.  Partners bound by acts on behalf of firm

     10.  Partner using credit of firm for private purposes

     11.  Effect of notice that firm will not be bound by acts of partner

     12.  Liability of partners

     13.  Liability of the firm for wrongs

     14.  Misapplication of money or property received for or in custody of the
firm

     15.  Liability for wrongs joint and several

     16.  Improper employment of trust property for partnership purposes

     17.  Persons liable by ‘holding out’

     18.  Admissions and representations of partners

     19.  Notice to acting partner to be notice to the firm

     20.  Liabilities of incoming and outgoing partners

     21.  Revocation of continuing guaranty by change in firm

PART 3 - RELATIONS OF PARTNERS TO ONE ANOTHER
     22.  Variation by consent of terms of partnership

     23.  Partnership property of firms other than incorporated limited
partnerships

    23A.  Partnership property of incorporated limited partnership

     24.  Property bought with partnership money

     25.  Conversion into personal estate of land held as partnership property

     26.  Procedure against partnership property for a partner’s separate
judgment debt

     27.  Rules as to interests and duties of partners subject to special
agreement

     28.  Expulsion of partner

     29.  Retirement from partnership at will

     30.  If partnership for term is continued over, continuance on old terms
presumed

     31.  Duty of partners to render accounts etc.

     32.  Accountability of partners for private profits

     33.  Duty of partner not to compete with firm

     34.  Rights of assignee of share in partnership

PART 4 - DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP AND ITS CONSEQUENCES
    34A.  Part does not apply to incorporated limited partnerships

     35.  Dissolution by expiration or notice

     36.  Dissolution by insolvency, death, or charge

     37.  Dissolution by illegality of partnership

     38.  Dissolution by the court

     39.  Rights of persons dealing with firm against apparent members of firm

     40.  Right of partners to notify dissolution

     41.  Continuing authority of partners for purposes of winding up

     42.  Rights of partners as to application of partnership property

     43.  Apportionment of premium if partnership prematurely dissolved

     44.  Rights if partnership dissolved for fraud or misrepresentation

     45.  Right of outgoing partner in certain cases to share profits made
after dissolution

     46.  Retiring or deceased partner’s share to be a debt

     47.  Rule for distribution of assets on final settlement of accounts

CHAPTER 3 - LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS
PART 1 - PRELIMINARY
     48.  Definitions for ch 3

PART 2 - FORMATION AND MAINTENANCE OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS
     49.  What is a limited partnership

     50.  How formed

     51.  Register—proof of registration

     52.  Registration of changes in limited partnership

PART 3 - MODIFICATION OF GENERAL LAW OF PARTNERSHIP
     53.  Liability of limited partner

     54.  Liability for limited partnerships formed under corresponding laws

     55.  Provisions concerning limited partner’s contribution

     56.  Use of descriptive words in name

     57.  Liability for contravention of s 56

     58.  Recovery of loss because breach of s 56

     59.  Registered office

     60.  Incidents of limited partnerships

PART 4 - DISSOLUTION AND CESSATION OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS
     61.  Dissolution not available in certain cases

     62.  Cessation of limited partnerships

     63.  Registration of dissolution or cessation of limited partnerships

     64.  Winding up by general partners

PART 5 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
     65.  Legal proceedings

     66.  Duty to notify chief executive of changes

     67.  Chief executive may accept and record notices given by person
registered as a partner

     68.  Chief executive’s power to cancel limited partnership’s
registration

     69.  Chief executive’s power to revoke cancellation of registration

CHAPTER 4 - INCORPORATED LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS
PART 1 - PRELIMINARY
     70.  Definitions for ch 4

PART 2 - NATURE AND FORMATION OF INCORPORATED LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS
     71.  Partnership is formed on registration

     72.  Partnership is separate legal entity

     73.  Partners in an incorporated limited partnership

     74.  Partnership agreement

PART 3 - REGISTRATION OF INCORPORATED LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS
     75.  Who may apply for registration

     76.  How is an application made

     77.  Registration of incorporated limited partnership

     78.  Register of incorporated limited partnerships

     79.  Changes in registered particulars

     80.  Certificates of registration etc.

     81.  (Repealed)

     82.  Acts preparatory to registration do not constitute partnership

PART 4 - POWERS OF INCORPORATED LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS
     83.  Powers of partnership

     84.  Relationship of partners to others and between themselves

PART 5 - LIABILITY AND POWERS OF LIMITED PARTNERS
     85.  Definitions for pt 5

     86.  Limitation of liability of limited partners

     87.  Limited partner not to take part in the management of the
incorporated limited partnership

     88.  Definitions, etc. applicable to s 87

     89.  Differences between partners

     90.  Change in partners

     91.  Change in status of partners

     92.  Liability for conduct or acts outside the State

     93.  Recognised incorporated limited partnerships under corresponding laws

     94.  Effect of ss 92 and 93

PART 6 - WINDING UP OF INCORPORATED LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
     95.  Definition for pt 6

     96.  Voluntary winding up

     97.  Winding up on chief executive’s certificate

     98.  Review of certificate

     99.  Procedure for winding up on certificate

    100.  Distribution of assets on winding up required on chief executive’s
certificate

    101.  Application of Corporations Act to winding up

    102.  Chief executive to be notified of winding up

    103.  Cancellation of registration

PART 7 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
    104.  Execution of documents

    105.  Entitlement to make assumptions

    106.  Assumptions that can be made under s 105

    107.  Identification of incorporated limited partnerships

    108.  Registered office

    109.  Lodgement of certain documents with the chief executive

    110.  Duty to give information

    111.  Offences by partnerships and partners

CHAPTER 5 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
    112.  Confidentiality

    113.  False or misleading statements

    114.  False or misleading documents

    115.  Delegations

    116.  Offences against the Act are summary

    117.  Service of limited partnerships and incorporated limited partnerships

    118.  Entries in registers

    119.  Approved forms

    120.  Regulation-making power

CHAPTER 6 - SAVINGS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
PART 1 - SAVINGS PROVISION FOR ACT NO. 7 OF 1891
    121.  Saving of rules of equity and common law

PART 2 - (Expired)
PART 3 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR ACT NO. 94 OF 2003
    123.  Transitional provision for Tourism, Racing and Fair Trading
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2003

PART 4 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR PARTNERSHIP AND OTHER ACTS AMENDMENT ACT
2004
    124.  Continuation of limited partnerships under the Partnership (Limited
Liability) Act

    125.  Continuation of register under the Partnership (Limited Liability)
Act

    126.  Applications under the Partnership (Limited Liability) Act

    127.  Regulations under Partnership (Limited Liability) Act preserved

    128.  Prescribed forms under Partnership (Limited Liability) Act

    129.  Relation between members of any company registered under State
Companies Acts not affected

    130.  Liability

    131.  References to Partnership (Limited Liability) Act 1988

SCHEDULE - Dictionary

 
- LONG TITLE
An Act to declare and amend the law of partnership
 
Short title
*** 1 Short title ***
This Act may be cited as the Partnership Act 1891.
 
Notes in text
*** 2 Notes in text ***
A note in the text of this Act is part of the Act.
 
Definitions
*** 3 Definitions ***
The dictionary in the schedule defines particular words used in this Act.
 
Meaning of firm and firm-name
*** 4 Meaning of firm and firm-name ***
     (1) Persons who have entered into partnership with one another are
     for the purposes of this Act called collectively a
     "firm", and the name under which their business is carried on is
     called the
     "firm-name".
     (2) However, in relation to an incorporated limited partnership, the
     firm-name of the incorporated limited partnership is the name of the
     incorporated limited partnership recorded in the register.
     (3) In this Act, a reference, in relation to an incorporated limited
     partnership, to the incorporated limited partnership or the firm is a
     reference to the incorporated limited partnership as a separate legal
     entity and not to the partners in that partnership.
 
Meaning of partnership
*** 5 Meaning of partnership ***
     (1) Partnership is the relation which subsists between persons
     carrying on a business in common with a view of profit.
     (1A) Partnership includes an incorporated limited partnership.
     (2) However, the relation between members of any company or
     association that is—
          (a) incorporated under the Corporations Act; or
          (b) formed or incorporated by or in pursuance of any other
          Act of Parliament or letters patent, or Royal Charter;
     is not a partnership within the meaning of this Act.
 
Application of laws of partnership to limited partnerships and incorporated
limited partnerships
*** 5A Application of laws of partnership to limited partnerships and
incorporated limited partnerships ***
     (1) Chapter 2 applies to limited partnerships, subject to chapter 3.
     (2) Except as provided (whether expressly or by necessary
     implication) by this Act or any other Act, the law relating to
     partnership does not apply in relation to—
          (a) an incorporated limited partnership; or
          (b) the partners in an incorporated limited partnership; or
          (c) the relationship between an incorporated limited
          partnership and its partners.
 
Rules for deciding existence of partnership
*** 6 Rules for deciding existence of partnership ***
     (1) In deciding whether a partnership does or does not exist, regard
     must be had to the following rules—
          (a) joint tenancy, tenancy in common, joint property,
          common property, or part ownership does not of itself
          create a partnership as to anything held or owned jointly
          or in common, whether the tenants or owners do or do not
          share any profits made by the use of anything held or owned
          jointly or in common;
          (b) the sharing of gross returns does not of itself create
          a partnership, whether the persons sharing such returns
          have or have not a joint or common right or interest in any
          property from which or from the use of which the returns
          are derived;
          (c) the receipt by a person of a share of the profits of a
          business is prima facie evidence that the person is a
          partner in the business, but the receipt of such a share,
          or of a payment contingent on or varying with the profits
          of a business, does not of itself make the person a partner
          in the business, and in particular—
               (i) the receipt by a person of a debt or other
               liquidated amount by instalments or otherwise out
               of the accruing profits of a business does not
               itself make the person a partner in the business
               or liable as such;
               (ii) a contract for the remuneration of a servant
               or agent of a person engaged in a business by a
               share of the profits of the business does not
               itself make the servant or agent a partner in the
               business or liable as such;
               (iii) a person being a deceased partner’s child
               or spouse, and receiving by way of annuity a
               portion of the profits made in the business in
               which the deceased person was a partner, is not
               by reason only of such receipt a partner in the
               business or liable as such;
               (iv) the advance of money by way of loan to a
               person engaged or about to engage in any business
               on a contract with that person that the lender is
               to receive a rate of interest varying with the
               profits, or is to receive a share of the profits
               arising from carrying on the business, does not
               of itself make the lender a partner with the
               person or persons carrying on the business or
               liable as such;
               (v) a person receiving by way of annuity or
               otherwise a portion of the profits of a business
               in consideration of the sale by the person of the
               goodwill of the business is not by reason only of
               such receipt a partner in the business or liable
               as such.
          Note—
               See section 82 for an additional rule applying to
               acts preparatory to the registration of
               incorporated limited partnerships.
     (2) A contract mentioned in subsection (1) (c) (iv) must be in
     writing and signed by or on behalf of all the parties to the
     contract.
     (3) This section does not apply in relation to an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 
Postponement of rights of person lending or selling in consideration of share
of profits in case of insolvency
*** 7 Postponement of rights of person lending or selling in consideration of
share of profits in case of insolvency ***
In the event of any person to whom money has been advanced by way of loan upon
such a contract as is mentioned in section 6, or of any buyer of a goodwill in
consideration of a share of the profits of the business, being adjudicated
insolvent, entering into an arrangement to pay the person’s creditors less
than 100 cents in the dollar, or dying in insolvent circumstances, the lender
of the loan is not entitled to recover anything in relation to the person’s
loan, and the seller of the goodwill is not entitled to recover anything in
relation to the share of profits contracted for, until the claims of the other
creditors of the borrower or buyer for valuable consideration in money or
money’s worth have been satisfied.
 
Power of partner to bind the firm
*** 8 Power of partner to bind the firm ***
     (1) Every partner in a partnership, other than a firm that is a
     limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership, is an agent
     of the firm and his or her other partners for the purpose of the
     business of the partnership, and the acts of every partner who does
     any act for carrying on in the usual way of business of the kind
     carried on by the firm of which the partner is a member bind the firm
     and his or her partners, unless—
          (a) the partner so acting has in fact no authority to act
          for the firm in the particular matter; and
          (b) the person with whom the partner is dealing either
          knows that the partner has no authority, or does not know
          or believe the partner to be a partner.
     (2) Every general partner in a limited partnership or incorporated
     limited partnership is an agent of the partnership and of the other
     general partners for the purpose of the business of the partnership,
     and the acts of every general partner who does any act for carrying
     on in the usual way business of the kind carried on by the
     partnership of which the partner is a member bind the partnership and
     the other general partners unless—
          (a) the general partner so acting has in fact no authority
          to act for the partnership in the particular matter; and
          (b) the person with whom the general partner is dealing
          either knows that the general partner has no authority, or
          does not know or believe the general partner to be a
          general partner.
 
Partners bound by acts on behalf of firm
*** 9 Partners bound by acts on behalf of firm ***
     (1) An act or instrument relating to the business of a firm, other
     than an incorporated limited partnership, and done or executed in the
     firm-name, or in any other manner showing an intention to bind the
     firm, by any person authorised to bind the firm, whether a partner or
     not, is binding on the firm and all the partners.
     (2) An act or instrument relating to the business of a firm that is
     an incorporated limited partnership, and done or executed in the
     firm-name, or in any other manner, showing an intention to bind the
     firm by any person authorised to bind the firm, whether a general
     partner or not, is (subject to section 12 (3)) binding on the firm
     and all the general partners.
     (3) This section does not affect any general rule of law relating to
     the execution of deeds or negotiable instruments.
 
Partner using credit of firm for private purposes
*** 10 Partner using credit of firm for private purposes ***
     (1) If one partner pledges the credit of a firm, other than an
     incorporated limited partnership, for a purpose apparently not
     connected with the firm’s ordinary course of business, the firm is
     not bound, unless the partner is in fact specially authorised by the
     other partners.
     (2) If a general partner pledges the credit of a firm that is an
     incorporated limited partnership for a purpose apparently not
     connected with the firm’s ordinary course of business, the firm is
     not bound unless the general partner is in fact specially authorised
     by the firm.
     (3) This section does not affect any personal liability incurred by
     an individual general partner.
 
Effect of notice that firm will not be bound by acts of partner
*** 11 Effect of notice that firm will not be bound by acts of partner ***
     (1) If it has been agreed between partners that any restriction is to
     be placed on the power of any 1 or more of them to bind a firm, other
     than a firm that is an incorporated limited partnership, no act done
     in contravention of the agreement is binding on the firm in relation
     to persons having notice of the agreement.
     (2) If it has been agreed by the partners in an incorporated limited
     partnership that any restrictions are to be placed on the power (if
     any) of any one or more of them to bind the firm, no act done in
     contravention of the agreement is binding on the firm in relation to
     persons having notice of the agreement.
 
Liability of partners
*** 12 Liability of partners ***
     (1) Every partner in a firm, other than an incorporated limited
     partnership, is liable jointly with the other partners for all debts
     and obligations of the firm incurred while a partner, and, if the
     partner is an individual, after the partner’s death the partner’s
     estate is also severally liable in a due course of administration for
     those debts and obligations, so far as they remain unsatisfied, but
     subject to the prior payment of the partner’s separate debts.
     (2) Every general partner in an incorporated limited partnership is
     liable jointly with the incorporated limited partnership for all
     debts and obligations of the partnership incurred while the general
     partner is a general partner, and, if the general partner is an
     individual, after the general partner’s death the general
     partner’s estate is also severally liable in a due course of
     administration for those debts or obligations so far as they remain
     unsatisfied but subject to the prior payment of the partner’s
     separate debts.
     (3) Despite subsection (2), a general partner in an incorporated
     limited partnership is only liable for any debts or obligations of
     the incorporated limited partnership—
          (a) to the extent the incorporated limited partnership is
          unable to satisfy the debts and obligations; or
          (b) to a greater extent provided by the partnership
          agreement.
 
Liability of the firm for wrongs
*** 13 Liability of the firm for wrongs ***
     (1) Subject to subsection (2), if, by any wrongful act or omission of
     any partner in a firm, other than an incorporated limited
     partnership, acting in the ordinary course of the business of the
     firm, or with the authority of his or her copartners, loss or injury
     is caused to any person not being a partner in the firm, or any
     penalty is incurred, the firm is liable for the loss, injury or
     penalty to the same extent as the partner so acting or omitting to
     act.
     (2) For subsection (1), a partner in a firm, other than an
     incorporated limited partnership, who commits a wrongful act or
     omission as a director of a body corporate under the Corporations Act
     is not to be taken to be acting in the ordinary course of the
     business of the firm or with the authority of the partner’s
     copartners only because of any 1 or more of the following—
          (a) the partner obtained the agreement or authority of the
          partner’s copartners, or some of them, to be appointed or
          to act as a director of the body corporate;
          (b) remuneration that the partner receives for acting as a
          director of the body corporate forms part of the income of
          the firm;
          (c) any copartner is also a director of that or any other
          body corporate.
     (3) Subject to subsection (4), if by any wrongful act or omission of
     any general partner in an incorporated limited partnership acting in
     the ordinary course of the business of the incorporated limited
     partnership, or with its authority, loss or injury is caused to any
     person not being a partner in the incorporated limited partnership,
     or any penalty is incurred, the incorporated limited partnership is
     liable for the loss or injury or penalty to the same extent as the
     general partner so acting or omitting to act.
          Note—
               See section 12 (2) about joint liability of
               general partners and the incorporated limited
               partnership.
     (4) For subsection (3), a general partner in an incorporated limited
     partnership who commits a wrongful act or omission as a director of a
     body corporate under the Corporations Act is not to be taken to be
     acting in the ordinary course of business of the incorporated limited
     partnership or with its authority only because of any 1 or more of
     the following—
          (a) the general partner obtained the agreement or authority
          of the incorporated limited partnership to be appointed or
          to act as a director of the body corporate;
          (b) remuneration that the general partner receives for
          acting as a director of the body corporate forms part of
          the income of the incorporated limited partnership;
          (c) any other general partner in the incorporated limited
          partnership is also a director of that or any other body
          corporate.
 
Misapplication of money or property received for or in custody of the firm
*** 14 Misapplication of money or property received for or in custody of the
firm ***
     (1) In each of the following cases involving the partners of a firm,
     other than an incorporated limited partnership, the firm is liable to
     make good the loss mentioned in the case—
          (a) 1 partner acting within the scope of the partner’s
          apparent authority receives the money or property of a
          third person and misapplies it;
          (b) a firm in the course of its business receives money or
          property of a third person, and the money or property so
          received is misapplied by 1 or more of the partners while
          it is in the custody of the firm.
     (2) In each of the following cases involving general partners in an
     incorporated limited partnership, the incorporated limited
     partnership is liable to make good the loss mentioned in the case—
          (a) 1 general partner acting within the scope of the
          general partner’s apparent authority receives the money
          or property of a third person and misapplies it;
          (b) an incorporated limited partnership in the course of
          its business receives money or property of a third person,
          and the money or property so received is misapplied by 1 or
          more of the general partners while it is in the custody of
          the incorporated limited partnership.
 
Liability for wrongs joint and several
*** 15 Liability for wrongs joint and several ***
     (1) Every partner in a firm, other than an incorporated limited
     partnership, is liable jointly with the partner’s copartners and
     also severally for everything for which the firm, while he or she is
     a partner in the firm, becomes liable under either section 13 or 14.
     (2) Every general partner in an incorporated limited partnership is
     liable jointly with the other general partners in the incorporated
     limited partnership and also severally for everything for which the
     incorporated limited partnership, while the general partner is a
     general partner in the incorporated limited partnership, becomes
     liable under section 13 (3) or 14 (2).
     (3) Despite subsection (2), a general partner in an incorporated
     limited partnership is only liable for any liability of the
     incorporated limited partnership referred to in the subsection—
          (a) to the extent the incorporated limited partnership is
          unable to satisfy the liability; or
          (b) to a greater extent provided by the partnership
          agreement.
 
Improper employment of trust property for partnership purposes
*** 16 Improper employment of trust property for partnership purposes ***
     (1) If a partner in a firm, other than an incorporated limited
     partnership, being a trustee, improperly employs trust property in
     the business or on the account of the partnership, no other partner
     is liable for the trust property to the persons beneficially
     interested in it.
     (2) However—
          (a) subsection (1) does not affect any liability incurred
          by any partner by reason of the partner’s having notice
          of a breach of trust; and
          (b) nothing in subsection (1) prevents trust money from
          being followed and recovered from the firm if still in its
          possession or under its control.
     (3) If a general partner in an incorporated limited partnership,
     being a trustee, improperly employs trust property in the business or
     on the account of the partnership, neither the partnership nor any
     other partner is liable for the trust property to the persons
     beneficially interested in it.
     (4) However—
          (a) subsection (3) does not affect any liability incurred
          by any partner in the incorporated limited partnership by
          reason of the partner’s having notice of a breach of
          trust; and
          (b) nothing in subsection (3) prevents trust money from
          being followed and recovered from the incorporated limited
          partnership if still in its possession or under its
          control.
 
Persons liable by ‘holding out’
*** 17 Persons liable by ‘holding out’ ***
     (1) Everyone who by words spoken or written or by conduct represents
     himself or herself, or who knowingly suffers himself or herself to be
     represented, as a partner in a particular firm that is a firm other
     than a limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership, is
     liable as a partner to any one who has on the faith of the
     representation given credit to the firm, whether the representation
     has or has not been made or communicated to the person so giving
     credit by or with the knowledge of the apparent partner making the
     representation or suffering it to be made.
     (2) Everyone who by words spoken or written or by conduct represents
     himself or herself, or who knowingly suffers himself or herself to be
     represented, as a general partner in a particular firm that is a
     limited partnership or an incorporated limited partnership is liable
     as a general partner to anyone who has on the faith of the
     representation given credit to the firm, whether the representation
     has or has not been made or communicated to the person so giving
     credit by or with the knowledge of the apparent general partner
     making the representation or suffering it to be made.
     (3) If after a partner’s death the partnership business is
     continued in the old firm-name, the continued use of that name or of
     the deceased partner’s name as part of that name does not of itself
     make the deceased partner’s executors or administrators estate or
     effects liable under subsection (1) or (2) for any partnership debts
     contracted after the partner’s death.
 
Admissions and representations of partners
*** 18 Admissions and representations of partners ***
     (1) An admission or representation made by any partner in a firm
     other than a limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership
     concerning the partnership affairs, and in the ordinary course of its
     business, is evidence against the firm.
     (2) An admission or representation made by any general partner in a
     limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership concerning
     the partnership affairs, and in the ordinary course of its business,
     is evidence against the firm.
 
Notice to acting partner to be notice to the firm
*** 19 Notice to acting partner to be notice to the firm ***
     (1) Notice to any partner in a firm, other than a limited partnership
     or incorporated limited partnership, who habitually acts in the
     partnership business of any matter relating to partnership affairs
     operates as notice to the firm, except in the case of a fraud on the
     firm committed by or with the consent of that partner.
     (2) Notice to any general partner in a limited partnership or
     incorporated limited partnership who habitually acts in the
     partnership business of any matter relating to partnership affairs
     operates as notice to the firm, except in the case of a fraud on the
     firm committed by or with the consent of that partner.
 
Liabilities of incoming and outgoing partners
*** 20 Liabilities of incoming and outgoing partners ***
     (1) A person who is admitted as a partner into an existing firm,
     other than a limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership,
     does not by that admission alone become liable for anything done
     before the person became a partner.
     (2) A person who is admitted as a general partner into an existing
     limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership does not by
     that admission alone become liable for anything done before the
     person became a general partner.
     (3) A partner who retires from a firm, other than a limited
     partnership or incorporated limited partnership, does not by that
     retirement alone cease to be liable for partnership debts and
     obligations incurred before the partner’s retirement.
     (4) A partner who retires from a limited partnership or incorporated
     limited partnership does not by that retirement alone cease to be
     liable for liabilities of the firm incurred before the partner’s
     retirement for which the partner was liable.
     (5) A retiring partner in a firm, other than a limited partnership or
     incorporated limited partnership, may be discharged from any existing
     liabilities by an agreement to that effect between the partner and
     the members of the firm as newly constituted and the creditors, and
     this agreement may be either expressed or inferred as a fact from the
     course of dealing between the creditors and the firm as newly
     constituted.
     (6) A retiring partner in a limited partnership or incorporated
     limited partnership may be discharged from any existing liabilities
     by an agreement to that effect between the partner and the firm and
     the creditors, and this agreement may be either expressed or inferred
     as a fact from the course of dealing between the creditors and the
     firm.
 
Revocation of continuing guaranty by change in firm
*** 21 Revocation of continuing guaranty by change in firm ***
     (1) A continuing guaranty given either to a firm or to a third person
     in relation to the transactions of a firm is, in the absence of
     agreement to the contrary, revoked as to future transactions by any
     change in the constitution of the firm to which, or of the firm in
     relation to the transactions of which, the guaranty was given.
     (2) This section does not apply in relation to an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 
Variation by consent of terms of partnership
*** 22 Variation by consent of terms of partnership ***
The mutual rights and duties of partners, whether ascertained by agreement or
defined by this Act, may be varied by the consent of all the partners, and that
consent may be either express or inferred from a course of dealing.
 
Partnership property of firms other than incorporated limited partnerships
*** 23 Partnership property of firms other than incorporated limited
partnerships ***
     (1) All property and rights and interests in property originally
     brought into the partnership stock or acquired, whether by purchase
     or otherwise, on account of the firm, or for the purposes and in the
     course of the partnership business (
     "partnership property") must be held and applied by the partners
     exclusively for the purposes of the partnership and in accordance
     with the partnership agreement.
     (2) However, the legal estate or interest in any land which belongs
     to the partnership is to devolve according to the nature and tenure
     of the estate or interest, and the general rules of law applying to
     the estate or interest, but in trust, so far as necessary, for the
     persons beneficially interested in the land under this section.
     (3) If co-owners of an estate or interest in any land not being
     itself partnership property are partners as to profits made by the
     use of that land, and purchase other land out of the profits to be
     used in like manner, the land so purchased belongs to them, in the
     absence of an agreement to the contrary, not as partners, but as co-
     owners for the same respective estates and interests as are held by
     them in the land first mentioned at the date of the purchase.
     (4) This section does not apply in relation to an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 
Partnership property of incorporated limited partnership
*** 23A Partnership property of incorporated limited partnership ***
     (1) All property, and rights and interests in property, acquired,
     whether by purchase or otherwise, on account of an incorporated
     limited partnership, or for the purposes and in the course of the
     business of the partnership, are called in this Act partnership
     property, and must be applied by the partnership exclusively for the
     purposes of the partnership.
     (2) No partner in an incorporated limited partnership, only because
     of being a partner in the partnership, has any legal or beneficial
     interest in its partnership property.
 
Property bought with partnership money
*** 24 Property bought with partnership money ***
Unless the contrary intention appears, property bought with money belonging to
the firm is deemed to have been bought on account of the firm.
 
Conversion into personal estate of land held as partnership property
*** 25 Conversion into personal estate of land held as partnership property ***
     (1) If land has become partnership property, unless the contrary
     intention appears, it is to be treated as between the partners
     (including the representatives of a deceased partner), and also as
     between the representatives of a deceased partner, as personal and
     not real estate.
     (2) This section does not apply in relation to an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 
Procedure against partnership property for a partner’s separate judgment debt
*** 26 Procedure against partnership property for a partner’s separate
judgment debt ***
     (1) An enforcement warrant can not issue against any partnership
     property except on a judgment against the firm.
     (2) The court may, on the application of any judgment creditor of a
     partner, make an order charging that partner’s interest in the
     partnership property and profits with payment of the amount of the
     judgment debt and interest on the judgment debt, and may by the same
     or a subsequent order appoint a receiver of that partner’s share of
     profits (whether already declared or accruing), and of any other
     money which may be coming to the partner in relation to the
     partnership, and direct all accounts and inquiries, and give all
     other orders and directions which might have been directed or given
     if the charge had been made in favour of the judgment creditor by the
     partner, or which the circumstances of the case may require.
     (3) The other partner or partners are at liberty at any time to
     redeem the interest charged, or in case of a sale being directed, to
     purchase the same.
     (4) Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply in relation to an
     incorporated limited partnership.
 
Rules as to interests and duties of partners subject to special agreement
*** 27 Rules as to interests and duties of partners subject to special
agreement ***
     (1) The interests of partners in the partnership property and their
     rights and duties in relation to the partnership must be decided,
     subject to any agreement express or implied between the partners, by
     the following rules—
          (a) all the partners are entitled to share equally in the
          capital and profits of the business, and must contribute
          equally towards the losses whether of capital or otherwise
          sustained by the firm;
          (b) the firm must indemnify every partner in relation to
          payments made and personal liabilities incurred by the
          partner—
               (i) in the ordinary and proper conduct of the
               business of the firm; or
               (ii) in or about anything necessarily done for
               the preservation of the business or property of
               the firm;
          (c) a partner making for the purpose of the partnership,
          any actual payment or advance beyond the amount of capital
          which the partner has agreed to subscribe, is entitled to
          interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of the
          payment or advance;
          (d) a partner is not entitled, before the ascertainment of
          profits, to interest on the capital subscribed by the
          partner;
          (e) every partner may take part in the management of the
          partnership business;
          (f) no partner is entitled to remuneration for acting in
          the partnership business;
          (g) no person may be introduced as a partner without the
          consent of all existing partners;
          (h) any difference arising as to ordinary matters connected
          with the partnership business may be decided by a majority
          of the partners, but no change may be made in the nature of
          the partnership business without the consent of all
          existing partners;
          (i) the partnership books are to be kept at the place of
          business of the partnership (or the principal place, if
          there is more than 1), and every partner may, if the
          partner thinks fit, have access to and inspect and copy any
          of them.
     (2) This section does not apply in relation to an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 
Expulsion of partner
*** 28 Expulsion of partner ***
A majority of the partners can not expel a partner unless a power to do so has
been conferred by express agreement between the partners.
 
Retirement from partnership at will
*** 29 Retirement from partnership at will ***
     (1) If no fixed term has been agreed upon for the duration of the
     partnership, any partner may determine the partnership at any time on
     giving notice of the partner’s intention so to do to all the other
     partners.
     (2) If the partnership has originally been constituted by deed, a
     notice in writing, signed by the partner giving it, is sufficient for
     this purpose.
     (3) This section does not apply in relation to an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 
If partnership for term is continued over, continuance on old terms presumed
*** 30 If partnership for term is continued over, continuance on old terms
presumed ***
     (1) If a partnership entered into for a fixed term is continued after
     the term has expired, and without any express new agreement, the
     rights and duties of the partners remain the same as they were at the
     expiration of the term, so far as is consistent with the incidents of
     a partnership at will.
     (2) A continuance of the business by the partners or those of them
     who habitually acted in the business during the term, without any
     settlement or liquidation of the partnership affairs, is presumed to
     be a continuance of the partnership.
     (3) This section does not apply in relation to an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 
Duty of partners to render accounts etc.
*** 31 Duty of partners to render accounts etc. ***
     (1) Partners in a firm, other than an incorporated limited
     partnership, are bound to render true accounts and full information
     of all things affecting the partnership to any partner or his or her
     legal representatives.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership is, subject to the
     partnership agreement, bound to render true accounts and full
     information of all things affecting the partnership to any partner or
     the partner’s legal representatives.
 
Accountability of partners for private profits
*** 32 Accountability of partners for private profits ***
     (1) Every partner must account to the firm for any benefit derived by
     the partner without the consent of the other partners from any
     transaction concerning the partnership, or from any use by the
     partner of the partnership property name or business connection.
     (2) This section applies also to transactions undertaken after a
     partnership has been dissolved by the death of a partner, and before
     the affairs of the partnership have been completely wound up, either
     by any surviving partner or by the representatives of the deceased
     partner.
     (3) This section does not apply in relation to an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 
Duty of partner not to compete with firm
*** 33 Duty of partner not to compete with firm ***
     (1) If a partner, without the consent of the other partners, carries
     on any business of the same nature as and competing with that of the
     firm, the partner must account for and pay over to the firm all
     profits made by him or her in that business.
     (2) This section does not apply in relation to an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 
Rights of assignee of share in partnership
*** 34 Rights of assignee of share in partnership ***
     (1) An assignment by any partner of his or her share in the
     partnership, either absolute or by way of mortgage or redeemable
     charge, does not, as against the other partners, entitle the
     assignee, during the continuance of the partnership, to interfere in
     the management or administration of the partnership business or
     affairs, or to require any accounts of the partnership transactions,
     or to inspect the partnership books, but entitles the assignee only
     to receive the share of profits to which the assigning partner would
     otherwise be entitled, and the assignee must, except in case of
     fraud, accept the account of profits agreed to by the partners.
     (2) In case of a dissolution of the partnership, whether in relation
     to all the partners or in relation to the assigning partner, the
     assignee is entitled to receive the share of the partnership assets
     to which the assigning partner is entitled as between the assigning
     partner and the other partners, and, for the purpose of ascertaining
     that share, to an account as from the date of the dissolution.
     (3) This section does not apply in relation to an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 
Part does not apply to incorporated limited partnerships
*** 34A Part does not apply to incorporated limited partnerships ***
This part does not apply in relation to an incorporated limited partnership.
 
Dissolution by expiration or notice
*** 35 Dissolution by expiration or notice ***
     (1) Subject to any agreement between the partners, a partnership is
     dissolved—
          (a) if entered into for a fixed term—by the expiration of
          that term;
          (b) if entered into for a single adventure or
          undertaking—by the termination of that adventure or
          undertaking;
          (c) if entered into for an undefined time—by any partner
          giving notice to the other or others of the partner’s
          intention to dissolve the partnership.
     (2) In the last mentioned case the partnership is dissolved as from
     the date mentioned in the notice as the date of dissolution, or, if
     no date is so mentioned, as from the date of the communication of the
     notice.
 
Dissolution by insolvency, death, or charge
*** 36 Dissolution by insolvency, death, or charge ***
     (1) Subject to any agreement between the partners, every partnership
     is dissolved as regards all the partners by the death or insolvency
     of any partner.
     (2) A partnership may, at the option of the other partners, be
     dissolved if any partner suffers his or her share of the partnership
     property to be charged under this Act for the partner’s separate
     debt.
 
Dissolution by illegality of partnership
*** 37 Dissolution by illegality of partnership ***
A partnership is in every case dissolved by the happening of any event which
makes it unlawful for the business of the firm to be carried on or for the
members of the firm to carry it on in partnership.
 
Dissolution by the court
*** 38 Dissolution by the court ***
On application by a partner the court may decree a dissolution of the
partnership in any of the following cases—
     (a) if a partner is shown to the satisfaction of the court to be of
     permanently unsound mind, in which case the application may be made
     as well on behalf of that partner by his or her committee or next
     friend or person having title to intervene as by any other partner;
     (b) if a partner, other than the partner suing, becomes in any other
     way permanently incapable of performing his or her part of the
     partnership contract;
     (c) if a partner, other than the partner suing, has been guilty of
     conduct that, in the opinion of the court, regard being had to the
     nature of the business, is calculated to prejudicially affect the
     carrying on of the business;
     (d) if a partner, other than the partner suing, wilfully or
     persistently commits a breach of the partnership agreement, or
     otherwise so conducts himself or herself in matters relating to the
     partnership business that it is not reasonably practicable for the
     other partner or partners to carry on the business in partnership
     with the partner;
     (e) if the business of the partnership can only be carried on at a
     loss;
     (f) if in any case circumstances have arisen which, in the opinion of
     the court, render it just and equitable that the partnership be
     dissolved.
 
Rights of persons dealing with firm against apparent members of firm
*** 39 Rights of persons dealing with firm against apparent members of firm ***
     (1) If a person deals with a firm after a change in its constitution
     the person is entitled to treat all apparent members of the old firm
     as still being members of the firm until the person has notice of the
     change.
     (2) An advertisement in the gazette is notice to persons who have not
     had dealings with the firm before the date of the dissolution or
     change so advertised.
     (3) The estate of a partner who dies or who becomes insolvent, or of
     a partner who, not having been known to the person dealing with the
     firm to be a partner, retires from the firm, is not liable for
     partnership debts contracted after the date of the death, insolvency,
     or retirement respectively.
 
Right of partners to notify dissolution
*** 40 Right of partners to notify dissolution ***
On the dissolution of a partnership or retirement of a partner any partner may
publicly notify the same, and may require the other partner or partners to
concur for that purpose in all necessary or proper acts (if any) which can not
be done without his, her or their concurrence.
 
Continuing authority of partners for purposes of winding up
*** 41 Continuing authority of partners for purposes of winding up ***
     (1) After the dissolution of a partnership the authority of each
     partner to bind the firm, and the other rights and obligations of the
     partners, continue notwithstanding the dissolution so far as may be
     necessary to wind up the affairs of the partnership, and to complete
     transactions begun but unfinished at the time of the dissolution, but
     not otherwise.
     (2) However, the firm is in no case bound by the acts of a partner
     who has become insolvent, but this subsection does not affect the
     liability of any person who has after the insolvency represented
     himself or herself or knowingly suffered himself or herself to be
     represented as a partner of the insolvent.
 
Rights of partners as to application of partnership property
*** 42 Rights of partners as to application of partnership property ***
On the dissolution of a partnership every partner is entitled, as against the
other partners in the firm, and all persons claiming through them in relation
to their interests as partners, to have the property of the partnership applied
in payment of the debts and liabilities of the firm, and to have the surplus
assets after that payment applied in payment of what may be due to the partners
respectively after deducting what may be due from them as partners to the firm,
and for that purpose any partner or his or her representatives may on the
termination of the partnership apply to the court to wind up the business and
affairs of the firm.
 
Apportionment of premium if partnership prematurely dissolved
*** 43 Apportionment of premium if partnership prematurely dissolved ***
If one partner has paid a premium to another on entering into a partnership for
a fixed term, and the partnership is dissolved before the expiration of that
term otherwise than by the death of a partner, the court may order that
repayment of the premium, or of such part of the premium as it thinks just,
having regard to the terms of the partnership contract and to the length of
time during which the partnership has continued, unless—
     (a) the dissolution is, in the judgment of the court, wholly or
     chiefly due to the misconduct of the partner who paid the premium; or
     (b) the partnership has been dissolved by an agreement containing no
     provision for a return of any part of the premium.
 
Rights if partnership dissolved for fraud or misrepresentation
*** 44 Rights if partnership dissolved for fraud or misrepresentation ***
If a partnership contract is rescinded on the ground of the fraud or
misrepresentation of one of the parties to the partnership contract, the party
entitled to rescind is, without prejudice to any other right, entitled—
     (a) to a lien on, or right of retention of, the surplus of the
     partnership assets, after satisfying the partnership liabilities, for
     any sum of money paid by the party for the purchase of a share in the
     partnership and for any capital contributed by the party; and
     (b) to stand in the place of the creditors of the firm for any
     payments made by the party in relation to the partnership
     liabilities; and
     (c) to be indemnified by the person guilty of the fraud or making the
     representation against all the debts and liabilities of the firm.
 
Right of outgoing partner in certain cases to share profits made after
dissolution
*** 45 Right of outgoing partner in certain cases to share profits made after
dissolution ***
     (1) If any member of a firm has died or otherwise ceased to be a
     partner, and the surviving or continuing partners carry on the
     business of the firm with its capital or assets without any final
     settlement of accounts as between the firm and the outgoing partner
     or the partner’s estate, then, in the absence of any agreement to
     the contrary, the outgoing partner or the partner’s estate is
     entitled at the option of the partner or the partner’s
     representatives to such share of the profits made since the
     dissolution as the court may find to be attributable to the use of
     the partner’s share of the partnership assets, or to interest at
     the rate of 5% per annum on the amount of the partner’s share of
     the partnership assets.
     (2) However, if by the partnership contract an option is given to
     surviving or continuing partners to purchase the interest of a
     deceased or outgoing partner, and that option is duly exercised, the
     estate of the deceased partner, or the outgoing partner or the
     partner’s estate, as the case may be, is not entitled to any
     further or other share of profits, but if any partner assuming to act
     in exercise of the option does not in all material respects comply
     with the terms of the option, the partner is liable to account under
     subsection (1).
 
Retiring or deceased partner’s share to be a debt
*** 46 Retiring or deceased partner’s share to be a debt ***
Subject to any agreement between the partners, the amount due from surviving or
continuing partners to an outgoing partner or the representatives of a deceased
partner in relation to the outgoing or deceased partner’s share is a debt
accruing at the date of the dissolution or death.
 
Rule for distribution of assets on final settlement of accounts
*** 47 Rule for distribution of assets on final settlement of accounts ***
In settling accounts between the partners after a dissolution of partnership,
the following rules are, subject to any agreement, to be observed—
     (a) losses, including losses and deficiencies of capital, are to be
     paid first out of profits, next out of capital, and lastly, if
     necessary, by the partners individually in the proportion in which
     they were entitled to share profits;
     (b) the assets of the firm including the sums (if any) contributed by
     the partners to make up losses or deficiencies of capital, are to be
     applied in the following manner and order—
          (i) in paying the debts and liabilities of the firm to
          persons who are not partners in the firm;
          (ii) in paying to each partner rateably what is due from
          the firm to each partner for advances as distinguished from
          capital;
          (iii) in paying to each partner rateably what is due from
          the firm to each partner in relation to capital;
          (iv) the ultimate residue (if any) is to be divided among
          the partners in the proportion in which profits are
          divisible.
 
Definitions for ch 3
*** 48 Definitions for ch 3 ***
In this chapter—

"departure", in relation to a partner, means death, dissolution of a corporate
person, insolvency or retirement.

"general partner"...

"insolvency" means bankruptcy in relation to a partner who is an individual and
an equivalent condition in relation to a partner who is a corporate person.

"liability"...

"limited partner"...

"limited partnership"...

"register" means the register kept by the chief executive under section 51.

"registrar"...
 
What is a limited partnership
*** 49 What is a limited partnership ***
     (1) A limited partnership is a partnership, other than an
     incorporated limited partnership—
          (a) that exists between 2 or more persons of whom 1 or more
          is or are a general partner or general partners and 1 or
          more is or are a limited partner or limited partners; and
          (b) that is formed under this chapter.
     (2) A corporate person may be a general partner or a limited partner
     in a limited partnership.
 
How formed
*** 50 How formed ***
     (1) A limited partnership is formed upon registration in the office
     of the chief executive of a statement in the approved form signed by
     each person who is to be a partner in the partnership and payment to
     the chief executive of the prescribed fee.
     (2) A statement referred to in subsection (1) must contain the
     following particulars—
          (a) the firm-name;
          (b) the full address in Queensland of the registered office
          of the firm;
          (c) the full name and address of each partner;
          (d) a statement that the partnership is to be a limited
          partnership;
          (e) a statement in relation to each limited partner to the
          effect that he or she is a limited partner whose liability
          to contribute is limited to the extent of an amount of
          money stated in the statement;
          (f) any other particulars prescribed by regulation.
     (3) A reference in subsection (2) to the address of a partner
     means—
          (a) in the case of an individual—the individual’s
          principal place of residence;
          (b) in the case of a corporate person—its registered
          office or principal place of business.
 
Register—proof of registration
*** 51 Register—proof of registration ***
     (1) The chief executive must keep a register of all limited
     partnerships.
     (2) The register may be kept in any form the chief executive
     considers appropriate that allows it to be inspected at an office of
     a department at Brisbane during normal office hours.
     (3) The chief executive must, upon registration of a statement
     referred to in section 50, and may, afterwards, issue a certificate
     in the approved form as to the formation and composition at any time
     of the limited partnership to which the statement relates.
     (4) A certificate issued under subsection (3) —
          (a) is conclusive evidence that the limited partnership to
          which it refers was formed on the date of registration
          referred to in the certificate; and
          (b) is evidence and, in the absence of evidence to the
          contrary, conclusive evidence that the partnership to which
          it refers consists or consisted of the general partners and
          limited partners named in the certificate as general
          partners or limited partners.
 
Registration of changes in limited partnership
*** 52 Registration of changes in limited partnership ***
     (1) Upon receipt by the chief executive of a notice of change in the
     approved form and payment of the prescribed fee the chief executive
     must record in the register for the limited partnership concerned a
     change—
          (a) in the firm-name; or
          (b) in the registered office of the firm; or
          (c) consisting in the departure from or admission to the
          partnership of a partner; or
          (d) in the name or address of a partner in the partnership;
          or
          (e) in the liability of a partner because of his or her
          becoming a limited partner instead of a general partner or
          a general partner instead of a limited partner or because
          of an alteration in the amount that the partner is liable
          to contribute as a limited partner; or
          (f) in any particular referred to in section 50 (2) (f).
     (2) If a result of a change notified to the chief executive would be
     that the partnership concerned would be so constituted as not to be
     capable of being a limited partnership, the chief executive must not
     record the change in the register, despite subsection (1).
     (3) A notice referred to in subsection (1) must be signed and
     given—
          (a) by or on behalf of all those who are or will be
          partners in the partnership after the change takes effect,
          if the change involves the departure or admission of a
          partner or the alteration of the extent to which a partner
          is liable to contribute; or
          (b) by or on behalf of all the general partners in the
          partnership at the time the change takes effect, in any
          case other than one referred to in paragraph (a).
     (4) A notice under subsection (1) that relates to the admission of a
     limited partner to the partnership must contain a statement to the
     effect that the person admitted is a limited partner whose liability
     to contribute is limited to the extent of an amount of money stated
     in the statement.
     (5) Despite the happening of any change in relation to a limited
     partnership that the chief executive may record in the register (upon
     notice of the change) under subsection (1) —
          (a) this Act continues to apply to the partnership as a
          limited partnership; and
          (b) a continuing partner shown on the register as a limited
          partner continues to be a limited partner as so registered.
     (6) If a change of which notice may be given under subsection (1)
     involves the admission of a limited partner to a partnership or an
     alteration to the extent to which a partner in the partnership is
     liable to contribute, being a change arising from agreement between
     the partners, the change can not take effect until notice of the
     change has been given under subsection (1) to the chief executive and
     the chief executive has recorded the change in the register.
     (7) Despite the departure of a person as a partner from a limited
     partnership the partner and the partner’s estate are liable as if
     that departure had not happened for liabilities incurred by the
     partnership after the partner’s departure unless and until notice
     of the departure has been given to the chief executive under
     subsection (1) for recording in the register.
     (7A) Subsection (7) does not apply in relation to liabilities
     incurred in dealings with a person who has notice of the departure.
     (8) Subject to the terms of any agreement between the partners in a
     limited partnership, the general partners in the partnership are
     authorised to give any notice under this section on behalf of all the
     partners.
 
Liability of limited partner
*** 53 Liability of limited partner ***
     (1) A limited partner in a limited partnership is liable to
     contribute towards the liabilities of the firm but so as not to
     exceed the amount shown in relation to that limited partner in the
     register as the extent to which that limited partner is liable to
     contribute or the part of that amount that remains unpaid.
     (2) Subject to subsection (1), the liability of a limited partner in
     a limited partnership to contribute is that of a partner in a
     partnership that is not a limited partnership.
 
Liability for limited partnerships formed under corresponding laws
*** 54 Liability for limited partnerships formed under corresponding laws ***
     (1) In this section—

     "corresponding law" means a law of another State, a Territory or a
     foreign country that is declared by regulation to be a corresponding
     law for the purposes of this chapter.

     "limited partner", in a recognised limited partnership, means a
     partner in the partnership whose liability is limited under the
     corresponding law applying to the partnership.

     "recognised limited partnership" means a partnership formed under a
     corresponding law.
     (2) A limitation under a corresponding law on the liability of a
     limited partner in a recognised limited partnership extends to any
     liability incurred in connection with the conduct of the
     partnership’s business in this State.
     (3) The law of another State or a Territory may be declared to be a
     corresponding law only if the Governor in Council is satisfied—
          (a) that the law is similar to this chapter; and
          (b) that under the law the limitation of liability of
          limited partners in a limited partnership formed under this
          chapter extends to any liability incurred in connection
          with the conduct of the partnership’s business in the
          State or Territory.
     (4) The law of a foreign country may be declared to be a
     corresponding law only if the Governor in Council is satisfied that
     the law provides for the limitation of liability for partners or
     certain partners in certain partnerships.
 
Provisions concerning limited partner’s contribution
*** 55 Provisions concerning limited partner’s contribution ***
     (1) Any contribution made by a limited partner in a limited
     partnership towards the discharge of liabilities of the firm must be
     in the form of money only.
     (1A) Any contribution made by a limited partner in a limited
     partnership towards the discharge of liabilities of the firm made
     otherwise than in money must not be taken to reduce the limited
     partner’s liability under section 53 (1).
     (2) If a limited partner in a limited partnership has paid
     contribution, whether or not towards the discharge of liabilities of
     the firm, and has drawn out or received back any part of the amount
     of the contribution, the amount so drawn out or received must be
     treated as part of the amount referred to in section 53 (1) remaining
     unpaid.
 
Use of descriptive words in name
*** 56 Use of descriptive words in name ***
     (1) Every business document issued on behalf of a limited partnership
     in connection with the conduct of its business must bear in legible
     characters—
          (a) the firm-name shown in relation to the partnership in
          the register kept by the chief executive under section 51;
          and
          (b) immediately adjacent to the firm-name, the words ‘a
          limited partnership’.
     (2) In subsection (1) —

     "business document" means any letter, notice, publication, offer,
     contract, order for goods or services, invoice, bill of exchange,
     promissory note, cheque, negotiable instrument, endorsement, letter
     of credit, receipt or statement of account.
 
Liability for contravention of s 56
*** 57 Liability for contravention of s 56 ***
     (1) A person who issues a document to which section 56 applies that
     does not bear the name and words required by the section commits an
     offence against this Act.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—20 penalty units.
     (2) A partner in a limited partnership who acquiesces in the issue of
     a document to which section 56 applies knowing that the document does
     not bear the name and words required by the section is to be taken to
     have issued the document.
     (3) If a document to which section 56 applies issued in contravention
     of the section bears on its face any indication that it has been
     approved by or issued under the authority of any person, that person
     is to be taken to have issued the document unless the contrary is
     proved.
 
Recovery of loss because breach of s 56
*** 58 Recovery of loss because breach of s 56 ***
If any person suffers loss because a document to which section 56 applies
issued on behalf of a limited partnership did not bear the name or the words
required by the section, the limited partnership and every person who committed
an offence defined in section 57 (1) in relation to the document are jointly
and severally liable to recompense that first person for the loss suffered,
which recompense may be recovered by action in the court as for a debt due and
owing.
 
Registered office
*** 59 Registered office ***
     (1) A limited partnership must keep in Queensland at the place shown
     in the register as the address of the registered office of the
     partnership an office to which all communications with the firm may
     be addressed.
     (2) In the event of default in complying with subsection (1), each
     general partner in the limited partnership concerned commits an
     offence against this Act.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (2) —20 penalty
               units.
 
Incidents of limited partnerships
*** 60 Incidents of limited partnerships ***
     (1) A limited partner in a limited partnership—
          (a) must not take part in the management of the business of
          the partnership; and
          (b) has no power to bind the firm.
     (2) However, the limited partner may, personally or by an agent, at
     any time inspect the books of the firm and examine the state and
     prospects of the business of the partnership, and may advise and
     consult with the other partners on those matters.
     (3) A limited partner must not be regarded as taking part in the
     management of the business of the limited partnership only because
     the limited partner—
          (a) is an employee or an independent contractor of the
          partnership or of a general partner; or
          (b) is an officer of a general partner that is a
          corporation; or
          (c) gives advice to, or for, the limited partnership or a
          general partner—
               (i) as part of the proper exercise of the
               functions arising from the engagement of the
               limited partner in a professional capacity; or
               (ii) arising from business dealings between the
               limited partner and the partnership or a general
               partner; or
          (d) gives a guarantee or indemnity for a debt or obligation
          of the partnership or of a general partner; or
          (e) participates in an action by the limited partners to
          enforce the rights, or safeguard the interests, of the
          limited partners; or
          (f) if authorised by the partnership agreement,
          participates in a general meeting of all the partners; or
          (g) exercises a right mentioned in subsection (2).
     (4) If a limited partner takes part in the management of the business
     of the limited partnership in breach of subsection (1), the limited
     partner is liable for all liabilities of the firm incurred while the
     limited partner does so as if the limited partner were a general
     partner.
     (5) Subject to the terms of any agreement between the partners in a
     limited partnership—
          (a) a difference arising as to ordinary matters connected
          with the firm’s business may be decided by a majority of
          the general partners; and
          (b) a limited partner may, with the consent of the general
          partners, assign the limited partner’s share in the
          partnership and upon the recording of the assignment in the
          register kept by the chief executive under section 51 the
          assignee is to be a limited partner in the assignor’s
          place with all the rights of the assignor; and
          (c) a person may be admitted as a partner in the
          partnership without the consent of any limited partner.
 
Dissolution not available in certain cases
*** 61 Dissolution not available in certain cases ***
     (1) Subject to the terms of any agreement between the partners in a
     limited partnership—
          (a) a limited partner is not entitled to dissolve the
          partnership by notice; and
          (b) the general partners or the other limited partners are
          not entitled to dissolve the partnership because a limited
          partner has suffered the limited partner’s share of the
          partnership property to be charged for the limited
          partner’s separate debt; and
          (c) the departure of a limited partner does not dissolve
          the partnership.
     (2) The fact that a limited partner in a limited partnership is of
     permanently unsound mind is not a ground for dissolution of the
     partnership by the court unless the share and interest of the partner
     in the partnership can not be otherwise ascertained or realised.
 
Cessation of limited partnerships
*** 62 Cessation of limited partnerships ***
A partnership is to cease to be a limited partnership if the partners agree
that they are to carry on the business of the firm otherwise than as a limited
partnership.
 
Registration of dissolution or cessation of limited partnerships
*** 63 Registration of dissolution or cessation of limited partnerships ***
     (1) Upon receipt by the chief executive of a notice in the approved
     form—
          (a) of dissolution of a partnership registered as a limited
          partnership; or
          (b) of cessation of a limited partnership under section 62;
     and, upon payment of the prescribed fee, the chief executive must
     record in the register the fact of the dissolution or cessation
     effective on a date stated in the register in that behalf.
     (2) The date to be stated in the register under subsection (1) must
     be the date shown in the notice to the chief executive as the date on
     which the dissolution or cessation took effect or is to take effect
     or, if no date is shown, the date on which the record is made in the
     register under subsection (1).
 
Winding up by general partners
*** 64 Winding up by general partners ***
If the affairs of a limited partnership are to be wound up by the partners with
a view to its dissolution, the winding up must be carried out by the general
partners unless the court otherwise orders.
 
Legal proceedings
*** 65 Legal proceedings ***
Action by way of execution under or enforcement of a judgment obtained in an
action against a limited partnership sued in its firm-name must not be taken
against the property or person of a limited partner in the partnership except
with the prior leave of the Supreme Court.
 
Duty to notify chief executive of changes
*** 66 Duty to notify chief executive of changes ***
     (1) In the event of—
          (a) a change in the firm-name of a limited partnership; or
          (b) a change in the name or address of a partner in a
          limited partnership; or
          (c) a change that renders false or misleading any
          particular referred to in section 50 (2) (f) shown in the
          register in relation to a limited partnership; or
          (d) a departure of a partner from or an admission of a
          partner to a limited partnership; or
          (e) dissolution of a partnership registered as a limited
          partnership; or
          (f) cessation of a limited partnership under section 62;
     each of the general partners at the time the event happens commits an
     offence against this Act if notice of the event is not given in the
     approved form to the chief executive under section 52 or 63 before
     the expiration of 7 days from the happening of the event.
     (2) An offence against subsection (1) is to be taken to continue
     until the notice in question is given to the chief executive.
     (3) Proceedings for a continuing offence under this section may be
     taken from time to time.
     (4) A matter of complaint for a continuing offence under this section
     may be for 1 day or more than 1 day of its happening.
     (5) A person who commits an offence against subsection (1) is
     liable—
          (a) for the failure to give the notice in question before
          the expiration of the 7 days from the happening of the
          event of which notice is required—to a maximum penalty of
          20 penalty units; and
          (b) for each day during which the offence continues—to a
          maximum penalty of 1 penalty unit.
     (6) If a corporate person commits an offence against subsection (1),
     each director or member of the governing body of the corporate person
     is to be taken also to have committed the offence and is liable to be
     proceeded against and punished accordingly.
 
Chief executive may accept and record notices given by person registered as a
partner
*** 67 Chief executive may accept and record notices given by person registered
as a partner ***
Upon receipt by the chief executive of a notice in writing given by a person
shown on the register as a partner in a limited partnership of the happening of
an event affecting the partnership, in relation to which event the chief
executive may amend the register upon notice given to the chief executive under
section 52 or 63, the chief executive must record in the register that the
notice has been received and the tenor of the notice.
 
Chief executive’s power to cancel limited partnership’s registration
*** 68 Chief executive’s power to cancel limited partnership’s registration
***
     (1) This section applies if the chief executive reasonably believes
     that a limited partnership has ceased to exist because the
     partnership’s business is not being carried on in the State under
     the partnership’s firm-name, or by the partners, stated in the
     register.
     (2) The chief executive may, by written notice given to the person
     registered as the partnership’s general partner and to the
     partnership at its registered office stated in the register—
          (a) ask whether the partnership still exists; and
          (b) ask for documentary proof of its existence or non-
          existence.
     (3) The notice must state that the chief executive may cancel the
     partnership’s registration unless the chief executive is satisfied,
     within 1 month after the date of the notice, that the partnership
     still exists.
     (4) The chief executive must also, by public notice, notify the chief
     executive’s intention to cancel the registration unless the chief
     executive is satisfied, by the day that is 1 month after the date of
     the notice mentioned in subsection (2), that the limited partnership
     still exists.
     (5) If the chief executive is not satisfied within 1 month after the
     date of the notice mentioned in subsection (2) that the partnership
     still exists, the chief executive may cancel the registration.
     (6) If the chief executive cancels the registration, the chief
     executive must give written notice of the cancellation—
          (a) to the person registered as the partnership’s general
          partner and to the partnership at its registered office
          stated in the register; and
          (b) by public notice.
     (7) In this section—

     "public notice" means a notice in a newspaper circulating throughout
     the State.
 
Chief executive’s power to revoke cancellation of registration
*** 69 Chief executive’s power to revoke cancellation of registration ***
     (1) If, for any reason, the chief executive reasonably believes it is
     appropriate, the chief executive may revoke the cancellation of a
     registration made under section 68.
     (2) If a cancellation is revoked under this section, the registration
     is taken not to have been cancelled.
 
Definitions for ch 4
*** 70 Definitions for ch 4 ***
In this chapter—

"AFOF" means an AFOF within the meaning of the Venture Capital Act 2002
(Cwlth).

"ESVCLP" means an ESVCLP within the meaning of the Venture Capital Act 2002
(Cwlth).

"fee" includes tax.

"person" includes a partnership.

"register" means the register of incorporated limited partnerships kept under
section 78.

"special resolution", in relation to the limited partners, means a resolution
that has been passed by at least 75% of the limited partners.

"VCLP" means a VCLP within the meaning of the Venture Capital Act 2002 (Cwlth).

"VCMP" means a venture capital management partnership.

"venture capital management partnership" means a venture capital management
partnership within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cwlth),
section 94D (3).
 
Partnership is formed on registration
*** 71 Partnership is formed on registration ***
An incorporated limited partnership is formed on registration under this
chapter.
 
Partnership is separate legal entity
*** 72 Partnership is separate legal entity ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership—
          (a) is a body corporate with legal personality separate
          from that of the partners in it and with perpetual
          succession; and
          (b) may have a common seal; and
          (c) may sue and be sued in its firm-name.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership’s common seal must be kept
     in the custody of a person nominated by the partnership and may be
     used only as authorised by the partnership.
 
Partners in an incorporated limited partnership
*** 73 Partners in an incorporated limited partnership ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership must have—
          (a) at least 1 general partner but no more than 20 general
          partners; and
          (b) at least 1 limited partner.
          Note—
               There is no limit on the number of limited
               partners.
     (2) Any of the following may be a general partner or a limited
     partner—
          (a) an individual;
          (b) a partnership;
          (c) a body corporate.
     (3) For subsection (1) (a), if a general partner is a partnership and
     no partner in the partnership has, under the relevant law, limited
     liability, the number of partners in the partnership is to be
     counted.
     (4) Also for subsection (1) (a), if a general partner is a
     partnership and any partner in the partnership has, under the
     relevant law, limited liability—
          (a) the number of partners in the partnership who do not
          have limited liability is to be counted; and
          (b) the number of partners in the partnership who do have
          limited liability is not to be counted.
     (5) In this section—

     "limited liability" means limited liability for the liabilities of
     the partnership.

     "relevant law", for a partnership, means the law of the place where
     the partnership is formed.
 
Partnership agreement
*** 74 Partnership agreement ***
     (1) A written partnership agreement between the partners in an
     incorporated limited partnership must be in force at all times.
     (2) A partnership agreement also has effect as a contract between the
     incorporated limited partnership and each partner under which the
     partnership and each partner agree to observe and perform the
     agreement so far as it applies to them.
     (3) Nothing in subsection (2) prevents an incorporated limited
     partnership itself executing a partnership agreement.
     (4) The interests of the partners in an incorporated limited
     partnership and their rights and duties in relation to the
     partnership are, subject to this Act, to be decided in accordance
     with the agreement.
 
Who may apply for registration
*** 75 Who may apply for registration ***
     (1) An application for registration as an incorporated limited
     partnership may be made, in the circumstances described in subsection
     (2), by a partnership or by persons proposing to be the partners in
     the proposed incorporated limited partnership.
     (2) The circumstances are—
          (a) that—
               (i) the partnership is a VCLP, ESVCLP or AFOF; or
               (ii) a general partner in the partnership or a
               proposed general partner in the proposed
               incorporated limited partnership intends to apply
               for registration of the partnership or proposed
               partnership under the Venture Capital Act 2002
               (Cwlth), part 2 as a VCLP, ESVCLP or AFOF; or
          (b) that—
               (i) the partnership is a VCMP; or
               (ii) the partners in the partnership or the
               proposed partners in the proposed incorporated
               limited partnership intend that the partnership
               or proposed partnership will meet the
               requirements set out in the Income Tax Assessment
               Act 1936 (Cwlth), section 94D for recognition as
               a VCMP.
 
How is an application made
*** 76 How is an application made ***
     (1) An application for registration as an incorporated limited
     partnership must—
          (a) be made to the chief executive; and
          (b) be in the approved form signed by each partner or
          proposed partner or someone on the partner’s or proposed
          partner’s behalf; and
          (c) be accompanied by any fee prescribed under a
          regulation.
     (2) Without limiting what the application may include, the
     application must include the following general information—
          (a) the proposed firm-name of the proposed incorporated
          limited partnership;
          (b) the full address of the proposed registered office in
          Queensland of the proposed incorporated limited
          partnership;
          (c) the full name of each partner or proposed partner or,
          if the partner or proposed partner is a partnership, the
          name of the firm or, if the firm does not have a name, the
          full name of each partner in the firm;
          (d) the full address of each partner or proposed partner,
          as follows—
               (i) if the partner or proposed partner is an
               individual—his or her principal place of
               residence;
               (ii) if the partner or proposed partner is a body
               corporate—its registered office or principal
               place of business;
               (iii) if the partner or proposed partner is a
               partnership—its registered office or principal
               place of business.
     (3) The firm-name of the partnership must include at the end as part
     of the firm-name 1 of the following—
          (a) ‘An incorporated limited partnership’;
          (b) ‘L.P.’;
          (c) ‘LP’.
     (4) Also, the application must include, or be accompanied by, the
     following additional information—
          (a) a statement in relation to each partner or proposed
          partner as to whether the partner or proposed partner is,
          or is proposed to be, a general partner or a limited
          partner;
          (b) a statement in relation to each partner or proposed
          partner that is a partnership to the effect that the
          partner or proposed partner is a partnership;
          (c) for an application by a partnership that is a VCLP,
          ESVCLP or an AFOF—evidence of its registration under the
          Venture Capital Act 2002 (Cwlth);
          (d) for an application by persons proposing to be the
          partners in a VCLP, ESVCLP or an AFOF—a statement that
          the persons propose to be the partners in a VCLP, ESVCLP or
          an AFOF;
               Note—
                    Person is defined in section 70 to
                    include a partnership.
     (e) for an application by a partnership that is a VCMP—a statement
     that the partnership is a VCMP;
     (f) for an application by persons proposing to be the partners in a
     VCMP—a statement that the persons propose to be the partners in a
     VCMP;
     (g) anything else prescribed under a regulation.
 
Registration of incorporated limited partnership
*** 77 Registration of incorporated limited partnership ***
     (1) If an application for registration of an incorporated limited
     partnership has been made under section 76, the chief executive may
     register the incorporated limited partnership.
     (2) If the chief executive registers an incorporated limited
     partnership—
          (a) the firm-name of the partnership is its name as
          recorded in the register; and
          (b) the registered office of the partnership is its office
          as recorded in the register.
     (3) An incorporated limited partnership must have as part of its
     firm-name the words ‘An incorporated limited partnership’ or
     ‘L.P.’ or ‘LP’, as recorded in the register, at the end of
     its firm-name.
     (4) However, the chief executive must not record in the register, as
     the firm-name of an incorporated limited partnership, a name that
     would not be available to the incorporated limited partnership for
     registration under the Business Names Registration Act 2011 (Cwlth).
          Notes—
                    1 See the Business Names Registration
                    Act 2011 (Cwlth), section 25 in
                    relation to whether a business name
                    would be available to the entity under
                    that Act.
                    2 The register of incorporated limited
                    partnerships is a notified State/
                    Territory register under the Business
                    Names Registration Act 2011 (Cwlth).
     (5) Subject to subsection (4), registration is effected when the
     chief executive records in the register the details of information
     included in, or accompanying, the application for registration (the
     "registered particulars") that may be prescribed under a regulation.
 
Register of incorporated limited partnerships
*** 78 Register of incorporated limited partnerships ***
     (1) The chief executive must keep a register of incorporated limited
     partnerships registered under this chapter.
     (2) The register may be kept in any form the chief executive
     considers appropriate and may form part of the register of limited
     partnerships kept under section 51.
     (3) The chief executive must make the information recorded in the
     register available for public inspection, on payment of the fee
     prescribed under a regulation, at an office of a department at
     Brisbane during normal office hours.
     (4) The chief executive may, on application or on the chief
     executive’s own initiative, correct any error or omission in the
     register by—
          (a) inserting an entry; or
          (b) amending an entry; or
          (c) omitting an entry;
     if the chief executive decides that the correction is necessary.
     (5) The chief executive must not omit an entry in the register unless
     satisfied that the entire entry was included in error.
 
Changes in registered particulars
*** 79 Changes in registered particulars ***
     (1) If any change happens in relation to the registered particulars
     of an incorporated limited partnership, a statement setting out the
     changed particulars must be given to the chief executive within 7
     days after the change happens.
     (2) The statement must be signed by all the general partners, or by a
     general partner authorised by all the general partners for this
     section.
     (3) The statement must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) contain any particulars required under a regulation;
          and
          (c) be accompanied by the fee prescribed under a
          regulation.
     (4) If subsection (1) is not complied with, each general partner in
     the incorporated limited partnership commits an offence.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (4) —10 penalty
               units.
 
Certificates of registration etc.
*** 80 Certificates of registration etc. ***
     (1) The chief executive, if—
          (a) registering an incorporated limited partnership; or
          (b) recording a change in the registered particulars of an
          incorporated limited partnership; or
          (c) correcting an error or omission in the register in
          relation to an incorporated limited partnership;
     must issue to the general partners a certificate in the approved form
     as to the formation and registered particulars as at that time of the
     incorporated limited partnership.
     (2) The chief executive may, on application accompanied by the fee
     prescribed under a regulation, issue to the applicant a certificate
     in the approved form in relation to an incorporated limited
     partnership as to the formation and registered particulars as at that
     time of the incorporated limited partnership.
     (3) A certificate under this section stating any of the following
     matters is evidence of the matter stated—
          (a) an incorporated limited partnership was formed on the
          date of registration mentioned in the certificate;
          (b) an incorporated limited partnership existed at a time
          mentioned in the certificate;
          (c) named persons were the general partners and limited
          partners in an incorporated limited partnership at a time
          mentioned in the certificate;
          (d) any other particular of an incorporated limited
          partnership mentioned in the certificate was recorded in
          the register at a stated time.
 
Acts preparatory to registration do not constitute partnership
*** 82 Acts preparatory to registration do not constitute partnership ***
Any act done in connection with the making of an application for registration
under this chapter by or for persons proposing to be the partners in a proposed
incorporated limited partnership does not of itself create a partnership
between the persons.
 
Powers of partnership
*** 83 Powers of partnership ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership has the legal capacity and
     powers of an individual and also all the powers of a body corporate
     including, for example, the power, whether within or outside
     Queensland or outside Australia—
          (a) to carry on the business of the partnership; and
          (b) to do all things necessary or convenient to be done in
          connection with the carrying on of the business of the
          partnership including, for example, the power to—
               (i) enter into contracts or otherwise acquire
               rights or liabilities; or
               (ii) create, confer, vary or cancel interests in
               the partnership; or
               (iii) acquire, hold and dispose of real or
               personal property or of an interest, whether
               beneficial or legal, in real or personal
               property; or
               (iv) appoint agents and attorneys, and act as
               agent for other persons; or
               (v) form, and participate in the formation of,
               companies or incorporated limited partnerships;
               or
               (vi) participate in partnerships, trusts,
               unincorporated joint ventures and other
               arrangements for the sharing of profits; or
               (vii) do any other thing it is authorised to do
               by or under this chapter or the partnership
               agreement.
     (2) The powers of an incorporated limited partnership may be limited
     by the partnership agreement.
     (3) If a statement is made under section 76 (4) (d), despite
     subsections (1) and (2), the incorporated limited partnership’s
     powers are limited to carrying on activities related to becoming
     registered as a VCLP, ESVCLP or AFOF until the incorporated limited
     partnership becomes a VCLP, ESVCLP or AFOF.
     (4) If a statement is made under section 76 (4) (f), despite
     subsections (1) and (2), the incorporated limited partnership’s
     powers are limited to carrying on activities related to becoming a
     VCMP until the incorporated limited partnership becomes a VCMP.
 
Relationship of partners to others and between themselves
*** 84 Relationship of partners to others and between themselves ***
     (1) Other than as provided by the partnership agreement or agreed
     between the partners—
          (a) a general partner, the incorporated limited partnership
          or an officer, employee or agent of a general partner or of
          the incorporated limited partnership is not an agent of a
          limited partner; and
          (b) the acts of a general partner or of the incorporated
          limited partnership or of an officer, employee or agent of
          a general partner or of the incorporated limited
          partnership do not bind a limited partner; and
          (c) a limited partner is not an agent of, or a fiduciary
          for—
               (i) a general partner; or
               (ii) another limited partner; or
               (iii) the incorporated limited partnership; and
          (d) the acts of a limited partner do not bind a general
          partner or another limited partner or the incorporated
          limited partnership itself.
     (2) A reference in subsection (1) to a general partner includes, if
     the general partner is a partnership, a partner in that partnership.
     (3) Nothing in subsection (1) stops the making of, or limits or
     restricts, an agreement between 2 partners or between a partner and
     the incorporated limited partnership under which—
          (a) 1 partner acts as an agent of another partner or of the
          partnership and, by so acting, binds the other partner or
          the partnership; or
          (b) the partnership acts as an agent of a partner and, by
          so acting, binds the partner.
     (4) Any consent or authority that under this Act is required or
     permitted to be given by a partner or 2 or more partners or all the
     partners may, in the case of an incorporated limited partnership, be
     given by that partner or those partners by or under the partnership
     agreement either in relation to all cases, or in relation to all
     cases subject to stated exceptions, or in relation to any stated case
     or class of case.
     (5) Subsection (4) does not limit any other way in which a consent or
     authority might be given.
     (6) Any consent or authority that under this Act is required or
     permitted to be given by an incorporated limited partnership may,
     without limiting any other way in which it might be given, be given
     by a general partner or 2 or more general partners acting under the
     partnership agreement.
     (7) A limited partner, as limited partner, is not a proper party to
     any proceeding commenced in a court or tribunal by or against the
     incorporated limited partnership, other than a proceeding commenced
     by the incorporated limited partnership against the limited partner
     or by the limited partner against the incorporated limited
     partnership.
 
Definitions for pt 5
*** 85 Definitions for pt 5 ***
In this part—

"related body corporate" has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations
Act.

"security holder", in relation to a body, whether corporate or unincorporated,
includes a holder of securities (within the meaning of the Corporations Act,
section 92 (3)) in or of the body.
 
Limitation of liability of limited partners
*** 86 Limitation of liability of limited partners ***
     (1) A limited partner has no liability for the liabilities of the
     incorporated limited partnership or of a general partner.
     (2) Nothing in subsection (1) or section 92 or 93 stops—
          (a) a contribution of capital or property made by a limited
          partner to the incorporated limited partnership being used;
          or
          (b) an obligation of a limited partner to contribute
          capital or property to the incorporated limited partnership
          being enforced by any person to whom the obligation is
          owed;
     in satisfaction of a liability of the partnership or of a general
     partner.
     (3) This section is subject to section 87.
 
Limited partner not to take part in the management of the incorporated limited
partnership
*** 87 Limited partner not to take part in the management of the incorporated
limited partnership ***
     (1) A limited partner must not take part in the management of the
     business of the incorporated limited partnership.
     (2) If—
          (a) as a direct result of any wrongful act or omission of a
          limited partner in taking part in the management of the
          business of an incorporated limited partnership, the
          limited partner causes any loss or injury to any person
          other than a partner in the partnership (a
          "third party"); and
          (b) at the time of the act or omission the third party had
          reasonable grounds to believe that the limited partner was
          a general partner in the partnership;
     the limited partner is liable for the loss or injury to the same
     extent that the limited partner would have been liable if the limited
     partner were in fact a general partner in the partnership.
          Note—
               A limited partner is not an agent of an
               incorporated limited partnership and the acts of
               a limited partner do not bind a general partner,
               another limited partner or the partnership
               itself. See section 84 (1).
     (3) A limited partner is not to be regarded as taking part in the
     management of the business of the incorporated limited partnership
     only because the limited partner or a person acting for the limited
     partner—
          (a) is an employee or an independent contractor of the
          partnership or of a general partner or an associate of the
          general partner, or is an officer of a general partner that
          is a body corporate; or
          (b) gives advice to, or for, the partnership or a general
          partner or an associate of the general partner in the
          proper performance of functions arising from—
               (i) the engagement of the limited partner in a
               professional capacity or a person acting on
               behalf of the limited partner in a professional
               capacity; or
               (ii) business dealings between the limited
               partner, or a person acting on behalf of the
               limited partner, and the partnership or between
               the limited partner and a general partner or an
               associate of the general partner; or
          (c) gives a guarantee or indemnity in relation to any
          liability of the partnership or of a general partner or an
          associate of the general partner; or
          (d) takes any action, or participates in any action taken
          by any other limited partner, for the purpose of enforcing
          the rights, or safeguarding the interests, of the limited
          partner as a limited partner; or
          (e) if permitted by the partnership agreement—
               (i) calls, requisitions, convenes, chairs,
               participates in, postpones, adjourns or makes a
               record of a meeting of the partners or of the
               limited partners or of any of them; or
               (ii) whether at the meeting or in writing or
               otherwise, requisitions, formulates, signs,
               approves, disapproves, proposes, moves, supports,
               opposes, speaks to or votes on any resolution, or
               an amendment to any resolution of the partners or
               of the limited partners or of any of them; or
          (f) exercises a power conferred on the limited partner by
          subsection (4) or under the partnership agreement or
          otherwise has, or exercises, a right to—
               (i) have access to and inspect the books or
               records of the partnership or copy any of them;
               or
               (ii) examine the state or prospects of the
               business of the partnership or advise, or consult
               with, other partners in relation to the state or
               prospects of the business of the partnership; or
          (g) is or acts as an officer, director, security holder,
          partner, agent, employee or independent contractor of an
          associate of the partnership; or
          (h) gives advice to, or consults with, an associate of the
          partnership; or
          (i) is or acts as a lender to, or fiduciary for, an
          associate of the partnership; or
          (j) to the extent authorised by the partnership agreement,
          participates on, or has or exercises any right to appoint 1
          or more persons to, or remove 1 or more persons from, or to
          nominate 1 or more persons for appointment to or removal
          from, a committee that considers, approves of, consents to
          or disapproves of any 1 or more of the following proposals
          from a general partner—
               (i) a proposal involving a material change in the
               nature of the business of the partnership,
               including a change in, or departure from, any
               investment guidelines, policies or conditions
               relating to the business of the partnership;
               (ii) a proposal for the adoption of a method for
               valuing some or all of the assets of the
               partnership, including a change to, replacement
               of or variation from a method for valuing some or
               all of the assets of the partnership;
               (iii) a proposal for an extension or reduction in
               the period in which, under the partnership
               agreement, investments (or particular types of
               investments) can be made by the partnership, or
               for any approval or disapproval of investments
               that the partnership does not otherwise have a
               right to make;
               (iv) a proposal relating to any actual or
               potential transaction or other matter involving
               any actual or potential conflict of interest;
               (v) a proposal relating to any actual or
               potential transaction, contract, arrangement or
               understanding between 1 or more of the partners,
               or their associates, and the general partner, the
               partnership or any associate of the general
               partner or of the partnership;
               (vi) a proposal for the delegation, waiver,
               release or variation of an authority, right, duty
               or obligation of the general partner;
               (vii) a proposal for the appointment or approval
               under the partnership agreement of any person as
               a senior executive of the general partner or of
               an associate of the general partner; or
          (k) nominates, selects, investigates, evaluates or
          negotiates with any person in connection with the removal
          or replacement of a general partner, or participates on a
          committee that proposes, considers, approves of, consents
          to or disapproves of any nomination, selection,
          appointment, change in control or ownership, suspension,
          replacement or removal of a general partner or an associate
          of a general partner; or
          (l) takes any action, or participates in any action taken
          by any other limited partner, for the purpose of
          registering or maintaining the registration of the
          partnership or a general partner in the partnership under
          the Venture Capital Act 2002 (Cwlth), part 2 as a VCLP,
          ESVCLP or an AFOF.
     (4) Subject to the partnership agreement, a limited partner or a
     person authorised by the limited partner may at any time—
          (a) have access to and inspect the books or records of the
          partnership or copy any of them; and
          (b) examine the state or prospects of the business of the
          partnership and advise, or consult with, other partners in
          relation to the state or prospects of the business of the
          partnership.
     (5) The provisions of this section may not be varied by the
     partnership agreement or with the consent of the partners, whether
     given by or under the partnership agreement or otherwise.
          Note—
               Section 84 (4) enables partners to give consent
               by or under the partnership agreement.
     (6) No implication is to be taken to arise from subsection (3) that a
     limited partner in an incorporated limited partnership is to be
     regarded as taking part in the management of the business of the
     partnership only because the limited partner or a person acting on
     behalf of the partner does any thing in connection with the conduct
     of that business that is not referred to in that subsection.
     (7) For the purposes of this section, a limited partner in an
     incorporated limited partnership that is a VCMP is not to be regarded
     as taking part in the management of the business of the incorporated
     limited partnership only because of any act the limited partner takes
     in relation to the incorporated limited partnership in the capacity
     of a partner or associate of a partner in the VCMP.
     (8) In this section, a reference to a general partner in an
     incorporated limited partnership includes, if the general partner is
     a partnership, a partner in that partnership.
 
Definitions, etc. applicable to s 87
*** 88 Definitions, etc. applicable to s 87 ***
     (1) In section 87 —
          (a) a reference to an associate of a general partner
          includes a reference to—
               (i) if the general partner is a partnership, a
               partner in that partnership (a
               "partner in the general partner"); and
               (ii) any person who has an interest in the
               general partner or in any partner in the general
               partner, whether as security holder, trustee,
               responsible entity, manager, custodian, sub-
               custodian, nominee, administrator, executor,
               legal personal representative, beneficiary or
               otherwise; and
               (iii) any person to whom the general partner or
               any partner in the general partner has delegated
               any power, authority, right, duty or obligation
               of the general partner in relation to the
               partnership or any partnership in which the
               general partner is a general partner; and
               (iv) if the general partner or a partner in the
               general partner or a person covered by
               subparagraph (ii) or (iii) is a body corporate, a
               related body corporate of that body corporate;
               and
               (v) a director, officer, employee, agent,
               representative or security holder of the general
               partner or of any partner in the general partner
               or of a person covered by subparagraph (ii),
               (iii) or (iv); and
          (b) a reference to an associate of a limited partner
          includes a reference to—
               (i) if the limited partner is a partnership, a
               partner in that partnership (a
               "partner in the limited partner"); and
               (ii) any person who has an interest in the
               limited partner or in any partner in the limited
               partner, whether as security holder, trustee,
               responsible entity, manager, custodian, sub-
               custodian, nominee, administrator, executor,
               legal personal representative, beneficiary or
               otherwise; and
               (iii) if the limited partner or a partner in the
               limited partner or a person covered by
               subparagraph (ii) is a body corporate, a related
               body corporate of that body corporate; and
               (iv) a director, officer, employee, agent,
               representative or security holder of the limited
               partner or of any partner in the limited partner
               or of a person covered by subparagraph (ii) or
               (iii); and
          (c) a reference to an associate of an incorporated limited
          partnership includes a reference to—
               (i) any person or partnership in which the
               incorporated limited partnership has an interest,
               whether as security holder or otherwise; and
               (ii) if a person or partnership covered by
               subparagraph (i) is a body corporate, a related
               body corporate of that body corporate.
     (2) In this section, a reference to a general partner in an
     incorporated limited partnership includes, if the general partner is
     a partnership, a partner in that partnership.
 
Differences between partners
*** 89 Differences between partners ***
     (1) A difference arising as to ordinary matters connected with the
     business of an incorporated limited partnership may be decided by a
     majority of the general partners.
     (2) The provision made by subsection (1) may be varied by the
     partnership agreement or with the consent of the partners.
 
Change in partners
*** 90 Change in partners ***
     (1) A limited partner may, with the consent of the general partners
     and the agreement of the transferee, transfer the whole or a part of
     the limited partner’s interest in the incorporated limited
     partnership.
     (2) If the limited partner’s entire interest in the incorporated
     limited partnership is transferred to the 1 transferee, the
     transferee becomes a limited partner in substitution for the
     transferor with all the rights and obligations of the transferor.
     (3) If only a part of the limited partner’s interest in the
     incorporated limited partnership is transferred to a transferee, the
     transferee becomes a limited partner in substitution for the
     transferor in relation to the transferred part and with all the
     rights and obligations of the transferor in relation to that part.
     (4) A person may be admitted as a partner in an incorporated limited
     partnership without the necessity to obtain the consent of any
     limited partner.
     (5) The provision made by subsections (1) to (4) may be varied by the
     partnership agreement or with the consent of the partners.
 
Change in status of partners
*** 91 Change in status of partners ***
     (1) If a general partner becomes a limited partner, the partner
     remains liable for any liability of the incorporated limited
     partnership that arose before the partner became a limited partner to
     the extent that the partnership is unable to satisfy the liability or
     to the greater extent provided by the partnership agreement.
     (2) If a limited partner becomes a general partner, the partner
     remains not liable (subject to section 87 (2)) for any liability of
     the incorporated limited partnership that arose before the partner
     became a general partner.
          Note—
               Section 87 (2) imposes liability in particular
               circumstances on a limited partner who takes part
               in the management of the business of the
               incorporated limited partnership.
 
Liability for conduct or acts outside the State
*** 92 Liability for conduct or acts outside the State ***
A limited partner in an incorporated limited partnership may only be liable for
a liability incurred by the partnership as a result of—
     (a) the conduct of the incorporated limited partnership’s business
     outside the State; or
     (b) acts outside the State of a general partner, a limited partner or
     the incorporated limited partnership or of any officer, employee or
     agent of a general partner or of the incorporated limited
     partnership;
if the limited partner would be so liable if the conduct or acts occurred
within the State.
     Note—
          Section 87 (2) imposes liability in particular
          circumstances on a limited partner who takes part in the
          management of the business of the incorporated limited
          partnership.
 
Recognised incorporated limited partnerships under corresponding laws
*** 93 Recognised incorporated limited partnerships under corresponding laws
***
     (1) A partner in a recognised incorporated limited partnership may
     only be liable for a liability incurred by the partnership as a
     result of—
          (a) the conduct of the recognised incorporated limited
          partnership’s business in this State; or
          (b) the acts in this State of a partner in the recognised
          incorporated limited partnership or of the partnership
          itself or of any officer, employee or agent of a partner in
          the partnership or of the partnership;
     if the partner would be so liable under the corresponding law if the
     conduct or acts happened in the place where the recognised
     incorporated limited partnership was formed.
     (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the Governor in Council may,
     by regulation, declare a law of another State or another country or
     jurisdiction to be a corresponding law for this chapter.
     (3) The law of another State may be declared to be a corresponding
     law only if the Minister is satisfied that under that law a limited
     partner in an incorporated limited partnership formed under this
     chapter and registered or otherwise recognised under that law may
     only be liable for a liability incurred by the partnership as a
     result of—
          (a) the conduct in that State of the business of the
          partnership; or
          (b) the acts in that State of a partner in the partnership
          or of the partnership itself or of any officer, employee or
          agent of a general partner in the partnership or of the
          partnership;
     if the partner would be so liable under this chapter if the conduct
     or acts happened within the State.
     (4) The law of another country or jurisdiction, other than another
     State, may not be declared to be a corresponding law unless the
     Minister is satisfied that that law provides for the limitation of
     liability of particular partners in particular partnerships.
     (5) This section is in addition to, and does not limit, any rule of
     law under which recognition is or may be given to a limitation of
     liability of a partner in a partnership.
     (6) In this section—

     "corresponding law" means—
          (a) a law of another State or of another country or
          jurisdiction that substantially corresponds to this
          chapter; or
          (b) a law declared under subsection (2) to be a
          corresponding law for this chapter.

     "recognised incorporated limited partnership" means a partnership
     formed under a corresponding law.
 
Effect of ss 92 and 93
*** 94 Effect of ss 92 and 93 ***
No implication is to be taken to arise from section 92 or 93 that a limited
partner has any liability, or apart from that section would have any liability,
in connection with conduct of a partnership’s business or acts outside the
State that the limited partner would not have in connection with conduct or
acts within the State.
 
Definition for pt 6
*** 95 Definition for pt 6 ***
In this part—

"assets", in relation to an incorporated limited partnership, means the assets
remaining after satisfaction of the liabilities of the partnership and the
costs, charges and expenses of the winding up.
 
Voluntary winding up
*** 96 Voluntary winding up ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership may be wound up
     voluntarily—
          (a) if the partnership agreement sets out the terms on
          which the partnership may be voluntarily wound up, in
          accordance with the partnership agreement; or
          (b) subject to the partnership agreement, if the limited
          partners so resolve by special resolution.
     (2) On a voluntary winding up of an incorporated limited
     partnership—
          (a) if the partnership agreement sets out how the assets
          are to be dealt with on a voluntary winding up—the assets
          must be dealt with in accordance with the partnership
          agreement; or
          (b) otherwise—the assets are to be distributed among the
          partners in shares that are proportionate to their
          respective contributions of capital or property to the
          partnership.
     (3) Any person aggrieved by the operation of this section in relation
     to the assets of an incorporated limited partnership may apply to the
     Supreme Court.
     (4) On an application under subsection (3), the Supreme Court may
     make any order relating to the disposal of the assets that it
     considers appropriate.
 
Winding up on chief executive’s certificate
*** 97 Winding up on chief executive’s certificate ***
     (1) The chief executive may, by notice given to the incorporated
     limited partnership, require an incorporated limited partnership to
     show good cause why it should not be required to be wound up if the
     chief executive considers—
          (a) that the partnership has ceased to carry on business;
          or
          (b) that, having been registered under this chapter on the
          basis that the partnership is or is intended to be a VCLP,
          ESVCLP or an AFOF—
               (i) the partnership’s registration under the
               Venture Capital Act 2002 (Cwlth), part 2 has been
               revoked; or
               (ii) the partnership has not within 2 years after
               its incorporation become a VCLP, ESVCLP or an
               AFOF; or
          (c) that, having been registered under this chapter on the
          basis that the partnership is or is intended to be a VCMP,
          it has ceased to meet, or has not in the period of 2 years
          after its incorporation met, the requirements set out in
          the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cwlth), section 94D (3)
          for recognition as a VCMP; or
          (d) that none of the partners is a limited partner; or
          (e) that incorporation of the partnership has been obtained
          by mistake or fraud; or
          (f) that the partnership exists for an illegal purpose.
     (2) If, at the end of 28 days after the notice is given under
     subsection (1), the chief executive is satisfied that the
     incorporated limited partnership should be required to be wound up,
     the chief executive may publish in the gazette a certificate as to
     the requirement that the incorporated limited partnership be wound
     up.
     (3) The chief executive must give notice of the publication of the
     certificate to the incorporated limited partnership as soon as
     possible after the publication.
     (4) The chief executive must, as soon as practicable after giving a
     notice to an incorporated limited partnership, record the giving of
     the notice in the register.
     (5) The chief executive must not publish a certificate under
     subsection (2) unless satisfied that good cause has not been shown
     why the incorporated limited partnership should not be required to be
     wound up.
     (6) A notice under subsection (1) or (3) must be given to the
     incorporated limited partnership—
          (a) by being given to the incorporated limited partnership
          at its registered office; or
          (b) if notice can not reasonably be given under paragraph
          (a), by being published in a newspaper circulating
          generally in the State.
 
Review of certificate
*** 98 Review of certificate ***
     (1) A person whose interests are affected by a decision of the chief
     executive to publish a certificate under section 97 (2) may apply to
     the Supreme Court for review of the decision.
     (2) An application under subsection (1) must be made within 28 days
     after the certificate is published.
     (3) The operation of the certificate is suspended on the making of an
     application for review until the application is withdrawn or the
     review is decided.
     (4) In deciding an application for review, the Supreme Court may—
          (a) affirm the decision under review; or
          (b) set aside the decision under review and cancel the
          certificate.
     (5) Nothing in this section stops the chief executive cancelling a
     certificate published under section 97 (2) at any time after an
     application is made under subsection (1).
 
Procedure for winding up on certificate
*** 99 Procedure for winding up on certificate ***
     (1) A winding up of an incorporated limited partnership required on a
     certificate of the chief executive published under section 97 (2) —
          (a) must start—
               (i) no later than the end of 28 days after the
               day on which the certificate is published unless
               an application is made under section 98 (1); or
               (ii) if an application is made under section 98
               (1) and the Supreme Court affirms the decision to
               publish the certificate—no later than 28 days
               after the application is decided; and
          (b) must end by the day stated by the chief executive in a
          notice given to the partnership, not being a day earlier
          than 60 days after the day on which the winding up must be
          so started.
     (2) When the winding up is started, the chief executive may appoint a
     person to be the liquidator of the incorporated limited partnership.
     (3) If the chief executive approves, the liquidator may be a general
     partner in the incorporated limited partnership and need not be a
     registered liquidator under the Corporations Act or give security as
     required under that Act.
     (4) The liquidator must publish notice of his or her appointment in
     the gazette within 10 days after being appointed.
     (5) In relation to the winding up, the liquidator has all the powers
     and duties of a liquidator appointed to wind up a company under the
     Corporations Act.
     (6) Any vacancy occurring in the office of liquidator is to be filled
     by a person appointed by the chief executive.
     (7) The reasonable costs of a winding up required on a certificate of
     the chief executive published under section 97 (2) are payable out of
     the property of the incorporated limited partnership.
 
Distribution of assets on winding up required on chief executive’s
certificate
*** 100 Distribution of assets on winding up required on chief executive’s
certificate ***
     (1) On a winding up of an incorporated limited partnership required
     on a certificate of the chief executive published under section 97
     (2) —
          (a) if the partnership agreement sets out how the assets
          are to be dealt with on a winding up on a certificate of
          the chief executive—the assets must be dealt with in
          accordance with the partnership agreement; or
          (b) otherwise—the assets are to be distributed among the
          partners in shares that are proportionate to their
          respective contributions of capital or property to the
          partnership.
     (2) Any person aggrieved by the operation of this section in relation
     to the assets of an incorporated limited partnership may apply to the
     Supreme Court.
     (3) On an application under subsection (2), the Supreme Court may
     make any order relating to the disposal of the assets that it
     considers appropriate.
 
Application of Corporations Act to winding up
*** 101 Application of Corporations Act to winding up ***
     (1) This section applies to the winding up of an incorporated limited
     partnership, other than a voluntary winding up or a winding up
     required on a certificate of the chief executive published under
     section 97 (2).
     (2) To the extent that the Corporations Act, part 5.7 does not apply,
     the winding up of the incorporated limited partnership is declared to
     be an applied Corporations legislation matter for the purposes of the
     Corporations (Ancillary Provisions) Act 2001, part 3 in relation to
     the provisions of the Corporations Act, part 5.7.
     (3) The Corporations Act, part 5.7 applies as if the incorporated
     limited partnership were a part 5.7 body within the meaning of that
     Act, subject to the following modifications—
          (a) as if the words ‘or in the public interest’ were
          inserted in section 583 (c) (ii) after the words ‘just
          and equitable’;
          (b) as if section 583 (d) were omitted;
          (c) any other modifications (within the meaning of the
          Corporations (Ancillary Provisions) Act 2001, part 3) that
          are prescribed under a regulation.
               Note—
                    The Corporations (Ancillary Provisions)
                    Act 2001, part 3 provides for the
                    application of provisions of the
                    Corporations Act and the ASIC Act, part
                    3 as laws of the State in relation to
                    any matter declared by a law of the
                    State (whether with or without
                    modification) to be an applied
                    Corporations legislation matter for the
                    purposes of that part in relation to
                    those Commonwealth provisions. This
                    does not apply to any provisions that
                    already apply to a matter as a law of
                    the Commonwealth.
     (4) The Australian Securities and Investments Commission may perform
     a function conferred on it under a law applied by subsection (3) —
          (a) under an agreement or arrangement of the kind referred
          to in the ASIC Act, section 11 (8) or (9A)(b); and
          (b) if the Commission is authorised to perform that
          function under section 11 of that Act.
     (5) Unless a function under a law applied by subsection (3) is
     conferred on the Australian Securities and Investments Commission as
     referred to in subsection (4), that law applies as if a reference in
     it to the Commission were a reference to the chief executive.
 
Chief executive to be notified of winding up
*** 102 Chief executive to be notified of winding up ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership must give to the chief
     executive written notice in the approved form of the commencement of
     the winding up of the partnership within 7 days after—
          (a) the passing of a special resolution mentioned in
          section 96 (1) (b); or
          (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply—the commencement of
          the winding up.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership must give to the chief
     executive written notice in the approved form of the completion of
     the winding up of the partnership within 7 days after that
     completion, stating the date on which the winding up was completed.
     (3) The chief executive must, as soon as practicable after receiving
     a notice under subsection (1) or (2), record the receipt of the
     notice in the register.
     (4) If subsection (1) or (2) is not complied with, each general
     partner in the incorporated limited partnership commits an offence.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (4) —10 penalty
               units.
 
Cancellation of registration
*** 103 Cancellation of registration ***
     (1) The chief executive must, by gazette notice, cancel the
     registration of an incorporated limited partnership as soon as
     practicable after the partnership is wound up.
     (2) The chief executive must, as soon as practicable after the
     publication of the gazette notice, record the cancellation of the
     registration in the register.
     (3) An incorporated limited partnership ceases to exist on the
     cancellation of its registration under this chapter.
 
Execution of documents
*** 104 Execution of documents ***
     (1) All courts must take judicial notice of the common seal of an
     incorporated limited partnership affixed to a document and, until the
     contrary is proved, must presume that it was properly affixed.
     (2) Without limiting the ways in which an incorporated limited
     partnership may execute a document, including a deed, an incorporated
     limited partnership may execute a document—
          (a) without using a common seal, whether it has one or not,
          if the document is signed by a general partner; or
          (b) as a deed if the document is expressed to be executed
          as a deed and is executed with the use of a common seal or
          as provided under paragraph (a).
 
Entitlement to make assumptions
*** 105 Entitlement to make assumptions ***
     (1) In relation to dealings with an incorporated limited
     partnership—
          (a) a person is entitled to make the assumptions in section
          106; and
          (b) the incorporated limited partnership is not entitled to
          assert in proceedings in relation to the dealings that any
          of the assumptions are incorrect.
     (2) In relation to dealings with another person who has, or purports
     to have, directly or indirectly acquired title to property from an
     incorporated limited partnership—
          (a) a person is entitled to make the assumptions in section
          106; and
          (b) the incorporated limited partnership and the other
          person are not entitled to assert in proceedings in
          relation to the dealings that any of the assumptions are
          incorrect.
     (3) The assumptions may be made even if a partner or agent of the
     incorporated limited partnership acts fraudulently, or forges a
     document, in connection with the dealings.
     (4) A person is not entitled to make an assumption in section 106 if
     at the time of the dealings the person knew or suspected that the
     assumption was incorrect.
 
Assumptions that can be made under s 105
*** 106 Assumptions that can be made under s 105 ***
     (1) A person may assume that the partnership agreement of the
     incorporated limited partnership has been complied with.
     (2) A person may assume that anyone who appears, from information
     provided by the incorporated limited partnership that is available to
     the public from the register, to be a general partner in the
     incorporated limited partnership—
          (a) is a general partner in the incorporated limited
          partnership; and
          (b) has authority to exercise the powers and perform the
          duties customarily exercised or performed by a general
          partner in an incorporated limited partnership.
     (3) A person may assume that anyone who is held out by the
     incorporated limited partnership to be a general partner in, or an
     agent of, the incorporated limited partnership—
          (a) is a general partner in the incorporated limited
          partnership or has been properly appointed as an agent of
          the incorporated limited partnership; and
          (b) has authority to exercise the powers and perform the
          duties customarily exercised or performed by that kind of
          partner in, or agent of, an incorporated limited
          partnership.
     (4) A person may assume that the general partners in, and agents of,
     the incorporated limited partnership properly perform their duties to
     the incorporated limited partnership.
     (5) A person may assume that a document has been properly executed by
     the incorporated limited partnership if the document appears to have
     been signed under section 104 (2).
     (6) A person may assume that a document has been properly executed by
     the incorporated limited partnership if the incorporated limited
     partnership’s common seal appears to have been affixed to the
     document.
     (7) A person may assume that a general partner in, or agent of, the
     incorporated limited partnership who has authority to issue a
     document or certified copy of a document on its behalf also has
     authority to warrant that the document is genuine or is a true copy.
     (8) Without limiting this section, the assumptions that may be made
     under this section apply for the purposes of this section.
 
Identification of incorporated limited partnerships
*** 107 Identification of incorporated limited partnerships ***
     (1) Any document issued for an incorporated limited partnership in
     connection with the conduct of the partnership’s business must
     contain in legible letters the words ‘An incorporated limited
     partnership’ or ‘L.P.’ or ‘LP’ at the end as part of the
     firm-name of the partnership.
     (2) A person who—
          (a) issues or authorises the issue of a document in
          contravention of this section; or
          (b) being a general partner in the incorporated limited
          partnership concerned—is aware that documents are being
          issued in contravention of this section;
     commits an offence.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—20 penalty units.
     (3) The certificate of registration of an incorporated limited
     partnership must be displayed at all times in a conspicuous position
     at the registered office of the partnership.
     (4) If the certificate of registration is not so displayed, each
     general partner in the incorporated limited partnership commits an
     offence.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (4) —20 penalty
               units.
 
Registered office
*** 108 Registered office ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership must keep in Queensland, at
     the place shown in the register as the address of the registered
     office of the partnership, an office to which all communications with
     the partnership may be addressed.
     (2) A regulation may prescribe the hours during which the registered
     office is to be open and accessible to the public.
     (3) If subsection (1) is not complied with, each general partner in
     the incorporated limited partnership commits an offence.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (3) —10 penalty
               units.
 
Lodgement of certain documents with the chief executive
*** 109 Lodgement of certain documents with the chief executive ***
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership that was registered under
     this chapter on the basis of an intention to become a VCLP, ESVCLP or
     an AFOF must, within 1 month after becoming a VCLP, ESVCLP or an
     AFOF, give to the chief executive a copy of a document evidencing its
     status as a VCLP, ESVCLP or an AFOF.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership that was registered under
     this chapter on the basis of an intention to meet the requirements
     for recognition as a VCMP must, within 1 month after becoming a VCMP,
     give to the chief executive a statement that it is a VCMP.
     (3) If—
          (a) the registration of an incorporated limited partnership
          as a VCLP, ESVCLP or an AFOF under the Venture Capital Act
          2002 (Cwlth), part 2 is revoked; or
          (b) an incorporated limited partnership ceases to be a
          VCMP;
     the incorporated limited partnership must, within 7 days after the
     date on which that revocation took effect or it ceased to be a VCMP,
     give to the chief executive a notice of that revocation or cessation,
     stating the date on which it took effect.
     (4) If an incorporated limited partnership ceases to carry on
     business, the incorporated limited partnership must, as soon as
     practicable, give to the chief executive a notice of the cessation,
     stating the date on which it took effect.
     (5) A copy of a document, a statement or a notice required to be
     given to the chief executive under this section must be accompanied
     by the fee prescribed under a regulation.
     (6) A notice required to be given to the chief executive under this
     section must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) contain any particulars required under a regulation.
     (7) If subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) is not complied with, each
     general partner in the incorporated limited partnership commits an
     offence.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (7) —10 penalty
               units.
 
Duty to give information
*** 110 Duty to give information ***
     (1) For the purpose of monitoring compliance with this chapter or any
     regulation made for the purposes of this chapter, the chief
     executive, may by written notice, require an incorporated limited
     partnership to give the chief executive, within a period stated in
     the notice (being at least 28 days) or within the further period the
     chief executive allows, the information stated in the notice.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership required under subsection (1)
     to give information to the chief executive must, within the period
     stated in the notice or within the further period the chief executive
     allows, give the information, as it is within its power to give, to
     the chief executive unless the incorporated limited partnership has a
     reasonable excuse.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty for subsection (2) —60 penalty
               units.
 
Offences by partnerships and partners
*** 111 Offences by partnerships and partners ***
     (1) If this chapter provides that a general partner, being a
     partnership in an incorporated limited partnership, commits an
     offence, that reference to the person is to be read as a reference
     to—
          (a) each general partner in the partnership; or
          (b) in the case of a partnership in which any partner has
          under the law of the place where it is formed limited
          liability for the liabilities of the partnership—each
          partner in the partnership whose liability is not so
          limited.
     (2) In any proceeding against a partner for an offence against this
     chapter brought in reliance on subsection (1), it is a defence to the
     charge for the partner to prove that the partner took all reasonable
     precautions and exercised proper diligence to avoid the commission of
     the offence.
 
Confidentiality
*** 112 Confidentiality ***
     (1) A person must not disclose information gained by the person in
     the administration of this Act, unless the disclosure is permitted
     under subsection (2).
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—60 penalty units.
     (2) The person may disclose the information to someone else—
          (a) to the extent necessary to perform the person’s
          functions under this Act; or
          (b) to a court or tribunal in the course of a legal
          proceeding; or
          (c) if the disclosure is authorised under this Act or
          another Act; or
          (d) if the disclosure is otherwise required or permitted by
          law; or
          (e) to the extent reasonably required to enable the
          investigation or the enforcement of a law of this State or
          of any other State or of the Commonwealth; or
          (f) with the written authority of the person to whom the
          information relates.
     (3) This section does not limit the Right to Information Act 2009.
 
False or misleading statements
*** 113 False or misleading statements ***
A person must not state anything to the chief executive the person knows is
false or misleading in a material particular.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—60 penalty units.
 
False or misleading documents
*** 114 False or misleading documents ***
     (1) A person must not give to the chief executive a document
     containing information the person knows is false or misleading in a
     material particular.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—60 penalty units.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who, when giving the
     document—
          (a) informs the chief executive, to the best of the
          person’s ability, how it is false or misleading; and
          (b) gives the correct information to the chief executive if
          the person has, or can reasonably obtain, the correct
          information.
 
Delegations
*** 115 Delegations ***
     (1) The chief executive may delegate the chief executive’s powers
     under this Act to an appropriately qualified public service employee.
     (2) In this section—

     "appropriately qualified" includes having the qualifications,
     experience or standing appropriate to the exercise of the power.
          Example of standing—
               a person’s classification in the public service
 
Offences against the Act are summary
*** 116 Offences against the Act are summary ***
     (1) An offence against this Act is a summary offence.
     (2) A proceeding for an offence against this Act must start within
     the later of the following periods to end—
          (a) 1 year after the commission of the offence;
          (b) 6 months after the offence comes to the complainant’s
          knowledge, but within 2 years after the commission of the
          offence.
 
Service of limited partnerships and incorporated limited partnerships
*** 117 Service of limited partnerships and incorporated limited partnerships
***
     (1) Without limiting any other way of serving a document on partners
     in a limited partnership, a document concerning the business of the
     partnership is taken to be properly served on the partners if it is
     left at or sent by post addressed to the registered office of the
     partnership.
     (2) Without limiting any other way of serving documents on an
     incorporated limited partnership, a document concerning the business
     of an incorporated limited partnership may be properly served on the
     partnership if it is left at, or sent by post addressed to, the
     registered office of the incorporated limited partnership.
 
Entries in registers
*** 118 Entries in registers ***
     (1) An entry in the register kept for limited partnerships under
     section 51 of any particular fact concerning a limited partnership,
     including an entry stating the effect of any notice received by the
     chief executive—
          (a) is sufficient notice of the fact or the effect of the
          notice to all persons who afterwards deal with the firm
          concerned; and
          (b) is to have effect, for the purposes of section 39 (2),
          as if it were an advertisement in the gazette.
     (2) An entry in the register kept for incorporated limited
     partnerships under section 78 of any particular fact concerning an
     incorporated limited partnership, including an entry stating the
     effect of any notice received by the chief executive, is sufficient
     notice of the fact or of the effect of the notice to all persons who
     deal with the partnership.
 
Approved forms
*** 119 Approved forms ***
The chief executive may approve forms for use under this Act.
 
Regulation-making power
*** 120 Regulation-making power ***
     (1) The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
     (2) A regulation may prescribe—
          (a) the particulars to be stated in a statement or notice
          filed with the chief executive; or
          (b) matters relating to the keeping of the registered
          office of a limited partnership or an incorporated limited
          partnership; or
          (c) the fees payable under this Act; or
          (d) offences for contraventions of the regulation, and may
          fix a penalty of not more than 20 penalty units for a
          contravention.
 
Saving of rules of equity and common law
*** 121 Saving of rules of equity and common law ***
The rules of equity and of common law applicable to partnership shall continue
in force except so far as they are inconsistent with the express provisions of
this Act.
 
Transitional provision for Tourism, Racing and Fair Trading (Miscellaneous
Provisions) Act 2003
*** 123 Transitional provision for Tourism, Racing and Fair Trading
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2003 ***
Section 13, as in force before the commencement of this section, continues to
apply to an act or omission that happened before the commencement.
 
Continuation of limited partnerships under the Partnership (Limited Liability)
Act
*** 124 Continuation of limited partnerships under the Partnership (Limited
Liability) Act ***
This Act applies to a limited partnership formed, and registered, under the
Partnership (Limited Liability) Act 1988, and in existence immediately before
the repeal of that Act, as if it were a limited partnership formed, and
registered, under chapter 3.
 
Continuation of register under the Partnership (Limited Liability) Act
*** 125 Continuation of register under the Partnership (Limited Liability) Act
***
     (1) The register of limited partnerships as in force under the
     Partnership (Limited Liability) Act 1988 immediately before the
     repeal of that Act is preserved and continued as the register of
     limited partnerships kept by the chief executive under section 51.
     (2) The chief executive may issue a certificate in relation to the
     formation and composition of a limited partnership formed and
     registered before the repeal of the Partnership (Limited Liability)
     Act 1988 and the certificate has effect as a certificate issued under
     section 51(3).
 
Applications under the Partnership (Limited Liability) Act
*** 126 Applications under the Partnership (Limited Liability) Act ***
An application made or notice given to the registrar under the Partnership
(Limited Liability) Act 1988 and not finally dealt with before the repeal of
that Act may be dealt with by the chief executive under this Act.
 
Regulations under Partnership (Limited Liability) Act preserved
*** 127 Regulations under Partnership (Limited Liability) Act preserved ***
     (1) Regulations in force under the Partnership (Limited Liability)
     Act 1988 immediately before the repeal of that Act are taken to have
     been made under this Act and may be amended or repealed accordingly.
     (2) A regulation mentioned in subsection (1) expires on 31 March
     2005.
     (3) Subsection (2) has effect despite the Statutory Instruments Act
     1992, part 7.
 
Prescribed forms under Partnership (Limited Liability) Act
*** 128 Prescribed forms under Partnership (Limited Liability) Act ***
Despite the repeal of the Partnership (Limited Liability) Act 1988, a form
prescribed for use under section 7 (1) or 8 (3) of that Act immediately before
the repeal may continue to be used, with necessary changes, for the purpose for
which it was prescribed for a period of 3 months after the commencement of this
section.
 
Relation between members of any company registered under State Companies Acts
not affected
*** 129 Relation between members of any company registered under State
Companies Acts not affected ***
The relation between members of any company mentioned in section 5(2)(a), as in
force immediately before the commencement of this section, is not a partnership
within the meaning of this Act.
 
Liability
*** 130 Liability ***
The liability of a person arising under this Act as in force before the
commencement of this section is unaffected by the definition
"liability" as inserted by the Partnership and Other Acts Amendment Act 2004.
 
References to Partnership (Limited Liability) Act 1988
*** 131 References to Partnership (Limited Liability) Act 1988 ***
A reference in an Act or document to the Partnership (Limited Liability) Act
1988 may, if the context permits, be taken to be a reference to this Act.
 
- SCHEDULE
*** SCHEDULE Dictionary ***

"AFOF", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"approved form" means a form approved by the chief executive under section 119.

"assets", for chapter 4, part 6, see section 95.

"business" includes every trade, occupation, or profession.

"court" includes every court and judge having jurisdiction in the case.

"departure", in relation to a partner, for chapter 3, see section 48.

"ESVCLP", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"fee", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"firm" see section 4.

"firm-name" —
     (a) of a limited partnership, means the firm-name shown in relation
     to the partnership in the register kept by the chief executive under
     section 51; or
     (b) of a incorporated limited partnership, means the firm-name of the
     partnership recorded in the register kept by the chief executive
     under section 78 (1); or
     (c) of a partnership other that a partnership mentioned in paragraph
     (a) or (b), means the name under which the business of the
     partnership is carried on.

"general partner" —
     (a) of a limited partnership, means a partner in the limited
     partnership who is not a limited partner; or
     (b) of an incorporated limited partnership, means a partner in the
     incorporated limited partnership who is not a limited partner.

"incorporated limited partnership" means a partnership formed under chapter 4.

"insolvency", for chapter 3, see section 48.

"liability" includes a debt, obligation or other liability of any kind,
wherever and however incurred.

"limited partner" —
     (a) of a limited partnership, means a partner in the limited
     partnership whose liability to contribute is limited under chapter 3;
     or
     (b) of an incorporated limited partnership, means a partner in the
     incorporated limited partnership whose liability to contribute is
     limited under chapter 4.

"limited partnership", without reference to an incorporated limited
partnership, means a limited partnership formed under chapter 3.

"partnership property" see section 23 (1).

"person", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"register" —
     (a) for chapter 3, see section 48; or
     (b) for chapter 4, see section 70.

"registered office" —
     (a) of a limited partnership—means the registered office of the
     limited partnership recorded in the register; or
     (b) of an incorporated limited partnership—means the registered
     office of the incorporated limited partnership recorded in the
     register.

"related body corporate", for chapter 4, part 5, see section 85.

"security holder", for chapter 4, part 5, see section 85.

"special resolution", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"VCLP", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"VCMP", for chapter 4, see section 70.

"venture capital management partnership", for chapter 4, see section 70.
