PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
 
 
- As at 13 January 2023
 
- Act 12 of 1892
 
 
 
 
 

TABLE OF PROVISIONS
 

TABLE OF PROVISIONS

PART 1 - PRELIMINARY
1A. Name of Act

1B. Interpretation

1C. Application of laws of partnership to incorporated limited partnerships

PART 2 - PARTNERSHIPS GENERALLY
Division 1 - Nature of partnership
1. Definition of partnership

2. Rules for determining existence of partnership

3. Postponement of rights of persons lending or selling in consideration of
share of profits in case of insolvency

4. Meaning of firms

Division 2 - Relationship of partners to persons dealing with them
5. Power of partner to bind firm

6. Partners bound by acts on behalf of firm

7. Partner using credit of firm for private purposes

8. Effect of notice that firm will not be bound by acts of partner

9. Liability of partner

10. Liability of firm for wrongs

11. Misapplication of money or property received for or in the custody of the
firm

12. Liability for wrongs joint and several

13. Improper employment of trust property for partnership purposes

14. Persons liable by "holding out"

15. Admissions and representations of partners

16. Notice to acting partner to be notice to firm

17. Liabilities of incoming and outgoing partners

18. Revocation of continuing guaranty by change of firm

Division 3 - Relationship between partners
19. Variation by consent of terms of partnership

20. Partnership property of firms other than incorporated limited partnerships

20A. Partnership property of incorporated limited partnership

21. Property bought with partnership money

22. Conversion into personal estate of land held as partnership property

23. Procedure against partnership property for a partner's separate judgment
debt

24. Rules as to the interests and duty of partners other than partners in
incorporated limited partnership subject to special agreement

25. Expulsion of partner

26. Retirement from partnership at will

27. Where partnership for term is continued over, continuance on old terms
presumed

28. Duty of partners to render accounts

29. Accountability of partners for private profits

30. Duty of partner not to compete with firm

31. Rights of assignee of share in partnership

Division 4 - Dissolution of partnership
31A. Division does not apply to incorporated limited partnerships

32. Dissolution by expiration or otherwise

33. Dissolution by bankruptcy, death, or change

34. Dissolution by illegality of partnership

35. Dissolution by the Court

36. Rights of persons dealing with firm against apparent members of firm

37. Right of partners to notify dissolution

38. Continuing authority of partners for purposes of winding-up

39. Rights of partners to application of partnership property

40. Apportionment of premium when partnership prematurely dissolved

41. Rights where partnership dissolved for fraud or misrepresentation

42. Right of outgoing partner in certain cases to share profits made after
dissolution

43. Retiring or deceased partner's share to be a debt

44. Rule for distribution of assets on final settlement of accounts

45. (Repealed)

Division 5 - Miscellaneous provisions
46. Saving for rules of equity and common law

47. Repeal of 30 Vic No 14

48. (Repealed)

PART 3 - LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS AND INCORPORATED LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS
Division 1 - Preliminary
49. Definitions

50. Application of other provisions of this Act

Division 2 - Nature and formation of limited partnership and incorporated
limited partnership
50A. Limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership is formed on
registration

51. Composition of limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership

52. Size of limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership

53. Incorporated limited partnership is separate legal entity

53A. Powers of incorporated limited partnership

53B. Partnership agreement

53C. Relationship of partners in incorporated limited partnership to others and
between themselves

Division 3 - Registration of limited partnerships and incorporated limited
partnerships
53D. Who may apply for registration?

54. Application for registration

55. Registration of limited partnership

55A. Acts preparatory to registration do not constitute partnership

56. Changes in registered particulars

57. Register of Limited Partnerships and Incorporated Limited Partnerships

58. Certificates of registration

59. Application of Business Names Registration Act 2011 of Commonwealth

Division 4 - Limitation of liability of limited partners in limited partnership

60. Liability of limited partner limited to amount shown in Register

61. Change in liability of limited partner

62. Change in status of partners

63. Liability for business conducted outside the State

64. Liability for limited partnerships formed under corresponding laws

64A. Effect of sections 63 and 64

65. Contribution towards discharge of debts etc

66. Limitation on liability may not be varied by partnership agreement etc

Division 4A - Limitation of liability of limited partners in incorporated
limited partnerships
66A. Limitation of liability of limited partners

66B. Change in status of partners

66C. Liability in respect of conduct or acts or omissions outside the State

66D. Incorporated limited partnerships formed under corresponding laws

66E. Effect of sections 66C and 66D

Division 5 - Other modifications of general law of partnership
67. Limited partner not to take part in management of limited partnership

67A. Limited partner not to take part in the management of incorporated limited
partnership

67B. Interpretation of section 67A

68. Differences between partners

69. Change in partners

Division 6 - Dissolution and cessation of limited partnerships and incorporated
limited partnerships
70. Dissolution not available in certain cases

71. Cessation of limited partnerships

72. Registration of dissolution or cessation of limited partnership

73. Winding up by general partners

73A. Winding up of incorporated limited partnerships

Division 7 - Miscellaneous provisions
73B. Execution of documents

73C. Entitlement to make assumptions

73D. Assumptions that may be made under section 73C

73E. Lodgment of certain documents with the Registrar

74. Model limited partnership agreement

75. Identification of limited partnerships and incorporated limited
partnerships

76. Registered office

77. Service

78. Entry in Register constitutes notice

79. Giving false or misleading information

80. Criminal proceedings

80A. Offences by partnerships

80B. Duty to furnish information

81. Regulations

81A. Relationship with Corporations legislation

PART 4 - MISCELLANEOUS
82. Application of amendments

83. Savings, transitional and other provisions

SCHEDULE 1
SCHEDULE 2

 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- LONG TITLE
 
 
An Act to declare and amend the law of Partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 1A
Name of Act
 
 
1A Name of Act
This Act may be cited as the Partnership Act 1892.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 1B
Interpretation
 
 
1B Interpretation
     (1) In this Act--

     "business" includes trade, occupation and profession.

     "Court" means the court having jurisdiction in the case concerned.

     "general partner" is defined in section 49.

     "incorporated limited partnership" is defined in section 49.

     "limited partner" is defined in section 49.

     "limited partnership" is defined in section 49.
          Note : The Interpretation Act 1987 contains definitions and
          other provisions that affect the interpretation and
          application of this Act.
     (2) In this Act, a reference, in relation to an incorporated limited
     partnership, to the partnership or the firm is a reference to the
     incorporated limited partnership as a separate legal entity and not
     to the partners in that partnership.
     (3) Notes included in this Act do not form part of this Act.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 1C
Application of laws of partnership to incorporated limited partnerships
 
 
1C Application of laws of partnership to incorporated limited partnerships
Except as provided (whether expressly or by necessary implication) by this Act
or any other enactment, the law relating to partnership does not apply to or in
respect of an incorporated limited partnership, the partners in an incorporated
limited partnership or to the relationship between an incorporated limited
partnership and its partners.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 1
Definition of partnership
 
 
1 Definition of partnership
     (1) Partnership is the relation which exists between persons carrying
     on a business in common with a view of profit and includes an
     incorporated limited partnership.
     (2) But the relation between members of any company or association
     which is--
          (a) incorporated under the Corporations Act 2001 of the
          Commonwealth, or
          (b) Formed or incorporated by or in pursuance of any other
          Act of Parliament or Letters Patent or Royal Charter,
     is not a Partnership within the meaning of this Act.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 2
Rules for determining existence of partnership
 
 
2 Rules for determining existence of partnership
     (1) In determining whether a partnership does or does not exist,
     regard shall be had to the following rules--
          (1) Joint tenancy, tenancy in common, joint property, or
          part ownership does not of itself create a partnership as
          to anything so held or owned, whether the tenants or owners
          do or do not share any profits made by the use thereof.
          (2) The sharing of gross returns does not of itself create
          a partnership, whether the persons sharing such returns
          have or have not a joint or common right or interest in any
          property from which or from the use of which the returns
          are derived.
          (3) The receipt by a person of a share of the profits of a
          business is prima facie evidence that the person is a
          partner in the business, but the receipt of such a share,
          or of a payment contingent on, or varying with the profits
          of a business does not of itself make the person a partner
          in the business; and in particular--
               (a) The receipt by a person of a debt or other
               liquidated demand by instalments or otherwise out
               of the accruing profits of a business does not of
               itself make the person a partner in the business
               or liable as such--
               (b) A contract for the remuneration of a servant
               or agent of a person engaged in a business by a
               share of the profits of the business does not of
               itself make the servant or agent a partner in the
               business or liable as such--
               (c) A person being the surviving spouse
               (including widow or widower) or child of a
               deceased partner, and receiving by way of annuity
               a portion of the profits made in the business in
               which the deceased person was a partner, is not
               by reason only of such receipt a partner in the
               business or liable as such--
               (d) The advance of money by way of loan to a
               person engaged or about to engage in any business
               on a contract with that person, that the lender
               shall receive a rate of interest varying with the
               profits, or shall receive a share of the profits
               arising from carrying on the business, does not
               of itself make the lender a partner with the
               person or persons carrying on the business or
               liable as such: Provided that the contract is in
               writing and signed by or on behalf of all the
               parties thereto--
               (e) A person receiving by way of annuity or
               otherwise a portion of the profits of a business
               in consideration of the sale by the person of the
               goodwill of the business is not by reason only of
               such receipt a partner in the business or liable
               as such.
     (2) This section does not apply to or in respect of an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 3
Postponement of rights of persons lending or selling in consideration of share
of profits in case of insolvency
 
 
3 Postponement of rights of persons lending or selling in consideration of
share of profits in case of insolvency
In the event of any person to whom money has been advanced by way of loan upon
such a contract as is mentioned in the last foregoing section, or of any buyer
of a goodwill in consideration of a share of the profits of the business being
adjudged a bankrupt, entering into an arrangement to pay the person's creditors
less than one hundred cents in the dollar, or dying in insolvent circumstances,
the lender of the loan shall not be entitled to recover anything in respect of
the loan, and the seller of the goodwill shall not be entitled to recover
anything in respect of the share of profits contracted for, until the claims of
the other creditors of the borrower or buyer for valuable consideration in
money or money's worth have been satisfied.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 4
Meaning of firms
 
 
4 Meaning of firms
Persons who have entered into partnership other than an incorporated limited
partnership with one another are for the purpose of this Act called
collectively a firm, and the name under which their business is carried on is
called the firm-name.
     Note : On the meaning of "firm" in relation to an incorporated
     limited partnership see section 1B (2). On the meaning of "firm-name"
     of an incorporated limited partnership see section 49.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 5
Power of partner to bind firm
 
 
5 Power of partner to bind firm
     (1) Every partner in a partnership other than a firm that is a
     limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership is an agent
     of the firm and of the other partners for the purpose of the business
     of the partnership; and the acts of every partner who does any act
     for carrying on in the usual way business of the kind carried on by
     the firm of which the partner is a member, binds the firm and the
     other partners, unless the partner so acting has in fact no authority
     to act for the firm in the particular matter, and the person with
     whom the partner is dealing either knows that the partner has no
     authority, or does not know or believe the partner to be a partner.
     (2) Every general partner in a limited partnership or incorporated
     limited partnership is an agent of the firm and of the other general
     partners for the purpose of the business of the partnership, and the
     acts of every general partner who does any act for carrying on in the
     usual way business of the kind carried on by the firm of which the
     partner is a member, bind the firm and the other general partners,
     unless--
          (a) the general partner has in fact no authority to act for
          the firm in the particular matter, and
          (b) the person with whom the general partner is dealing
          either knows that the general partner has no authority, or
          does not know or believe the general partner to be a
          general partner.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 6
Partners bound by acts on behalf of firm
 
 
6 Partners bound by acts on behalf of firm
     (1) An act or instrument relating to the business of a firm other
     than an incorporated limited partnership, and done or executed in the
     firm-name, or in any other manner, showing an intention to bind the
     firm by any person thereto authorised, whether a partner or not, is
     binding on the firm and all the partners.
     (2) An act or instrument relating to the business of a firm that is
     an incorporated limited partnership, and done or executed in the
     firm-name, or in any other manner, showing an intention to bind the
     firm by any person authorised to bind the firm, whether a general
     partner or not, is (subject to section 9 (3)) binding on the firm and
     all the general partners.
     (3) This section does not affect any general rule of law relating to
     the execution of deeds or negotiable instruments.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 7
Partner using credit of firm for private purposes
 
 
7 Partner using credit of firm for private purposes
     (1) Where one partner pledges the credit of a firm other than a firm
     that is an incorporated limited partnership for a purpose apparently
     not connected with the firm's ordinary course of business, the firm
     is not bound unless the partner is in fact specially authorised by
     the other partners; but this section does not affect any personal
     liability incurred by an individual partner.
     (2) Where a general partner pledges the credit of a firm that is an
     incorporated limited partnership for a purpose apparently not
     connected with the firm's ordinary course of business, the firm is
     not bound unless the general partner is in fact specially authorised
     by the firm, but this section does not affect any personal liability
     incurred by an individual general partner.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 8
Effect of notice that firm will not be bound by acts of partner
 
 
8 Effect of notice that firm will not be bound by acts of partner
     (1) If it has been agreed between the partners that any restrictions
     shall be placed upon the power of any one or more of them to bind a
     firm other than a firm that is an incorporated limited partnership,
     no act done in contravention of the agreement is binding on the firm
     with respect to persons having notice of the agreement.
     (2) If it has been agreed by the partners in an incorporated limited
     partnership that any restrictions are to be placed on the power (if
     any) of any one or more of them to bind the firm, no act done in
     contravention of the agreement is binding on the firm with respect to
     persons having notice of the agreement.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 9
Liability of partner
 
 
9 Liability of partner
     (1) Every partner in a firm other than an incorporated limited
     partnership is liable jointly with the other partners for all debts
     and obligations of the firm incurred while the partner is a partner;
     and (if the partner is an individual) after the partner's death the
     partner's estate is also severally liable in a due course of
     administration for such debts and obligations so far as they remain
     unsatisfied, but subject to the prior payment of the partner's
     separate debts.
     (2) Every general partner in an incorporated limited partnership is
     liable jointly with the incorporated limited partnership for all
     debts and obligations of the partnership incurred while the general
     partner is a general partner, and (if the general partner is an
     individual) after the general partner's death the general partner's
     estate is also severally liable in a due course of administration for
     such debts or obligations so far as they remain unsatisfied but
     subject to the prior payment of the partner's separate debts.
     (3) Despite subsection (2), a general partner in an incorporated
     limited partnership is only liable for any debts or obligations of
     the incorporated limited partnership--
          (a) to the extent the incorporated limited partnership is
          unable to satisfy the debts and obligations, or
          (b) to a greater extent provided by the partnership
          agreement.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 10
Liability of firm for wrongs
 
 
10 Liability of firm for wrongs
     (1) Subject to subsection (2), where by any wrongful act or omission
     of any partner in a firm other than an incorporated limited
     partnership acting in the ordinary course of the business of the
     firm, or with the authority of the partner's co-partners, loss or
     injury is caused to any person not being a partner of the firm, or
     any penalty is incurred, the firm is liable therefor to the same
     extent as the partner so acting or omitting to act.
     (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a partner in a firm other
     than an incorporated limited partnership who commits a wrongful act
     or omission as a director of a body corporate, within the meaning of
     the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth, is not to be taken to
     be acting in the ordinary course of the business of the firm or with
     the authority of the partner's co-partners only because of any one or
     more of the following--
          (a) the partner obtained the agreement or authority of the
          partner's co-partners, or some of them, to be appointed or
          to act as a director of the body corporate,
          (b) remuneration that the partner receives for acting as a
          director of the body corporate forms part of the income of
          the firm,
          (c) any co-partner is also a director of that or any other
          body corporate.
     (3) Subject to subsection (4), where by any wrongful act or omission
     of any general partner in an incorporated limited partnership acting
     in the ordinary course of the business of the incorporated limited
     partnership, or with its authority, loss or injury is caused to any
     person not being a partner in the incorporated limited partnership,
     or any penalty is incurred, the incorporated limited partnership is
     liable in respect of that loss or injury or penalty to the same
     extent as the general partner so acting or omitting to act.
     (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), a general partner in an
     incorporated limited partnership who commits a wrongful act or
     omission as a director of a body corporate, within the meaning of the
     Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth, is not to be taken to be
     acting in the ordinary course of business of the incorporated limited
     partnership or with its authority only because of any one or more of
     the following--
          (a) the general partner obtained the agreement or authority
          of the incorporated limited partnership to be appointed or
          to act as a director of the body corporate,
          (b) remuneration that the general partner receives for
          acting as a director of the body corporate forms part of
          the income of the incorporated limited partnership,
          (c) any other general partner in the incorporated limited
          partnership is also a director of that or any other body
          corporate.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 11
Misapplication of money or property received for or in the custody of the firm
 
 
11 Misapplication of money or property received for or in the custody of the
firm
     (1) In the following cases involving the partners of a firm other
     than an incorporated limited partnership, namely--
          (a) Where one partner acting within the scope of the
          partner's apparent authority receives the money or property
          of a third person and misapplies it, and
          (b) When a firm in the course of its business receives
          money or property of a third person, and the money or
          property so received is misapplied by one or more of the
          partners while it is in the custody of the firm,
     the firm is liable to make good the loss.
     (2) In the following cases involving general partners in an
     incorporated limited partnership--
          (a) where one general partner acting within the scope of
          the general partner's apparent authority receives the money
          or property of a third person and misapplies it,
          (b) when an incorporated limited partnership in the course
          of its business receives money or property of a third
          person, and the money or property so received is misapplied
          by one or more of the general partners while it is in the
          custody of the incorporated limited partnership,
     the incorporated limited partnership is liable to make good the loss.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 12
Liability for wrongs joint and several
 
 
12 Liability for wrongs joint and several
     (1) Every partner in a firm other than an incorporated limited
     partnership is liable jointly with the partner's co-partners and also
     severally for everything for which the firm while the partner is a
     partner therein becomes liable under either of the two last preceding
     sections.
     (2) Every general partner in an incorporated limited partnership is
     liable jointly with the other general partners in the partnership and
     also severally for everything for which the firm becomes liable under
     section 10 (3) or 11 (2) while the general partner is a general
     partner in the firm.
     (3) Despite subsection (2), a general partner in an incorporated
     limited partnership is only liable for any liability of the
     incorporated limited partnership referred to in that subsection--
          (a) to the extent the incorporated limited partnership is
          unable to satisfy the liability, or
          (b) to a greater extent provided by the partnership
          agreement.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 13
Improper employment of trust property for partnership purposes
 
 
13 Improper employment of trust property for partnership purposes
     (1) If a partner in a firm other than an incorporated limited
     partnership being a trustee improperly employs trust property in the
     business or on account of the partnership, no other partner is liable
     for the trust property to the persons beneficially interested
     therein--
     Provided as follows--
          (1) This section shall not affect any liability incurred by
          any partner by reason of the partner's having notice of a
          breach of trust, and
          (2) Nothing in this section shall prevent trust money from
          being followed and recovered from the firm if still in its
          possession or under its control.
     (2) If a general partner in an incorporated limited partnership being
     a trustee improperly employs trust property in the business or on
     account of the partnership, neither the partnership nor any other
     general partner is liable for the trust property to the persons
     beneficially interested in it.
     (3) Subsection (2)--
          (a) does not affect any liability incurred by any general
          partner by reason of the partner's having notice of a
          breach of trust, and
          (b) does not prevent trust money from being followed and
          recovered from the incorporated limited partnership if
          still in its possession or under its control.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 14
Persons liable by "holding out"
 
 
14 Persons liable by "holding out"
     (1) Every one who by words spoken or written, or by conduct
     represents himself or herself, or who knowingly suffers himself or
     herself to be represented as a partner in a particular firm that is a
     firm other than a limited partnership or incorporated limited
     partnership, is liable as a partner to any one who has on the faith
     of any such representation given credit to the firm, whether the
     representation has or has not been made or communicated to the person
     so giving credit by or with the knowledge of the apparent partner
     making the representation or suffering it to be made.
     (1A) Every one who by words spoken or written, or by conduct
     represents himself or herself or who knowingly suffers himself or
     herself to be represented as a general partner in a particular firm
     that is a limited partnership or an incorporated limited partnership,
     is liable as a general partner to any one who has on the faith of any
     such representation given credit to the firm, whether the
     representation has or has not been made or communicated to the person
     so giving credit by or with the knowledge of the apparent general
     partner making the representation or suffering it to be made.
     (2) Provided that where after a partner's death the partnership
     business is continued in the old firm-name, the continued use of that
     name or of the deceased partner's name as part thereof shall not of
     itself make the partner's executors or administrators' estate or
     effects liable for any partnership debts contracted after the
     partner's death.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 15
Admissions and representations of partners
 
 
15 Admissions and representations of partners
     (1) An admission or representation made by any partner in a firm
     other than a limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership
     concerning the partnership affairs, and in the ordinary course of its
     business, is evidence against the firm.
     (2) An admission or representation made by any general partner in a
     limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership concerning
     the partnership affairs, and in the ordinary course of its business,
     is evidence against the firm.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 16
Notice to acting partner to be notice to firm
 
 
16 Notice to acting partner to be notice to firm
     (1) Notice to any partner in a firm other than a limited partnership
     or incorporated limited partnership who habitually acts in the
     partnership business of any matter relating to partnership affairs
     operates as notice to the firm, except in the case of a fraud on the
     firm committed by or with the consent of that partner.
     (2) Notice to any general partner in a limited partnership or
     incorporated limited partnership who habitually acts in the
     partnership business of any matter relating to partnership affairs
     operates as notice to the firm except in the case of a fraud on the
     firm committed by or with the consent of that partner.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 17
Liabilities of incoming and outgoing partners
 
 
17 Liabilities of incoming and outgoing partners
     (1) A person who is admitted as a partner into an existing firm other
     than a limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership does
     not by that admission alone become liable for anything done before
     the person became a partner.
     (2) A person who is admitted as a general partner into an existing
     limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership does not by
     that admission alone become liable for anything done before the
     person became a general partner.
     (3) A partner who retires from a firm other than a limited
     partnership or incorporated limited partnership does not by that
     retirement alone cease to be liable for partnership debts and
     obligations incurred before the partner's retirement.
     (4) A partner who retires from a limited partnership or incorporated
     limited partnership does not by that retirement alone cease to be
     liable for liabilities of the firm incurred before the partner's
     retirement for which the partner was liable.
          Note :
          "Liability" is defined in section 49.
     (5) A retiring partner in a firm other than a limited partnership or
     incorporated limited partnership may be discharged from any existing
     liabilities by an agreement to that effect between the partner and
     the members of the firm as newly constituted and the creditors, and
     this agreement may be either expressed or inferred as a fact from the
     course of dealing between the creditors and the firm as newly
     constituted.
     (6) A retiring partner in a limited partnership or incorporated
     limited partnership may be discharged from any existing liabilities
     by an agreement to that effect between the partner and the firm and
     the creditors, and this agreement may be either expressed or inferred
     as a fact from the course of dealing between the creditors and the
     firm.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 18
Revocation of continuing guaranty by change of firm
 
 
18 Revocation of continuing guaranty by change of firm
     (1) A continuing guaranty or cautionary obligation given either to a
     firm or to a third person in respect of the transactions of a firm
     is, in the absence of agreement to the contrary, revoked as to future
     transactions by any change in the constitution of the firm to which,
     or of the firm in respect of whose transactions, the guaranty or
     obligation was given.
     (2) This section does not apply to or in respect of an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 19
Variation by consent of terms of partnership
 
 
19 Variation by consent of terms of partnership
The mutual rights and duties of partners, whether ascertained by agreement or
defined by this Act, may be varied by the consent of all the partners, and such
consent may be either expressed or inferred from a course of dealing.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 20
Partnership property of firms other than incorporated limited partnerships
 
 
20 Partnership property of firms other than incorporated limited partnerships
     (1) All property, and rights and interests in property, originally
     brought into the partnership stock or acquired, whether by purchase
     or otherwise, on account of the firm, or for the purposes and in the
     course of the partnership business, are called in this Act
     partnership property, and must be held and applied by the partners
     exclusively for the purposes of the partnership, and in accordance
     with the partnership agreement.
     (2) Provided that the legal estate or interest in any land which
     belongs to the partnership shall devolve according to the nature and
     tenure thereof, and the general rules of law thereto applicable, but
     in trust so far as is necessary for the persons beneficially
     interested in the land under this section.
     (3) Where co-owners of an estate or interest in any land, not being
     itself partnership property, are partners as to profits made by the
     use of that land or estate, and purchase other lands and estate out
     of the profits to be used in like manner, the land or estate so
     purchased belongs to them, in the absence of an agreement to the
     contrary, not as partners, but as co-owners for the same respective
     estates and interests as are held by them in the land or estate
     first-mentioned at the date of the purchase.
     (4) This section does not apply to or in respect of an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 20A
Partnership property of incorporated limited partnership
 
 
20A Partnership property of incorporated limited partnership
     (1) All property, and rights and interests in property, acquired,
     whether by purchase or otherwise, on account of an incorporated
     limited partnership, or for the purposes and in the course of the
     business of the partnership, are called in this Act
     "partnership property", and must be applied by the partnership
     exclusively for the purposes of the partnership.
     (2) No partner in an incorporated limited partnership, by virtue only
     of being a partner in the partnership, has any legal or beneficial
     interest in its partnership property.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 21
Property bought with partnership money
 
 
21 Property bought with partnership money
Unless the contrary intention appears, property bought with money belonging to
the firm is deemed to have been bought on account of the firm.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 22
Conversion into personal estate of land held as partnership property
 
 
22 Conversion into personal estate of land held as partnership property
     (1) Where land or any heritable interest therein has become
     partnership property, it shall, unless the contrary intention
     appears, be treated as between the partners (including the
     representatives of a deceased partner), and also as between the heirs
     of a deceased partner and the deceased partner's executors or
     administrators as personal or movable and not real or heritable
     estate.
     (2) This section does not apply to or in respect of an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 23
Procedure against partnership property for a partner's separate judgment debt
 
 
23 Procedure against partnership property for a partner's separate judgment
debt
     (1) After the commencement of this Act a writ of execution shall not
     issue against any partnership property except on a judgment against
     the firm.
     (2) The Supreme Court may, on the application of any judgment
     creditor of a partner, make an order charging that partner's interest
     in the partnership property and profits with payment of the amount of
     the judgment debt and interest thereon and may by the same or a
     subsequent order appoint a receiver of that partner's share of
     profits (whether already declared or accruing), and of any other
     money which may be coming to the partner in respect of the
     partnership, and direct all accounts and inquiries, and give all
     other orders and directions which might have been directed or given
     if the charge had been made in favour of the judgment creditor by the
     partner, or which the circumstances of the case may require.
     (3) The other partner or partners shall be at liberty at any time to
     redeem the interest charged, or in the case of a sale being directed
     to purchase the same.
     (4) Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to or in respect of an
     incorporated limited partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 24
Rules as to the interests and duty of partners other than partners in
incorporated limited partnership subject to special agreement
 
 
24 Rules as to the interests and duty of partners other than partners in
incorporated limited partnership subject to special agreement
     (1) The interests of partners in the partnership property and their
     rights and duties in relation to the partnership shall be determined,
     subject to any agreement expressed or implied between the partners,
     by the following rules--
          (1) All the partners are entitled to share equally in the
          capital and profits of the business, and must contribute
          equally towards the losses whether of capital or otherwise
          sustained by the firm.
          (2) The firm must indemnify every partner in respect of
          payment made and personal liabilities incurred by the
          partner.
               (a) In the ordinary and proper conduct of the
               business of the firm, or
               (b) In or about anything necessarily done for the
               preservation of the business or property of the
               firm.
          (3) A partner making, for the purpose of the partnership,
          any actual payment or advance beyond the amount of capital
          which the partner has agreed to subscribe is entitled to
          interest at the rate of seven per centum per annum from the
          date of the payment or advances.
          (4) A partner is not entitled before the ascertainment of
          profits to interest on the capital subscribed by the
          partner.
          (5) Every partner may take part in the management of the
          partnership business.
          (6) No partner shall be entitled to remuneration for acting
          in the partnership business.
          (7) No person may be introduced as a partner without the
          consent of all existing partners.
          (8) Any difference arising as to ordinary matters connected
          with the partnership business may be decided by a majority
          of partners, but no change may be made in the nature of the
          partnership business without the consent of all existing
          partners.
          (9) The partnership books are to be kept at the place of
          business of the partnership (or the principal place, if
          there is more than one), and every partner may, when the
          partner thinks fit, have access to and inspect and copy any
          of them.
     (2) This section does not apply to or in respect of an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 25
Expulsion of partner
 
 
25 Expulsion of partner
No majority of the partners can expel any partner unless a power to do so has
been conferred by express agreement between the partners.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 26
Retirement from partnership at will
 
 
26 Retirement from partnership at will
     (1) Where no fixed term has been agreed upon for the duration of the
     partnership, any partner may determine the partnership at any time on
     giving notice of the partner's intention so to do to all the other
     partners.
     (2) Where the partnership has originally been constituted by deed, a
     notice signed by the partner giving it, shall be sufficient for this
     purpose.
     (3) This section does not apply to or in respect of a limited
     partnership or incorporated limited partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 27
Where partnership for term is continued over, continuance on old terms presumed

 
 
27 Where partnership for term is continued over, continuance on old terms
presumed
     (1) Where a partnership entered into for a fixed term is continued
     after the term has expired, and without any express new agreement,
     the rights and duties of the partners remain the same as they were at
     the expiration of the term, so far as is consistent with the
     incidents of a partnership at will.
     (2) A continuance of the business by the partners or such of them as
     habitually acted therein during the term without any settlement or
     liquidation of the partnership affairs, is presumed to be a
     continuance of the partnership.
     (3) This section does not apply to or in respect of an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 28
Duty of partners to render accounts
 
 
28 Duty of partners to render accounts
     (1) Partners in a firm other than an incorporated limited partnership
     are bound to render true accounts and full information of all things
     affecting the partnership to any partner or the partner's legal
     representatives.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership is, subject to the
     partnership agreement, bound to render true accounts and full
     information in respect of all things affecting the partnership to any
     partner or the partner's legal representatives.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 29
Accountability of partners for private profits
 
 
29 Accountability of partners for private profits
     (1) Every partner must account to the firm for any benefit derived by
     the partner without the consent of the other partners from any
     transaction concerning the partnership, or for any use by the partner
     of the partnership property, name, or business connexion.
     (2) This section applies also to transactions undertaken after a
     partnership has been dissolved by the death of a partner, and before
     the affairs thereof have been completely wound up, either by any
     surviving partner or by the representatives of the deceased partner.
     (3) This section does not apply to or in respect of an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 30
Duty of partner not to compete with firm
 
 
30 Duty of partner not to compete with firm
     (1) If a partner, without the consent of the other partners, carries
     on any business of the same nature as and competing with that of the
     firm, the partner must account for and pay over to the firm all
     profits made by the partner in that business.
     (2) This section does not apply to or in respect of an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 31
Rights of assignee of share in partnership
 
 
31 Rights of assignee of share in partnership
     (1) An assignment by any partner of the partner's share in the
     partnership, either absolute or by way of mortgage or redeemable
     charge, does not, as against the other partners, entitle the assignee
     during the continuance of the partnership, to interfere in the
     management or administration of the partnership business or affairs,
     or to require any account of the partnership transactions, or to
     inspect the partnership books, but entitles the assignee only to
     receive the share of profits to which the assigning partner would
     otherwise be entitled, and the assignee must accept the account of
     profits agreed to by the partners.
     (2) In case of a dissolution of the partnership, whether as respect
     all the partners, or as respects the assigning partner, the assignee
     is entitled to receive the share of the partnership assets to which
     the assigning partner is entitled as between the partner and the
     other partners, and for the purpose of ascertaining that share, to an
     account as from the date of the dissolution.
     (3) This section does not apply to or in respect of an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 31A
Division does not apply to incorporated limited partnerships
 
 
31A Division does not apply to incorporated limited partnerships
This Division does not apply to or in respect of an incorporated limited
partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 32
Dissolution by expiration or otherwise
 
 
32 Dissolution by expiration or otherwise
Subject to any agreement between the partners, a partnership is dissolved--
     (a) If entered into for a fixed term, by the expiration of that term-
     -
     (b) If entered into for a single adventure or undertaking, by the
     termination of that adventure or undertaking--
     (c) If entered into for an undefined time, by any partner giving
     notice to the other or others of the partner's intention to dissolve
     the partnership.
In the last-mentioned case the partnership is dissolved as from the date
mentioned in the notice as the date of dissolution, or, if no date is
mentioned, as from the date of the communication of the notice.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 33
Dissolution by bankruptcy, death, or change
 
 
33 Dissolution by bankruptcy, death, or change
     (1) Subject to any agreement between the partners, every partnership
     is dissolved as regards all the partners by the death or bankruptcy
     of any partner.
     (2) A partnership may, at the option of the other partners, be
     dissolved if any partner suffers the partner's share of the
     partnership property to be charged under this Act for the partner's
     separate debt.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 34
Dissolution by illegality of partnership
 
 
34 Dissolution by illegality of partnership
A partnership is in every case dissolved by the happening of any event which
makes it unlawful for the business of the firm to be carried on, or for the
members of the firm to carry it on in partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 35
Dissolution by the Court
 
 
35 Dissolution by the Court
On application by a partner the Court may order a dissolution of the
partnership in any of the following cases--
     (a) When a partner has been declared in accordance with law to be of
     unsound mind and incapable of managing the partner's affairs, or is
     shown to the satisfaction of the Court to be of permanently unsound
     mind, in either of which cases the application may be made as well on
     behalf of that partner by the partner's committee or next friend or
     person having title to intervene as by any other partner.
     (b) When a partner, other than the partner suing, becomes in any
     other way permanently incapable of performing the partner's part of
     the partnership contract.
     (c) When a partner, other than the partner suing, has been guilty of
     such conduct as, in the opinion of the Court, regard being had to the
     nature of the business, is calculated to prejudicially affect the
     carrying on of the business.
     (d) When a partner, other than the party suing, wilfully or
     persistently commits a breach of the partnership agreement, or
     otherwise conducts himself or herself in matters relating to the
     partnership business so that it is not reasonably practicable for the
     other partner or partners to carry on the business in partnership
     with the partner.
     (e) When the business of the partnership can only be carried on at a
     loss.
     (f) Whenever in any case circumstances have arisen, which, in the
     opinion of the Court, render it just and equitable that the
     partnership be dissolved.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 36
Rights of persons dealing with firm against apparent members of firm
 
 
36 Rights of persons dealing with firm against apparent members of firm
     (1) When a person deals with a firm after a change in its
     constitution, the person is entitled to treat all apparent members of
     the old firm as still being members of the firm until the person has
     notice of the change.
     (2) An advertisement in the Gazette and in at least one newspaper
     circulating in Sydney and one newspaper circulating in the district
     in which the firm carries on business shall be notice as to persons
     who had not dealings with the firm before the date of the change so
     advertised.
     (3) The estate of a partner who dies, or who becomes bankrupt, or of
     a partner who, not having been known to the person dealing with the
     firm to be a partner, retires from the firm, is not liable for
     partnership debts contracted after the date of the death, bankruptcy,
     or retirement respectively.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 37
Right of partners to notify dissolution
 
 
37 Right of partners to notify dissolution
On the dissolution of a partnership or retirement of a partner any partner may
publicly notify the same, and may require the other partner or partners to
concur for that purpose in all necessary and proper acts, if any, which cannot
be done without the partner's or their concurrence.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 38
Continuing authority of partners for purposes of winding-up
 
 
38 Continuing authority of partners for purposes of winding-up
After the dissolution of a partnership the authority of each partner to bind
the firm, and the other rights and obligations of the partners continue,
notwithstanding the dissolution, so far as may be necessary to wind up the
affairs of the partnership, and to complete transactions begun but unfinished
at the time of the dissolution, but not otherwise: Provided that the firm is in
no case bound by the acts of a partner who has become bankrupt; but this
proviso does not affect the liability of any person who has, after the
bankruptcy, represented himself or herself or knowingly suffered himself or
herself to be represented as a partner of the bankrupt.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 39
Rights of partners to application of partnership property
 
 
39 Rights of partners to application of partnership property
On the dissolution of a partnership every partner is entitled, as against the
other partners in the firm, and all persons claiming through them in respect of
their interests as partners, to have the property of the partnership applied in
payment of the debts and liabilities of the firm, and to have the surplus
assets after such payment applied in payment of what may be due to the partners
respectively after deducting what may be due from them as partners to the firm;
and for that purpose any partner or the partner's representatives may, on the
termination of the partnership, apply to the Court to wind up the business and
affairs of the firm.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 40
Apportionment of premium when partnership prematurely dissolved
 
 
40 Apportionment of premium when partnership prematurely dissolved
Where one partner has paid a premium to another on entering into a partnership
for a fixed term, and the partnership is dissolved before the expiration of
that term otherwise than by the death of a partner, the Court may order the
repayment of the premium, or of such part as it thinks just, having regard to
the terms of the partnership contract, and to the length of time during which
the partnership has continued; unless--
     (a) the dissolution is, in the judgment of the Court, wholly or
     chiefly due to the misconduct of the partner who paid the premium, or
     (b) the partnership has been dissolved by an agreement containing no
     provision for a return of any part of the premium.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 41
Rights where partnership dissolved for fraud or misrepresentation
 
 
41 Rights where partnership dissolved for fraud or misrepresentation
Where a partnership contract is rescinded on the ground of the fraud or
misrepresentation of one of the parties thereto, the party entitled to rescind
is, without prejudice to any other right, entitled--
     (a) to a lien on, or right of retention of, the surplus of the
     partnership assets, after satisfying the partnership liabilities, for
     any sum of money paid by the party for the purchase of a share in the
     partnership and for any capital contributed by the party, and is
     (b) to stand in the place of the creditors of the firm for any
     payments made by the party in respect of the partnership liabilities,
     and
     (c) to be indemnified by the person guilty of the fraud or making the
     representation against all the debts and liabilities of the firm.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 42
Right of outgoing partner in certain cases to share profits made after
dissolution
 
 
42 Right of outgoing partner in certain cases to share profits made after
dissolution
     (1) Where any member of a firm has died, or otherwise ceased to be a
     partner, and the surviving and continuing partners carry on the
     business of the firm with its capital or assets without any final
     settlement of accounts as between the firm and the outgoing partner,
     or the partner's estate, then, in the absence of any agreement to the
     contrary, the outgoing partner or the partner's estate is entitled,
     at the option of the partner or the partner's representatives, to
     such share of the profits made since the dissolution as the Court may
     find to be attributable to the use of the partner's share of the
     partnership assets, or to interest at the rate of six per centum per
     annum on the amount of the partner's share of the partnership assets.
     (2) Provided that where, by the partnership contract, an option is
     given to surviving or continuing partners to purchase the interest of
     a deceased or outgoing partner, and that option is duly exercised,
     the estate of the deceased partner, or the outgoing partner or the
     partner's estate, as the case may be, is not entitled to any further
     or other share of profits; but if any partner assuming to act in
     exercise of the option does not in all material respects comply with
     the terms thereof, the partner is liable to account under the
     foregoing provisions of this section.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 43
Retiring or deceased partner's share to be a debt
 
 
43 Retiring or deceased partner's share to be a debt
Subject to any agreement between the partners, the amount due from surviving or
continuing partners to an outgoing partner, or the representatives of a
deceased partner, in respect of the outgoing or deceased partner's share, is a
debt accruing at the date of the dissolution or death.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 44
Rule for distribution of assets on final settlement of accounts
 
 
44 Rule for distribution of assets on final settlement of accounts
In settling accounts between the partners after a dissolution of partnership,
the following rules shall, subject to any agreement, be observed--
     (a) Losses, including losses and deficiencies of capital, shall be
     paid first out of profits, next out of capital, and lastly, if
     necessary, by the partners individually in the proportion in which
     they were entitled to share profits.
     (b) The assets of the firm, including the sums, if any, contributed
     by the partners to make up losses or deficiencies of capital, shall
     be applied in the following manner and order--
          1 In paying the debts and liabilities of the firm to
          persons who are not partners therein.
          2 In paying to each partner ratably what is due by the firm
          to the partner for advances as distinguished from capital.
          3 In paying to each partner ratably what is due from the
          firm to the partner in respect of capital.
          4 The ultimate residue, if any, shall be divided among the
          partners in the proportion in which profits are divisible.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 46
Saving for rules of equity and common law
 
 
46 Saving for rules of equity and common law
The rules of equity and of common law applicable to partnership shall continue
in force except so far as they are inconsistent with the express provisions of
this Act.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 47
Repeal of 30 Vic No 14
 
 
47 Repeal of 30 Vic No 14
The Act thirtieth Victoria number fourteen is hereby repealed.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 49
Definitions
 
 
49 Definitions
In this Act--

"external partnership" means a partnership (or legal entity, however described,
in the nature of a partnership) formed in accordance with a law of another
State, a Territory or another country or jurisdiction, whether or not under
that law the liability of any partner for the liabilities of the partnership
(or entity) is limited and whether or not under that law the partnership (or
entity) is incorporated or is otherwise a separate legal entity.

"firm-name" of--
     (a) an incorporated limited partnership--means the name of the
     partnership recorded in the Register, and
     (b) of an external partnership--means the name under which, in
     accordance with the law of the place in which it is formed, the
     partnership carries on the business of the partnership.

"general partner" --
     (a) in a limited partnership--means a partner in the limited
     partnership who is not a limited partner, and
     (b) in an incorporated limited partnership--means a person or
     partnership (including an external partnership) admitted as a partner
     in the incorporated limited partnership in accordance with the
     partnership agreement and who is not a limited partner.

"incorporated limited partnership" means an incorporated limited partnership
formed in accordance with section 50A (2).

"liability" includes any debt, obligation or other liability of any kind,
wherever and however incurred.

"limited partner" --
     (a) in a limited partnership--means a partner in the limited
     partnership whose liability for the liabilities of the partnership is
     limited in accordance with this Part, and
     (b) in an incorporated limited partnership--means a person or
     partnership (including an external partnership) admitted and
     designated as a limited partner in the incorporated limited
     partnership in accordance with the partnership agreement.

"limited partnership" means a limited partnership formed in accordance with
section 50A (1).

"partner" in a limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership means a
general partner or a limited partner.

"Register" means the Register of Limited and Incorporated Limited Partnerships
kept under this Part.

"registered particulars" means particulars recorded in the Register under
section 55 (3).

"Registrar" means--
     (a) the Commissioner for Fair Trading, Department of Customer
     Service, or
     (b) if there is no person employed as Commissioner for Fair Trading--
     the Secretary of the Department of Customer Service.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 50
Application of other provisions of this Act
 
 
50 Application of other provisions of this Act
     (1) Parts 1 and 2 apply to limited partnerships and incorporated
     limited partnerships, except as provided by those Parts or this Part.
     (2) If a provision made by or under this Part relating to limited
     partnerships or incorporated limited partnerships is inconsistent
     with a provision made by or under any other Part that applies to
     limited partnerships or incorporated limited partnerships,
     respectively, the provision made by or under this Part prevails and
     the other provision is (to the extent of the inconsistency) of no
     force or effect in relation to limited partnerships or incorporated
     limited partnerships.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 50A
Limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership is formed on
registration
 
 
50A Limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership is formed on
registration
     (1) A limited partnership is formed by and on registration of the
     partnership under this Part as a limited partnership.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership is formed by and on
     registration of the partnership under this Part as an incorporated
     limited partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 51
Composition of limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership
 
 
51 Composition of limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership
     (1) A limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership must
     have--
          (a) at least one general partner, and
          (b) at least one limited partner.
     (2) A corporation may be a general partner or a limited partner in a
     limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership.
     (3) A partnership (including an external partnership) may be a
     general partner or a limited partner in a limited partnership or
     incorporated limited partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 52
Size of limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership
 
 
52 Size of limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership
     (1) A limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership may
     have any number of limited partners.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership must not have more than 20
     general partners.
     (3) A limited partnership--
          (a) must not have more than 20 general partners, or
          (b) if the partnership is of a particular kind in respect
          of which a higher number applies in accordance with section
          115 (2) of the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth
          (and the partnership consisted only of those general
          partners)--must not have more general partners than that
          higher number.
     (4) For the purposes of this section--
          (a) if a general partner is a partnership or external
          partnership and no partner in that partnership has, under
          the law of the place where the partnership is formed,
          limited liability for the liabilities of the partnership,
          the number of partners in that partnership is to be
          counted, and
          (b) if a general partner is a partnership or external
          partnership and any partner in that partnership has, under
          the law of the place where the partnership is formed,
          limited liability for the liabilities of the partnership,
          the number of partners in that partnership whose liability
          is not so limited is to be counted but no account is to be
          taken of the number of partners in that partnership whose
          liability is so limited.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 53
Incorporated limited partnership is separate legal entity
 
 
53 Incorporated limited partnership is separate legal entity
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership--
          (a) is a body corporate with legal personality separate
          from that of the partners in it and with perpetual
          succession, and
          (b) may have a common seal, and
          (c) may sue and be sued in its firm-name.
     (2) The common seal of an incorporated limited partnership must be
     kept in such custody as the partnership directs and must not be used
     except as authorised by it.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 53A
Powers of incorporated limited partnership
 
 
53A Powers of incorporated limited partnership
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership has the legal capacity and
     powers of an individual and also all the powers of a body corporate
     including (for example) the power, whether within or outside New
     South Wales or outside Australia--
          (a) to carry on the business of the partnership, or
          (b) to enter into contracts or otherwise acquire rights or
          liabilities, or
          (c) to create, confer, vary or cancel interests in the
          partnership, or
          (d) to acquire, hold and dispose of real or personal
          property or an interest (whether beneficial or legal) in
          real or personal property, or
          (e) to appoint agents and attorneys, and act as agent for
          other persons, or
          (f) to form, and participate in the formation of, companies
          or incorporated limited partnerships, or
          (g) to participate in partnerships, trusts, joint ventures
          or other associations and other arrangements for the
          sharing of profits, or
          (h) to do such other things as it is authorised to do by or
          under this Act.
     (2) The powers of an incorporated limited partnership may be limited
     by the partnership agreement.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 53B
Partnership agreement
 
 
53B Partnership agreement
     (1) There must at all times be a written partnership agreement
     between the partners in an incorporated limited partnership.
     (2) The interests of the partners in an incorporated limited
     partnership and their rights and duties in relation to the
     partnership are, subject to this Act, to be determined in accordance
     with the agreement.
     (3) A partnership agreement also has effect as a contract between the
     incorporated limited partnership and each partner under which the
     partnership and each of the partners agree to observe and perform the
     agreement so far as it applies to them.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 53C
Relationship of partners in incorporated limited partnership to others and
between themselves
 
 
53C Relationship of partners in incorporated limited partnership to others and
between themselves
     (1) Except as otherwise provided by the partnership agreement or
     agreed between the partners in an incorporated limited partnership--
          (a) a general partner, the partnership or an officer,
          employee, agent or representative of a general partner or
          of the partnership is not an agent of a limited partner and
          the acts of a general partner or of the partnership or of
          such an officer, employee, agent or representative do not
          bind a limited partner, and
          (b) a limited partner is not an agent of, nor fiduciary
          for, a general partner or of another limited partner or of
          or for the partnership and the acts of a limited partner do
          not bind a general partner, another limited partner or the
          partnership itself.
     (2) A reference in subsection (1) to a general partner includes, if
     the general partner is a partnership or an external partnership, a
     reference to a partner in that partnership.
     (3) Nothing in subsection (1) prevents the making of, or limits or
     restricts, an agreement between a partner (the
     "first person") and either another partner or the incorporated
     limited partnership (the
     "second person") under which--
          (a) the first person acts as an agent of the second person
          and, by so acting, binds the second person, or
          (b) the second person acts as an agent of the first person
          and, by so acting, binds the first person.
     (4) Any consent or authority that under this Act is required or
     permitted to be given by a partner or two or more partners or all the
     partners may, in the case of an incorporated limited partnership and
     without limiting any other way in which it might be given, be given
     by that partner or those partners by or under the partnership
     agreement either in relation to all cases, or in relation to all
     cases subject to specified exceptions, or in relation to any
     specified case or class of cases.
     (5) Any consent or authority that under this Act is required or
     permitted to be given by an incorporated limited partnership may,
     without limiting any other way in which it might be given, be given
     by a general partner or two or more general partners acting in
     accordance with the partnership agreement.
     (6) A limited partner, in the capacity of limited partner, is not a
     proper party to any proceeding commenced in a court or tribunal by or
     against the incorporated limited partnership, other than a proceeding
     commenced by the incorporated limited partnership against the limited
     partner or by the limited partner against the incorporated limited
     partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 53D
Who may apply for registration?
 
 
53D Who may apply for registration?
     (1) An application for registration as a limited partnership may be
     made by--
          (a) a partnership, or
          (b) any persons or partnerships (or both) proposing to be
          partners in the limited partnership.
     (2) An application for registration as an incorporated limited
     partnership may be made, in the circumstances described in subsection
     (3), by--
          (a) a partnership (including an external partnership), or
          (b) any persons or partnerships (including external
          partnerships), or both, proposing to be partners in the
          proposed incorporated limited partnership.
     (3) The circumstances are--
          (a) that the partnership is registered under Part 2 of the
          Venture Capital Act 2002 of the Commonwealth, or a general
          partner in the partnership or a proposed general partner in
          the proposed incorporated limited partnership intends to
          apply for registration of the incorporated limited
          partnership or proposed partnership under that Part, as--
               (i) a VCLP within the meaning of that Act, or
               (ii) an AFOF within the meaning of that Act, or
               (iii) an ESVCLP within the meaning of that Act,
               or
          (b) that the partnership is a venture capital management
          partnership within the meaning of section 94D (3) of the
          Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 of the Commonwealth or the
          partners in the partnership or the proposed partners in the
          proposed incorporated limited partnership intend that the
          partnership or proposed incorporated limited partnership
          will meet the requirements set out in that section for
          recognition as a venture capital management partnership, or
          (c) such other circumstances as are prescribed.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 54
Application for registration
 
 
54 Application for registration
     (1) An application for registration of a limited partnership or
     incorporated limited partnership is made by lodging with the
     Registrar in accordance with this Part a statement signed--
          (a) if the application is made by a partnership (including
          an external partnership)--either by each partner in the
          partnership or by a person given authority to make such an
          application on behalf of the partnership and the partners
          in it, or
          (b) in any other case--by each proposed partner.
     (2) The statement must be made in the form approved by the Registrar
     and must--
          (a) contain a statement of whether the partnership is to be
          registered as a limited partnership or an incorporated
          limited partnership, and
          (b) in the case of an application by a partnership
          (including an external partnership), contain particulars
          of--
               (i) the firm-name of the partnership, and
               (ii) the full address of the office or principal
               office in New South Wales of the partnership (to
               be called the
               "registered office" of the proposed partnership),
               and
          (c) in the case of an application by persons or
          partnerships (including external partnerships) proposing to
          be the partners in the proposed partnership, contain
          particulars of--
               (i) the proposed firm-name of the proposed
               partnership, and
               (ii) the full address of the proposed office or
               principal office in New South Wales of the
               proposed partnership (to be called the
               "registered office" of the partnership), and
          (d) contain particulars of the full name of each partner or
          proposed partner or, if the partner or proposed partner is
          a partnership (including an external partnership), the name
          of that partnership or, if that partnership does not have a
          name, the full name of each partner in the partnership, and
          (e) in the case of an application by a partnership, contain
          particulars of its registered office or principal office,
          and in any other case, contain particulars of the full
          address of each partner or proposed partner, being (in the
          case of an individual) his or her principal place of
          residence or (in the case of a corporation or partnership)
          its registered office or principal place of business, and
          (f) contain a statement in relation to each partner or
          proposed partner that is an individual as to whether that
          partner or proposed partner is, or is proposed to be, a
          general partner or a limited partner, and
          (g) contain a statement in relation to each partner or
          proposed partner that is a corporation or a partnership
          that is, or is proposed to be, a partner a statement in
          relation to the corporation or partnership as to whether it
          is to be a general partner or a limited partner, and
          (h) contain a statement in relation to each partner or
          proposed partner that is a partnership to the effect that
          the partner or proposed partner is a partnership, and
          (i) in the case of an application for a limited
          partnership--contain a statement in relation to each
          limited partner to the effect that the partner is a limited
          partner whose liability to contribute is limited to the
          extent of the amount specified in the statement (being the
          amount of any capital, or the value of any property, that
          the limited partner has agreed to contribute to the
          partnership or, in the case of a limited partner that is a
          partnership, the aggregate amounts or values), and
          (j) in the case of an application by a partnership or
          persons or partnerships proposing to be partners in a
          partnership that intends to apply for registration as a
          VCLP, AFOF or ESVCLP under Part 2 of the Venture Capital
          Act 2002 of the Commonwealth, contain a statement that it
          so intends to apply, and
          (k) in the case of an application by a partnership that is
          registered as a VCLP, AFOF or ESVCLP under Part 2 of the
          Venture Capital Act 2002 of the Commonwealth, be
          accompanied by a copy of a document evidencing its status
          as a VCLP, AFOF or ESVCLP, and
          (l) in the case of an application by a partnership or
          proposed persons or partnerships proposing to be a
          partnership that intends to meet the requirements for
          recognition as a venture capital management partnership set
          out in section 94D (3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act
          1936 of the Commonwealth, contain a statement that it so
          intends to meet those requirements, and
          (m) in the case of an application by a partnership that is
          a venture capital management partnership within the meaning
          of section 94D (3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 of
          the Commonwealth, a statement that it is such a
          partnership, and
          (n) contain such other particulars as are required by the
          regulations or by the approved form of statement.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 55
Registration of limited partnership
 
 
55 Registration of limited partnership
     (1) If an application for registration of a limited partnership or
     incorporated limited partnership has been duly made, the Registrar is
     to register the limited partnership or incorporated limited
     partnership.
     (2) However, the limited partnership or incorporated limited
     partnership is not to be registered if the Registrar is of the
     opinion that the firm-name would not be eligible for registration as
     a business name under the Business Names Registration Act 2011 of the
     Commonwealth.
     (2A) If the Registrar registers a limited partnership or an
     incorporated limited partnership, the firm-name of the partnership is
     its name as recorded in the Register.
     (2B) On registration of a limited partnership as an incorporated
     limited partnership, the limited partnership ceases to be a limited
     partnership and the Registrar is to record the cancellation of its
     registration in the Register. However any liability of the firm or a
     partner in it that arose before its registration as an incorporated
     limited partnership is to be dealt with as if it were still a limited
     partnership.
     (3) Registration is effected by recording in the Register the
     particulars in the statement lodged with the Registrar.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 55A
Acts preparatory to registration do not constitute partnership
 
 
55A Acts preparatory to registration do not constitute partnership
Any act done in connection with the making of an application for registration
under this Part by or on behalf of persons or partnerships (including external
partnerships) proposing to be the partners in a proposed partnership does not
of itself create a partnership between those persons or partnerships.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 56
Changes in registered particulars
 
 
56 Changes in registered particulars
     (1) If any change occurs in relation to the registered particulars of
     a limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership, a
     statement setting out the changed particulars must be lodged with the
     Registrar within 7 days after the change occurred.
     (2) The statement must be signed by all the general partners, or by a
     general partner authorised by all the general partners for the
     purposes of this section.
     (2A) In the case of a limited partnership, if the change relates to
     the admission of a limited partner, or a change in the liability of a
     limited partner to contribute, the statement must also be signed--
          (a) by the limited partner concerned, or
          (b) if that limited partner is a limited partnership, by
          all the general partners in that limited partnership or by
          a general partner in that limited partnership authorised by
          all the general partners in that limited partnership for
          the purposes of this section.
     (3) The statement must be in the form approved by the Registrar and
     contain the particulars required by the regulations or the approved
     form of statement.
     (4) If the statement is duly lodged, the Registrar is to record the
     change in the Register, unless, in the case of a limited partnership,
     as a result of a change in relation to the registered particulars,
     the partnership is not eligible to be registered as a limited
     partnership.
     (5) If subsection (1) is not complied with, each general partner of
     the limited partnership is guilty of an offence.
          : Maximum penalty--10 penalty units.
     Note : See section 80A in relation to offences committed by general
     partners.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 57
Register of Limited Partnerships and Incorporated Limited Partnerships
 
 
57 Register of Limited Partnerships and Incorporated Limited Partnerships
     (1) The Registrar is required to keep a register of limited
     partnerships and incorporated limited partnerships registered under
     this Part (to be called the Register of Limited and Incorporated
     Limited Partnerships).
     (1A) In the Register, there is to be a division of limited
     partnerships and a division of incorporated limited partnerships.
     (2) The Register may be kept in such form as the Registrar thinks
     fit.
     (3) The Registrar must make the information recorded in the Register
     available for public inspection at the office of the Registrar during
     the ordinary business hours of that office.
     (4) The Registrar may correct any error or omission in the Register
     by--
          (a) inserting an entry, or
          (b) amending an entry, or
          (c) omitting an entry,
     if the Registrar decides that the correction is necessary.
     (5) The Registrar must not omit an entry in the Register unless
     satisfied that the whole of the entry was included in error.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 58
Certificates of registration
 
 
58 Certificates of registration
     (1) The Registrar must, at the time of--
          (a) registering a limited partnership or an incorporated
          limited partnership, or
          (b) recording a change in its registered particulars, or
          (c) correcting an error or omission in the Register in
          relation to it,
     issue to the general partners a certificate as to its formation and
     its registered particulars as at that time.
     (2) The Registrar may, on application, issue to the applicant a
     certificate in relation to a limited partnership or incorporated
     limited partnership as to its formation and its registered
     particulars as at the time of the application.
     (3) A certificate under this section is to be in such form as the
     Registrar thinks fit.
     (4) A certificate under this section--
          (a) as to the formation of a limited partnership or
          incorporated limited partnership is conclusive evidence
          that the partnership was formed on the date of registration
          referred to in the certificate, and
          (b) as to the registered particulars as at a specified time
          of the partnership, is (unless the contrary is established)
          conclusive evidence that the partnership existed at that
          time, and
          (c) as to the general partners and limited partners in a
          partnership as at a specified time is (unless the contrary
          is established) conclusive evidence of the general partners
          and limited partners as at that time, and
          (d) as to any other particular of a partnership recorded in
          the Register as at a specified time, is (unless the
          contrary is established) conclusive evidence of that
          particular as at that time.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 59
Application of Business Names Registration Act 2011 of Commonwealth
 
 
59 Application of Business Names Registration Act 2011 of Commonwealth
The Business Names Registration Act 2011 of the Commonwealth does not require
the registration of a business name under that Act if the name is registered in
a notified State/Territory register. The Register is a notified State/Territory
register for the purposes of the Commonwealth Act.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 60
Liability of limited partner limited to amount shown in Register
 
 
60 Liability of limited partner limited to amount shown in Register
     (1) The liability of a limited partner to contribute to the
     liabilities of the limited partnership is (subject to this Part) not
     to exceed the amount shown in relation to the limited partner in the
     Register as the extent to which the limited partner is liable to
     contribute.
     (2) If a limited partner makes a contribution towards the liabilities
     of the limited partnership, the liability of the limited partner is
     reduced to such part of the amount shown in the Register as remains
     unpaid.
     (3) If a partnership (the
     "investing partnership") is a limited partner in a limited
     partnership (the
     "principal partnership"), a partner in the investing partnership has
     no separate liability to contribute to the liabilities of the
     principal partnership, but nothing in this subsection affects any
     liability of the investing partnership as a limited partner to
     contribute to those liabilities.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 61
Change in liability of limited partner
 
 
61 Change in liability of limited partner
     (1) Any reduction in the liability of a limited partner caused by a
     reduction in the relevant amount shown in the Register in relation to
     the partner does not extend to any liability of the limited
     partnership that arose before the reduction is recorded in the
     Register.
     (2) Any increase in the liability of a limited partner caused by an
     increase in the relevant amount shown in the Register in relation to
     the partner extends to any liability of the limited partnership that
     arose before the increase is recorded in the Register.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 62
Change in status of partners
 
 
62 Change in status of partners
     (1) If a general partner becomes a limited partner, the limitation on
     liability does not extend to any liability of the limited partnership
     that arose before the partner became a limited partner.
     (2) If a limited partner becomes a general partner, the limitation on
     liability no longer extends to any liability of the limited
     partnership that arose before the partner became a general partner.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 63
Liability for business conducted outside the State
 
 
63 Liability for business conducted outside the State
The limitation on the liability of a limited partner extends to any liability
incurred in connection with the conduct of the partnership's business outside
the State.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 64
Liability for limited partnerships formed under corresponding laws
 
 
64 Liability for limited partnerships formed under corresponding laws
     (1) In this section--

     "corresponding law" means a law of another State, a Territory or
     another country or jurisdiction that is declared by the regulations
     to be a corresponding law for the purposes of this Part.

     "recognised limited partnership" means a partnership formed in
     accordance with a corresponding law.
     (2) Any limitation under a corresponding law on the liability of a
     limited partner in a recognised limited partnership extends to any
     liability incurred in connection with the conduct of the
     partnership's business in this State.
     (3) The law of another State or a Territory may not be declared to be
     a corresponding law unless the Minister has certified to the
     Governor--
          (a) that the provisions of the law are similar to the
          provisions of this Part, and
          (b) that under that law the limitation of liability of
          limited partners in a limited partnership formed in
          accordance with this Part extends to any liability incurred
          in connection with the conduct of the partnership's
          business in that State or Territory.
     (4) The law of another country or jurisdiction may not be declared to
     be a corresponding law unless the Minister has certified to the
     Governor that the law provides for the limitation of liability for
     partners in certain partnerships.
     (5) This section is additional to, and does not derogate from, any
     rule of law under which recognition is or may be given to a
     limitation of liability of a partner in a partnership (including an
     external partnership).
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 64A
Effect of sections 63 and 64
 
 
64A Effect of sections 63 and 64
No implication is to be taken as arising from section 63 or 64 that a limited
partner has any liability (or but for that section would have any liability) in
connection with the conduct of a partnership's business outside the State that
the limited partner would not have in connection with the conduct of a
partnership's business within the State.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 65
Contribution towards discharge of debts etc
 
 
65 Contribution towards discharge of debts etc
     (1) Any contribution made by a limited partner towards the discharge
     of the debts or obligations of a limited partnership is to be in the
     form of money only.
     (2) If the whole or any part of such a contribution is received back
     by the limited partner, the liability of the limited partner is
     restored accordingly.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 66
Limitation on liability may not be varied by partnership agreement etc
 
 
66 Limitation on liability may not be varied by partnership agreement etc
The provisions of this Part relating to the limitation on the liability of a
limited partner may not be varied by the partnership agreement or the consent
of the partners.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 66A
Limitation of liability of limited partners
 
 
66A Limitation of liability of limited partners
     (1) A limited partner has no liability for the liabilities of the
     incorporated limited partnership or of a general partner.
     (2) Nothing in subsection (1) or section 66C or 66D prevents--
          (a) a contribution of capital or property made by a limited
          partner to the incorporated limited partnership being used,
          or
          (b) an obligation of a limited partner to contribute
          capital or property to the incorporated limited partnership
          being enforced by any person to whom the obligation is
          owed,
     in satisfaction of a liability of the partnership or of a general
     partner.
     (3) This section is subject to section 67A (Limited partner not to
     take part in the management of incorporated limited partnership).
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 66B
Change in status of partners
 
 
66B Change in status of partners
     (1) If a general partner becomes a limited partner, the partner
     remains liable for any liability of the incorporated limited
     partnership that arose before the partner became a limited partner to
     the extent that the partnership is unable to satisfy the liability or
     to the greater extent provided by the partnership agreement.
     (2) If a limited partner becomes a general partner, the partner
     remains not liable (subject to section 67A (2)) for any liability of
     the incorporated limited partnership that arose before the partner
     became a general partner.
          Note : Section 67A (2) imposes liability in certain
          circumstances on a limited partner who takes part in the
          management of the business of the incorporated limited
          partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 66C
Liability in respect of conduct or acts or omissions outside the State
 
 
66C Liability in respect of conduct or acts or omissions outside the State
The limitation on the liability of a limited partner in an incorporated limited
partnership by or under this Division extends to any liability incurred--
     (a) in connection with the conduct of the partnership's business
     outside the State, or
     (b) as a result of an act or omission outside the State of a general
     partner or a limited partner in the partnership, the partnership or
     of any officer, employee, agent or representative of a general
     partner in the partnership or the partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 66D
Incorporated limited partnerships formed under corresponding laws
 
 
66D Incorporated limited partnerships formed under corresponding laws
     (1) In this section--

     "corresponding law" means--
          (a) a law of another State or of a Territory or of another
          country or jurisdiction that substantially corresponds to
          the provisions of this Act that relate to incorporated
          limited partnerships, or
          (b) a law declared under subsection (3) to be a
          corresponding law for the purposes of this Part.

     "recognised incorporated limited partnership" means a partnership
     formed in accordance with a corresponding law.
     (2) A partner in a recognised incorporated limited partnership is
     liable for a liability incurred by the partnership as a result of--
          (a) the conduct of the recognised incorporated limited
          partnership's business in this State, or
          (b) the acts or omissions in this State of a partner in the
          recognised incorporated limited partnership or of the
          partnership itself or of any officer, employee, agent or
          representative of such a partner or of the partnership,
     only in circumstances where the partner would be so liable under the
     corresponding law if the conduct or acts or omissions occurred in the
     place where the recognised incorporated limited partnership was
     formed.
     (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), the Governor may, by order
     published in the Gazette, declare a law of another State, a Territory
     or another country or jurisdiction to be a corresponding law for the
     purposes of this Part.
     (4) The law of another State or of a Territory may not be declared to
     be a corresponding law unless the Minister has certified to the
     Governor that under that law a limited partner in an incorporated
     limited partnership formed in accordance with this Part and
     registered or otherwise recognised under that law is liable for a
     liability incurred by the partnership as a result of--
          (a) the conduct in that State or Territory of the business
          of the partnership, or
          (b) the acts or omissions in that State or Territory of a
          partner in the partnership or of the partnership itself or
          of any officer, employee, agent or representative of a
          general partner or of the partnership,
     only in circumstances where the limited partner would be so liable
     under this Act if the conduct or acts or omissions occurred within
     the State.
     (5) The law of another country or jurisdiction (not being another
     State or Territory) may not be declared to be a corresponding law
     unless the Minister has certified to the Governor that that law
     provides for the limitation of liability of certain partners in
     certain partnerships.
     (6) This section is additional to, and does not derogate from, any
     rule of law under which recognition is or may be given to a
     limitation of liability of a partner in a partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 66E
Effect of sections 66C and 66D
 
 
66E Effect of sections 66C and 66D
No implication is to be taken as arising from section 66C or 66D that a limited
partner has any liability (or but for that section would have any liability) in
connection with the conduct of a partnership's business or acts or omissions
outside the State that the limited partner would not have in connection with
the conduct of a partnership's business or acts or omissions within the State.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 67
Limited partner not to take part in management of limited partnership
 
 
67 Limited partner not to take part in management of limited partnership
     (1) A limited partner must not take part in the management of the
     business of the limited partnership and does not have power to bind
     the limited partnership.
     (2) If a limited partner takes part in the management of the business
     of the limited partnership, the limited partner is liable, as if the
     partner were a general partner, for the liabilities of the
     partnership incurred while the limited partner takes part in the
     management of that business.
     (3) A limited partner is not to be regarded as taking part in the
     management of the business of the limited partnership merely because
     the limited partner--
          (a) is an employee or an independent contractor of the
          partnership or of a general partner, or is an officer of a
          general partner that is a corporation, or
          (b) gives advice to, or on behalf of, the limited
          partnership or a general partner in the proper exercise of
          functions arising from the engagement of the limited
          partner in a professional capacity or arising from business
          dealings between the limited partner and the partnership or
          a general partner, or
          (c) gives a guarantee or indemnity in respect of any
          liability of the partnership or of a general partner, or
          (d) participates in any action by other limited partners
          for the purpose of enforcing their rights or safeguarding
          their interests as limited partners, or
          (e) if authorised by the partnership agreement,
          participates in general meetings of all the partners, or
          (f) exercises any power conferred on the limited partner by
          subsection (4).
     (4) A limited partner or a person authorised by the limited partner
     may at any time--
          (a) have access to and inspect the books of the partnership
          and copy any of them, and
          (b) examine the state and prospects of the business of the
          partnership and advise and consult with other partners in
          relation to such matters.
     (5) The provisions of this section may not be varied by the
     partnership agreement or the consent of the partners.
     (6) No implication is to be taken as arising from section 67A (3)
     that a limited partner in a limited partnership is to be regarded as
     taking part in the management of the business of the partnership
     merely because the limited partner or a person acting on behalf of
     the partner does any thing in connection with the conduct of that
     business that is not referred to in that subsection.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 67A
Limited partner not to take part in the management of incorporated limited
partnership
 
 
67A Limited partner not to take part in the management of incorporated limited
partnership
     (1) A limited partner in an incorporated limited partnership must not
     take part in the management of the business of the partnership.
     (2) If--
          (a) as a direct result of any wrongful act or omission of a
          limited partner in taking part in the management of the
          business of an incorporated limited partnership the limited
          partner causes any loss or injury to any person other than
          a partner in the partnership (a
          "third party"), and
          (b) at the time of the act or omission the third party had
          reasonable grounds to believe that the limited partner was
          a general partner in the partnership,
     the limited partner is liable for the loss or injury to the same
     extent that the limited partner would have been liable if the limited
     partner were in fact a general partner in the partnership.
          Note : A limited partner is not an agent of an incorporated
          limited partnership and the acts of a limited partner do
          not bind a general partner, another limited partner or the
          partnership itself--see section 53C (1).
     (3) A limited partner in an incorporated limited partnership is not
     to be regarded as taking part in the management of the business of
     the partnership merely because the limited partner or a person acting
     on behalf of the limited partner--
          (a) is an employee of or an independent contractor engaged
          by the partnership, a general partner in the partnership or
          an associate of the general partner, or is an officer of a
          general partner that is a body corporate or of an associate
          of a general partner that is a body corporate, or
          (b) gives advice to, or on behalf of, the partnership or a
          general partner in the partnership or an associate of such
          a general partner in the proper exercise of functions
          arising from the engagement of the limited partner, or a
          person acting on behalf of the limited partner, in a
          professional capacity or arising from business dealings
          between the limited partner, or a person acting on behalf
          of the limited partner, and the partnership or a general
          partner or an associate of the general partner, or
          (c) gives a guarantee or indemnity in respect of any
          liability of the partnership or of a general partner in the
          partnership or an associate of the general partner, or
          (d) takes any action, or participates in any action taken
          by any other limited partner in the partnership, for the
          purpose of enforcing the rights, or safeguarding the
          interests, of the limited partner as a limited partner, or
          (e) if permitted by the partnership agreement--
               (i) calls, requisitions, convenes, chairs,
               participates in, postpones, adjourns or makes a
               record of a meeting of the partners or of the
               limited partners or of any of them, or
               (ii) requisitions, signs or otherwise passes,
               approves, disapproves or amends any resolution
               (whether at a meeting, in writing or otherwise)
               of the partners or of the limited partners or of
               any of them, including without limitation by
               formulating, moving, proposing, supporting,
               opposing, speaking to or voting on any such
               resolution, or
          (f) exercises a power conferred on the limited partner by
          subsection (4) or has, or exercises, any right to--
               (i) have access to and inspect the books or
               records of the partnership or copy any of them,
               or
               (ii) examine the state or prospects of the
               business of the partnership or advise, or consult
               with, other partners in relation to such matters,
               or
          (g) gives advice to, or consults with, or is or acts as an
          officer, director, security holder, partner, agent,
          representative, employee of or independent contractor
          engaged by an associate of the partnership, or
               Note :
               "Associate" of a partnership is defined in
               section 67B.
          (h) is or acts as a lender to, or fiduciary for, an
          associate of the partnership, or
          (i) to the extent authorised by the partnership agreement,
          participates on, or has or exercises any right to appoint
          one or more persons to, or remove one or more persons from,
          or to nominate one or more persons for such appointment to
          or removal from, a committee which considers, approves of,
          consents to or disapproves of any one or more of the
          following proposals from a general partner--
               (i) a proposal involving a material change in the
               nature of the business of the partnership
               (including a change in, or departure from, any
               investment guidelines, policies or conditions
               relating to the business of the partnership),
               (ii) a proposal for the adoption of a method for
               valuing some or all of the assets of the
               partnership (including a change to, replacement
               of or variation from such a method),
               (iii) a proposal for an extension or reduction in
               the period in which, under the partnership
               agreement, investments (or certain types of
               investments) can be made by the partnership, or
               for any approval or disapproval of investments
               that the partnership does not otherwise have a
               right to make,
               (iv) a proposal relating to any actual or
               potential transaction or other matter involving
               any actual or potential conflict of interest,
               (v) a proposal relating to any actual or
               potential transaction, contract, arrangement or
               understanding between one or more of the
               partners, or their associates, and the general
               partner, the partnership or any associate of the
               general partner or of the partnership,
               (vi) a proposal for the delegation, waiver,
               release or variation of an authority, right, duty
               or obligation of the general partner,
               (vii) a proposal for the appointment or approval
               under the partnership agreement of any person as
               a senior executive of the general partner or of
               an associate of the general partner, or
          (j) nominates, selects, investigates, evaluates or
          negotiates with any person in connection with the removal
          or replacement of a general partner, or participates on a
          committee which proposes, considers, approves of, consents
          to or disapproves of any nomination, selection,
          appointment, change in control or ownership, suspension,
          replacement or removal of a general partner or an associate
          of a general partner, or
          (k) takes any action, or participates in any action taken
          by any other limited partner, for the purpose of
          registering or maintaining the registration of the
          partnership or a general partner in the partnership under
          Part 2 of the Venture Capital Act 2002 of the Commonwealth
          as a VCLP, AFOF or ESVCLP within the meaning of that Act.
     (4) A limited partner in an incorporated limited partnership or a
     person authorised by the limited partner may, if and to the extent
     the partner or person is so authorised by the partnership agreement
     as in force from time to time--
          (a) have access to and inspect the books or records of the
          partnership or copy any of them, and
          (b) examine the state or prospects of the business of the
          partnership and advise, or consult with, other partners in
          relation to such matters.
     (5) The provisions of this section may not be varied by the
     partnership agreement or with the consent of the partners, whether
     given by or under the partnership agreement or otherwise.
          Note : Section 53C (4) enables partners to give consent by
          or under the partnership agreement.
     (6) No implication is to be taken as arising from subsection (3) that
     a limited partner in an incorporated limited partnership is to be
     regarded as taking part in the management of the business of the
     partnership merely because the limited partner or a person acting on
     behalf of the partner does any thing in connection with the conduct
     of that business that is not referred to in that subsection.
     (7) For the purposes of this section, a limited partner in an
     incorporated limited partnership that is a venture capital management
     partnership (within the meaning of section 94D (3) of the Income Tax
     Assessment Act 1936 of the Commonwealth) is not to be regarded as
     taking part in the management of the business of the incorporated
     limited partnership merely because of any act the limited partner
     takes in respect of the incorporated limited partnership in the
     capacity of a partner or associate of a partner in the venture
     capital management partnership.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 67B
Interpretation of section 67A
 
 
67B Interpretation of section 67A
     (1) In section 67A--
          (a) a reference to an associate of a general partner
          includes a reference to--
               (i) if the general partner is a partnership, a
               partner in that partnership (a
               "partner in the general partner"), and
               (ii) any person who has an interest in the
               general partner or in any partner in the general
               partner, whether as security holder, trustee,
               responsible entity, manager, custodian, sub-
               custodian, nominee, administrator, executor,
               legal personal representative, beneficiary or
               otherwise, and
               (iii) any person to whom the general partner or
               any partner in the general partner has delegated
               any power, authority, right, duty or obligation
               of the general partner in relation to the
               partnership or any other partnership in which the
               general partner is general partner, and
               (iv) if the general partner or a partner in the
               general partner or a person covered by
               subparagraph (ii) or (iii) is a body corporate, a
               related body corporate of that body corporate,
               and
               (v) a director, officer, employee, agent,
               representative or security holder of the general
               partner or of any partner in the general partner
               or of a person covered by subparagraph (ii),
               (iii) or (iv), and
          (b) a reference to an associate of a limited partner
          includes a reference to--
               (i) if the limited partner is a partnership, a
               partner in that partnership (a
               "partner in the limited partner"), and
               (ii) any person who has an interest in the
               limited partner or in any partner in the limited
               partner, whether as security holder, trustee,
               responsible entity, manager, custodian, sub-
               custodian, nominee, administrator, executor,
               legal personal representative, beneficiary or
               otherwise, and
               (iii) if the limited partner or a partner in the
               limited partner or a person covered by
               subparagraph (ii) is a body corporate, a related
               body corporate of that body corporate, and
               (iv) a director, officer, employee, agent,
               representative or security holder of the limited
               partner or of any partner in the limited partner
               or of a person covered by subparagraph (ii) or
               (iii), and
          (c) a reference to an associate of an incorporated limited
          partnership includes a reference to--
               (i) any person or partnership in which the
               incorporated limited partnership has an interest,
               whether as security holder or otherwise, and
               (ii) if a person or partnership covered by
               subparagraph (i) is a body corporate, a related
               body corporate of that body corporate.
     (2) In section 67A and this section, a reference to a general partner
     in an incorporated limited partnership includes, if the general
     partner is a partnership, a reference to a partner in that
     partnership.
     (3) In section 67A and this section--

     "related body corporate" has the same meaning given by section 9 of
     the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth.

     "security holder", in relation to a body (whether corporate or
     unincorporated) includes a holder of securities (within the meaning
     given by section 92 (3) of the Corporations Act 2001 of the
     Commonwealth) in or of the body.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 68
Differences between partners
 
 
68 Differences between partners
     (1) A difference arising as to ordinary matters connected with the
     business of a limited partnership or an incorporated limited
     partnership may be decided by a majority of the general partners.
     (2) The provisions of this section may be varied by the partnership
     agreement or the consent of the partners.
     Note : See section 53C (4).
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 69
Change in partners
 
 
69 Change in partners
     (1) A limited partner in a limited partnership may, with the consent
     of the general partners, assign the limited partner's share in the
     limited partnership. In that case the assignee is taken to be a
     limited partner in substitution for the assignor with all the rights
     and obligations of the assignor.
     (1A) A limited partner in an incorporated limited partnership may,
     with the consent of the general partners and the agreement of the
     transferee, transfer the whole or a proportion of the limited
     partner's interest in the incorporated limited partnership.
     (1B) If the whole of the limited partner's interest in the
     incorporated limited partnership is transferred to the one
     transferee, the transferee becomes a limited partner in substitution
     for the transferor with all the rights and obligations of the
     transferor.
     (1C) If only a proportion of the limited partner's interest in the
     incorporated limited partnership is transferred to a transferee, the
     transferee becomes a limited partner in substitution for the
     transferor in respect of the transferred proportion and with all the
     rights and obligations of the transferor in respect of it.
     (2) A person may be admitted as a partner in a limited partnership or
     incorporated limited partnership without the necessity to obtain the
     consent of any limited partner.
     (3) The provisions of this section may be varied by the partnership
     agreement or the consent of the partners.
     Note : See section 53C (4).
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 70
Dissolution not available in certain cases
 
 
70 Dissolution not available in certain cases
     (1) Subject to the terms of any agreement between the partners in a
     limited partnership--
          (a) a limited partner is not entitled to dissolve the
          partnership by notice, and
          (b) the general partners or the other limited partners are
          not entitled to dissolve the partnership because a limited
          partner has allowed the partner's share of the partnership
          property to be charged for the partner's separate
          liabilities, and
          (c) the death, bankruptcy or retirement or, in the case of
          a corporation, the dissolution of a limited partner does
          not dissolve the partnership.
     (2) The fact that a limited partner in a limited partnership or an
     incorporated limited partnership is declared to be of unsound mind
     and incapable of managing the partner's affairs is not a ground for
     dissolution of the partnership by a Court unless the share and
     interest of the partner in the partnership cannot be otherwise
     ascertained or realised.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 71
Cessation of limited partnerships
 
 
71 Cessation of limited partnerships
     (1) A partnership ceases to be a limited partnership if none of the
     partners is a limited partner or the partners agree that they will
     carry on the business of the partnership otherwise than as a limited
     partnership.
     (2) If a limited partnership ceases to be a limited partnership and
     the forming members of the partnership or some of them continue in
     association or partnership, that association or partnership is no
     longer taken to be formed in accordance with this Part.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 72
Registration of dissolution or cessation of limited partnership
 
 
72 Registration of dissolution or cessation of limited partnership
     (1) If a limited partnership--
          (a) is dissolved, or
          (b) ceases to carry on business,
     the general partners who were registered immediately before the
     dissolution or cessation must, as soon as practicable, lodge with the
     Registrar a notice of the dissolution or cessation, specifying the
     date on which it took effect.
          : Maximum penalty--10 penalty units.
     (2) The notice must be in the form approved by the Registrar and
     contain the particulars required by the regulations or the approved
     form of notice.
     (3) The Registrar is required to record in the Register the fact of
     the dissolution or cessation and the date on which it took effect.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 73
Winding up by general partners
 
 
73 Winding up by general partners
If the affairs of a limited partnership are to be wound up by the partners with
a view to its dissolution, the winding up is to be carried out by the general
partners unless a Court otherwise orders.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 73A
Winding up of incorporated limited partnerships
 
 
73A Winding up of incorporated limited partnerships
Schedule 1 has effect.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 73B
Execution of documents
 
 
73B Execution of documents
Without limiting the ways in which an incorporated limited partnership may
execute a document (including a deed), an incorporated limited partnership may
execute a document--
     (a) without using a common seal (whether it has one or not) if the
     document is signed by a general partner, or
     (b) as a deed if the document is expressed to be executed as a deed
     and is executed with the use of a common seal or in accordance with
     paragraph (a).
     Note : Section 150 (1) of the Evidence Act 1995 provides for certain
     presumptions to be made with respect to seals and duly sealed
     documents. See also section 53 (2) on seals of incorporated limited
     partnerships.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 73C
Entitlement to make assumptions
 
 
73C Entitlement to make assumptions
     (1) A person is entitled to make the assumptions in section 73D in
     relation to dealings with an incorporated limited partnership. The
     incorporated limited partnership is not entitled to assert in
     proceedings in relation to the dealings that any of the assumptions
     are incorrect.
     (2) A person is entitled to make the assumptions in section 73D in
     relation to dealings with another person who has, or purports to
     have, directly or indirectly acquired title to property from an
     incorporated limited partnership. The incorporated limited
     partnership and the other person are not entitled to assert in
     proceedings in relation to the dealings that any of the assumptions
     are incorrect.
     (3) The assumptions may be made even if a partner or agent of the
     incorporated limited partnership acts fraudulently, or forges a
     document, in connection with the dealings.
     (4) A person is not entitled to make an assumption in section 73D if,
     at the time of the dealings, the person knew or suspected that the
     assumption was incorrect.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 73D
Assumptions that may be made under section 73C
 
 
73D Assumptions that may be made under section 73C
     (1) A person may assume that the partnership agreement of the
     incorporated limited partnership has been complied with.
     (2) A person may assume that anyone who appears, from information
     provided by the incorporated limited partnership that is available to
     the public from the Register, to be a general partner in the
     incorporated limited partnership--
          (a) is a general partner in the incorporated limited
          partnership, and
          (b) has authority to exercise the powers and perform the
          duties customarily exercised or performed by a general
          partner in an incorporated limited partnership.
     (3) A person may assume that anyone who is held out by the
     incorporated limited partnership to be a general partner in, or an
     agent of, the incorporated limited partnership--
          (a) is a general partner in the incorporated limited
          partnership or has been duly appointed as an agent of the
          incorporated limited partnership, as the case requires, and
          (b) has authority to exercise the powers and perform the
          duties customarily exercised or performed by that kind of
          partner in, or agent of, an incorporated limited
          partnership.
     (4) A person may assume that the general partners in, and agents of,
     the incorporated limited partnership properly perform their duties to
     the incorporated limited partnership.
     (5) A person may assume that a document has been duly executed by the
     incorporated limited partnership if the document appears to have been
     signed in accordance with section 73B.
     (6) A person may assume that a document has been duly executed by the
     incorporated limited partnership if the incorporated limited
     partnership's common seal appears to have been affixed to the
     document.
     (7) A person may assume that a general partner in, or agent of, the
     incorporated limited partnership who has authority to issue a
     document or certified copy of a document on its behalf also has
     authority to warrant that the document is genuine or is a true copy.
     (8) Without limiting the generality of this section, the assumptions
     that may be made under this section apply for the purposes of this
     section.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 73E
Lodgment of certain documents with the Registrar
 
 
73E Lodgment of certain documents with the Registrar
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership that was incorporated on the
     basis that it intended to be registered as a VCLP, AFOF or ESVCLP
     under Part 2 of the Venture Capital Act 2002 of the Commonwealth
     must, within one month after being so registered, lodge with the
     Registrar a copy of a document evidencing its status as a VCLP, AFOF
     or ESVCLP.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership that was incorporated on the
     basis that it intended to meet the requirements for recognition as a
     venture capital management partnership within the meaning of section
     94D (3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 of the Commonwealth
     must, within one month after becoming such a venture capital
     management partnership, lodge with the Registrar a statement that it
     is such a partnership.
     (3) If--
          (a) the registration of an incorporated limited partnership
          as a VCLP, AFOF or ESVCLP under Part 2 of the Venture
          Capital Act 2002 of the Commonwealth is revoked, or
          (b) an incorporated limited partnership ceases to be a
          venture capital management partnership within the meaning
          of section 94D (3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 of
          the Commonwealth,
     the incorporated limited partnership must, within 7 days after the
     date on which that revocation took effect or it ceased to be such a
     venture capital limited partnership, lodge with the Registrar a
     notice of that revocation or cessation, specifying the date on which
     it took effect.
     (4) If an incorporated limited partnership ceases to carry on
     business, the incorporated limited partnership must, as soon as
     practicable, lodge with the Registrar a notice of the cessation,
     specifying the date on which it took effect.
     (5) A copy of a document or a notice required to be lodged with the
     Registrar under this section must be accompanied by the prescribed
     fee or, if no fee is prescribed, a fee of $70.
     (6) A notice required to be lodged with the Registrar under this
     section must be--
          (a) in the form approved by the Registrar, and
          (b) contain the particulars required by the regulations or
          the approved form of notice.
     (7) If subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) is not complied with, each
     general partner in the incorporated limited partnership is guilty of
     an offence.
          : Maximum penalty--10 penalty units.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 74
Model limited partnership agreement
 
 
74 Model limited partnership agreement
     (1) The regulations may prescribe a model limited partnership
     agreement or model limited partnership agreements.
     (2) The partnership agreement of a limited partnership may adopt any
     such model agreement (or any part of it) whether as in force at a
     particular time or as in force from time to time.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 75
Identification of limited partnerships and incorporated limited partnerships
 
 
75 Identification of limited partnerships and incorporated limited partnerships
     (1) In this section,
     "document" includes any letter, notice, publication, written offer,
     contract, order for goods or services, invoice, bill of exchange,
     promissory note, cheque, negotiable instrument, endorsement, letter
     of credit, receipt and statement of account.
     (2) Any document issued on behalf of a limited partnership in
     connection with the conduct of the partnership's business must
     contain in legible letters the words "A Limited Partnership" (or
     "L.P." or "LP" as an abbreviation) at the end of the firm-name of the
     partnership.
     (2A) Any document issued on behalf of an incorporated limited
     partnership in connection with the conduct of the partnership's
     business must contain in legible letters the words "An Incorporated
     Limited Partnership" (or "L.P." or "LP" as an abbreviation) at the
     end of the firm-name of the partnership.
     (3) A person who--
          (a) issues or authorises the issue of a document in
          contravention of this section, or
          (b) being a general partner in the limited partnership or
          incorporated limited partnership concerned--is aware that
          documents are being issued in contravention of this
          section,
     is guilty of an offence.
          : Maximum penalty--20 penalty units.
     (4) The certificate of registration of a limited partnership or
     incorporated limited partnership must be displayed at all times in a
     conspicuous position at the registered office of the partnership.
     (5) If the certificate of registration is not so displayed, each
     general partner is guilty of an offence.
          : Maximum penalty--20 penalty units.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 76
Registered office
 
 
76 Registered office
     (1) A limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership must
     keep in New South Wales (at the place shown in the Register as the
     address of the registered office of the firm) an office to which all
     communications with the partnership may be addressed.
     (2) The regulations may prescribe the hours during which the
     registered office is to be open and accessible to the public.
     (3) If subsection (1) is not complied with, each general partner in
     the limited partnership or incorporated limited partnership concerned
     is guilty of an offence.
          : Maximum penalty--10 penalty units.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 77
Service
 
 
77 Service
     (1) Without affecting any other method of serving documents on the
     partners in a limited partnership or on an incorporated limited
     partnership--
          (a) a document concerning the business of a limited
          partnership may be duly served on partners in the
          partnership, or
          (b) a document concerning the business of an incorporated
          limited partnership may be duly served on the partnership,
     if it is left at, or sent by post addressed to, the registered office
     of the firm for the time being shown in the Register.
     (2) This section does not apply to a document relating to proceedings
     before a Court.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 78
Entry in Register constitutes notice
 
 
78 Entry in Register constitutes notice
An entry in the Register of any particular fact concerning a limited
partnership or an incorporated limited partnership, including an entry stating
the effect of any notice received by the Registrar--
     (a) is sufficient notice of the fact or of the effect of the notice
     to all persons who deal with the partnership, and
     (b) has effect, for the purposes of section 36 (2), as if it were an
     advertisement in the Gazette.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 79
Giving false or misleading information
 
 
79 Giving false or misleading information
A person who, under this Part, provides the Registrar with a document that the
person knows is false or misleading in a material particular (whether by way of
a statement in the document or by an omission from the document) is guilty of
an offence.
     : Maximum penalty--50 penalty units.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 80
Criminal proceedings
 
 
80 Criminal proceedings
Proceedings for an offence against this Act or the regulations are to be dealt
with summarily before the Local Court.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 80A
Offences by partnerships
 
 
80A Offences by partnerships
     (1) If this Act provides that a general partner (being a partnership,
     whether or not an external partnership) in a limited partnership or
     incorporated limited partnership is guilty of an offence, the
     reference to the general partner is to be read as a reference--
          (a) to each partner in the partnership (or external
          partnership), or
          (b) if the partnership (or external partnership) is one in
          which any partner has under the law of the place where it
          is formed limited liability for the liabilities of the
          partnership, each partner in the partnership whose
          liability is not so limited.
     (2) In any proceeding against a partner for an offence against this
     Act brought in reliance on subsection (1) it is a defence for the
     partner to prove that the partner took all reasonable precautions and
     exercised all due diligence to avoid the commission of the offence.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 80B
Duty to furnish information
 
 
80B Duty to furnish information
     (1) For the purpose of monitoring compliance with this Part or the
     regulations made for the purposes of this Part, the Registrar may by
     notice in writing require an incorporated limited partnership to
     furnish within a period specified in the notice (being a period of
     not less than 28 days) or within such further period as the Registrar
     may allow such information as is specified in the notice.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership required under subsection (1)
     to furnish information to the Registrar must within the period
     specified in the notice or within such further period as the
     Registrar has allowed furnish such information as it is within its
     power to furnish and must not furnish any information that to its
     knowledge is false or misleading in a material particular.
     (3) If subsection (2) is not complied with each general partner in
     the incorporated limited partnership is guilty of an offence.
          : Maximum penalty--60 penalty units.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 81
Regulations
 
 
81 Regulations
     (1) The Governor may make regulations, not inconsistent with this
     Act, for or with respect to any matter that is required or permitted
     to be prescribed or that is necessary or convenient to be prescribed
     for carrying out or giving effect to this Part.
     (2) In particular, the regulations may make provision for or with
     respect to the following--
          (a) the keeping of records by a limited partnership or
          incorporated limited partnership,
          (b) information or copies of records or documents required
          to be provided to the Registrar by a limited partnership or
          incorporated limited partnership,
          (c) the form in which any record required under this Act to
          be kept is to be kept,
          (d) the fees required to accompany an application,
          statement, notice or other document lodged under this Act
          or the fees payable for the inspection of the Register or
          for the issue of certificates of information recorded in
          the Register,
          (e) the waiver or refund of the whole or any part of the
          fees payable under this Act.
     (3) The regulations may exempt, or provide for the exemption, of any
     person or class of persons or any other matter or thing from any
     specified provision or provisions of this Act or the regulations, in
     such circumstances (if any) and subject to such conditions (if any)
     as may be specified or referred to in the regulations.
     (4) A regulation may create an offence punishable by a penalty not
     exceeding 20 penalty units.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 81A
Relationship with Corporations legislation
 
 
81A Relationship with Corporations legislation
The regulations may declare a matter that is dealt with by this Act or the
regulations to be an excluded matter for the purposes of section 5F of the
Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth in relation to--
     (a) the whole of the Corporations legislation to which Part 1.1A of
     the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth applies, or
     (b) a specified provision of that legislation, or
     (c) that legislation other than a specified provision, or
     (d) that legislation otherwise than to a specified extent.
     Note : Section 5F of the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth
     provides that if a State law declares a matter to be an excluded
     matter for the purposes of that section in relation to all or part of
     the Corporations legislation of the Commonwealth, then the provisions
     that are the subject of the declaration will not apply in relation to
     that matter in the State concerned.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 82
Application of amendments
 
 
82 Application of amendments
     (1) This section applies to section 10 as amended by the Partnership
     Amendment Act 1998.
     (2) Section 10 (2) does not apply to wrongful acts or omissions of
     the kind referred to in that subsection and that occurred before the
     commencement of that Act.
     (3) Section 10 (2) (a), (b) and (c) extend to acts, matters and
     things of the kind referred to in those paragraphs and that occurred
     before the commencement of that Act.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SECT 83
Savings, transitional and other provisions
 
 
83 Savings, transitional and other provisions
Schedule 2 has effect.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SCHEDULE 1
 
 
SCHEDULE 1 - Winding up of incorporated limited partnerships
(Section 73A)
1 Definitions
In this Schedule--

"assets" of an incorporated limited partnership means the assets remaining
after satisfaction of the liabilities of the partnership and the costs, charges
and expenses of the winding up.

"special resolution" of the limited partners in an incorporated limited
partnership means a resolution that has been passed by at least 75% of the
limited partners.
2 Voluntary winding up
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership may be wound up voluntarily--
          (a) if the partnership agreement sets out the terms on
          which the partnership may voluntarily be wound up--in
          accordance with the partnership agreement, or
          (b) subject to the partnership agreement, if the limited
          partners so resolve by special resolution.
     (2) On a voluntary winding up of an incorporated limited partnership-
     -
          (a) if the partnership agreement sets out how the assets
          are to be dealt with on a voluntary winding up, the assets
          must be dealt with in accordance with the partnership
          agreement, or
          (b) in any other case, the assets are to be distributed
          among the partners in shares that are proportionate to
          their respective contributions of capital or property to
          the partnership.
     (3) Any person aggrieved by the operation of this clause in relation
     to the assets of an incorporated limited partnership may apply to the
     Supreme Court.
     (4) On an application under subclause (3), the Supreme Court may make
     any order relating to the disposal of the assets that it thinks fit.
3 Winding up on Registrar's certificate
     (1) The Registrar may, by notice, require an incorporated limited
     partnership to show good cause why it should not be required to be
     wound up if the Registrar is of the opinion--
          (a) that the partnership has ceased to carry on business,
          or
          (b) that none of the partners is a limited partner, or
          (c) that incorporation of the partnership has been obtained
          by mistake or fraud, or
          (d) that the partnership exists for an illegal purpose.
     (2) If, on the expiration of 28 days after the notice is given under
     subclause (1), the Registrar is satisfied that the incorporated
     limited partnership should be required to be wound up, the Registrar
     may publish in the Gazette a certificate as to the requirement that
     the incorporated limited partnership be wound up.
     (3) The Registrar may publish in the Gazette a certificate requiring
     an incorporated limited partnership to be wound up if the Registrar
     is satisfied (whether by a notice under section 73E (3) or otherwise)
     that, having been incorporated on the basis that the partnership is
     or is intended to be--
          (a) registered as a VCLP, AFOF or ESVCLP under Part 2 of
          the Venture Capital Act 2002 of the Commonwealth, or
          (b) a venture capital management partnership within the
          meaning of section 94D (3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act
          1936 of the Commonwealth,
     the partnership's registration has been revoked, or it has not within
     the period of 2 years after its incorporation become so registered or
     it has ceased to meet, or has not in the period of 2 years after its
     incorporation met, the requirements set out in section 94D (3) for
     recognition as such a venture capital management partnership.
     (4) The Registrar must not publish a certificate under subclause (2)
     or (3) unless satisfied that good cause has not been shown why the
     incorporated limited partnership should not be required to be wound
     up.
     (5) The Registrar must give notice of the publication under subclause
     (2) or (3) of a certificate to the incorporated limited partnership
     as soon as possible after the publication.
     (6) The Registrar must as soon as practicable after giving a notice
     to an incorporated limited partnership, record the giving of the
     notice in the Register.
     (7) A notice under subclause (1) or (5) must be given to the
     incorporated limited partnership--
          (a) by being served on the incorporated limited partnership
          at its registered office, or
          (b) if service cannot reasonably be effected, by being
          published in a newspaper circulating generally in the
          State.
4 Review of certificate
     (1) A person whose interests are affected by a decision of the
     Registrar to publish a certificate under clause 3 may apply to the
     Supreme Court for review of the decision.
     (2) An application under subclause (1) must be made within 28 days
     after the certificate is published.
     (3) The decision is suspended on the making of an application for
     review until the application is withdrawn or the review is
     determined.
     (4) In determining an application for review, the Supreme Court may--
          (a) affirm the decision under review, or
          (b) set aside the decision under review and require the
          Registrar to cancel the certificate.
     (5) Nothing in this clause prevents the Registrar cancelling a
     certificate published under clause 3 at any time after an application
     is made under subclause (1).
5 Procedure for winding up on certificate
     (1) If the Registrar has published, and has not cancelled or been
     required under clause 4 (4) (b) to cancel, a certificate under clause
     3 that an incorporated limited partnership is required to be wound
     up, the winding up--
          (a) must be commenced--
               (i) no later than the end of 28 days after the
               day on which the certificate is published unless
               an application is made under clause 4, or
               (ii) if an application is made under clause 4 and
               the Supreme Court affirms the decision to publish
               the certificate, no later than 28 days after the
               day on which the application is determined, and
          (b) must be completed by the day specified by the Registrar
          in a notice given to the partnership, not being a day
          earlier than 60 days after the day on which the winding up
          must be so commenced.
     (2) On the commencement of the winding up, the Registrar may appoint
     a person to be the liquidator of the incorporated limited
     partnership.
     (3) The liquidator may be a general partner in the incorporated
     limited partnership, an associate of the general partner (within the
     meaning of section 67B) or any other person and need not be a
     registered liquidator under the Corporations Act 2001 of the
     Commonwealth.
     (4) The liquidator must within 10 days of being appointed give notice
     of his or her appointment in the Gazette.
     (5) The liquidator must give such security as may be prescribed and
     is entitled to receive such fees as are fixed by the Registrar.
     (6) Any vacancy occurring in the office of liquidator is to be filled
     by a person appointed by the Registrar.
     (7) The reasonable costs of a winding up required on a certificate of
     the Registrar under clause 3 are payable out of the property of the
     incorporated limited partnership.
6 Distribution of assets on winding up required on Registrar's certificate
     (1) On a winding up of an incorporated limited partnership required
     on a certificate of the Registrar under clause 3--
          (a) if the partnership agreement sets out how the assets
          are to be dealt with on such a winding up, the assets must
          be dealt with in accordance with the partnership agreement,
          or
          (b) in any other case, the assets are to be distributed
          among the partners in shares that are proportionate to
          their respective contributions of capital or property to
          the partnership.
     (2) Any person aggrieved by the operation of this clause in relation
     to the assets of an incorporated limited partnership may apply to the
     Supreme Court.
     (3) On an application under subclause (2), the Supreme Court may make
     any order relating to the disposal of the assets that it thinks fit.
7 Application of Corporations Act to winding up
     (1) The winding up of an incorporated limited partnership (other than
     a voluntary winding up or a winding up required on a certificate of
     the Registrar under clause 3) is declared to be an applied
     Corporations legislation matter for the purposes of Part 3 of the
     Corporations (Ancillary Provisions) Act 2001 in relation to the
     provisions of Part 5.7 (Winding up bodies other than companies) of
     the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth and that Part applies
     as if the incorporated limited partnership were a Part 5.7 body
     within the meaning of that Act, subject to the following
     modifications--
          (a) as if the words "or in the public interest" were
          inserted in paragraph (c) (ii) of section 583 after the
          words "just and equitable",
          (b) as if paragraph (d) of section 583 did not form part of
          that section,
          (c) any other modifications (within the meaning of Part 3
          of the Corporations (Ancillary Provisions) Act 2001) that
          are prescribed by the regulations.
          Note : Part 3 of the Corporations (Ancillary Provisions)
          Act 2001 provides for the application of provisions of the
          Corporations Act and Part 3 of the ASIC Act as laws of the
          State in respect of any matter declared by a law of the
          State (whether with or without modification) to be an
          applied Corporations legislation matter for the purposes of
          that Part in relation to those Commonwealth provisions.
          This does not apply to any provisions that already apply to
          a matter as a law of the Commonwealth.
     (2) The Australian Securities and Investments Commission may perform
     a function conferred on it under a law applied by subclause (1)--
          (a) pursuant to an agreement or arrangement of the kind
          referred to in section 11 (8) or (9A) (b) of the Australian
          Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001 of the
          Commonwealth, and
          (b) the Commission is authorised to perform that function
          under section 11 of that Act.
     (3) Unless a function under a law applied by subclause (1) is
     conferred on the Australian Securities and Investments Commission as
     referred to in subclause (2), that law applies as if a reference in
     it to the Commission were a reference to the Registrar.
8 Registrar to be notified of winding up
     (1) An incorporated limited partnership must lodge with the Registrar
     a notice of the commencement of the winding up of the partnership
     within 7 days after--
          (a) the passing of a special resolution referred to in
          clause 2 (1) (b), or
          (b) in any other case, the commencement of the winding up.
     (2) An incorporated limited partnership must lodge with the Registrar
     a notice of the completion of the winding up of the partnership
     within 7 days after that completion, specifying the date on which the
     winding up was completed.
     (3) The Registrar must, as soon as practicable after receiving a
     notice under subclause (1) or (2), record the receipt of the notice
     in the Register.
     (4) If subclause (1) or (2) is not complied with, each general
     partner of the incorporated limited partnership is guilty of an
     offence.
          : Maximum penalty--10 penalty units.
9 Cancellation of incorporation
     (1) The Registrar must, by notice published in the Gazette, cancel
     the incorporation of an incorporated limited partnership as soon as
     practicable after the partnership is wound up.
     (2) The Registrar must, as soon as practicable after the publication
     of a notice under subclause (1), record the cancellation of the
     incorporation in the Register.
     (3) An incorporated limited partnership ceases to exist on the
     cancellation of its incorporation under this Schedule.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- SCHEDULE 2
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 - Savings, transitional and other provisions
(Section 83)
Part 1 - General 1 Regulations
     (1) The regulations may contain provisions of a savings or
     transitional nature consequent on the enactment of the following
     Acts--
          Partnership Amendment (Venture Capital Funds) Act 2004
          Partnership Amendment (Venture Capital) Act 2007
     (2) Any such provision may, if the regulations so provide, take
     effect from the date of assent to the Act concerned or a later date.
     (3) To the extent to which any such provision takes effect from a
     date that is earlier than the date of its publication in the Gazette,
     the provision does not operate so as--
          (a) to affect, in a manner prejudicial to any person (other
          than the State or an authority of the State), the rights of
          that person existing before the date of its publication, or
          (b) to impose liabilities on any person (other than the
          State or an authority of the State) in respect of anything
          done or omitted to be done before the date of its
          publication.
Part 2 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Partnership Amendment (Venture
Capital Funds) Act 2004 2 Saving of existing limited partnerships
     (1) The Register of Limited Partnerships kept under section 57 as in
     force immediately before the commencement of this clause is taken on
     that commencement to be the Register of Limited and Incorporated
     Limited Partnerships required to be kept under the section as amended
     by the Partnership Amendment (Venture Capital Funds) Act 2004.
     (2) Subject to this Act, a partnership registered as a limited
     partnership immediately before the commencement of this clause is
     taken on that commencement to be registered as a limited partnership
     in the division of limited partnerships in the Register.
Part 3 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Partnership Amendment (Venture
Capital) Act 2007 3 Applications for registration of ESVCLPs or proposed
ESVCLPs made before amendments commence
     (1) The provisions of this Act (as amended by the amending Act)
     extend to any application for the registration of an ESVCLP or
     proposed ESVCLP as an incorporated limited partnership that was made
     on or after the day on which the Bill for the amending Act was first
     introduced into Parliament.
     (2) In this clause--

     "amending Act" means the Partnership Amendment (Venture Capital) Act
     2007.

     "ESVCLP" has the same meaning as in the Venture Capital Act 2002 of
     the Commonwealth.
 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- NOTES
 

Reprint history (since 1972)--
Reprint No 1   15 January 1973  

Reprint No 2   14 February 1977  

Reprint No 3   14 February 1979  

Reprint No 4   5 May 1993  

Reprint No 5   21 November 1994  

Reprint No 6   16 July 2002  

Reprint No 7   25 July 2006  

 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- NOTES
 

Preamble
WHEREAS it is expedient to declare and amend the law of Partnership--
     Be it therefore enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and
     with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council and
     Legislative Assembly of New South Wales in Parliament assembled, and
     by the authority of the same, as follows--

 

PARTNERSHIP ACT 1892
- NOTES
 

Historical notes
The following abbreviations are used in the Historical notes:

 _____________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________|
Table of amending instrumentsPartnership Act
1892 (55 Vic No 12). Assented to 20.2.1892. This Act has been amended as
follows--

 _____________________________________________________________________________
|    |     |Decimal Currency                                                  |
|    |     |Act                                                               |
|    |     |1965. Assented to 20.12.1965.                                     |
|1965|No 33|                                                                  |
|    |     |Date of commencement of sec 4, 14.2.1966, secs 1 (3), 2 (1) and   |
|    |     |the Currency Act                                                  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Supreme Court                                                     |
|    |     |Act                                                               |
|    |     |1970. Assented to 14.10.1970.                                     |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|1970|No 52|Date of commencement, Part 9 excepted, 1.7.1972, sec 2 (1) and GG |
|    |     |No 59 of 2.6.1972, p 2018. Amended by Supreme Court (Amendment)   |
|    |     |Act                                                               |
|    |     |1972 No                                                           |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Partnership (Limited Partnership) Amendment                       |
|    |     |Act                                                               |
|1991|No 48|1991. Assented to 11.12.1991.                                     |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|    |     |Date of commencement, 1.5.1992, sec 2 and GG No 55 of 1.5.1992, p |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act                        |
|1994|No 32|1994. Assented to 2.6.1994.                                       |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Partnership Amendment Act 1998. Assented to 15.6.1998.            |
|1998|No 36|                                                                  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Corporations                                                      |
|    |     |(Consequential                                                    |
|2001|No 34|Amendments) Act 2001. Assented to 28.6.2001.                      |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|    |     |Date of commencement of Sch 4.43, 15.7.2001, sec 2 (1) and        |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Business Names                                                    |
|    |     |Act                                                               |
|2002|No 97|2002. Assented to 29.11.2002.                                     |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|    |     |Date of commencement of Sch 1.8, 5.10.2004, sec 2 (1) and GG No   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Partnership Amendment (Venture                                    |
|    |     |Capital                                                           |
|2004|No 8 |Funds) Act 2004. Assented to 17.3.2004.                           |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|    |     |Date of commencement, 5.4.2004, sec 2 and GG No 69 of 2.4.2004, p |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                        |
|    |     |Provisions)                                                       |
|    |No 91|Act (No 2) 2004. Assented to 10.12.2004.                          |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Partnership Amendment                                             |
|    |     |(Venture                                                          |
|2007|No 43|Capital) Act 2007. Assented to 1.11.2007.                         |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Miscellaneous Acts (Local                                         |
|    |     |Court)                                                            |
|    |No 94|Amendment Act 2007. Assented to 13.12.2007.                       |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|    |     |Date of commencement of Sch 4, 6.7.2009, sec 2 and 2009 (314) LW  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Business Names (Commonwealth                                      |
|    |     |Powers)                                                           |
|2011|No 44|Act 2011. Assented to 20.9.2011.                                  |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|    |     |Date of commencement of Sch 3, 28.5.2012, sec 2 and 2012 (209) LW |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                        |
|    |     |Provisions)                                                       |
|2017|No 22|Act 2017. Assented to 1.6.2017.                                   |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                        |
|    |     |Provisions)                                                       |
|    |No 63|Act (No 2) 2017. Assented to 23.11.2017.                          |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Miscellaneous Acts                                                |
|    |     |Amendment                                                         |
|2018|No 28|(Marriages) Act 2018. Assented to 15.6.2018.                      |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                        |
|    |     |Provisions)                                                       |
|2020|No 30|Act 2020. Assented to 27.10.2020.                                 |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|    |     |Date of commencement of amendments made by Sch 2.29, 11.12.2020,  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |     |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                        |
|    |     |Provisions)                                                       |
|2022|No 59|Act (No 2) 2022. Assented to 26.10.2022.                          |
|    |     |                                                                  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
Table of amendments

 ____________________________________________________________________________
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 1B                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 2 (2). Am 2004 No 8, |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 1                             |Am 1991 No 48, Sch 2 (3); 2001 No 34, Sch|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|                                  |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch; 1994 No 32,   |
|Sec 2                             |Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1 [5[#93]; 2018 No |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 3                             |Am 1965 No 33, First Sch; 1994 No 32, Sch|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 5                             |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1 [8|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 7                             |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 9                             |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|                                  |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 1998 No 36, Sch 1  |
|Sec 10                            |[1[#93] [2[#93]; 2001 No 34, Sch 4.43 [2 |
|                                  |[#93]; 2004 No 8, Sch 1 [20[#93]-[22     |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 11                            |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 12                            |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 13                            |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 14                            |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 17                            |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3. Subst 2004 No 8,   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 22                            |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|                                  |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,|
|Sec 23                            |Second Sch); 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No  |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 24                            |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 26                            |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 28                            |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 29                            |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 30                            |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 31                            |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2004 No 8, Sch 1   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 35                            |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch; 1994 No 32,   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 36                            |Am 1994 No 32, Sch 3; 2020 No 30, Sch    |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 38                            |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch; 1994 No 32,   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 40                            |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Part 3, heading                   |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|                                  |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2002 No 97, Sch|
|                                  |1.8 [1[#93]; 2004 No 8, Sch 1 [51[#93]-  |
|Sec 49                            |[53[#93]; 2011 No 44, Sch 3.14 [1[#93];  |
|                                  |2017 No 22, Sch 4.31 [1[#93] [2[#93];    |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 50                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Subst 2004 No 8,  |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Part 3, Div 2, heading            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 51                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Subst 2004 No 8,  |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|                                  |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2001 No 34, Sch|
|Sec 52                            |4.43 [3[#93]; 2004 No 8, Sch 1 [58[#93]  |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 53                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Subst 2004 No 8,  |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Part 3, Div 3, heading            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 53D                           |Ins 2004 No 8, Sch 1 [62[#93]. Am 2007 No|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|                                  |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 1994 No 32, Sch|
|Sec 54                            |3. Subst 2004 No 8, Sch 1 [63[#93]. Am   |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|                                  |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2002 No 97, Sch|
|Sec 55                            |1.8 [2[#93]; 2004 No 8, Sch 1 [64[#93]-  |
|                                  |[67[#93]; 2004 No 91, Sch 2.63; 2011 No  |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 56                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 57                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 58                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Subst 2004 No 8,  |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|                                  |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2002 No 97, Sch|
|Sec 59                            |1.8 [3[#93]; 2004 No 8, Sch 1 [76[#93]   |
|                                  |[77[#93]; 2004 No 91, Sch 2.63; 2011 No  |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Part 3, Div 4, heading            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 60                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Secs 61-63                        |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 64                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 67                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 67A                           |Ins 2004 No 8, Sch 1 [90[#93]. Am 2007 No|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 68                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 69                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Part 3, Div 6, heading            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 70                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 1994 No 32, Sch|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 73E                           |Ins 2004 No 8, Sch 1 [100[#93]. Am 2007  |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 75                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 76                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 77                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 78                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 80                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 81                            |Ins 1991 No 48, Sch 1. Am 2004 No 8, Sch |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sch 1                             |Ins 2004 No 8, Sch 1 [110[#93]. Am 2007  |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sch 2                             |Ins 2004 No 8, Sch 1 [110[#93]. Am 2007  |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
|The whole Act (italicised headings|Am 1991 No 48, Sch 2 (1) (italicised     |
|before sections)                  |headings before secs 1, 5, 19, 32 and 45 |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
