NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA

                            Partnership Act 1997

                       AS IN FORCE AT 20 NOVEMBER 2020

                             Table of provisions

Part 1      Preliminary

1     Short title      1

2     Commencement     1

3     Definitions      1

4     Equity and common law  3

Part 2      Partnerships generally

Division 1  Nature of Partnerships

5     Partnership      3

6     Determining existence of partnership other than incorporated limited
         partnership   3

7     Postponement of rights of person lending or selling in case of
         bankruptcy    5

8     Firm and firm name     5

Division 2  Relationship of partners to persons dealing with them

9     Partner's power to bind firm      5

10    Partner acting for firm     6

11    Partner using firm's credit 7

12    Effect of notice of agreement that firm not bound  7

13    Liability of partner   7

14    Liability for loss, injury or penalty  8

15    Liability for misapplication of property     9

16    Joint and several liabilities for wrongs     10

17    Misuse of trust property    10

18    Representation as partner   10

19    Representations about firm's affairs   11

20    Notice to acting partner is notice to firm   11

21    Liabilities of incoming and outgoing partners      12

22    Revocation of continuing guarantee     12

Division 3  Relationship between partners

23    Variation by consent of terms of partnership 13

24    Partnership property   13

25    Property bought with partnership money 14

26    Personal estate held as partnership property 14

27    Procedure against partnership property for partner's separate
         judgment debt 14

28    Rules about interests and duties of partners 15

29    Expulsion of partner   16

30    Retirement from partnership 16

31    Continuance of partnership on old terms      16

32    Duty of partner to give information    16

33    Accountability of partners for private profits     16

34    Duty of partner not to compete with firm     17

35    Rights of assignee of share in partnership   17

Division 4  Dissolution of partnership

35A   Application      18

36    Dissolution by expiration or notice    18

37    Dissolution by death, bankruptcy or charge   18

38    Dissolution by illegality of partnership     18

39    Dissolution by Court   18

40    Rights of persons dealing with firm against apparent members of firm
         19

41    Right of partners to notify dissolution      19

42    Continuing authority of partners for purposes of winding up   20

43    Rights of partners as to application of partnership property  20

44    Apportionment of premium where partnership prematurely dissolved
         20

45    Rights where partnership dissolved for fraud or misrepresentation
         21

46    Share of profits made after dissolution      21

47    Retiring or deceased partner's share to be debt    22

48    Rule for distribution of assets on final settlement of accounts
         22

Part 3      Incorporated limited partnerships

Division 1  Preliminary matters

49    Object     22

50    Application      23

Division 2  Formation of incorporated limited partnerships

51    Formation  23

52    Nature of incorporated limited partnership   23

53    Requirements about partners 23

54    Partnership agreement  24

55    Who may apply for registration    24

56    Application for registration      25

57    Registration     26

58    Register   27

59    Changes of registered information 27

60    Certificate of registration 27

62    Preparatory acts do not create partnership   28

Division 3  Powers and liabilities of partnership

63    Powers of partnership  28

64    Relationship between partners     29

65    Liability of limited partners     30

66    Limited partners not to take part in management    30

67    Circumstances in which limited partner not regarded as taking part in
         management    31

68    Associates 34

69    Difference between partners 35

70    Change in partners     35

71    Change in status of partners      36

72    Liability arising outside Territory    36

73    Corresponding laws     37

74    Partnership formed under corresponding laws  37

75    Effect of sections 72 and 74      37

Division 4  Winding up

76    Assets     38

77    Voluntary winding up   38

78    Winding up on certificate   38

79    Review of certificate  39

80    Procedure for winding up on certificate      40

81    Distribution of assets 40

82    Application of Corporations Act 2001   41

83    Obligation to inform Commissioner 42

84    Cancellation of registration      42

Division 5  Other matters

85    Seal and execution of documents   43

86    Entitlement to make assumptions   43

87    Assumptions      43

88    Identification of partnership     44

89    Registered office      45

90    Display of certificate of registration 45

91    Obligations to notify Commissioner     46

92    Service of documents   46

93    Entry in register constitutes notice   47

94    Commissioner may require provision of information  47

95    Offences by partnerships    47

96    Relationship with Corporations legislation   48

Part 4      Administration

97    Secrecy    48

98    Approved forms   49

99    Regulations      49

Part 5      Transitional matters for Partnership Act 1997

100   Repeal     50

101   Savings    50

ENDNOTES

                       northern territory of australia

                            ____________________

                       As in force at 20 November 2020
                            ____________________

                            Partnership act 1997

            AN ACT TO CONSOLIDATE THE LAW RELATING TO PARTNERSHIP

Part 1      Preliminary

1     Short title

         This Act may be cited as the Partnership Act 1997.

2     Commencement

         This  Act  comes  into  operation  on  the  date   fixed   by   the
         Administrator by notice in the Gazette.

3     Definitions

         In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:

         AFOF has the same meaning as in the Venture Capital Act 2002 (Cth).

         approved form means a form approved under section 98.

         associate has the meaning in section 68.

         business includes a trade, occupation or profession.

         Commissioner means the Commissioner for Consumer Affairs.

         corresponding law has the meaning in section 73.

         external partnership means a partnership or legal  entity  (however
         described) in the nature of a partnership, formed under a law of  a
         State, another  Territory  or  another  jurisdiction  (including  a
         foreign country), whether or not:

         (a)      the liability of any of its partners for  its  liabilities
             is limited; and

         (b)      it is incorporated or is otherwise a separate legal entity
             from its partners.

         firm has the meaning in section 8.

         firm name has the meaning in section 8.

         general partner, for an incorporated limited partnership, means  an
         entity that, in accordance with the partnership agreement:

         (a)      is admitted as a partner in the partnership; and

         (b)      is not designated as a limited partner in the partnership.

         incorporated limited  partnership  means  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership formed under Part 3.

         liability includes any debt or obligation.

         limited partner, for an incorporated limited partnership, means  an
         entity that, in accordance with the partnership agreement:

         (a)      is admitted as a partner in the partnership; and

         (b)      is designated as a limited partner in the partnership.

         partner, for an incorporated limited partnership, means  a  general
         partner or limited partner in the partnership.

         partnership has the meaning in section 5.

         partnership agreement, for an incorporated limited partnership, has
         the meaning in section 54.

         partnership property has the meaning in section 24.

         register means the register of  incorporated  limited  partnerships
         established by section 58.

         registered information has the meaning in section 57(2).

         registered name, for an incorporated limited partnership, means the
         name of the partnership recorded in the register.

         registered office, of an incorporated  limited  partnership,  means
         the address of the principal office of the partnership recorded  in
         the register.

         registration means the  registration  of  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership under Part 3.

         special resolution, for an incorporated limited partnership,  means
         a resolution passed by at least 75% of the limited partners in  the
         partnership.

         VCLP has the same meaning as in the Venture Capital Act 2002 (Cth).

         VCMP means a venture  capital  management  partnership  within  the
         meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth).

4     Equity and common law

      (1)   The rules of equity and common law for partnerships continue  in
         force except to the extent to which they are inconsistent with this
         Act.

      (2)   However, except as provided by this or another Act, those  rules
         do not apply to an incorporated limited partnership,  its  partners
         and the relationship between the partnership and its partners.

Part 2      Partnerships generally

Division 1  Nature of Partnerships

5     Partnership

      (1)   A partnership is the  relation  between  people  carrying  on  a
         business in common with a view of profit, and includes an  external
         partnership and incorporated limited partnership.

      (2)   However, the relation  between  members  of  an  association  or
         incorporated body (other than an incorporated limited  partnership)
         is not a partnership.

      (3)   For this section, a  reference  to  an  association  includes  a
         reference to an association formed under a  law  in  force  in  the
         Territory.

6     Determining existence of partnership other than incorporated limited
         partnership

       (1)    In  determining  whether  a   partnership   (other   than   an
         incorporated limited partnership) exists regard is to be had to the
         following rules:

         (a)      joint tenancy, tenancy in common, joint  property,  common
             property, or part ownership,  does  not  of  itself  create  a
             partnership as to anything held or owned, whether the  tenants
             or owners do or do not share any profits made by  the  use  of
             any thing held or owned;

         (b)      the sharing of gross returns does not of itself  create  a
             partnership, whether the persons sharing the returns  have  or
             have not a joint or common right or interest in  any  property
             from which, or from the use of which, the returns are derived;

         (c)      the receipt by a person of a share of  the  profits  of  a
             business is prima facie evidence that the person is a  partner
             in the business, but the receipt of a share of the profits  of
             a business or of a payment contingent on or varying  with  the
             profits of a business does not of itself  make  the  person  a
             partner in the business, and in particular:

             (i) the receipt by a person of  a  debt  or  other  liquidated
                  amount by instalments or otherwise  out  of  the  accruing
                  profits of a business does not of itself make the person a
                  partner in the business or liable as a partner;

             (ii)      a contract for the remuneration of  an  employee  or
                  agent of a person engaged in a business by a share of  the
                  profits of the  business  does  not  of  itself  make  the
                  employee or agent a partner in the business or liable as a
                  partner;

             (iii)     a person being a spouse, de facto partner  or  child
                  of a deceased partner and receiving by way  of  annuity  a
                  portion of the profits made in the business in  which  the
                  deceased person was a partner does not of itself make  the
                  person a partner in the business or liable as a partner;

             (iv)      the advance of money by way  of  loan  to  a  person
                  engaged, or about to engage, in a business on  a  contract
                  with the person that the lender will  receive  a  rate  of
                  interest varying with the profits or will receive a  share
                  of the profits arising from carrying on the business  does
                  not of itself make the lender a partner with the person or
                  persons carrying on the business or liable as a partner;

             (v) a person receiving  by  way  of  annuity  or  otherwise  a
                  portion of the profits of a business in  consideration  of
                  the sale by that person of the goodwill of the business is
                  not by reason only  of  such  receipt  a  partner  in  the
                  business or liable as such.

      (2)   A contract referred to  in  subsection  (1)(c)(iv)  must  be  in
         writing and signed by or on behalf of  all  the  parties  for  that
         subparagraph to apply.

7     Postponement of rights of person lending or selling in case of
         bankruptcy

         Where:

         (a)      a person to whom money has been advanced by way of loan on
             a contract referred in section 6; or

         (b)      a buyer of goodwill in consideration of  a  share  of  the
             profits of a business,

         becomes bankrupt, enters into an arrangement  to  pay  his  or  her
         creditors less than 100 cents in the dollar or dies insolvent,

         (c)      the lender of the loan is not entitled to recover anything
             in respect of the loan; and

         (d)      the seller of the goodwill  is  not  entitled  to  recover
             anything in respect of the share of profits contracted for,

         until the claims of the other creditors of the  borrower  or  buyer
         for valuable consideration in money  or  money's  worth  have  been
         satisfied.

8     Firm and firm name

      (1)   The  partners  in  a  partnership  other  than  an  incorporated
         limited partnership are collectively called a  firm  and  its  firm
         name is:

         (a)      for an external partnership – the  name  under  which  its
             business is carried on under the law of the place where it  is
             formed; or

         (b)      otherwise – the name under which its business  is  carried
             on in the Territory.

      (2)   An incorporated limited partnership is a firm and its firm  name
         is its registered name.

Division 2  Relationship of partners to persons dealing with them

9     Partner's power to bind firm

      (1)    A  partner  in  a  firm  other  than  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership is, for the firm's business, an agent of the  firm  and
         of the firm's other partners.

      (2)   An act of the partner in carrying on in the usual  way  business
         of the kind carried on by the firm  binds  the  firm  and  all  its
         partners, unless:

         (a)      the partner had no authority to act in the matter; and

         (b)      the person with whom the partner is dealing:

             (i) knew the partner did not have that authority; or

             (ii)      did not know or believe the partner was a partner in
                  the firm.

      (3)   A general partner in an  incorporated  limited  partnership  is,
         for the firm's business, an agent of the firm  and  of  the  firm's
         other general partners.

      (4)   An act of the general partner in carrying on in  the  usual  way
         business of the kind  carried  on  by  the  partnership  binds  the
         partnership and all its other general partners, unless:

         (a)      the general partner had no authority to act in the matter;
             and

         (b)      the person with whom the general partner is dealing:

             (i) knew the general partner did not have that authority; or

             (ii)      did not know or believe the general  partner  was  a
                  general partner in the partnership.

10    Partner acting for firm

      (1)   An act of a person relating to the  business  of  a  firm  other
         than an incorporated limited partnership binds the firm and all its
         partners if the person is authorised by the firm to carry  out  the
         act:

         (a)      in the firm name; or

         (b)      in any other way showing an intention to bind the firm.

      (2)   Subject to section 13(4), an act of a  person  relating  to  the
         business  of  an  incorporated  limited   partnership   binds   the
         partnership  and  all  its  general  partners  if  the  person   is
         authorised by the partnership to carry out the act:

         (a)      in the partnership's firm name; or

         (b)      in  any  other  way  showing  an  intention  to  bind  the
             partnership.

      (3)   To avoid doubt:

         (a)      a reference to a person authorised by a firm to carry  out
             an act includes a reference  to  a  partner  in  the  firm  so
             authorised; and

         (b)      this section does not affect any rule  of  law  about  the
             execution of deeds or negotiable instruments.

11    Partner using firm's credit

      (1)   The use of the credit of  a  firm  other  than  an  incorporated
         limited partnership by one  of  its  partners  for  a  purpose  not
         apparently related to its ordinary business does not bind it unless
         the partner is specially authorised by the other partners to do so.

      (2)   The use of an incorporated limited partnership's credit  by  one
         of its general partners for a purpose not apparently related to its
         ordinary business does not bind it unless the  general  partner  is
         specially authorised by it to do so.

      (3)   To avoid doubt,  this  section  does  not  affect  any  personal
         liability of a partner in a partnership.

12    Effect of notice of agreement that firm not bound

         If an act contravenes an  agreement  restricting  the  power  of  a
         partner to bind a firm, the act does not bind the firm in  relation
         to a person who has notice of the agreement.

13    Liability of partner

      (1)   Each partner in  a  firm  other  than  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership  is  liable  jointly  with  the  other   partners   for
         liabilities incurred by the firm while the partner is that partner.

      (2)   Each general partner in an incorporated limited  partnership  is
         liable jointly with the partnership for liabilities incurred by the
         partnership while the general partner is that general partner.

      (3)   The estate of the partner referred to in subsection (1),  or  of
         the general partner  referred  to  in  subsection  (2),  is  liable
         severally for the liabilities referred to in that subsection:

         (a)      to the extent to which the liabilities remain unsatisfied;
             and

         (b)      only after the separate liabilities  of  that  partner  or
             general partner have been satisfied.

      (4)   However, the general partner or the general partner's estate  is
         only liable for the liabilities:

         (a)      to the extent to which the partnership cannot satisfy  the
             liabilities; or

         (b)      to a greater extent provided by the partnership agreement.

14    Liability for loss, injury or penalty

      (1)   A firm other than an incorporated limited partnership is  liable
         to the same extent as a partner in the firm for any loss, injury or
         penalty caused by an act (including omission) of the partner if:

         (a)      the act occurred while  the  partner  was  acting  in  the
             ordinary course of the firm's business or with  the  authority
             of the other partners; and

         (b)      for a loss or injury – the loss or injury is not  suffered
             by a partner in the firm.

      (2)   An incorporated  limited  partnership  is  liable  to  the  same
         extent as a general partner in the partnership for any loss, injury
         or penalty caused by an act (including  omission)  of  the  general
         partner if:

         (a)      the act occurred while  the  partner  was  acting  in  the
             ordinary course of the  partnership's  business  or  with  the
             partnership's authority; and

         (b)      for a loss or injury – the loss or injury is not  suffered
             by a partner in the partnership.

      (3)   For subsections (1) and (2), an act of a partner as  a  director
         must not be taken to have occurred in the ordinary  course  of  the
         firm's business or with the firm's authority only because of one or
         more of the following:

         (a)      the partner obtained the firm's agreement or authority  to
             be appointed or to act as the director;

         (b)      the remuneration the  partner  receives  as  the  director
             forms part of the firm's income;

         (c)      another partner in the firm is a director.

      (4)   In this section:

         director means:

         (a)      a director of a corporation  within  the  meaning  of  the
             Corporations Act 2001; or

         (b)      a member of a body established by a law of the Territory.

15    Liability for misapplication of property

      (1)   A firm other than an incorporated limited partnership is  liable
         for any loss arising from the misapplication  of  a  third  party's
         property if:

         (a)      the property was received and misapplied by a  partner  in
             the firm acting within the scope  of  the  partner's  apparent
             authority; or

         (b)      the property:

             (i) was received by the firm  in  the  course  of  the  firm's
                  business; and

             (ii)      was misapplied by one or more partners in  the  firm
                  while it was in the firm's custody.

      (2)   An incorporated limited  partnership  is  liable  for  any  loss
         arising from the misapplication of a third party's property if:

         (a)      the property was received  and  misapplied  by  a  general
             partner in the partnership acting within  the  scope  of  that
             partner's apparent authority; or

         (b)      the property:

             (i) was received by the  partnership  in  the  course  of  the
                  partnership's business; and

             (ii)      was misapplied by one or more  general  partners  in
                  the partnership while it was in the partnership's custody.

      (3)   In this section:

         third party's property, in relation to a firm, means money or other
         property belonging to someone other than the firm or a  partner  in
         the firm.

16    Joint and several liabilities for wrongs

      (1)   Each partner in  a  firm  other  than  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership  is  jointly  and  severally  liable  for  a  liability
         referred to in section 14(1) or 15(1) incurred by  the  firm  while
         the partner is that partner.

      (2)   Each general partner in an incorporated limited  partnership  is
         jointly and severally liable for a liability referred to in section
         14(2) or 15(2)  incurred  by  the  partnership  while  the  general
         partner is that general partner.

      (3)   However, the general partner is only liable:

         (a)      to the extent to which the partnership cannot satisfy  the
             liability; or

         (b)      to a greater extent provided by the partnership agreement.

17    Misuse of trust property

      (1)    A  partner  in  a  firm  other  than  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership is not liable for the misuse of any trust property  for
         the firm by a trustee of the trust who is another  partner  in  the
         firm.

      (2)   An incorporated limited partnership or general  partner  in  the
         partnership is not liable for the misuse of any trust property  for
         the partnership by a trustee of the trust who  is  another  general
         partner in the partnership.

      (3)   Subsection (1) or (2) does not:

         (a)      affect any liability of a partner  in  the  firm  incurred
             because the partner knew about a breach of the trust; and

         (b)      prevent the tracing and recovery  of  the  trust  property
             from the firm.

18    Representation as partner

      (1)   A person is liable  as  a  partner  in  a  firm  other  than  an
         incorporated limited partnership to a  creditor  of  the  firm  who
         provided the credit because of a representation that the person  is
         that partner.

      (2)   A person is liable as  a  general  partner  in  an  incorporated
         limited partnership to a creditor of the partnership  who  provided
         the credit because of a representation  that  the  person  is  that
         general partner.

      (3)   Subsection (1) or (2) has effect:

         (a)      whether or not the representation was made by  the  person
             or with the person's permission or knowledge; and

         (b)      whether the representation was made orally, in writing  or
             by conduct.

      (4)   The estate of a partner in a firm is not  liable  for  any  debt
         incurred by the firm after the partner's death only because,  after
         the death:

         (a)      the same firm name continues to be used; or

         (b)      the partner's name continues to be used in the firm name.

19    Representations about firm's affairs

      (1)   A representation about a firm's affairs is evidence against  the
         firm if the representation is made in the ordinary  course  of  the
         firm's business by:

         (a)      if the firm is not an incorporated limited partnership – a
             partner in the firm; or

         (b)      otherwise – a general partner in the firm.

      (2)   For this section, a representation includes  an  admission,  and
         may be made orally, in writing or by conduct.

20    Notice to acting partner is notice to firm

      (1)   Notice to a  partner  in  a  firm  other  than  an  incorporated
         limited partnership about the firm's affairs is taken to be  notice
         to the firm if:

         (a)      the partner ordinarily acts in the firm's business; and

         (b)      the notice  does  not  relate  to  a  fraud  on  the  firm
             committed by or with the consent of the partner.

       (2)    Notice  to  a  general  partner  in  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership about the partnership's affairs is taken to  be  notice
         to the partnership if:

         (a)      the general partner ordinarily acts in  the  partnership's
             business; and

         (b)      the notice does not relate to a fraud on  the  partnership
             committed by or with the consent of the general partner.

21    Liabilities of incoming and outgoing partners

      (1)   An entity does not, only because of the entity's admission as  a
         partner in a firm other than an incorporated  limited  partnership,
         become liable for a liability  incurred  by  the  firm  before  the
         admission.

      (2)   An entity does not, only because of the entity's  retirement  as
         a partner in the firm, cease to be liable for a liability  incurred
         by the firm before the retirement.

      (3)   An entity does not, only because of the entity's admission as  a
         general partner in  an  incorporated  limited  partnership,  become
         liable for a liability  incurred  by  the  partnership  before  the
         admission.

      (4)   An entity does not, only because of the entity's  retirement  as
         a general partner in the partnership, cease  to  be  liable  for  a
         liability incurred by the partnership before the retirement.

      (5)   A retiring  partner  in  a  firm  may  be  discharged  from  any
         existing liabilities of the firm by an agreement between:

         (a)      the partner; and

         (b)      the firm's creditors; and

         (c)      if the firm is not an incorporated limited  partnership  –
             the partners in the firm as newly constituted; and

         (d)      if the firm is an incorporated limited partnership  –  the
             partnership.

      (6)   The agreement may be expressed or inferred from the  conduct  of
         anyone referred to in subsection (5).

22    Revocation of continuing guarantee

      (1)   A continuing guarantee given to a firm or to a third  person  in
         respect of the transactions  of  a  firm  is,  in  the  absence  of
         agreement to the contrary, revoked as to future transactions  by  a
         change in the constitution of the firm to which, or of the firm  in
         respect of the transactions of which, the guarantee was given.

       (2)    This  section  does  not  apply  to  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership.

Division 3  Relationship between partners

23    Variation by consent of terms of partnership

      (1)   The mutual rights and duties of  partners,  whether  ascertained
         by agreement or defined by this Act, may be varied by  the  consent
         of all the partners.

      (2)   Consent under subsection (1) may be express or inferred  from  a
         course of dealings.

24    Partnership property

      (1)   The partnership property of a firm consists of property and  any
         rights and interests in property that were originally brought into,
         or are subsequently acquired for, the firm.

      (2)   The partners of  a  firm  other  than  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership must, in accordance  with  the  partnership  agreement,
         hold and apply the partnership property exclusively for the firm.

      (3)   However, any  partnership  property  of  the  firm  that  is  an
         interest in land must devolve:

         (a)      according to its nature and tenure and the general rule of
             law; and

         (b)      in trust so far  as  necessary  for  persons  beneficially
             interested in the land.

      (4)   If:

         (a)      the co-owners of an interest in land (the first  interest)
             are partners in the firm in relation to profits  made  by  the
             use of the first interest; and

         (b)      the first interest is not  partnership  property  for  the
             firm; and

         (c)      the co-owners use the profits to purchase another interest
             in land (the second interest) to be used in a similar manner,

         then, subject to any agreement to the contrary, the co-owners must,
         from the date of the purchase, hold the second interest in the same
         manner as the first property is held.

      (5)   An incorporated limited partnership  must  hold  and  apply  the
         partnership  property  of  the  partnership  exclusively  for   the
         partnership.

      (6)   A partner  in  the  partnership  does  not  have  any  legal  or
         beneficial interest in the property only because the partner is the
         partner.

      (7)   For this section, an interest in  land  includes  an  estate  in
         land.

25    Property bought with partnership money

         Unless the contrary intention appears, property bought  with  money
         belonging to a firm is to be taken to have been bought  on  account
         of the firm.

26    Personal estate held as partnership property

      (1)   Unless the contrary intention appears, land or  an  interest  in
         land that is partnership property is to be treated, as between  the
         partners (including the representatives of a deceased partner),  as
         personal estate.

       (2)    This  section  does  not  apply  to  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership.

27    Procedure against partnership property for partner's separate
         judgment debt

      (1)   A writ of execution may not issue against  partnership  property
         except on a judgment against the firm.

      (2)   The  Supreme  Court  may,  on  the  application  of  a  judgment
         creditor of  a  partner,  make  an  order  charging  the  partner's
         interest in the partnership property and profits  with  payment  of
         the amount of the judgment debt and interest, and may, by the  same
         or a subsequent order, appoint a receiver of the partner's share of
         profits (whether already declared or accruing)  and  of  any  other
         money that  may  be  coming  to  the  partner  in  respect  of  the
         partnership, and direct all accounts and  inquiries  and  give  all
         other orders and directions that might have been directed or  given
         if the charge had been made in favour of the judgment  creditor  by
         the partner, or which the circumstances of the case may require.

      (3)   The other partner or partners  may,  at  any  time,  redeem  the
         interest charged or, in case of a sale being directed, purchase the
         property directed to be sold.

      (4)   Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to an incorporated  limited
         partnership.

28    Rules about interests and duties of partners

      (1)   The  interest  of  a  partner  in  partnership  property  and  a
         partner's rights and duties in relation to the partnership  are  to
         be determined, subject to an express or implied  agreement  between
         the partners, by the following rules:

         (a)      all partners are entitled to share equally in the  capital
             and profits  of  the  business  and  must  contribute  equally
             towards the losses, whether of capital or otherwise, sustained
             by the firm;

         (b)      the firm must indemnify a partner in respect  of  payments
             made and personal liabilities incurred by the partner:

             (i) in the ordinary and proper conduct of the business of  the
                  firm; or

             (ii)      in  or  about  anything  necessarily  done  for  the
                  preservation of the business or property of the firm;

         (c)      a partner who makes an actual payment or advance  for  the
             purpose of the partnership beyond the amount of  capital  that
             the partner has agreed to subscribe is entitled to interest at
             the rate of 7% per annum from  the  date  of  the  payment  or
             advance;

         (d)      a partner is not entitled, before profits are ascertained,
             to interest on the capital subscribed by the partner;

         (e)       a  partner  may  take  part  in  the  management  of  the
             partnership business;

         (f)      a partner is not entitled to remuneration  for  acting  in
             the partnership business;

         (g)      a person may not be introduced as a  partner  without  the
             consent of all existing partners;

         (h)      a difference arising as to an  ordinary  matter  connected
             with the partnership business may be decided by a majority  of
             the partners but no change may be made in the  nature  of  the
             partnership business  without  the  consent  of  all  existing
             partners;

         (j)      the partnership books are to  be  kept  at  the  place  of
             business of the partnership (or the principal place  if  there
             is more than one) and a partner may, when  he  or  she  thinks
             fit, have access to, inspect and copy the partnership books.

       (2)    This  section  does  not  apply  to  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership.

29    Expulsion of partner

         A majority of partners cannot expel a partner unless a power to  do
         so is conferred by express agreement between the partners.

30    Retirement from partnership

      (1)   Where a fixed term is not  agreed  on  for  the  duration  of  a
         partnership, a partner may determine the partnership at any time by
         giving notice of his or  her  intention  to  do  so  to  the  other
         partners.

      (2)   Where a  partnership  was  originally  constituted  by  deed,  a
         notice in writing, signed by the partner giving it, is  notice  for
         the purposes of subsection (1).

       (3)    This  section  does  not  apply  to  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership.

31    Continuance of partnership on old terms

      (1)   Where a partnership entered into for a fixed term  is  continued
         after the term expires, and without any express new agreement,  the
         rights and duties of the partners remain the same as they  were  at
         the expiration of the term,  so  far  as  is  consistent  with  the
         incidents of a partnership at will.

      (2)   A continuance of the business by the partners or those  partners
         as habitually acted  as  partners  during  the  term,  without  any
         settlement or liquidation of the partnership affairs,  is  presumed
         to be a continuance of the partnership.

       (3)    This  section  does  not  apply  to  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership.

32    Duty of partner to give information

      (1)    A  partner  in  a  firm  other  than  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership must give accurate and complete information  about  the
         firm to each of the other partners in the firm.

      (2)   Subject to the partnership agreement,  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership must give accurate and complete information  about  the
         partnership to each partner in the partnership.

33    Accountability of partners for private profits

      (1)   A partner must account to the firm for a benefit derived by  the
         partner, without the consent of the other partners, from:

         (a)      a transaction concerning the partnership; or

         (b)      a use by the partner of the partnership property, name  or
             business connection.

       (2)    This  section  applies  to  transactions  undertaken  after  a
         partnership is dissolved by the death of a partner and  before  the
         affairs of the partnership are completely  wound  up  either  by  a
         surviving  partner  or  by  the  representatives  of  the  deceased
         partner.

       (3)    This  section  does  not  apply  to  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership.

34    Duty of partner not to compete with firm

      (1)   If a  partner,  without  the  consent  of  the  other  partners,
         carries on a business of the same nature as and competing with that
         of the firm, the partner must account for and pay over to the  firm
         all profits made by the partner in the business.

       (2)    This  section  does  not  apply  to  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership.

35    Rights of assignee of share in partnership

      (1)   An  assignment  by  a  partner  of  his  or  her  share  in  the
         partnership, either absolute or by way of  mortgage  or  redeemable
         charge, does not,  as  against  the  other  partners,  entitle  the
         assignee, while the partnership continues:

         (a)      to interfere in the management or  administration  of  the
             partnership business or affairs;

         (b)      to require any accounts of the  partnership  transactions;
             or

         (c)      to inspect the partnership books.

      (2)   An assignee:

         (a)      is entitled to receive the share of profits to  which  the
             assigning partner would otherwise be entitled; and

         (b)      must accept the  account  of  profits  agreed  to  by  the
             partners.

      (3)   In the case of  a  dissolution  of  a  partnership,  whether  as
         respects all the partners or an assigning partner, the assignee  is
         entitled:

         (a)      to receive the share of the partnership  assets  to  which
             the assigning partner is entitled as between the  partner  and
             the other partners; and

         (b)      for the purpose of ascertaining that share, to an  account
             as from the date of the dissolution.

       (4)    This  section  does  not  apply  to  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership.

Division 4  Dissolution of partnership

35A   Application

         This  Division  does  not  apply   to   an   incorporated   limited
         partnership.

36    Dissolution by expiration or notice

      (1)   Subject to an agreement between the partners, a  partnership  is
         dissolved:

         (a)      if entered into for a fixed term, by the expiration of the
             term;

         (b)      if entered into for a single venture  or  undertaking,  by
             the termination of the venture or undertaking; or

         (c)      if entered into for an undefined time, by a partner giving
             notice to  the  other  partner  or  partners  of  his  or  her
             intention to dissolve the partnership.

      (2)   In subsection (1)(c), the  partnership  is  dissolved  from  the
         date mentioned in the notice as the date of dissolution or,  if  no
         date is mentioned, from the date notice is given.

37    Dissolution by death, bankruptcy or charge

      (1)   Subject to an agreement between the partners, a  partnership  is
         dissolved as regards all the partners by the death or bankruptcy of
         a partner.

      (2)   A partnership may, at the  option  of  the  other  partners,  be
         dissolved if a partner permits his or her share of the  partnership
         property to be charged under this Act for his or her separate debt.

38    Dissolution by illegality of partnership

         A partnership is dissolved on an  event  happening  that  makes  it
         unlawful for the business of the firm to be carried on or  for  the
         members of the firm to carry it on in partnership.

39    Dissolution by Court

      (1)    A  partner  may  apply  to  the  Supreme  Court  for  an  order
         dissolving the partnership in the following cases:

         (a)      when a partner is found to be mentally ill;

         (b)      when a partner, other than the partner suing,  becomes  in
             any other way permanently incapable of performing his  or  her
             part of the partnership contract;

         (c)      when a partner, other than the partner suing, is guilty of
             conduct that in the opinion of the Court, regard being had  to
             the nature of the business,  is  calculated  to  prejudicially
             affect the carrying on of the business;

         (d)      when a partner, other than the partner suing, wilfully  or
             persistently commits a breach of the partnership agreement  or
             conducts  himself  or  herself  in  matters  relating  to  the
             partnership business that it is not reasonably practicable for
             the other partner or partners to  carry  on  the  business  in
             partnership with the partner;

         (e)      when the business of the partnership can only  be  carried
             on at a loss;

         (f)      whenever circumstances arise that, in the opinion  of  the
             Court, make it just and  equitable  that  the  partnership  be
             dissolved.

      (2)   An application for an order under subsection (1)(a) may be  made
         on behalf of the partner by a person having title to  intervene  as
         by any other partner.

40    Rights of persons dealing with firm against apparent members of firm

      (1)   Where a  person  deals  with  a  firm  after  a  change  in  its
         constitution, the person is entitled to treat all apparent  members
         of the old firm as still being members until the person has  notice
         of the change.

      (2)   For the purposes of subsection  (1),  an  advertisement  in  the
         Gazette and in a newspaper circulating in the area in which a  firm
         carries on business, as to a firm whose principal place of business
         is in the Territory, is notice to a person who has not had dealings
         with the  firm  before  the  date  of  the  dissolution  or  change
         advertised.

      (3)   The estate of a partner who dies  or  becomes  bankrupt  is  not
         liable for partnership debts  contracted  after  the  date  of  the
         partner's death or bankruptcy.

      (4)   The estate of a partner who has retired and who  was  not  known
         to a person dealing with the firm to be a partner is not liable for
         partnership debts  contracted  after  the  date  of  the  partner's
         retirement.

41    Right of partners to notify dissolution

      (1)   On the dissolution of a  partnership  or  the  retirement  of  a
         partner, a partner must notify the dissolution or retirement:

         (a)      in the Gazette; and

         (b)      in a newspaper circulating in the area in which  the  firm
             carries on business.

      (2)   The partner may require the other partner or partners to  agree,
         for the purpose of subsection (1), in all necessary or proper  acts
         (if any) that cannot be done without his or her or their agreement.

42    Continuing authority of partners for purposes of winding up

      (1)   After the dissolution of  a  partnership,  the  authority  of  a
         partner to bind the firm and the other rights  and  obligations  of
         the partners continue notwithstanding the dissolution so far as  is
         necessary to wind up the affairs of the partnership and to complete
         transactions begun but not finished at the time of the dissolution,
         but not otherwise.

      (2)   A firm is in no case bound by the acts  of  a  partner  who  has
         become bankrupt but this subsection does not affect  the  liability
         of a person who has after the  bankruptcy  represented  himself  or
         herself or knowingly permitted himself or herself to be represented
         as a partner of the bankrupt.

43    Rights of partners as to application of partnership property

      (1)   On the dissolution of a partnership, a partner is  entitled,  as
         against the other partners in the firm  and  all  persons  claiming
         through them in respect of their interests as partners:

         (a)      to have the property of the partnership applied in payment
             of the debts and liabilities of the firm; and

         (b)      to have the surplus assets applied in payment of what  may
             be due to the partners respectively after  deducting  what  is
             due from them as partners to the firm.

      (2)   For the purpose of subsection (1),  a  partner  or  his  or  her
         representatives may, on the termination of the  partnership,  apply
         to the court to wind up the business and affairs of the firm.

44    Apportionment of premium where partnership prematurely dissolved

         Where one partner has paid a premium to another on entering into  a
         partnership for a fixed  term  and  the  partnership  is  dissolved
         before the expiration of the term, otherwise than by the death of a
         partner, the Supreme Court may order the repayment of  the  premium
         or of a part of it as it thinks just, having regard to the terms of
         the partnership contract and to the length of time the  partnership
         has continued, unless:

         (a)      the dissolution is, in the opinion of the Court, wholly or
             chiefly due to the misconduct of  the  partner  who  paid  the
             premium; or

         (b)      the partnership has been dissolved by  an  agreement  that
             does not contain a provision for a return of any part  of  the
             premium.

45    Rights where partnership dissolved for fraud or misrepresentation

         Where a partnership contract is rescinded  on  the  ground  of  the
         fraud or misrepresentation  of  one  of  the  partners,  a  partner
         entitled to rescind the contract is, without prejudice to any other
         right, entitled:

         (a)      to a lien on, or right of retention of, the surplus of the
             partnership   assets,   after   satisfying   the   partnership
             liabilities for any sum of money paid by the partner  for  the
             purchase of a share in the partnership  and  for  any  capital
             contributed by the partner;

         (b)      to stand in the place of the creditors of the firm for any
             payments made by the partner in  respect  of  the  partnership
             liabilities; and

         (c)      to be indemnified by the person guilty  of  the  fraud  or
             making  the  representation  against   all   the   debts   and
             liabilities of the firm.

46    Share of profits made after dissolution

      (1)   Where a partner dies or otherwise ceases to  be  a  partner  and
         the surviving or continuing partners carry on the business  of  the
         firm with its capital or assets without  any  final  settlement  of
         accounts as between the firm and the outgoing partner or his or her
         estate, then, in the absence of an agreement to the  contrary,  the
         outgoing partner or his or her estate is entitled, at  his  or  her
         option or the option of his or her representatives:

         (a)      to the share of the profits made since the dissolution  as
             the Supreme Court may find to be attributable to  the  use  of
             his or her share of the partnership assets; or

         (b)      to interest at the rate of 7% per annum on the  amount  of
             his or her share of the partnership assets.

      (2)   Subsection (1) does not apply where by the partnership  contract
         an option is given to surviving or continuing partners to  purchase
         the interest of a deceased or outgoing partner and  the  option  is
         duly exercised except where a partner assuming to act  in  exercise
         of the option does not, in all material respects, comply  with  the
         terms of the partnership agreement.

47    Retiring or deceased partner's share to be debt

         Subject to an agreement between the partners, the amount  due  from
         surviving or continuing partners to  an  outgoing  partner  or  the
         representative of a deceased partner, in respect of the outgoing or
         deceased partner's share, is a debt accruing at  the  date  of  the
         dissolution or death.

48    Rule for distribution of assets on final settlement of accounts

         In settling accounts between the partners, after a  dissolution  of
         partnership, the following rules are, subject to any agreement,  to
         be observed:

         (a)      losses, including losses and deficiencies of capital,  are
             to be paid first out of  profits,  next  out  of  capital  and
             lastly, if necessary, by  the  partners  individually  in  the
             proportion in which they were entitled to share profits;

         (b)      the assets of  the  firm,  including  the  sums,  if  any,
             contributed by the partners to make up losses or  deficiencies
             of capital, are to be applied  in  the  following  manner  and
             order:

             (i) in paying the debts and liabilities of the firm to persons
                  who are not partners;

             (ii)      in paying to a partner, rateably, what is  due  from
                  the firm to the partner for advances as distinguished from
                  capital;

             (iii)     in paying to a partner, rateably, what is  due  from
                  the firm to the partner in respect of capital;

             (iv)      the residue, if any, is  to  be  divided  among  the
                  partners in the proportion in which profits are divisible.

Part 3      Incorporated limited partnerships

Division 1  Preliminary matters

49    Object

         The object of this Part is to  facilitate  the  making  of  venture
         capital investments in the Northern Territory.

50    Application

         If this Part is inconsistent with a provision of Part 1 or 2 in its
         application to an incorporated limited partnership:

         (a)      this Part prevails; and

         (b)       the  provision  does  not,   to   the   extent   of   the
             inconsistency, apply to the partnership.

Division 2  Formation of incorporated limited partnerships

51    Formation

         An incorporated limited partnership is formed on its registration.

52    Nature of incorporated limited partnership

      (1)   An incorporated limited partnership:

         (a)      is a  corporation  with  perpetual  succession  and  legal
             personality separate from its partners; and

         (b)      may have a common seal; and

         (c)      may sue and be sued in its firm name.

      (2)   The common seal must be kept as the partnership directs and  may
         only be used as authorised by the partnership.

53    Requirements about partners

      (1)   An incorporated limited partnership must have:

         (a)      at least one general partner but not more than 20  general
             partners; and

         (b)      at least one limited partner.

      (2)   Any of the  following  may  be  a  general  partner  or  limited
         partner:

         (a)      a natural person;

         (b)      a partnership;

         (c)      an incorporated body.

      (3)   For subsection (1)(a), if a general partner  is  a  partnership,
         the number of partners in that partnership that do not have limited
         liability as partners under the law of the place where it is formed
         must be counted as general partners.

      (4)   To avoid doubt:

         (a)      the number of partners in a  partnership  referred  to  in
             subsection (3) may be worked out in  accordance  with  one  or
             more applications of that subsection; and

         (b)      an entity must be counted only once for subsection (3)  if
             it is a partner in more than one partnership; and

         (c)      if a partner in a partnership is counted, the  partnership
             itself must not be counted.

54    Partnership agreement

      (1)   There must be a written agreement between  the  partners  in  an
         incorporated limited partnership (the partnership  agreement)  that
         sets out the interests, rights and obligations of the partners.

      (2)   On the partnership's  registration,  the  partnership  agreement
         has effect as a contract between the partnership and the partners.

55    Who may apply for registration

      (1)   Either of the following may apply for  the  registration  of  an
         incorporated limited partnership:

         (a)      the partnership proposed to be registered;

         (b)      the proposed partners in the proposed incorporated limited
             partnership.

      (2)   The application may  only  be  made  in  any  of  the  following
         circumstances:

         (a)      the partnership referred to  in  subsection  (1)(a)  is  a
             VCLP, AFOF or VCMP;

         (b)      a general  partner  in  the  partnership  referred  to  in
             subsection (1)(a) intends to apply for the registration of the
             partnership under the Venture Capital Act 2002 (Cth) as a VCLP
             or AFOF;

         (c)      a proposed general partner  in  the  proposed  partnership
             referred to in subsection (1)(b)  intends  to  apply  for  the
             registration of the  partnership  under  the  Venture  Capital
             Act 2002 (Cth) as a VCLP or AFOF;

         (d)      the partners in the partnership referred to in  subsection
             (1)(a) intend to meet the requirements in  section  94D(3)  of
             the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) for the partnership's
             recognition as a VCMP;

         (e)      the proposed partners in the proposed partnership referred
             to in subsection (1)(b) intend to  meet  the  requirements  in
             section 94D(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) for
             the partnership's recognition as a VCMP;

         (f)      any other circumstance prescribed by the Regulations.

56    Application for registration

      (1)   An  application  for  the  registration  must  be  made  to  the
         Commissioner in the approved form.

       (2)    The  applicant  must  give  the  Commissioner  any  additional
         information required by the Commissioner.

      (3)   Without limiting subsection (1), the approved form must  require
         the following to be included in the application:

         (a)      for  an  application  by  a  partnership  referred  to  in
             section 55(1)(a):

             (i) the signature of each partner  in  the  partnership  or  a
                  person authorised to make the application on behalf of the
                  partnership and its partners; and

             (ii)      the partnership's firm name; and

             (iii)     the full address of the proposed principal office in
                  the Territory of the partnership;

         (b)      for an application by the proposed partners in a  proposed
             partnership referred to in section 55(1)(b):

             (i) the signature of each proposed partner; and

             (ii)      the proposed firm name of the proposed  partnership;
                  and

             (iii)     the full address of the proposed principal office in
                  the Territory of the proposed partnership;

         (c)      the following particulars about the name of  each  partner
             or proposed partner (as the case may be):

             (i) the full name of the partner or proposed partner;

             (ii)      if the partner or proposed partner is a  partnership
                  – its firm name or the full name of each of its partners;

         (d)      the  following  particulars  about  the  address  of  each
             partner or proposed partner (as the case may be):

             (i) for a natural person – the person's home address;

             (ii)      for a corporation  –  the  corporation's  registered
                  office or principal place of business;

             (iii)     for a partnership  –  the  partnership's  registered
                  office or principal place of business;

         (e)      a statement as to whether each partner or proposed partner
             (as the case may be) is, or  is  proposed  to  be,  a  general
             partner or limited partner;

         (f)      a statement as to whether each partner or proposed partner
             (as the case may be) is a partnership;

         (g)       for  an  application  in  the  circumstance  covered   by
             section 55(2)(a) – a copy of a document evidencing the  status
             of the partnership as a VCLP, AFOF or VCMP;

         (h)       for  an  application  in  the  circumstance  covered   by
             section 55(2)(b), (c),  (d)  or  (e)  –  a  statement  of  the
             intention referred to in that section;

         (i)       for  an  application  in  the  circumstance  covered   by
             section 55(2)(f) – a statement setting out the circumstance.

57    Registration

      (1)    The  Commissioner  must  register  a  partnership  or  proposed
         partnership  as  an  incorporated   limited   partnership   if   an
         application for the registration is made under section 56.

      (2)   The registration is  made  when  the  Commissioner  records  the
         information in the application (the registered information) in  the
         register.

      (3)   However, the Commissioner may record a firm  name  only  if  the
         Commissioner  considers  the  firm  name  would  be  eligible   for
         registration  as  a  business  name  under   the   Business   Names
         Registration Act 2011 (Cth).

58    Register

      (1)   The Commissioner must  establish  and  maintain  a  register  of
         incorporated limited partnerships.

      (2)   The  Commissioner  may  correct  errors  and  omissions  in  the
         register.

      (3)    The  register  must  be  available  for  public  inspection  at
         reasonable times.

59    Changes of registered information

      (1)   Within 7 days after a change has occurred to  a  matter  in  the
         registered information of an incorporated  limited  partnership,  a
         statement setting out the change and  signed  by  all  the  general
         partners in the partnership, or a  general  partner  authorised  by
         those partners, must be given to the Commissioner.

      (2)   The statement must:

         (a)      be in the approved form; and

         (b)      contain the information prescribed by the Regulations.

      (3)   The Commissioner must, on the basis  of  the  statement,  change
         the registered information if the statement  is  given  under  this
         section.

      (4)   Each general partner in the partnership commits  an  offence  if
         subsection (1) is contravened.

         Maximum penalty:    If the offender is a natural person –
                            20 penalty units.

            If the offender is a body corporate – 100 penalty units.

      (5)   It is a defence to a prosecution for the offence if the  general
         partner proves that:

         (a)      the general partner did not know about the  contravention;
             and

         (b)      reasonable precautions and appropriate diligence had  been
             exercised to avoid the contravention.

60    Certificate of registration

      (1)   The Commissioner may, on the application of a person,  give  the
         applicant a certificate of registration of an incorporated  limited
         partnership.

       (2)    The  Commissioner  must  give  the  general  partners  in   an
         incorporated limited partnership a certificate of registration each
         time when:

         (a)      the partnership is registered; or

         (b)      a correction in the register is made in  relation  to  the
             partnership; or

         (c)      the registered information of the partnership is otherwise
             changed.

      (3)    A  certificate  of  registration  of  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership:

         (a)      is a certificate about the partnership's registration  and
             its registered information as at the time when the certificate
             is given; and

         (b)      must be in the approved form.

      (4)   A matter stated in a certificate  of  registration  is  evidence
         about that matter.

62    Preparatory acts do not create partnership

         Anything done for an application by the proposed partners  referred
         to in section 55(1)(b) does not  of  itself  create  a  partnership
         between them.

Division 3  Powers and liabilities of partnership

63    Powers of partnership

      (1)   An incorporated limited partnership has:

         (a)      the legal capacity and powers of a natural person; and

         (b)      the powers of a corporation.

      (2)   Without limiting subsection (1), the partnership has the  powers
         to:

         (a)       create,  confer,  vary  or  cancel   interests   in   the
             partnership; and

         (b)      carry on its business; and

         (c)      enter  into  contracts  or  otherwise  acquire  rights  or
             liabilities; and

         (d)      acquire, hold or dispose of property; and

         (e)      appoint agents and attorneys, and  act  as  an  agent  for
             other people; and

         (f)      form, and participate in the formation  of,  corporations;
             and

         (g)      participate in partnerships, trusts, joint ventures, other
             associations  and  other  arrangements  for  the  sharing   of
             profits; and

         (h)      do anything else it is authorised to do under this Part or
             the partnership agreement.

      (3)   The partnership agreement may limit the partnership's powers.

64    Relationship between partners

      (1)   Subject to sections 66  and  67,  this  section  has  effect  in
         relation to an incorporated limited partnership.

      (2)   None of the following is an agent of a limited  partner  in  the
         partnership:

         (a)      the partnership or a general partner in the partnership;

         (b)      an officer,  employee,  agent  or  representative  of  the
             partnership or a general partner in the partnership.

      (3)   An act of a person referred to in subsection (2)(a) or (b)  does
         not bind a limited partner in the partnership.

      (4)   A limited partner in the partnership is not an agent  of,  or  a
         fiduciary  for,  the  partnership  or  another   partner   in   the
         partnership.

      (5)   An act of a limited partner in the  partnership  does  not  bind
         the partnership or another partner in the partnership.

      (6)   To avoid doubt, subsections (2) to (5) do not prevent  or  limit
         an agreement between a  partner  (the  first  entity)  and  another
         partner or the partnership (the second entity) under which:

         (a)      the first entity binds the second entity by acting as  its
             agent; or

         (b)      the partnership binds the first  entity  by  acting  as  a
             partner's agent.

      (7)   Any consent or authority that  may  be  given  by  one  or  more
         partners in a partnership under this Act may be given by a  general
         partner in the partnership.

      (8)   The operation of subsection (7) may be varied  by  an  agreement
         in the partnership.

      (9)   A limited partner, as that limited partner, may not be  a  party
         to any proceeding commenced in a court or tribunal  by  or  against
         the partnership except for any proceeding:

         (a)      commenced by the partnership against the limited  partner;
             or

         (b)      commenced by the limited partner against the partnership.

      (10)  For this section, a reference to a general  partner  that  is  a
         partnership  includes  a  reference  to  each   partner   in   that
         partnership.

65    Liability of limited partners

      (1)   Subject  to  sections  66  and  67,  a  limited  partner  in  an
         incorporated  limited   partnership   is   not   liable   for   the
         partnership's liabilities or the liabilities of a  general  partner
         in the partnership.

      (2)   However, this section does not prevent  the  satisfaction  of  a
         liability of the partnership or general partner by:

         (a)      a contribution of the limited partner; or

         (b)      the enforcement of an obligation of the limited partner to
             make such a contribution.

66    Limited partners not to take part in management

      (1)   A limited partner in an incorporated  limited  partnership  must
         not take part in managing the partnership's business.

      (2)   However, to the extent to which the  partner  is  authorised  by
         the partnership agreement to do so, the partner may:

         (a)       access,  inspect  or  copy  the  partnership's  books  or
             records; and

         (b)      examine  the  state  or  prospects  of  the  partnership's
             business; and

         (c)      advise, or consult with, any partners in  the  partnership
             in relation to the state or  prospects  of  the  partnership's
             business.

      (3)   In addition, the limited partner is liable as a general  partner
         in the partnership for any loss or injury caused by the partner  to
         a person other than a partner in the partnership if:

         (a)      the loss or injury is a direct result of  a  wrongful  act
             (including omission) of the limited partner in taking part  in
             managing the partnership's business; and

         (b)      at the time of the act the person has  reasonable  grounds
             to believe that the limited partner was a general  partner  in
             the partnership.

      (4)   The operation  of  this  section  must  not  be  varied  by  the
         partnership agreement or any other agreement between the partners.

      (5)   For this section, a reference to the limited partner includes  a
         reference to a person acting for the limited partner.

67    Circumstances in which limited partner not regarded as taking part in
         management

      (1)   For section 66, the limited partner  must  not  be  regarded  as
         taking part in managing the partnership's business only because one
         or more of subsections (2) to (12) apply.

      (2)   This subsection applies if the partner is  employed  or  engaged
         by:

         (a)      the partnership; or

         (b)      a general partner in the partnership;   or

         (c)      an associate of a general partner in the partnership.

      (3)   This subsection applies if the partner:

         (a)      gives advice to or for any of the following entities:

             (i) the partnership;

             (ii)      a general partner in the partnership;

             (iii)      an  associate  of  a   general   partner   in   the
                  partnership; and

         (b)      the advice is given in the proper performance of functions
             arising:

             (i) from the engagement  of  the  partner  in  a  professional
                  capacity; or

             (ii)      from business dealings between the  partner  and  an
                  entity referred to in paragraph (a).

      (4)   This subsection applies if the  partner  gives  a  guarantee  or
         indemnity in relation to a liability of:

         (a)      the partnership; or

         (b)      a general partner in the partnership; or

         (c)      an associate of a general partner in the partnership.

      (5)   This subsection applies if the  partner  takes  any  action,  or
         participates in any action taken by other limited partners, for the
         purposes of:

         (a)      enforcing the limited  partner's  rights  as  the  limited
             partner; or

         (b)       safeguarding  the  limited  partner's  interests  as  the
             limited partner.

      (6)   This subsection applies if the partner exercises a  power  under
         the partnership agreement for:

         (a)      a meeting of the partnership; or

         (b)      a resolution of  some  or  all  of  the  partners  in  the
             partnership.

      (7)   This  subsection  applies  if  the  partner  exercises  a  power
         referred to in section 66(2)(a), (b) or (c) under that section.

      (8)   This subsection applies if the partner:

         (a)      advises or consults with an associate of the  partnership;
             or

         (b)      is, or acts as, an  officer,  director,  security  holder,
             partner, agent  or  representative  of  an  associate  of  the
             partnership; or

         (c)      is, or acts  as,  a  person  employed  or  engaged  by  an
             associate of the partnership; or

         (d)      is, or  acts  as,  a  lender  to,  or  fiduciary  for,  an
             associate of the partnership.

      (9)   This subsection applies if the partner,  as  authorised  by  the
         partnership agreement:

         (a)      participates in, or has or exercises a right  in  relation
             to, the appointment, removal or nomination of a  person  as  a
             member of a committee; and

         (b)      the committee has functions that relate to one or more  of
             the  following  proposals  from  a  general  partner  in   the
             partnership:

             (i) a proposal involving a material change in  the  nature  of
                  the partnership's business  (including  a  change  in  any
                  investment guidelines, policies or conditions relating  to
                  the business);

             (ii)      a proposal for the adoption of a method for  valuing
                  some or all of the  partnership's  assets  (including  any
                  changes to the existing method);

             (iii)     a proposal for an  extension  or  reduction  in  the
                  period in  which,  under  the  partnership  agreement,  an
                  investment can be made by the partnership;

             (iv)      a proposal for an  approval  or  disapproval  of  an
                  investment that the partnership does not otherwise have  a
                  right to make;

             (v) a proposal for  an  actual  or  potential  transaction  or
                  anything else involving an actual or potential conflict of
                  interest;

             (vi)      a  proposal  relating  to  an  actual  or  potential
                  transaction,  contract,   arrangement   or   understanding
                  between one or more partners in the partnership (or any of
                  their associates) and the partnership or a general partner
                  in the partnership (or any of their associates);

             (vii)     a proposal for the delegation,  waiver,  release  or
                  variation of an authority, right, duty  or  obligation  of
                  the general partner;

             (viii)    a proposal for the appointment,  or  approval  under
                  the partnership agreement, of anyone as a senior executive
                  of the general partner or  an  associate  of  the  general
                  partner.

      (10)  This subsection applies if the partner:

         (a)      nominates, selects, investigates, evaluates or  negotiates
             with anyone in relation to the removal  or  replacement  of  a
             general partner in the partnership; or

         (b)      participates in the work of a committee  that  relates  to
             the nomination, selection, appointment, change in  control  or
             ownership, suspension, replacement or removal of:

             (i) a general partner in the partnership; or

             (ii)       an  associate  of  a   general   partner   in   the
                  partnership.

      (11)  This subsection applies if the partner  takes,  or  participates
         in,  an  action  for   the   registration,   or   maintaining   the
         registration, of the  partnership  or  a  general  partner  in  the
         partnership as a VCLP or AFOF.

      (12)  This subsection applies if:

         (a)      the partnership is a VCMP; and

         (b)      the partner takes any action for the  partnership  in  the
             capacity of a partner, or an associate of a  partner,  in  the
             VCMP.

      (13)  This section does not imply that the  limited  partner  must  be
         regarded as taking part in managing the partnership's business if:

         (a)      the partner does anything in relation to  the  conduct  of
             that business; and

         (b)      none of subsections (2) to (12) applies.

      (14)  The operation of this section must not be varied:

         (a)      by the partnership agreement; or

         (b)      with the  consent  of  the  partners  in  the  partnership
             (whether or not given under the partnership agreement).

      (15)  For this section, a reference to the limited partner includes  a
         reference to a person acting for the limited partner.

68    Associates

       (1)    An  associate  of  a  general  partner  includes  any  of  the
         following:

         (a)      anyone who has an interest in the general partner;

         (b)      anyone to whom the general partner has delegated  a  power
             or function in relation to a partnership in which the  general
             partner is a general partner;

         (c)      if the general partner or a person  covered  by  paragraph
             (a) or (b) is a corporation – a related body corporate of  the
             corporation;

         (d)      a director, officer, employee,  agent,  representative  or
             security holder of the general partner or of a person  covered
             by paragraph (a), (b) or (c).

       (2)    An  associate  of  a  limited  partner  includes  any  of  the
         following:

         (a)      anyone who has an interest in the limited partner;

         (b)      if the limited partner or a person  covered  by  paragraph
             (a) is a corporation  –  a  related  body  corporate  of  that
             corporation;

         (c)      a director, officer, employee,  agent,  representative  or
             security holder of the limited partner or a person covered  by
             paragraph (a), or (b).

      (3)   An associate of an incorporated limited partnership includes:

         (a)      an entity in which the partnership has an interest; and

         (b)      a related body corporate of that entity.

      (4)   In this section:

         interest, in a partner or partnership, includes an  interest  as  a
         security holder, trustee, responsible entity,  manager,  custodian,
         subcustodian, nominee, administrator, executor  or  legal  personal
         representative.

         partner, includes,  if  that  partner  is  another  partnership,  a
         partner in that other partnership.

         related body corporate has the same meaning as in section 9 of  the
         Corporations Act 2001.

         securities has  the  same  meaning  as  in  section  92(3)  of  the
         Corporations Act 2001.

         security holder, in relation  to  a  body,  includes  a  holder  of
         securities in or of the body.

69    Difference between partners

      (1)   A difference arising from an ordinary matter that  is  connected
         with an incorporated limited partnership's business must be decided
         by a majority of the general partners in the partnership.

      (2)   The operation of subsection (1) may be varied with  the  consent
         of all the partners in the partnership.

70    Change in partners

      (1)   A limited partner (the transferor) in  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership may transfer all or part of that partner's interest  in
         the partnership to an entity (the transferee) with:

         (a)      the consent of the general partners  in  the  partnership;
             and

         (b)      the agreement of the transferee.

      (2)   If all the interest is transferred, the transferee replaces  the
         transferor as a limited partner in the partnership.

      (3)   If part of the interest is transferred and that interest  is  or
         includes any of the transferor's legal interest in the partnership,
         the transferee becomes a limited  partner  in  the  partnership  in
         relation to so much of that legal interest as is transferred.

      (4)   An entity may be  admitted  as  a  partner  in  the  partnership
         without the consent of any limited partner in the partnership.

      (5)   The operation of this section may be varied with the consent  of
         all of the partners in the partnership.

71    Change in status of partners

      (1)   A general partner in an incorporated  limited  partnership  that
         becomes a limited partner in the  partnership  is  liable  for  any
         liability incurred by the partnership before  the  partner  becomes
         the limited partner:

         (a)      to the extent to which the partnership cannot satisfy  the
             liability; or

         (b)      to a greater extent provided by the partnership agreement.

      (2)   A limited partner in the  partnership  that  becomes  a  general
         partner in the partnership is not liable for any liability  of  the
         partnership:

         (a)      that was incurred before the partner becomes  the  general
             partner; and

         (b)      for which the partner was not liable while being a limited
             partner.

72    Liability arising outside Territory

      (1)   A limited partner in an  incorporated  limited  partnership  may
         only be liable for a liability incurred by the partnership  for  an
         act that occurred outside the Territory if  the  partner  would  be
         liable under this Act for such a liability had the act occurred  in
         the Territory.

      (2)   For subsection (1), a reference to an act includes  a  reference
         to:

         (a)      the conduct of the partnership's business; or

         (b)      an act (including omission) of:

             (i) the partnership; or

             (ii)       a  general  partner  or  limited  partner  in   the
                  partnership; or

             (iii)     an officer, employee or agent of the partnership  or
                  a general partner in the partnership.

73    Corresponding laws

      (1)   The  Regulations  may  prescribe  a  law  of  a  State,  another
         Territory or another jurisdiction  (including  a  foreign  country)
         that provides for the limitation of a partner in a  partnership  to
         be a corresponding law.

      (2)   In addition, any other law of  a  State,  another  Territory  or
         another   jurisdiction   (including   a   foreign   country)   that
         substantially corresponds to the provisions in this Act that relate
         to incorporated limited partnerships is a corresponding law.

74    Partnership formed under corresponding laws

      (1)   A partner in a partnership formed under a corresponding law  may
         only be liable for a liability incurred by the partnership  for  an
         act that occurred in the Territory if the partner would  be  liable
         under that law  had  the  act  occurred  in  the  place  where  the
         partnership was formed.

      (2)   For subsection (1), a reference to an act includes  a  reference
         to:

         (a)      the conduct of the partnership's business; or

         (b)      an act (including omission) of:

             (i) the partnership; or

             (ii)      a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii)     an officer, employee or agent of the partnership  or
                  a partner in the partnership.

75    Effect of sections 72 and 74

      (1)   To avoid doubt, sections 72 and 74 do not imply that  a  limited
         partner in an incorporated limited partnership:

         (a)      has any liability; or

         (b)      would, apart from those sections, have any liability,

         for an act occurred outside the Territory that the limited  partner
         would not have if the act had occurred in the Territory.

      (2)   In subsection (1):

         act has the same meaning as in  section  72  or  74  (as  the  case
         requires).

Division 4  Winding up

76    Assets

         For this Division, a reference to the  assets  of  an  incorporated
         limited partnership that is being wound up is a  reference  to  its
         remaining assets after the satisfaction of all its liabilities  and
         the costs for the winding up.

77    Voluntary winding up

       (1)    An  incorporated  limited  partnership   may   be   wound   up
         voluntarily:

         (a)      if the partnership agreement sets out the terms  on  which
             it may be wound  up  voluntarily  –  in  accordance  with  the
             agreement; or

         (b)      otherwise  –  subject  to  the  agreement,  by  a  special
             resolution of the limited partners in the partnership.

      (2)   On the voluntary winding up of the partnership, its assets:

         (a)      must be dealt with  in  accordance  with  the  partnership
             agreement if the agreement sets out how they are to  be  dealt
             with on a voluntary winding up; or

         (b)      otherwise – must be  distributed  among  the  partners  in
             shares  proportionate  to  their  respective  contribution  of
             capital or property to the partnership.

      (3)   A person aggrieved by the operation of subsection (2) may  apply
         to the Supreme Court for an order for the disposal or  distribution
         of the assets.

      (4)   On the application, the Supreme Court may  make  any  order  the
         Court considers appropriate for the disposal or distribution of the
         assets.

78    Winding up on certificate

      (1)   The  Commissioner  may,  by  notice  given  to  an  incorporated
         limited partnership, require it to show cause why it should not  be
         wound up.

      (2)   The Commissioner may do so if the Commissioner considers:

         (a)      the partnership has stopped carrying on business; or

         (b)      none of the partners  in  the  partnership  is  a  limited
             partner; or

         (c)      the partnership exists for an illegal purpose; or

         (d)      the partnership's registration was obtained by  a  mistake
             or fraud; or

         (e)      the partnership:

             (i) is registered on the basis that it is, or intended to  be,
                  a VCLP, AFOF or VCMP; and

             (ii)      has stopped being, or has not within 2  years  after
                  its registration, become a VCLP, AFOF or VCMP.

      (3)   The Commissioner may issue a  certificate  for  the  winding  up
         28 days after giving the notice or at a later time.

       (4)    The  Commissioner  may  issue  the  certificate  only  if  the
         Commissioner is satisfied the partnership:

         (a)      should be wound up at that time; and

         (b)      has not shown cause why it should not be wound up.

      (5)   The Commissioner must:

         (a)      as soon as possible after issuing the certificate:

             (i) publish a notice of the certificate in the Gazette; and

             (ii)      give a notice of the certificate to the partnership;
                  and

         (b)      as soon as possible after giving the notice referred to in
             paragraph (a)(ii), record in the register that the notice  has
             been given.

      (6)   The  Commissioner  must  give  a  notice  under  subsection  (1)
         or (5)(a)(ii) by:

         (a)      serving it on the partnership at its registered office; or

         (b)      if serving it at the registered office is  not  reasonably
             practicable  –  publishing  it  in  a  newspaper   circulating
             generally in the Territory.

79    Review of certificate

      (1)   A person whose interests are affected by  a  decision  to  issue
         the certificate may apply to the  Supreme  Court,  within  28  days
         after the notice referred to in section 78(5)(a)(ii) is given,  for
         a review of the decision.

      (2)    The  operation  of  the  certificate  is  suspended  until  the
         application is withdrawn or the review is decided.

      (3)   In deciding the application, the Supreme Court may:

         (a)      confirm the decision; or

         (b)      set aside the decision and cancel the certificate.

      (4)   This section does not prevent the  Commissioner  cancelling  the
         certificate at any time after the application  for  the  review  is
         made.

80    Procedure for winding up on certificate

      (1)   The Commissioner must appoint  a  person  (including  a  general
         partner in the partnership or a person  who  is  not  a  registered
         liquidator for the Corporations Act 2001) to be the liquidator  for
         the winding up.

      (2)   The liquidator:

         (a)      must, within 10 days  after  the  appointment,  publish  a
             notice of the appointment in a newspaper circulating generally
             in the Territory; and

         (b)      must give the prescribed security for the winding up; and

         (c)      is entitled to receive fees set by the Commissioner.

      (3)   The winding up must begin within:

         (a)       28  days  after  the  notice  referred  to   in   section
             78(5)(a)(ii) is given; or

         (b)      if the Supreme Court confirms the decision  to  issue  the
             certificate under section 79 – 28 days after the confirmation.

      (4)   The winding up must be completed by the day:

         (a)      stated in a  notice  given  by  the  Commissioner  to  the
             partnership; and

         (b)      at least 60 days after the giving of the notice.

      (5)   The reasonable costs of the winding up are payable  out  of  the
         partnership property.

81    Distribution of assets

      (1)   On the winding up of the partnership, its assets:

         (a)      must be dealt with  in  accordance  with  the  partnership
             agreement if the agreement sets out how they are to  be  dealt
             with on its winding up on a certificate by  the  Commissioner;
             or

         (b)      otherwise – must be  distributed  among  the  partners  in
             shares  proportionate  to  their  respective  contribution  of
             capital or property to the partnership.

      (2)   A person aggrieved by the operation of subsection (1) may  apply
         to the Supreme Court for an order for the disposal or  distribution
         of the assets.

      (3)   On the application, the Supreme Court may  make  any  order  the
         Court considers appropriate for the disposal or distribution of the
         assets.

82    Application of Corporations Act 2001

      (1)   The  winding  up  of  an  incorporated  limited  partnership  is
         declared  to  be  an  excluded  matter  for  section  5F   of   the
         Corporations Act 2001 in relation to Part 5.7 of that Act.

       (2)    Part  5.7  of  the  Corporations  Act  2001  applies  to   the
         partnership as if it were a Part 5.7 body  within  the  meaning  of
         section 9 of that Act, except:

         (a)      the words "or in the public  interest"  are  taken  to  be
             inserted in section 583(c)(ii) of that  Act  after  "just  and
             equitable"; and

         (b)      section 583(d) of that Act is taken to be omitted; and

         (c)      with any other necessary changes; and

         (d)      with any other changes prescribed by the Regulations.

      (3)   The Australian Securities and Investments Commission:

         (a)      may perform a function or exercise a power under Part  5.7
             of the Corporations Act 2001 as applied by subsection  (2)  in
             accordance with an agreement or  arrangement  referred  to  in
             section 11(8) or (9A)(b)  of  the  Australian  Securities  and
             Investments Commission Act 2001 (Cth); and

         (b)      is authorised to perform that function  or  exercise  that
             power under section 11 of that Act.

      (4)   Unless a  function  or  power  under  Part  5.7  as  applied  by
         subsection (2)  is  conferred  on  the  Australian  Securities  and
         Investments Commission as referred to in subsection (3), that  Part
         applies as if a reference in that Part to that  Commission  were  a
         reference to the Commissioner.

83    Obligation to inform Commissioner

      (1)   An incorporated limited partnership must give  the  Commissioner
         a notice of the beginning of its winding up within 7 days after:

         (a)      if a special resolution referred to in section 77(1)(b) is
             passed – the day on which it is passed; or

         (b)      otherwise – the day on which the winding up begins.

      (2)   The partnership must give  the  Commissioner  a  written  notice
         stating the day of the completion of the winding up within  7  days
         after that day.

      (3)   The Commissioner must, as soon as practicable after receiving  a
         notice under subsection (1) or  (2),  record  the  receipt  of  the
         notice in the register.

      (4)   Each general partner in the partnership commits  an  offence  if
         subsection (1) or (2) is contravened.

         Maximum penalty:    If the offender is a natural person –
                            20 penalty units.

            If the offender is a body corporate – 100 penalty units.

      (5)   It is a defence to a prosecution for the offence if the  general
         partner proves that:

         (a)      the general partner did not know about the  contravention;
             and

         (b)      reasonable precautions and appropriate diligence had  been
             exercised to avoid the contravention.

84    Cancellation of registration

      (1)   The Commissioner must, by  notice  in  the  Gazette,  cancel  an
         incorporated limited partnership's registration after it  is  wound
         up.

      (2)   The partnership ceases to exist on the cancellation.

      (3)   The Commissioner must record the cancellation in the register.

Division 5  Other matters

85    Seal and execution of documents

      (1)   A court, judge or person acting judicially must:

         (a)      take judicial  notice  of  the  seal  of  an  incorporated
             limited partnership; and

         (b)      presume it was properly affixed.

      (2)   Despite any other law of  the  Territory,  the  partnership  may
         execute a document (including a deed) by the seal or the  signature
         of a general partner acting for the partnership.

      (3)   Subsection (2) does not limit the ways in which the  partnership
         may execute a document.

86    Entitlement to make assumptions

      (1)   A person may make the assumptions in section 87 in relation to:

         (a)      any dealings with an incorporated limited partnership; and

         (b)      any dealings with an entity that has, or purports to have,
             directly or indirectly acquired property from the partnership.

      (2)   If the person makes the assumption, the  partnership  or  entity
         may not assert that the assumption is  incorrect  in  a  proceeding
         relating to the dealings.

       (3)    The  assumption  may  be  made  even  if  a  partner  in   the
         partnership, or a representative of the partner, acts  fraudulently
         in relation to the dealings.

      (4)   However, the person may not make the assumption if, at the  time
         of the dealings, the person knew or suspected that  the  assumption
         was incorrect.

87    Assumptions

      (1)   This section has effect for the dealings referred to in  section
         86(1).

      (2)   The partnership agreement may be assumed to have  been  complied
         with in relation to the dealings.

      (3)   If a person appears to be a general partner in  the  partnership
         on the  basis  of  information  provided  by  the  person  that  is
         registered information, the person may be assumed:

         (a)      to be a general partner in the partnership; and

         (b)      to have the authority to exercise the powers  and  perform
             the functions conferred on a general partner.

      (4)   If a person is held out by  the  partnership  to  be  a  general
         partner in, or an agent of, the  partnership,  the  person  may  be
         assumed:

         (a)       to  be  a  general  partner  in,  or  an  agent  of,  the
             partnership (as the case may be); and

         (b)      to have the authority to exercise the powers  and  perform
             the functions usually conferred  on  the  general  partner  or
             agent.

      (5)   The general partners in, or agents of, the  partnership  may  be
         assumed to be properly exercising their powers and performing their
         functions.

      (6)   A document may be assumed to have been properly executed by  the
         partnership if its execution appears to have complied with  section
         85.

      (7)   If a general partner in, or an agent  of,  the  partnership  has
         the authority to issue a document or a certified copy of a document
         for the partnership, the general partner or agent may be assumed to
         have the authority to warrant that it is genuine or a true copy (as
         the case may be).

88    Identification of partnership

      (1)   A document issued by or for an incorporated limited  partnership
         for its business must contain in  legible  letters  its  registered
         name, ending with "An Incorporated Limited Partnership", "L.P."  or
         "LP".

      (2)   A general partner in the partnership commits an  offence  for  a
         document  issued  by  or  for  the  partnership  that   contravenes
         subsection (1) if, when the document is issued,  the  person  knows
         about the contravention.

         Maximum penalty:    If the offender is a natural person –
                            100 penalty units.

            If the offender is a body corporate – 500 penalty units.

      (3)   A person commits an offence if the person issues  or  authorises
         the issue of a document that contravenes subsection (1).

         Maximum penalty:    If the offender is a natural person –
                            20 penalty units.

            If the offender is a body corporate – 100 penalty units.

89    Registered office

      (1)   An incorporated limited partnership must keep an office  at  its
         registered office for the receipt of  communications  addressed  to
         it.

      (2)   Each general partner in the partnership commits  an  offence  if
         the partnership contravenes subsection (1).

         Maximum penalty:    If the offender is a natural person –
                            20 penalty units.

            If the offender is a body corporate – 100 penalty units.

      (3)   It is a defence to a prosecution for the offence if the  general
         partner proves that:

         (a)      the general partner did not know about the  contravention;
             and

         (b)      reasonable precautions and appropriate diligence had  been
             exercised to avoid the contravention.

      (4)   The  office  must  be  open  to  the  public  during  the  hours
         prescribed by the Regulations.

90    Display of certificate of registration

       (1)    An  incorporated  limited   partnership   must   display   its
         certificate of registration at all times in a conspicuous place  at
         its registered office.

      (2)   Each general partner in the partnership commits  an  offence  if
         the partnership contravenes subsection (1).

         Maximum penalty:    If the offender is a natural person –
                            20 penalty units.

            If the offender is a body corporate – 100 penalty units.

      (3)   It is a defence to a prosecution for the offence if the  general
         partner proves that:

         (a)      the general partner did not know about the  contravention;
             and

         (b)      reasonable precautions and appropriate diligence had  been
             exercised to avoid the contravention.

91    Obligations to notify Commissioner

      (1)   An incorporated limited partnership must give the Commissioner:

         (a)      a notice in the  approved  form  within  one  month  after
             becoming a VCLP, AFOF or VCMP; and

         (b)      a notice in the approved form within 7 days after  ceasing
             to be a VCLP, AFOF or VCMP; and

         (c)      a notice in the approved form as soon as practicable after
             ceasing to carry on business.

      (2)   Each general partner  in  an  incorporated  limited  partnership
         commits    an    offence    if    the    partnership    contravenes
         subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c).

         Maximum penalty:    If the offender is a natural person –
                            20 penalty units.

            If the offender is a body corporate – 100 penalty units.

      (3)   It is a defence to a prosecution for the offence if the  general
         partner proves that:

         (a)      the general partner did not know about the  contravention;
             and

         (b)      reasonable precautions and appropriate diligence had  been
             exercised to avoid the contravention.

92    Service of documents

      (1)   A document concerning the business of  an  incorporated  limited
         partnership may be served on the partnership if it is left  at,  or
         sent by post to, the partnership's registered office.

      (2)   However, the document must  be  served  on  the  partnership  in
         accordance with a law of the Territory if that law specifies how it
         must be served.

93    Entry in register constitutes notice

         A person dealing with an incorporated limited partnership is  taken
         to  have  sufficient  notice  of   the   partnership's   registered
         information.

94    Commissioner may require provision of information

      (1)   The  Commissioner  may,  by  notice  given  to  an  incorporated
         limited partnership, require it to give  specified  information  to
         the Commissioner for monitoring compliance with this Part.

      (2)   The partnership must give the information within:

         (a)      a period specified in the notice that is at least 28  days
             after the date of the notice; or

         (b)      any additional period allowed by the Commissioner.

      (3)   Each general partner in the partnership commits  an  offence  if
         the partnership contravenes subsection (2).

         Maximum penalty:    If the offender is a natural person –
                            100 penalty units.

            If the offender is a body corporate – 500 penalty units.

      (4)   It is a defence to a prosecution for the offence if the  general
         partner proves that:

         (a)      the general partner did not know about the  contravention;
             and

         (b)      reasonable precautions and appropriate diligence had  been
             exercised to avoid the contravention.

      (5)   This section does  not  affect  the  Commissioner's  powers  and
         functions under the Consumer Affairs and Fair Trading Act 1990.

95    Offences by partnerships

      (1)   This section applies if:

         (a)      a provision in this Part provides that a  general  partner
             in an incorporated limited partnership commits an offence; and

         (b)       the  general  partner  is  a  partnership   (the   second
             partnership).

      (2)   A reference to the general partner in that  provision  is  taken
         to be a reference to:

         (a)      if paragraph (b) does not apply  –  each  partner  in  the
             second partnership; or

         (b)      if  a  partner  in  the  second  partnership  has  limited
             liability for the liabilities of that  partnership  under  the
             law of the place where  that  partnership  is  formed  –  each
             partner in that partnership that does not  have  such  limited
             liability.

96    Relationship with Corporations legislation

         The Regulations may declare a matter dealt with by this Part to  be
         an excluded matter for section 5F of the Corporations Act  2001  in
         relation to any of the following:

         (a)      the whole of the Corporations legislation  to  which  Part
             1.1A of the Corporations Act 2001 applies;

         (b)      a  provision  of  the  Corporations  legislation  that  is
             specified in the Regulations;

         (c)       the  Corporations  legislation  other  than  a  provision
             specified in the Regulations;

         (d)      the Corporations legislation to the  extent  specified  in
             the Regulations;

         (e)      the Corporations legislation otherwise than to the  extent
             specified in the Regulations.

Part 4      Administration

97    Secrecy

      (1)   This section applies to a  person  who  is,  or  has  been,  the
         Commissioner or a person employed or engaged in the  administration
         of this Act.

      (2)   The person commits an offence if:

         (a)      the person:

             (i) records any information (protected  information)  obtained
                  because of the performance of a function or exercise of  a
                  power under this Act; or

             (ii)        directly   or   indirectly   discloses   protected
                  information to another person; and

         (b)      the recording or disclosure is not part of the performance
             of a function or exercise of a power under a law in  force  in
             the Territory.

         Maximum penalty:    If the offender is a natural person –
                            100 penalty units.

            If the offender is a body corporate – 500 penalty units.

      (3)   Subsection (2) does not apply if the recording or disclosure:

         (a)      is made with the consent  of  the  person  from  whom  the
             information was obtained; or

         (b)      is made to a law enforcement agency (including the  Police
             Force).

      (4)   A person to  whom  this  section  applies  is  not  required  to
         disclose protected information or produce any  document  containing
         protected information to a court unless it is necessary  to  do  so
         for a law in force in the Territory.

      (5)   A reference in subsection (4) to a court  includes  a  reference
         to anyone who may  require  the  production  of  documents  or  the
         answering of questions.

98    Approved forms

         The Commissioner may approve forms for this Act.

99    Regulations

      (1)   The Administrator may make regulations,  not  inconsistent  with
         this Act, prescribing matters:

         (a)      required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed; or

         (b)      necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying  out
             or giving effect to this Act.

      (2)   The Regulations may prescribe any of the following matters:

         (a)      fees payable under this Act;

         (b)      the waiver or refund of any of the fees;

         (c)      the giving of information or document by  an  incorporated
             limited partnership to the Commissioner;

         (d)      the  exemption  of  a  person,  matter  or  thing  from  a
             provision in this Act;

         (e)       a  fine  for  an  offence  against  the  Regulations  not
             exceeding:

             (i) if the offender is a natural person – 100  penalty  units;
                  or

             (ii)      if the offender is a body corporate  –  500  penalty
                  units.

Part 5      Transitional matters for Partnership Act 1997

100   Repeal

         The Partnership Act 1891 (No. 506 of 1891) of South  Australia,  in
         its application to the Territory as a  law  of  the  Territory,  is
         repealed.

101   Savings

      (1)   In  this  section,  repealed  Act  means  the  Act  repealed  by
         section 100.

      (2)   Except as is expressly or by necessary implication  provided  in
         this Act,  all  persons,  things  and  circumstances  appointed  or
         created under the repealed Act, or existing or continuing under the
         repealed Act, immediately before  the  commencement  of  this  Act,
         continue, subject to this Act, to have the same  status,  operation
         and effect as they would have had if the repealed Act had not  been
         repealed.

      (3)   Without limiting subsection (2), the repeal of the repealed  Act
         does not affect the  status,  operation  or  effect  of  an  order,
         appointment, notice, consent, agreement, liability or  right  under
         the repealed Act.

                                  ENDNOTES

1     KEY
                            Key to abbreviations

amd = amended                     od = order
app = appendix                    om = omitted
bl = by-law                       pt = Part
ch = Chapter                            r = regulation/rule
cl = clause                       rem = remainder
div = Division                          renum = renumbered
exp = expires/expired                   rep = repealed
f = forms                         s = section
Gaz = Gazette                           sch = Schedule
hdg = heading                           sdiv = Subdivision
ins = inserted                          SL = Subordinate Legislation
lt = long title                         sub = substituted
nc = not commenced

2     LIST OF LEGISLATION

|Partnership Act 1997 (Act No. 26, 1997)                           |
|Assent date          |2 June 1997                                 |
|Commenced            |1 July 1997 (Gaz G25, 25 June 1997, p 3)    |
|Corporations Reform (Consequential Amendments NT) Act 2001 (Act   |
|No. 17, 2001)                                                     |
|Assent date          |29 June 2001                                |
|Commenced            |15 July 2001 (s 2, s 2 Corporations Act 2001|
|                     |(Cth Act No. 50, 2001) and Cth Gaz S285, 13 |
|                     |July 2001)                                  |
|Law Reform (Gender, Sexuality and De Facto Relationships) Act 2003|
|(Act No. 1, 2004)                                                 |
|Assent date          |7 January 2004                              |
|Commenced            |17 March 2004 (Gaz G11, 17 March 2004, p 8) |
|Partnership Amendment (Venture Capital Funds) Act 2006 (Act No. 9,|
|2006)                                                             |
|Assent date          |26 April 2006                               |
|Commenced            |21 June 2006 (Gaz G25, 21 June 2006, p 3)   |
|Business Names Act 2007 (Act No. 1, 2007)                         |
|Assent date          |8 March 2007                                |
|Commenced            |22 August 2007 (Gaz G34, 22 August 2007, p  |
|                     |7)                                          |
|Justice Legislation Amendment (Penalties) Act 2010 (Act No. 12,   |
|2010)                                                             |
|Assent date          |20 May 2010                                 |
|Commenced            |1 July 2010 (Gaz G24, 16 June 2010, p 2)    |
|Business Names (National Uniform Legislation) Implementation Act  |
|2012 (Act No. 8, 2012)                                            |
|Assent date          |27 April 2012                               |
|Commenced            |pts 3 and 4: 28 May 2012 (Cth proclamation  |
|                     |F2012L00891: 19 April 2012); rem: 27 April  |
|                     |2012 (s 2)                                  |
|Guardianship of Adults Act 2016 (Act No. 15, 2016)                |
|Assent date          |7 June 2016                                 |
|Commenced            |28 July 2016 (Gaz S74, 27 July 2016, p 1)   |
|Statute Law Revision Act 2020 (Act No. 26, 2020)                  |
|Assent date          |19 November 2020                            |
|Commenced            |20 November 2020 (s 2)                      |

3     GENERAL AMENDMENTS

           General amendments of a formal nature (which are not referred to
           in the table of amendments to this  reprint)  are  made  by  the
           Interpretation Legislation Amendment Act 2018 (Act No. 22, 2018)
           to: ss 1 and 94.

4     LIST OF AMENDMENTS

ss 3 – 4    sub No. 9, 2006, s 4
s 5   amd No. 17, 2001, s 21
      sub No. 9, 2006, s 5
s 6   amd No. 1, 2004, s 62; No. 9, 2006, s 6
s 8   sub No. 9, 2006, s 7
ss 9 – 13   sub No. 9, 2006, s 8
s 14  amd No. 17, 2001, s 21
      sub No. 9, 2006, s 8
ss 15 – 21  sub No. 9, 2006, s 8
s 22  amd No. 9, 2006, s 9
s 24  sub No. 9, 2006, s 10
s 26  amd No. 9, 2006, s 11
s 27  amd No. 9, 2006, s 12
s 28  amd No. 9, 2006, s 13
s 30  amd No. 9, 2006, s 14
s 31  amd No. 9, 2006, s 15
s 32  sub No. 9, 2006, s 16
s 33  amd No. 9, 2006, s 17
s 34  amd No. 9, 2006, s 18
s 35  amd No. 9, 2006, s 19
s 35A ins No. 9, 2006, s 20
s 39  amd No. 15, 2016, s 117
pt 3 hdg    ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
pt 3
div 1 hdg   ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
ss 49 – 50  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
pt 3
div 2 hdg   ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
ss 51 – 56  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
s 57  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
      amd No. 1, 2007, s 68; No. 8, 2012, s 30
s 58  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
s 59  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
      amd No. 12, 2010, s 3
s 60  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
s 61  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
      rep No. 8, 2012, s 30
s 62  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
pt 3
div 3 hdg   ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
ss 63 – 75  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
pt 3
div 4 hdg   ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
ss 76 – 82  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
s 83  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
      amd No. 12, 2010, s 3
s 84  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
pt 3
div 5 hdg   ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
ss 85 – 87  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
ss 88 – 91  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
      amd No. 12, 2010, s 3
ss 92 – 93  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
s 94  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
      amd No. 12, 2010, s 3
ss 95 – 96  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
pt 4 hdg    ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
s 97  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
      amd No. 12, 2010, s 3
ss 98 – 99  ins No. 9, 2006, s 21
pt 5 hdg    sub No. 9, 2006, s 22
s 100 renum No. 9, 2006, s 23
s 101 renum No. 9, 2006, s 23
      amd No. 26, 2020, s 3
