PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
 
 
- As at 15 August 2025
 
- Act 21 of 2007
 
 
 
 
 

TABLE OF PROVISIONS
 

TABLE OF PROVISIONS

PART 1 - PRELIMINARY
1. Name of Act

2. Commencement

3. Definitions

4. Taxation Administration Act 1996

5. Act binds the Crown

PART 2 - IMPOSITION OF PAYROLL TAX
Division 1 - Imposition of tax
6. Imposition of payroll tax

7. Who is liable for payroll tax

8. Amount of payroll tax

9. When must payroll tax be paid

Division 2 - Taxable wages
10. What are taxable wages

11. Wages that are taxable in this jurisdiction

11A. Jurisdiction in which employee is based

11B. Jurisdiction in which employer is based

11C. Place and date of payment of wages

Division 3 - Other
12. Payroll tax paid under corresponding applied law

PART 3 - WAGES
Division 1 - General concept of wages
13. What are wages?

Division 2 - Fringe benefits
14. Wages include fringe benefits

15. Value of wages comprising fringe benefits

16. Employer election regarding taxable value of fringe benefits

Division 3 - Superannuation contributions
17. Wages include superannuation contributions

Division 4 - Shares and options
18. Inclusion of grant of shares and options as wages

19. Choice of relevant day

20. Deemed choice of relevant day in special cases

21. Effect of rescission, cancellation of share or option

22. Grant of share pursuant to exercise of option

23. Value of shares and options

24. Inclusion of shares and options granted to directors as wages

25. (Repealed)

26. Place where wages are payable

Division 5 - Termination payments
27. Definitions

28. Termination payments

Division 6 - Allowances
29. Motor vehicle allowances

30. Accommodation allowances

Division 7 - Contractor provisions
31. Definitions

32. What is a relevant contract?

33. Persons taken to be employers

34. Persons taken to be employees

35. Amounts under relevant contracts taken to be wages

36. Liability provisions

Division 8 - Employment agents
36A. Division not applicable to wages paid to common law employees

37. Definitions

38. Persons taken to be employers

39. Persons taken to be employees

40. Amounts taken to be wages

41. Liability provisions

42. Agreement to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax

Division 9 - Other
43. Value of wages paid in kind

44. GST excluded from wages

45. Wages paid by group employers

46. Wages paid by or to third parties

47. Agreement etc to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax

PART 4 - EXEMPTIONS
Division 1 - Non-profit organisations
48. Non-profit organisations

Division 2 - Education and training
49. Schools and educational services and training

50. Community Development Employment Project

Division 3 - Health care service providers
51. Health care service providers

52. Division not to limit other exemptions

Division 4 - Maternity and adoption leave
53. Maternity and adoption leave

54. Administrative requirements for exemption

Division 5 - Volunteer firefighters and emergency service volunteers
55. Volunteer firefighters

56. Emergency service volunteers

57. Limitation of exemption

Division 6 - Local government
58. Local government bodies

59. Local government business entities

60. Limitation on local government exemptions

Division 7 - Other government and defence
61. State Governors

62. Defence personnel

63. War Graves Commission

Division 8 - Foreign government representatives and international agencies
64. Consular and non-diplomatic representatives

65. Trade Commissioners

66. Australian-American Fulbright Commission

Division 9 - Services outside Australia
66A. Wages paid or payable for or in relation to services performed in other
countries

Division 10 - Miscellaneous
66B. Employment agents supplying their common law employees

66C. Wages paid to living organ donors

66D. Wages subsidised under Commonwealth jobkeeper scheme

66E. Wages funded by Commonwealth Aged Care Workforce Retention Grant
Opportunity

66EA. Wages funded by Commonwealth Aged Care Workforce Bonus Grant Opportunity

66F. Exemption for employers under Jobs Plus agreements

PART 5 - GROUPING OF EMPLOYERS
Division 1 - Interpretation
67. Definitions

68. Grouping provisions to operate independently

Division 2 - Business groups
69. Constitution of groups

70. Groups of corporations

71. Groups arising from the use of common employees

72. Groups of commonly controlled businesses

73. Groups arising from tracing of interests in corporations

74. Smaller groups subsumed by larger groups

74A. Groups arising from former entities

Division 3 - Business groups--tracing of interests in corporations
75. Application

76. Direct interest

77. Indirect interest

78. Aggregation of interests

Division 4 - Miscellaneous
79. Exclusion of persons from groups

80. Designated group employers

81. Joint and several liability

PART 6 - ADJUSTMENTS OF TAX
82. Determination of correct amount of payroll tax

83. Annual adjustment of payroll tax

84. Adjustment of payroll tax when employer changes circumstances

85. Special provision where wages fluctuate

PART 7 - REGISTRATION AND RETURNS
86. Registration

87. Returns

PART 8 - COLLECTION AND RECOVERY OF TAX
Division 1 - Agents and trustees generally
88. Application

89. Agents and trustees are answerable

90. Returns by agent or trustee

91. Liability to pay tax

92. Indemnity for agent or trustee

Division 2 - Special cases
93. Tax not paid during lifetime

94. Payment of tax by executors or administrators

95. Assessment if no probate within 6 months of death

96. Person in receipt or control of money for absentee

97. Agent for absentee principal winding-up business

98. Recovery of tax paid on behalf of another person

99. Liquidator to give notice

99A. Temporary reduction for businesses with annual wages of $10 million or
less for financial year 2019-2020

99B. Temporary reduction for businesses with annual wages of $10 million or
less for financial year 2021-2022

PART 9 - GENERAL
100. Provisions specific to this jurisdiction

101. Regulations

102. Nature of proceedings for offences

103. Savings, transitional and other provisions

104. Repeal

105. (Repealed)

106. Review of Act

SCHEDULE 1
SCHEDULE 2
SCHEDULE 2A
SCHEDULE 3
Schedule 4 (Repealed)

 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- LONG TITLE
 
 
An Act to provide for a tax on employers in respect of certain wages, to
harmonise payroll tax law with Victoria, to repeal the Pay-roll Tax Act 1971;
and for other purposes.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 1
Name of Act
 
 
1 Name of Act
This Act is the Payroll Tax Act 2007.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 2
Commencement
 
 
2 Commencement
This Act commences or is taken to have commenced on 1 July 2007.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 3
Definitions
 
 
3 Definitions
     (1) In this Act--

     "ABN" means the ABN (Australian Business Number) for an entity within
     the meaning of the A New Tax System (Australian Business Number) Act
     1999 of the Commonwealth.

     "agent" includes--
          (a) a person who, in this jurisdiction, for or on behalf of
          another person outside this jurisdiction, holds or has the
          management or control of the business of that other person,
          and
          (b) a person who, by an order of the Chief Commissioner, is
          declared to be an agent or the sole agent for any other
          person for the purposes of this Act and on whom notice of
          that order has been served.

     "Australia" means the States of the Commonwealth and the Territories.

     "Australian jurisdiction" means a State or a Territory.

     "coastal waters of the State" has the same meaning as in Part 10 of
     the Interpretation Act 1987.

     "company" includes all bodies and associations (corporate and
     unincorporate) and partnerships.

     "corporation" has the same meaning as in section 9 of the
     Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth.

     "corresponding law" means a law in force in another State or a
     Territory relating to the imposition upon employers of a tax on wages
     paid or payable by them and the assessment and collection of that
     tax.

     "designated group employer" means a member designated for a group in
     accordance with section 80.

     "director of a company" includes a member of the governing body of
     the company.

     "employer" means a person who pays or is liable to pay wages and
     includes--
          (a) the Crown in any of its capacities, and
          (b) a person taken to be an employer by or under this Act,
          and
          (c) a public, local or municipal body or authority
          constituted under the law of the Commonwealth or of a State
          or Territory unless, being an authority constituted under
          the law of the Commonwealth, it is immune from the
          operation of this Act.

     "employment agency contract" has the meaning given in section 37.

     "employment agent" has the meaning given in section 37.

     "exempt wages" mean wages that are declared by or under this Act to
     be exempt wages.

     "exercise" a function includes perform a duty.

     "FBTA Act" means the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986 of the
     Commonwealth.

     "financial year" means each year commencing on 1 July.

     "fringe benefit" has the same meaning as in the FBTA Act but does not
     include--
          (a) a tax-exempt body entertainment fringe benefit within
          the meaning of that Act, or
          (b) anything that is prescribed by the regulations under
          this Act not to be a fringe benefit for the purposes of
          this definition.

     "function" includes a power, authority or duty.

     "group" has the meaning given in section 67.

     "GST" has the same meaning as it has in the A New Tax System (Goods
     and Services Tax) Act 1999 of the Commonwealth except that it
     includes notional GST of the kind for which payments may be made
     under section 5 of the Intergovernmental Agreement Implementation
     (GST) Act 2000 by a person that is a State entity within the meaning
     of that Act.

     "instrument" includes a cheque, bill of exchange, promissory note,
     money order or a postal order issued by a post office.

     "interstate wages" means wages that are taxable wages within the
     meaning of a corresponding law.

     "ITAA" means the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 of the Commonwealth.

     "liquidator" means the person who, whether or not appointed as
     liquidator, is the person required by law to carry out the winding-up
     of a company.

     "month" means the month of January, February, March, April, May,
     June, July, August, September, October, November and December.

     "option" means an option or right, whether actual, prospective or
     contingent, of a person to acquire a share or to have a share
     transferred or allotted to the person.

     "paid", in relation to wages, includes provided, conferred and
     assigned and pay and payable have corresponding meanings.

     "payroll tax" means tax imposed by section 6.

     "perform", in relation to services, includes render.

     "registered business address" means an address for service of notices
     under the A New Tax System (Australian Business Number) Act 1999 of
     the Commonwealth on an entity that has an ABN, as shown in the
     Australian Business Register kept under that Act.

     "return period", in relation to an employer, means a period relating
     to which that employer is required to lodge a return under this Act.

     "service provider", in relation to an employment agency contract--see
     section 37.

     "share" means a share in a company and includes a stapled security.

     "superannuation contribution" has the meaning given in section 17
     (2).

     "taxable wages" has the meaning given in section 10.

     "termination payment" has the meaning given in section 27.

     "Territories" means the Australian Capital Territory (including the
     Jervis Bay Territory) and the Northern Territory.

     "this jurisdiction" means New South Wales and the coastal waters of
     the State.

     "voting share" has the same meaning as in section 9 of the
     Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth.

     "wages" has the meaning given in Part 3.
          Note : The Interpretation Act 1987 contains definitions and
          other provisions that affect the interpretation and
          application of this Act.
     (2) Notes included in this Act do not form part of this Act.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 4
Taxation Administration Act 1996
 
 
4 Taxation Administration Act 1996
This Act is to be read together with the Taxation Administration Act 1996 which
provides for the administration and enforcement of this Act and other taxation
laws.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 5
Act binds the Crown
 
 
5 Act binds the Crown
     (1) This Act binds the Crown in right of this jurisdiction and, so
     far as the legislative power of the Parliament permits, the Crown in
     all its other capacities.
     (2) Nothing in this Act makes the Crown in any of its capacities
     liable to be prosecuted for an offence.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 6
Imposition of payroll tax
 
 
6 Imposition of payroll tax
Payroll tax is imposed on all taxable wages.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 7
Who is liable for payroll tax
 
 
7 Who is liable for payroll tax
The employer by whom taxable wages are paid or payable is liable to pay payroll
tax on the wages.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 8
Amount of payroll tax
 
 
8 Amount of payroll tax
The amount of payroll tax payable by an employer is to be ascertained in
accordance with Schedules 1 and 2.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 9
When must payroll tax be paid
 
 
9 When must payroll tax be paid
     (1) A person who is liable to pay payroll tax on taxable wages must
     pay the tax--
          (a) within 7 days after the end of the month in which those
          wages were paid or payable, other than the month of June,
          and
          (b) within 28 days after the end of the month of June in
          relation to taxable wages paid or payable in the month of
          June.
     (2) However, if the Chief Commissioner has reason to believe that a
     person may leave Australia before any payroll tax becomes payable by
     the person, the tax is payable on the day fixed by the Chief
     Commissioner by notice served on the person.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 10
What are taxable wages
 
 
10 What are taxable wages
     (1) For the purposes of this Act,
     "taxable wages" are wages that are taxable in this jurisdiction.
     (2) However, exempt wages are not taxable wages.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 11
Wages that are taxable in this jurisdiction
 
 
11 Wages that are taxable in this jurisdiction
     (1) For the purposes of this Act, wages are taxable in this
     jurisdiction if--
          (a) the wages are paid or payable by an employer for or in
          relation to services performed by an employee wholly in
          this jurisdiction, or
          (b) the wages are paid or payable by an employer for or in
          relation to services performed by an employee in 2 or more
          Australian jurisdictions, or partly in one or more
          Australian jurisdictions and partly outside all Australian
          jurisdictions, and--
               (i) the employee is based in this jurisdiction,
               or
               (ii) the employer is based in this jurisdiction
               (in a case where the employee is not based in an
               Australian jurisdiction), or
               (iii) the wages are paid or payable in this
               jurisdiction (in a case where both the employee
               and the employer are not based in an Australian
               jurisdiction), or
               (iv) the wages are paid or payable for services
               performed mainly in this jurisdiction (in a case
               where both the employee and the employer are not
               based in an Australian jurisdiction and the wages
               are not paid or payable in an Australian
               jurisdiction), or
          (c) the wages are paid or payable by an employer for or in
          relation to services performed by an employee wholly
          outside all Australian jurisdictions and are paid or
          payable in this jurisdiction.
          Note : Section 66A provides an exemption for wages paid or
          payable for services performed wholly in one or more other
          countries for a continuous period of more than 6 months.
     (2) The question of whether wages are taxable in this jurisdiction is
     to be determined by reference only to the services performed by the
     employee in respect of the employer during the month in which the
     wages are paid or payable, subject to this section.
     (3) Any wages paid or payable by an employer in respect of an
     employee in a particular month are taken to be paid or payable for or
     in relation to the services performed by the employee in respect of
     the employer during that month.
          Note : For example, if wages paid in a month are paid to an
          employee for services performed over several months, the
          question of whether the wages are taxable in this
          jurisdiction is to be determined by reference only to
          services performed by the employee in the month in which
          the wages are paid. The services performed in previous
          months are disregarded. (The services performed in previous
          months will be relevant to the question of whether wages
          paid in those previous months are taxable in this
          jurisdiction.)
     (4) If no services are performed by an employee in respect of an
     employer during the month in which wages are paid or payable to or in
     relation to the employee--
          (a) the question of whether the wages are taxable in this
          jurisdiction is to be determined by reference only to the
          services performed by the employee in respect of the
          employer during the most recent prior month in which the
          employee performed services in respect of the employer, and
          (b) the wages are taken to be paid or payable for or in
          relation to the services performed by the employee in
          respect of the employer during that most recent prior
          month.
     (5) If no services were performed by an employee in respect of an
     employer during the month in which wages are paid or payable to or in
     relation to the employee or in any prior month--
          (a) the wages are taken to be paid or payable for or in
          relation to services performed by the employee in the month
          in which the wages are paid or payable, and
          (b) the services are taken to have been performed at a
          place or places where it may be reasonably expected that
          the services of the employee in respect of the employer
          will be performed.
     (6) All amounts of wages paid or payable in the same month by the
     same employer in respect of the same employee are to be aggregated
     for the purposes of determining whether they are taxable in this
     jurisdiction (as if they were paid or payable for all services
     performed by the employee in the month in which the wages are paid or
     payable, or the most recent prior month, as the case requires).
          Note : For example, if one amount of wages is paid by an
          employer in a particular month for services performed in
          this jurisdiction, and another amount of wages is paid by
          the same employer in the same month for services performed
          by the same employee in another Australian jurisdiction,
          the wages paid are to be aggregated (as if they were paid
          for all services performed by the employee in that month).
          Accordingly, subsection (1) (b) would be applied for the
          purpose of determining whether the wages are taxable in
          this jurisdiction.
     (7) If wages are paid in a different month from the month in which
     they are payable, the question of whether the wages are taxable in
     this jurisdiction is to be determined by reference to the earlier of
     the relevant months.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 11A
Jurisdiction in which employee is based
 
 
11A Jurisdiction in which employee is based
     (1) For the purposes of this Act, the jurisdiction in which an
     employee is based is the jurisdiction in which the employee's
     principal place of residence is located.
     (2) The jurisdiction in which an employee is based is to be
     determined by reference to the state of affairs existing during the
     month in which the relevant wages are paid or payable.
     (3) If more than one jurisdiction would qualify as the jurisdiction
     in which an employee is based during a month, the jurisdiction in
     which the employee is based is to be determined by reference to the
     state of affairs existing on the last day of that month.
     (4) An employee who does not have a principal place of residence is
     taken, for the purposes of this Act, to be an employee who is not
     based in an Australian jurisdiction.
     (5) In the case of wages paid or payable to a corporate employee, the
     jurisdiction in which the employee is based is to be determined in
     accordance with section 11B instead of this section (as if a
     reference in section 11B to an employer were a reference to an
     employee).
     (6) In this section, a
     "corporate employee" is a company that is taken to be an employee
     under section 34 or 39 or a company to whom a payment is made that is
     taken to be wages payable to an employee under section 42 or 47.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 11B
Jurisdiction in which employer is based
 
 
11B Jurisdiction in which employer is based
     (1) For the purposes of this Act, the jurisdiction in which an
     employer is based is--
          (a) the jurisdiction in which the employer's registered
          business address is located (if the employer has an ABN),
          or
          (b) the jurisdiction in which the employer's principal
          place of business is located (in any other case).
     (2) If wages are paid or payable in connection with a business
     carried on by an employer under a trust, the employer's registered
     business address is the registered business address of the trust or,
     if the trust does not have an ABN, the registered business address of
     the trustee of the trust.
     (3) If an employer has registered business addresses located in
     different jurisdictions at the same point in time, the jurisdiction
     in which the employer is based at that point in time is the
     jurisdiction in which the employer's principal place of business is
     located.
     (4) The jurisdiction in which an employer is based is to be
     determined by reference to the state of affairs existing during the
     month in which the relevant wages are paid or payable.
     (5) If more than one jurisdiction would qualify as the jurisdiction
     in which an employer is based during a month, the jurisdiction in
     which the employer is based is to be determined by reference to the
     state of affairs existing on the last day of that month.
     (6) An employer who has neither a registered business address nor a
     principal place of business is taken, for the purposes of this Act,
     to be an employer who is not based in an Australian jurisdiction.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 11C
Place and date of payment of wages
 
 
11C Place and date of payment of wages
     (1) For the purposes of this Act, wages are taken to have been paid
     at a place if, for the purpose of the payment of those wages--
          (a) an instrument is sent or given or an amount is
          transferred by an employer to a person or a person's agent
          at that place, or
          (b) an instruction is given by an employer for the
          crediting of an amount to the account of a person or a
          person's agent at that place.
     (2) The wages are taken to have been paid on the date that the
     instrument was sent or given, the amount was transferred or the
     account credited in accordance with the instruction (as the case
     requires).
     (3) Wages are taken to be payable at the place at which they are
     paid, subject to this section.
     (4) Wages that are not paid by the end of the month in which they are
     payable are taken to be payable at--
          (a) the place where wages were last paid by the employer to
          the employee, or
          (b) if wages have not previously been paid by the employer
          to the employee--the place where the employee last
          performed services in respect of the employer before the
          wages became payable.
     (5) If wages paid or payable in the same month by the same employer
     in respect of the same employee are paid or payable in more than one
     Australian jurisdiction, the wages paid or payable in that month are
     taken to be paid or payable in the Australian jurisdiction in which
     the highest proportion of the wages are paid or payable.
     Note : Section 11 requires all wages paid or payable in the same
     month by the same employer in respect of the same employee to be
     aggregated for the purpose of determining whether the wages are
     taxable in this jurisdiction. The above provision ensures only one
     Australian jurisdiction can be considered to be the jurisdiction in
     which the wages are paid or payable.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 12
Payroll tax paid under corresponding applied law
 
 
12 Payroll tax paid under corresponding applied law
     (1) For the purposes of ascertaining the payroll tax payable under
     this Act by an employer who during a return period pays taxable wages
     and Commonwealth place wages, there is to be deducted from the amount
     of payroll tax payable by the employer under this Act the amount of
     payroll tax payable by the employer under the corresponding applied
     law.
     (2) In this section--

     "Commonwealth Act" means the Commonwealth Places (Mirror Taxes) Act
     1998 of the Commonwealth.

     "Commonwealth place wages" means wages that would be taxable wages
     within the meaning of the corresponding applied law if the
     corresponding applied law applied in relation to each place in this
     jurisdiction that is a Commonwealth place.

     "corresponding applied law" means the provisions of the Payroll Tax
     Act 2007 that would apply in relation to each place in this
     jurisdiction that is a Commonwealth place, pursuant to section 6 (2)
     of the Commonwealth Act, if those provisions were
     "excluded provisions" within the meaning of section 6 (1) of the
     Commonwealth Act.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 13
What are wages?
 
 
13 What are wages?
     (1) For the purposes of this Act,
     "wages" mean wages, remuneration, salary, commission, bonuses or
     allowances paid or payable to an employee, including--
          (a) an amount paid or payable by way of remuneration to a
          person holding an office under the Crown or in the service
          of the Crown, and
          (b) an amount paid or payable under any prescribed classes
          of contracts to the extent to which that payment is
          attributable to labour, and
          (c) an amount paid or payable by a company by way of
          remuneration to or in relation to a director of that
          company, and
          (d) an amount paid or payable by way of commission to an
          insurance or time-payment canvasser or collector, and
          (e) an amount that is included as or taken to be wages by
          any other provision of this Act.
     (2) For the purposes of this Act, wages, remuneration, salary,
     commission, bonuses or allowances are wages--
          (a) whether paid or payable at piece work rates or
          otherwise, and
          (b) whether paid or payable in cash or in kind.
     (3) This Act applies in respect of wages referred to in subsection
     (1) (a)-(e) that are paid or payable to or in relation to a person
     who is not an employee in the same way as it applies to wages paid or
     payable to an employee (as if a reference in this Act to an employee
     included a reference to any such person).
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 14
Wages include fringe benefits
 
 
14 Wages include fringe benefits
     (1) For the purposes of this Act,
     "wages" include a fringe benefit.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to benefits that are exempt
     benefits for the purposes of the FBTA Act (other than deposits to the
     Superannuation Holding Accounts Special Account within the meaning of
     the Small Superannuation Accounts Act 1995 of the Commonwealth).
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 15
Value of wages comprising fringe benefits
 
 
15 Value of wages comprising fringe benefits
     (1) For the purposes of this Act, the value of wages comprising a
     fringe benefit is to be determined in accordance with the formula--
          [graphic]

          "TV" is the value that would be the taxable value of the
          benefit as a fringe benefit for the purposes of the FBTA
          Act.

          "FBT rate" is the rate of fringe benefits tax imposed by
          the FBTA Act that applies when the liability to payroll tax
          under this Act arises.
     (2) In this Act, a reference to taxable wages that were paid or
     payable by an employer during a month is, in relation to taxable
     wages comprising fringe benefits--
          (a) a reference to the value of the fringe benefits paid or
          payable by the employer during the month, or
          (b) if an election by the employer is in force under
          section 16, a reference to an amount calculated in
          accordance with that section.
     (3) In this Act, a reference to taxable wages that were paid or
     payable by an employer during a year is, in relation to taxable wages
     comprising fringe benefits, a reference to an amount calculated by
     adding together the amounts under subsection (2) (a) or (b) (or
     subsection (2) (a) and (b)) as the case requires, for the months of
     that year.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 16
Employer election regarding taxable value of fringe benefits
 
 
16 Employer election regarding taxable value of fringe benefits
     (1) An employer who has paid or is liable to pay fringe benefits tax
     imposed by the FBTA Act in respect of a period of not less than 15
     months before 30 June in any year may elect to include as the value
     of the fringe benefits paid or payable by the employer during the
     month concerned--
          (a) in a return lodged in relation to each of the first 11
          months occurring after 30 June in that year--1/12 of the
          amount determined in accordance with subsection (2) or that
          part of that amount as, in accordance with section 10,
          comprises taxable wages for the year of tax (within the
          meaning of the FBTA Act) ending on 31 March preceding the
          commencement of the current financial year, and
          (b) in the return lodged in relation to the 12th month--the
          amount determined in accordance with subsection (2) or that
          part of that amount as, in accordance with section 10,
          comprises taxable wages for the year of tax (within the
          meaning of the FBTA Act) ending on 31 March preceding that
          month, less the total of the amounts of fringe benefits
          included in the returns for each of the preceding 11
          months.
     (2) The amount determined in accordance with this subsection is to be
     determined in accordance with the formula--
          [graphic]

          "AFBA" is the aggregate fringe benefits amount within the
          meaning of section 136 of the FBTA Act.

          "FBT rate" is the rate of fringe benefits tax imposed by
          the FBTA Act that applies when the liability to payroll tax
          under this Act arises.
     (3) An election under subsection (1) takes effect when it is notified
     to the Chief Commissioner in the form approved by the Chief
     Commissioner.
     (4) After an employer has made an election under subsection (1), the
     employer must lodge returns containing amounts calculated in
     accordance with the election unless the Chief Commissioner approves,
     by notice in writing given to the employer, the termination of the
     election and allows the employer to include the value referred to in
     section 15 (2) (a).
     (5) If an employer ceases to be liable to pay payroll tax, the value
     of taxable wages comprising fringe benefits to be included in the
     employer's final return is (irrespective of whether or not the
     employer has made an election under subsection (1)) the value of the
     fringe benefits paid or payable by the employer for the period
     commencing on and including the preceding 1 July until the date on
     which the employer ceases to be liable to payroll tax, less the value
     of the fringe benefits paid or payable by the employer during that
     period on which payroll tax has been paid.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 17
Wages include superannuation contributions
 
 
17 Wages include superannuation contributions
     (1) For the purposes of this Act,
     "wages" include a superannuation contribution.
     (2) A
     "superannuation contribution" is a contribution paid or payable by an
     employer in respect of an employee--
          (a) to or as a superannuation fund within the meaning of
          the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 of the
          Commonwealth, or
          (b) as a superannuation guarantee charge within the meaning
          of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992
          of the Commonwealth, or
          (c) to or as any other form of superannuation, provident or
          retirement fund or scheme including--
               (i) the Superannuation Holding Accounts Special
               Account within the meaning of the Small
               Superannuation Accounts Act 1995 of the
               Commonwealth, and
               (ii) a retirement savings account within the
               meaning of the Retirement Savings Accounts Act
               1997 of the Commonwealth, and
               (iii) a wholly or partly unfunded fund or scheme.
     (3) Setting aside any money or anything that is worth money as, or as
     part of, a superannuation fund, superannuation guarantee charge or
     any other form of superannuation, provident or retirement fund or
     scheme is taken to be paying a superannuation contribution.
     (4) Making a superannuation contribution of anything that is worth
     money is taken to be paying a superannuation contribution of the
     amount equal to its value, and its value is to be worked out in
     accordance with section 43 as if that section referred to the
     contribution instead of to wages.
     (5) A superannuation, provident or retirement fund or scheme is
     unfunded to the extent that money paid or payable by an employer in
     respect of an employee covered by the fund or scheme is not paid or
     payable during the employee's period of service with the employer.
     (6) In this section--

     "employee" includes any person to whom, by virtue of a paragraph of
     the definition of
     "wages" in section 13 (1), an amount paid or payable in the
     circumstances referred to in that paragraph constitutes wages.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 18
Inclusion of grant of shares and options as wages
 
 
18 Inclusion of grant of shares and options as wages
     (1) For the purposes of this Act,
     "wages" include the grant of a share or an option to an employee by
     an employer in respect of services performed by the employee if the
     share or option is an ESS interest (within the meaning of section
     83A-10 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 of the Commonwealth) and
     is granted to the employee under an employee share scheme (within the
     meaning of that section).
          Note : A grant of a share or an option to an employee by an
          employer that is not an ESS interest will be taxable as a
          fringe benefit under Division 2 of this Part.
     (2) Any such wages are taken, for the purpose of the imposition of
     payroll tax, to be paid or payable on the relevant day.
     (3) For the purposes of this Division, the
     "relevant day" is the day that the employer elects in accordance with
     this Division to treat as the day on which the wages are paid or
     payable.
     (4) To avoid doubt, the grant of a share or option is valuable
     consideration for the purposes of section 46.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 19
Choice of relevant day
 
 
19 Choice of relevant day
     (1) The employer can elect to treat as the
     "relevant day" either the date on which the share or option is
     granted to the employee or the vesting date.
     (2) A share or option is
     "granted" to a person if--
          (a) another person transfers the share or option to that
          person (other than, in the case of a share, by issuing the
          share to that person), or
          (b) in the case of a share--another person allots the share
          to that person, or
          (c) in the case of an option--another person confers the
          option on, or otherwise creates the option in, that person,
          or
          (d) the person otherwise acquires a legal interest in the
          share or option from another person, or
          (e) the person acquires a beneficial interest in the share
          or option from another person.
     (2A) To avoid doubt, if an employee acquires a right to be granted a
     share or an option, or some other material benefit, at the election
     of the employer, the share or option is not granted until the
     employer elects to grant the share or option.
     (3) The
     "vesting date" in respect of a share is one of the following dates
     (whichever happens first)--
          (a) the date on which the share vests in the employee (that
          is, when any conditions applying to the grant of the share
          have been met and the employee's legal or beneficial
          interest in the share cannot be rescinded),
          (b) the date at the end of the period of 7 years from the
          date on which the share is granted to the employee.
     (4) The
     "vesting date" in respect of an option is one of the following dates
     (whichever happens first)--
          (a) the date on which the share to which the option relates
          is granted to the employee,
          (b) the date on which the employee exercises a right under
          the option to have the share the subject of the option
          transferred to, allotted to or vested in him or her,
          (c) the date at the end of the period of 7 years from the
          date on which the option is granted to the employee.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 20
Deemed choice of relevant day in special cases
 
 
20 Deemed choice of relevant day in special cases
     (1) If an employer grants a share or an option to an employee and the
     value of the grant of the share or option is not included in the
     taxable wages of the employer for the financial year in which the
     share or option was granted, the employer is taken to have elected to
     treat the wages constituted by the grant of that share or option as
     being paid or payable on the vesting date.
     (2) If an employer grants a share or an option to an employee and the
     value of the grant of the share or option is nil or, if the employer
     were to elect to treat the date of grant as the relevant day, the
     wages constituted by the grant would not be liable to payroll tax,
     the employer is taken to have elected to treat the wages constituted
     by the grant of that share or option as being paid or payable on the
     date on which the share or option was granted.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 21
Effect of rescission, cancellation of share or option
 
 
21 Effect of rescission, cancellation of share or option
     (1) If the grant of a share or option is withdrawn, cancelled or
     exchanged before the vesting date for any valuable consideration
     (other than the grant of other shares or options), the following
     provisions apply--
          (a) the date of withdrawal, cancellation or exchange is
          taken to be the vesting date of the share or option,
          (b) the market value of the share or option, on the vesting
          date, is taken to be the amount of the valuable
          consideration (and, accordingly, that amount is the amount
          paid or payable as wages on that date).
     (2) If an employer includes the value of a grant of a share or option
     in the taxable wages of the employer for a financial year and the
     grant is rescinded because the conditions attaching to the grant were
     not met, the taxable wages of the employer, in the financial year in
     which the grant is rescinded, are to be reduced by the value of the
     grant as previously included in the taxable wages of the employer.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not apply just because an employee fails to
     exercise an option or to otherwise exercise his or her rights in
     respect of a share or option.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 22
Grant of share pursuant to exercise of option
 
 
22 Grant of share pursuant to exercise of option
The grant of the share by an employer does not constitute wages for the
purposes of this Act if the employer is required to grant the share as a
consequence of the exercise of an option by a person and--
     (a) the grant of the option to the person constitutes wages for the
     purposes of this Act, or
     (b) the option was granted to the person before 1 July 2003.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 23
Value of shares and options
 
 
23 Value of shares and options
     (1) If the grant of a share or option constitutes wages under this
     Division, the amount paid or payable as wages is taken, for the
     purposes of this Act, to be the value of the share or option
     (expressed in Australian currency) on the relevant day, less the
     consideration (if any) paid or given by the employee in respect of
     the share or option (other than consideration in the form of services
     performed).
     (2) The value of a share or an option is--
          (a) the market value, or
          (b) the amount determined as provided for by the
          Commonwealth income tax provisions.
     (3) The employer may elect the method by which the value of a share
     or an option is determined in any return lodged under this Act.
     (4) However, the Chief Commissioner may determine the method by which
     the value of a share or an option is determined if the grant of the
     share or option is not included as wages in a return lodged by an
     employer as required by this Act.
     (5) In determining the market value of a share or option, anything
     that would prevent or restrict conversion of the share or option to
     money is to be disregarded.
     (6) The Commonwealth income tax provisions apply with the following
     modifications, and any other necessary modifications--
          (a) the value of an option is to be determined as if it
          were a right to acquire a beneficial interest in a share,
          (b) a reference to the acquisition of a beneficial interest
          in a share or right is to be read as a reference to the
          grant of a share or an option.
     (7) In this section,
     "Commonwealth income tax provisions" means section 83A-315 of the
     Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 of the Commonwealth and the
     regulations made for the purposes of that section.
          Note : See Division 83A of the Income Tax Assessment (1997
          Act) Regulations 2021 of the Commonwealth for the relevant
          regulations.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 24
Inclusion of shares and options granted to directors as wages
 
 
24 Inclusion of shares and options granted to directors as wages
     (1) For the purposes of this Act,
     "wages" include the grant of a share or an option by a company to a
     director of the company who is not an employee of the company by way
     of remuneration for the appointment or services of the director.
     (2) For that purpose, the other provisions of this Division apply in
     respect of any such grant as if a reference to the employer were a
     reference to the company and a reference to the employee were a
     reference to the director of the company.
     (3) In this section, a reference to a director of the company
     includes a reference to the following--
          (a) a person who, under a contract or other arrangement, is
          to be appointed as a director of the company,
          (b) a former director of the company.
     (4) However, if wages referred to in this section are fringe
     benefits, the value of the wages is to be determined in accordance
     with Division 2 of this Part (and not this Division).
     Note : Section 13 provides that a reference to an employee in this
     Act includes a reference to any person to whom any amount that is
     treated as wages under this Act is paid or payable. See also section
     11, which deems the wages to be paid or payable for services
     performed.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 26
Place where wages are payable
 
 
26 Place where wages are payable
     (1) The wages constituted by the grant of the share or option are
     taken to be paid or payable in this jurisdiction if the share is a
     share in a local company or, in the case of an option, an option to
     acquire shares in a local company.
     (2) In any other case, the wages constituted by the grant of the
     share or option are taken to be paid or payable outside this
     jurisdiction.
          Note : The place where wages are paid or payable is
          sometimes relevant to determining whether the wages are
          liable to payroll tax under this Act. See section 11.
     (3) In this section--

     "local company" means--
          (a) a company incorporated or taken to be incorporated
          under the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth that is
          taken to be registered in this jurisdiction for the
          purposes of that Act, or
          (b) any other body corporate that is incorporated under an
          Act of this jurisdiction.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 27
Definitions
 
 
27 Definitions
In this Division--

"employment termination payment" means--
     (a) an employment termination payment within the meaning of section
     82-130 of the ITAA, or
     (b) a payment that would be an employment termination payment within
     the meaning of section 82-130 of the ITAA but for the fact that it
     was received later than 12 months after the termination of a person's
     employment, or
     (c) a transitional termination payment within the meaning of section
     82-10 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 of the
     Commonwealth.

"termination payment" means--
     (a) a payment made in consequence of the retirement from, or
     termination of, any office or employment of an employee, being--
          (i) an unused annual leave payment, or
          (ii) an unused long service leave payment, or
          (iii) so much of an employment termination payment paid or
          payable by an employer, whether or not paid to the employee
          or to any other person or body, that would be included in
          the assessable income of an employee under Part 2-40 of the
          ITAA if the whole of the employment termination payment had
          been paid to the employee, or
     (b) an amount paid or payable by a company as a consequence of the
     termination of the services or office of a director of the company,
     whether or not paid to the director or to any other person or body,
     that would be an employment termination payment if that amount had
     been paid or payable as a consequence of termination of employment,
     or
     (c) an amount paid or payable by a person who is an employer under a
     relevant contract (within the meaning of section 32) as a consequence
     of the termination of the supply of the services of an employee under
     the contract, whether or not paid to the employee or to any other
     person, if the amount would be an employment termination payment if
     that amount had been paid or payable as a consequence of termination
     of employment.

"unused annual leave payment" has the same meaning as in section 83-10 of the
ITAA.

"unused long service leave payment" has the same meaning as in section 83-75 of
the ITAA.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 28
Termination payments
 
 
28 Termination payments
For the purposes of this Act,
"wages" include a termination payment.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 29
Motor vehicle allowances
 
 
29 Motor vehicle allowances
     (1) For the purposes of this Act,
     "wages", in respect of a financial year, do not include the exempt
     component of a motor vehicle allowance paid or payable in respect of
     that year.
     (2) Accordingly, if the total motor vehicle allowance paid or payable
     to an employee in respect of a financial year does not exceed the
     exempt component, the motor vehicle allowance is not
     "wages" for the purposes of this Act.
     (3) If the total motor vehicle allowance paid or payable to an
     employee in respect of a financial year exceeds the exempt component
     (if any), only that amount that exceeds the exempt component of the
     motor vehicle allowance is included as
     "wages" for the purposes of this Act.
     (4) The
     "exempt component" of a motor vehicle allowance paid or payable in
     respect of a financial year is calculated in accordance with the
     formula--
          [graphic]

          "E" is the exempt component.

          "K" is the number of business kilometres travelled during
          the financial year.

          "R" is the exempt rate.
     (5) The
     "number of business kilometres travelled during the financial year"
     (" K ") is to be determined in accordance with the continuous
     recording method, or the averaging method, whichever method is
     selected and used by the employer in accordance with Part 5 of
     Schedule 1.
     (6) The Chief Commissioner, by order in writing, may approve the use,
     by an employer or class of employer, of another method of determining
     the number of business kilometres travelled during the financial year
     (including the use of an estimate). If so, the number of business
     kilometres travelled during the financial year is to be determined in
     accordance with the method approved by the Chief Commissioner.
     (7) For the purposes of this section, the
     "exempt rate" for the financial year concerned is--
          (a) the rate determined by legislative instrument under
          section 28-25 of the ITAA for calculating a deduction for
          car expenses using the cents per kilometre method in the
          financial year immediately preceding the financial year in
          which the allowance is paid or payable, or
          (b) if there is more than one rate under the determination
          referred to in paragraph (a), the highest of those rates,
          or
          (c) if no rate is determined as referred to in paragraph
          (a), the rate prescribed by the regulations under this Act.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 30
Accommodation allowances
 
 
30 Accommodation allowances
     (1) For the purposes of this Act,
     "wages" do not include an accommodation allowance paid or payable to
     an employee in respect of a night's absence from the person's usual
     place of residence that does not exceed the exempt rate.
     (2) If the accommodation allowance paid or payable to an employee in
     respect of a night's absence from the person's usual place of
     residence exceeds the exempt rate,
     "wages" include that allowance only to the extent that it exceeds the
     exempt rate.
     (3) For the purposes of this section, the
     "exempt rate" for the financial year concerned is--
          (a) the total reasonable amount for daily travel allowance
          expenses using the lowest capital city for the lowest
          salary band for the financial year determined by the
          Commissioner of Taxation of the Commonwealth, or
          (b) if no determination referred to in paragraph (a) is in
          force, the rate prescribed by the regulations.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 31
Definitions
 
 
31 Definitions
In this Division--

"contract" includes an agreement, arrangement or undertaking, whether formal or
informal and whether express or implied.

"relevant contract" has the meaning given in section 32.

"re-supply" of goods acquired from a person includes--
     (a) a supply to the person of goods in an altered form or condition,
     and
     (b) a supply to the person of goods in which the first-mentioned
     goods have been incorporated.

"services" includes results (whether goods or services) of work performed.

"supply" includes supply by way of sale, exchange, lease, hire or hire-
purchase, and in relation to services includes the providing, granting or
conferring of services.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 32
What is a relevant contract?
 
 
32 What is a relevant contract?
     (1) In this Division, a
     "relevant contract" in relation to a financial year is a contract
     under which a person (the
     "designated person") during that financial year, in the course of a
     business carried on by the designated person--
          (a) supplies to another person services for or in relation
          to the performance of work, or
          (b) has supplied to the designated person the services of
          persons for or in relation to the performance of work, or
          (c) gives out goods to natural persons for work to be
          performed by those persons in respect of those goods and
          for re-supply of the goods to the designated person or,
          where the designated person is a member of a group, to
          another member of that group.
     (2) However, a
     "relevant contract" does not include a contract of service or a
     contract under which a person (the
     "designated person") during a financial year in the course of a
     business carried on by the designated person--
          (a) is supplied with services for or in relation to the
          performance of work that are ancillary to the supply of
          goods under the contract by the person by whom the services
          are supplied or to the use of goods which are the property
          of that person, or
          (b) is supplied with services for or in relation to the
          performance of work where--
               (i) those services are of a kind not ordinarily
               required by the designated person and are
               performed by a person who ordinarily performs
               services of that kind to the public generally, or
               (ii) those services are of a kind ordinarily
               required by the designated person for less than
               180 days in a financial year, or
               (iii) those services are provided for a period
               that does not exceed 90 days or for periods that,
               in the aggregate, do not exceed 90 days in that
               financial year and are not services--
                    (A) provided by a person by whom
                    similar services are provided to the
                    designated person, or
                    (B) for or in relation to the
                    performance of work where any of the
                    persons who perform the work also
                    perform similar work for the designated
                    person,
               for periods that, in the aggregate, exceed 90
               days in that financial year, or
               (iv) those services are supplied under a contract
               to which subparagraphs (i)-(iii) do not apply and
               the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that those
               services are performed by a person who ordinarily
               performs services of that kind to the public
               generally in that financial year, or
          (c) is supplied by a person (the
          "contractor") with services for or in relation to the
          performance of work under a contract to which paragraphs
          (a) and (b) do not apply where the work to which the
          services relate is performed--
               (i) by two or more persons employed by, or who
               provide services for, the contractor in the
               course of a business carried on by the
               contractor, or
               (ii) where the contractor is a partnership of two
               or more natural persons, by one or more of the
               members of the partnership and one or more
               persons employed by, or who provide services for,
               the contractor in the course of a business
               carried on by the contractor, or
               (iii) where the contractor is a natural person,
               by the contractor and one or more persons
               employed by, or who provide services for, the
               contractor in the course of a business carried on
               by the contractor, or
          (d) is supplied with services solely for or ancillary to
          the conveyance of goods by means of a vehicle provided by
          the person conveying them.
     (2A) Subsection (2) does not apply if the Chief Commissioner
     determines that the contract or arrangement under which the services
     are supplied was entered into with an intention either directly or
     indirectly of avoiding or evading the payment of tax by any person.
     (2B) Subsection (2) (a), (b), (c) or (d) does not apply to a contract
     under which any additional services or work (of a kind not covered by
     the relevant paragraph) are supplied or performed under the contract.
     (3) For the purposes of this section, an employment agency contract
     under which services are supplied by an employment agent, or a
     service provider is procured by an employment agent, is not a
     relevant contract.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 33
Persons taken to be employers
 
 
33 Persons taken to be employers
     (1) For the purposes of this Act, a person--
          (a) who during a financial year, under a relevant contract,
          supplies services to another person, or
          (b) to whom during a financial year, under a relevant
          contract, the services of persons are supplied for or in
          relation to the performance of work, or
          (c) who during a financial year, under a relevant contract,
          gives out goods to other persons,
     is taken to be an employer in respect of that financial year.
     (2) If a contract is a relevant contract under both section 32 (1)
     (a) and (b)--
          (a) the person to whom, under the contract, the services of
          persons are supplied for or in relation to the performance
          of work is taken to be an employer, and
          (b) despite subsection (1) (a), the person who under the
          contract supplies the services is taken not to be an
          employer.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 34
Persons taken to be employees
 
 
34 Persons taken to be employees
For the purposes of this Act, a person who during a financial year--
     (a) performs work for or in relation to which services are supplied
     to another person under a relevant contract, or
     (b) being a natural person, under a relevant contract, re-supplies
     goods to an employer,
is taken to be an employee in respect of that financial year.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 35
Amounts under relevant contracts taken to be wages
 
 
35 Amounts under relevant contracts taken to be wages
     (1) For the purposes of this Act, amounts paid or payable by an
     employer during a financial year for or in relation to the
     performance of work relating to a relevant contract or the re-supply
     of goods by an employee under a relevant contract are taken to be
     wages paid or payable during that financial year.
     (2) If an amount referred to in subsection (1) is included in a
     larger amount paid or payable by an employer under a relevant
     contract during a financial year, that part of the larger amount
     which is not attributable to the performance of work relating to the
     relevant contract or the re-supply of goods by an employee under the
     relevant contract is as determined by the Chief Commissioner.
     (3) An amount paid or payable for or in relation to the performance
     of work under a relevant contract is taken to include--
          (a) any payment made by a person who is taken to be an
          employer under a relevant contract in relation to a person
          who is taken to be an employee under the relevant contract
          that would be a superannuation contribution if made in
          relation to a person in the capacity of an employee, and
          (b) the value of any share or option (not otherwise
          included as wages under this Act) provided or liable to be
          provided by a person who is taken to be an employer under a
          relevant contract in relation to a person who is taken to
          be an employee under the relevant contract that would be
          included as wages under Division 4 if provided to a person
          in the capacity of an employee.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 36
Liability provisions
 
 
36 Liability provisions
If, in respect of a payment for or in relation to the performance of work that
is taken to be wages under this Division, payroll tax is paid by a person taken
under this Division to be an employer--
     (a) no other person is liable to payroll tax in respect of that
     payment, and
     (b) if another person is liable to make a payment for or in relation
     to that work, that person is not liable to payroll tax in respect of
     that payment unless it or the payment by the first-mentioned person
     is made with an intention either directly or indirectly of avoiding
     or evading the payment of tax whether by the first-mentioned person
     or another person.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 36A
Division not applicable to wages paid to common law employees
 
 
36A Division not applicable to wages paid to common law employees
This Division does not apply in relation to wages that are exempt wages under
section 66B and clause 13B of Schedule 2.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 37
Definitions
 
 
37 Definitions
     (1) For the purposes of this Act, an
     "employment agency contract" is a contract, whether formal or
     informal and whether express or implied, under which a person (an
     "employment agent") procures the services of another person (a
     "service provider") for a client of the employment agent.
     (2) However, a contract is not an employment agency contract for the
     purposes of this Act if it is, or results in the creation of, a
     contract of employment between the service provider and the client.
     (3) In this section--

     "contract" includes agreement, arrangement and undertaking.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 38
Persons taken to be employers
 
 
38 Persons taken to be employers
For the purposes of this Act, the employment agent under an employment agency
contract is taken to be an employer.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 39
Persons taken to be employees
 
 
39 Persons taken to be employees
For the purposes of this Act, the person who performs work for or in relation
to which services are supplied to the client under an employment agency
contract is taken to be an employee of the employment agent.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 40
Amounts taken to be wages
 
 
40 Amounts taken to be wages
     (1) For the purposes of this Act, the following are taken to be wages
     paid or payable by the employment agent under an employment agency
     contract--
          (a) any amount paid or payable to or in relation to the
          service provider in respect of the provision of services in
          connection with the employment agency contract,
          (b) the value of any benefit provided for or in relation to
          the provision of services in connection with the employment
          agency contract that would be a fringe benefit if provided
          to a person in the capacity of an employee,
          (c) any payment made in relation to the service provider
          that would be a superannuation contribution if made in
          relation to a person in the capacity of an employee.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to an employment agency contract to
     the extent that an amount, benefit or payment referred to in that
     subsection would be exempt from payroll tax under Part 4 (other than
     under section 50 or Division 4 or 5 of that Part), or Part 3 of
     Schedule 2 (other than clause 5 or 13A), had the service provider
     performed the services as an employee of the client, if the client
     has given a declaration to that effect, in the form approved by the
     Chief Commissioner, to the employment agent.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 41
Liability provisions
 
 
41 Liability provisions
Subject to section 42, if an employment agent under an employment agency
contract--
     (a) by arrangement procures the services of a service provider for a
     client of the employment agent, and
     (b) pays payroll tax in respect of an amount, benefit or payment that
     is, under section 40, taken to be wages paid or payable by the
     employment agent in respect of the provision of those services in
     connection with that contract,
no other person (including any other person engaged to procure the services of
the service provider for the employment agent's client as part of the
arrangement) is liable to pay payroll tax in respect of wages paid or payable
for the procurement or performance of those services by the service provider
for the client.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 42
Agreement to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax
 
 
42 Agreement to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax
     (1) If the effect of an employment agency contract is to reduce or
     avoid the liability of any party to the contract to the assessment,
     imposition or payment of payroll tax, the Chief Commissioner may--
          (a) disregard the contract, and
          (b) determine that any party to the contract is taken to be
          an employer for the purposes of this Act, and
          (c) determine that any payment made in respect of the
          contract is taken to be wages for the purposes of this Act.
     (2) If the Chief Commissioner makes a determination under subsection
     (1), the Chief Commissioner must serve a notice of the determination
     on the person taken to be an employer for the purposes of this Act.
     (3) The notice must set out the facts on which the Chief Commissioner
     relies and the reasons for the determination.
     (4) This section has effect in relation to agreements, transactions
     and arrangements made before, on or after the commencement of this
     section.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 43
Value of wages paid in kind
 
 
43 Value of wages paid in kind
The value of wages (except fringe benefits and shares and options) that are
paid or payable in kind is the greater of--
     (a) the value agreed or attributed to the wages in, or ascertainable
     for the wages from, arrangements between the employer and the
     employee, whichever is the greater, and
     (b) if the regulations prescribe how the value of wages of that type
     is to be determined--the value determined in accordance with the
     regulations.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 44
GST excluded from wages
 
 
44 GST excluded from wages
     (1) If a person is liable to pay GST on the supply to which wages
     paid or payable to the person relate, the amount or value of those
     wages on which payroll tax is payable is the amount or value of the
     wages paid or payable to the person minus the relevant proportion of
     the amount of GST payable by the person on the supply to which the
     wages relate.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of the value of wages
     comprising a fringe benefit.
     (3) In this section--

     "consideration" has the same meaning as in the A New Tax System
     (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 of the Commonwealth.

     "relevant proportion", in relation to GST payable on a supply to
     which wages relate, means the proportion that the amount or value of
     the wages bears to the consideration for the supply to which the
     wages relate.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 45
Wages paid by group employers
 
 
45 Wages paid by group employers
A reference in this Act to wages paid or payable by a member of a group
includes wages that would be taken to be paid or payable by a member of a group
if the member were the employer of the employee to whom the wages were paid.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 46
Wages paid by or to third parties
 
 
46 Wages paid by or to third parties
     (1) If any of the following amounts of money or other valuable
     consideration would, if paid or given or to be paid or given directly
     by an employer to an employee, be or be included as wages paid or
     payable by the employer to the employee for the purposes of this Act,
     they are taken to be wages paid or payable by the employer to the
     employee--
          (a) any money or other valuable consideration paid or
          given, or to be paid or given, to an employee, for the
          employee's services as an employee of an employer, by a
          person other than the employer,
          (b) any money or other valuable consideration paid or
          given, or to be paid or given, by an employer, for an
          employee's services as the employee of the employer, to a
          person other than the employee,
          (c) any money or other valuable consideration paid or
          given, or to be paid or given, by a person other than an
          employer, for an employee's services as an employee of the
          employer, to a person other than the employee.
     (2) If any of the following amounts of money or other valuable
     consideration would, if paid or given or to be paid or given directly
     by a company to a director of the company, be or be included as wages
     paid or payable by the company to the director for the purposes of
     this Act, they are taken to be wages paid or payable by the company
     to the director--
          (a) any money or other valuable consideration paid or
          given, or to be paid or given, to a director of a company,
          by way of remuneration for the appointment or services of
          the director to the company, by a person other than the
          company,
          (b) any money or other valuable consideration paid or
          given, or to be paid or given, by a company, by way of
          remuneration for the appointment or services of the
          director to the company, to a person other than the
          director,
          (c) any money or other valuable consideration paid or
          given, or to be paid or given, by any person, by way of
          remuneration for the appointment or services of a director
          to the company, to a person other than the director.
     (3) In this section,
     "director" of a company includes--
          (a) a person who, under a contract or other arrangement, is
          to be appointed as a director of the company, and
          (b) a former director of the company.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 47
Agreement etc to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax
 
 
47 Agreement etc to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax
     (1) If any person enters into any agreement, transaction or
     arrangement, whether in writing or otherwise, under which a natural
     person performs, for or on behalf of another person, services in
     respect of which any payment is made to some other person related or
     connected to the natural person performing the services and the
     effect of the agreement, transaction or arrangement is to reduce or
     avoid the liability of any person to the assessment, imposition or
     payment of payroll tax, the Chief Commissioner may--
          (a) disregard the agreement, transaction or arrangement,
          and
          (b) determine that any party to the agreement, transaction
          or arrangement is taken to be an employer for the purposes
          of this Act, and
          (c) determine that any payment made in respect of the
          agreement, transaction or arrangement is taken to be wages
          for the purposes of this Act.
     (2) If the Chief Commissioner makes a determination under subsection
     (1), the Chief Commissioner must serve a notice to that effect on the
     person taken to be an employer for the purposes of this Act.
     (3) The notice must set out the facts on which the Chief Commissioner
     relies and the reasons for the determination.
     (4) This section has effect in relation to agreements, transactions
     and arrangements made before, on or after the commencement of this
     section.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 48
Non-profit organisations
 
 
48 Non-profit organisations
     (1) Subject to subsection (2), wages are exempt wages if they are
     paid or payable by any of the following--
          (a) a religious institution,
          (b) a public benevolent institution (but not including an
          instrumentality of the State),
          (c) a non-profit organisation having as its sole or
          dominant purpose a charitable, benevolent, philanthropic or
          patriotic purpose (but not including a school, an
          educational institution, an educational company or an
          instrumentality of the State).
     (2) The wages must be paid or payable--
          (a) for work of a kind ordinarily performed in connection
          with the religious, charitable, benevolent, philanthropic
          or patriotic purposes of the institution or body, and
          (b) to a person engaged exclusively in that kind of work.
     (3) For the purposes of subsection (1) (c), an
     "educational company" is a company--
          (a) in which an educational institution has a controlling
          interest, and
          (b) that provides, promotes or supports the educational
          services of that institution.
     (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), an educational institution
     has a
     "controlling interest" in an educational company if--
          (a) members of the board of management of the company who
          are entitled to exercise a majority in voting power at
          meetings of the board of management are accustomed or under
          an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
          accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
          the educational institution, or
          (b) the educational institution may (whether directly or
          indirectly) exercise, control the exercise of, or
          substantially influence the exercise of, more than 50% of
          the voting power attached to voting shares, or any class of
          voting shares, issued by the company, or
          (c) the educational institution has power to appoint more
          than 50% of the members of the board of management of the
          company.
     (5) In this section--

     "educational institution" means an entity that provides education
     above secondary level.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 49
Schools and educational services and training
 
 
49 Schools and educational services and training
Wages are exempt wages as provided for in Division 1 of Part 3 of Schedule 2.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 50
Community Development Employment Project
 
 
50 Community Development Employment Project
     (1) Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or payable to an
     Aboriginal person who is employed under an employment project.
     (2) An
     "employment project" is an employment project under the Community
     Development Employment Project funded by the Department of Employment
     and Workplace Relations of the Commonwealth or the Torres Strait
     Regional Authority.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 51
Health care service providers
 
 
51 Health care service providers
     (1) Subject to subsection (2), wages paid or payable by a health care
     service provider are exempt wages.
     (2) The wages must be paid or payable--
          (a) for work of a kind ordinarily performed in connection
          with the conduct of a health care service provider, and
          (b) to a person engaged exclusively in that kind of work.
     (3) For the purposes of this section,
     "health care service provider" has the meaning given in Division 2 of
     Part 3 of Schedule 2.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 52
Division not to limit other exemptions
 
 
52 Division not to limit other exemptions
     (1) Nothing in this Division limits the application of any other
     Division of this Part.
     (2) For example, if a health care service provider is also a non-
     profit organisation, the exemption for non-profit organisations
     referred to in section 48 may still apply.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 53
Maternity and adoption leave
 
 
53 Maternity and adoption leave
     (1) Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or payable to an employee
     in respect of--
          (a) maternity leave, being leave given to a female employee
          in connection with her pregnancy or the birth of her child
          (other than sick leave, recreation leave, annual leave or
          any similar leave), or
          (b) adoption leave, being leave given to an employee in
          connection with the adoption of a child by him or her
          (other than sick leave, recreation leave, annual leave or
          any similar leave).
     (2) It is immaterial whether the leave is taken during or after the
     pregnancy or before or after the adoption.
     (3) The exemption is limited to wages paid or payable in respect of a
     maximum of 14 weeks maternity leave in respect of any one pregnancy
     and 14 weeks adoption leave in respect of any one adoption.
     (4) In subsection (3)--
          (a) a reference to 14 weeks maternity leave or 14 weeks
          adoption leave includes a reference to an equivalent period
          of leave at a reduced rate of pay, and
          (b) a reference to wages paid or payable in respect of a
          period of leave is a reference to the total wages that
          would normally have been paid or payable for that period of
          leave.
          Note : For a part-time employee, the exemption may apply to
          wages paid or payable for maternity leave or adoption leave
          that extends to 28 weeks at half of the part-time rate of
          pay that would normally apply to the employee.
     (5) The exemption does not apply to any part of wages paid or payable
     in respect of maternity or adoption leave that comprises fringe
     benefits.
     Note : Clause 13A of Schedule 2 provides for a similar exemption for
     paternity leave given to a male employee. That exemption is not
     included in some corresponding laws.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 54
Administrative requirements for exemption
 
 
54 Administrative requirements for exemption
     (1) An employer wishing to claim an exemption under section 53 in
     respect of maternity leave must obtain and keep a medical certificate
     in respect of, or declaration in writing by, the employee--
          (a) stating that the employee is or was pregnant, or
          (b) stating that the employee has given birth and the date
          of birth.
     (2) An employer wishing to claim an exemption under section 53 in
     respect of adoption leave must obtain and keep a declaration in
     writing by the employee stating--
          (a) that a child has been placed in the custody of the
          employee pending the making of an adoption order, or
          (b) that an adoption order has been made or recognised in
          favour of the employee.
     Note : Section 53 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996 requires
     these records to be kept for at least 5 years unless the Chief
     Commissioner authorises earlier destruction.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 55
Volunteer firefighters
 
 
55 Volunteer firefighters
Subject to section 57, wages are exempt wages if they are paid or payable to an
employee in respect of any period when he or she was taking part in bushfire
fighting activities as a volunteer member of a rural fire brigade under the
Rural Fires Act 1997.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 56
Emergency service volunteers
 
 
56 Emergency service volunteers
Subject to section 57, wages are exempt wages if they are paid or payable to an
employee in respect of any period when he or she was engaging in emergency
operations as a volunteer member of an emergency services organisation under
the State Emergency and Rescue Management Act 1989.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 57
Limitation of exemption
 
 
57 Limitation of exemption
An exemption under this Division does not apply to wages paid or payable as
recreation leave, annual leave, long service leave or sick leave.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 58
Local government bodies
 
 
58 Local government bodies
Subject to section 60, wages are exempt wages if they are paid or payable by a
council, a county council or a joint organisation, within the meaning of the
Local Government Act 1993.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 59
Local government business entities
 
 
59 Local government business entities
     (1) Subject to section 60, wages are exempt wages if they are paid or
     payable--
          (a) by a wholly-owned subsidiary of a council or of 2 or
          more councils, and
          (b) to a person for or in connection with an activity that
          is conducted for the council or councils under a written
          arrangement between the subsidiary and the council or
          councils.
     (2) The written arrangement referred to in subsection (1) (b) must
     include a provision for the payment by the subsidiary to the council
     or councils of an amount approximately equivalent to the amount of
     tax that would be payable by the subsidiary under this Act but for
     the exemption.
     (3) In this section--

     "council" has the same meaning as in the Local Government Act 1993.

     "wholly-owned subsidiary" has the same meaning as in the Corporations
     Act 2001 of the Commonwealth.
     (4) In this section, a reference to a wholly-owned subsidiary of 2 or
     more councils is a reference to a body corporate that, if the
     councils were a single council, would be a wholly-owned subsidiary of
     the single council.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 60
Limitation on local government exemptions
 
 
60 Limitation on local government exemptions
     (1) An exemption under this Division does not apply to wages paid or
     payable for or in connection with--
          (a) any of the activities referred to in subsection (2), or
          (b) the construction of any buildings or works, or the
          installation of plant, machinery or equipment for use in
          any of the activities referred to in subsection (2).
     (2) Subsection (1) applies to the following activities--
          (a) the supply of electricity or gas,
          (b) water supply,
          (c) sewerage,
          (d) the conduct of--
               (i) abattoirs,
               (ii) public markets,
               (iii) parking stations,
               (iv) cemeteries or crematoria,
               (v) hostels,
               (vi) an activity prescribed by the regulations,
          (e) an activity specified in Schedule 2.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 61
State Governors
 
 
61 State Governors
Wages paid or payable by the Governor of a State are exempt wages.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 62
Defence personnel
 
 
62 Defence personnel
Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or payable to an employee in respect of
any period when he or she was on leave from employment because of being a
member of--
     (a) the Defence Force of the Commonwealth, or
     (b) the armed forces of any part of the Commonwealth of Nations.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 63
War Graves Commission
 
 
63 War Graves Commission
Wages paid or payable by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission are exempt
wages.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 64
Consular and non-diplomatic representatives
 
 
64 Consular and non-diplomatic representatives
Wages paid or payable to members of his or her official staff by a consular or
other representative of any country in Australia (other than a diplomatic
representative) are exempt wages.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 65
Trade Commissioners
 
 
65 Trade Commissioners
Wages paid or payable to members of his or her official staff by a Trade
Commissioner representing any other part of the Commonwealth of Nations in
Australia are exempt wages.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 66
Australian-American Fulbright Commission
 
 
66 Australian-American Fulbright Commission
Wages paid or payable by the Australian-American Fulbright Commission are
exempt wages.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 66A
Wages paid or payable for or in relation to services performed in other
countries
 
 
66A Wages paid or payable for or in relation to services performed in other
countries
Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or payable for or in relation to
services performed by an employee wholly in one or more other countries for a
continuous period of more than 6 months beginning on the day on which wages
were first paid or payable to that employee for the services so performed.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 66B
Employment agents supplying their common law employees
 
 
66B Employment agents supplying their common law employees
Wages are exempt wages as provided for in clause 13B of Schedule 2.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 66C
Wages paid to living organ donors
 
 
66C Wages paid to living organ donors
Wages are exempt wages to the extent that they are reimbursed by the
Commonwealth under the Supporting Leave for Living Organ Donors Programme.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 66D
Wages subsidised under Commonwealth jobkeeper scheme
 
 
66D Wages subsidised under Commonwealth jobkeeper scheme
     (1) This section applies in relation to an employee (a
     "jobkeeper subsidised employee") in respect of whom jobkeeper
     payments are paid or payable to the employer if, but for those
     payments, less wages or no wages would have been paid to the
     employee.
     (2) The wages paid to a jobkeeper subsidised employee are exempt
     wages, but only to the extent of the difference between--
          (a) the amount of jobkeeper payments paid or payable to the
          employer in respect of the employee, and
          (b) the amount of wages that would have been paid to the
          employee but for those jobkeeper payments.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies only in respect of wages paid during the
     period--
          (a) commencing on 30 March 2020, and
          (b) ending on the day the scheme for jobkeeper payments
          ends.
     (4) For the purposes of this section, any overpayment of jobkeeper
     payments is to be disregarded in calculating the amount of jobkeeper
     payments paid or payable to an employer in respect of an employee.
     (5) To avoid doubt, this section does not apply in relation to an
     employee if the wages paid or payable to the employee are greater
     than the jobkeeper payments paid or payable to the employer in
     respect of the employee.
     (6) In this section--

     "jobkeeper payment" has the same meaning as it has in Part 6-4C of
     the Fair Work Act 2009 of the Commonwealth.

     "overpayment", in relation to a jobkeeper payment, means any amount
     in respect of the payment that an employer is liable to repay to the
     Commonwealth under section 9 of the Coronavirus Economic Response
     Package (Payments and Benefits) Act 2020 of the Commonwealth.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 66E
Wages funded by Commonwealth Aged Care Workforce Retention Grant Opportunity
 
 
66E Wages funded by Commonwealth Aged Care Workforce Retention Grant
Opportunity
     (1) Wages paid or payable on or after 1 June 2020 are exempt wages to
     the extent that they are funded by any payment (an
     "Aged Care Workforce payment") made under the program established by
     the Commonwealth and known as the Aged Care Workforce Retention Grant
     Opportunity.
     (2) Any overpayment of Aged Care Workforce payments is to be
     disregarded in calculating the amount of Aged Care Workforce payments
     for the purposes of subsection (1).
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 66EA
Wages funded by Commonwealth Aged Care Workforce Bonus Grant Opportunity
 
 
66EA Wages funded by Commonwealth Aged Care Workforce Bonus Grant Opportunity
     (1) Wages paid or payable on or after 1 February 2022 are exempt
     wages to the extent that they are funded by a payment (an
     "Aged Care Workforce Bonus payment") made under the program
     established by the Commonwealth and known as the Aged Care Workforce
     Bonus Grant Opportunity.
     (2) An overpayment of Aged Care Workforce Bonus payments is to be
     disregarded in calculating the amount of Aged Care Workforce Bonus
     payments for the purposes of subsection (1).
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 66F
Exemption for employers under Jobs Plus agreements
 
 
66F Exemption for employers under Jobs Plus agreements
     (1) The relevant Minister is authorised on behalf of the State--
          (a) before 1 July 2024 to enter into an agreement with an
          employer that is expressed to be for the purposes of this
          section (a
          "Jobs Plus agreement"), and
          (b) to give effect to the agreement.
     (1A) To avoid doubt, a variation, agreed on or after 1 July 2024, of
     a Jobs Plus agreement entered into before that date must not be
     regarded as the entry into a new Jobs Plus agreement, unless the
     variation results in an increase in the number of positions that are
     entitled to a wages exemption under this section.
     (2) Without limiting the matters that may be specified by a Jobs Plus
     agreement, the agreement must specify--
          (a) the kinds of wages that are exempt wages under this
          section, and
          (b) the grounds on which, or the circumstances in which,
          the relevant Minister may revoke an exemption under this
          section, and
          (c) for an agreement with an employer whose registered
          business address is outside the metropolitan area--that the
          exemption cannot be revoked merely because the employer has
          only created between 20 and 29 new jobs (inclusive).
     (3) Subject to this section, wages are exempt wages if--
          (a) they are paid or payable by an employer who enters into
          a Jobs Plus agreement, and
          (a1) they are paid or payable to a person in relation to a
          period--
               (i) before 1 October 2028, and
               (ii) within the first 4 years of the exemption
               applying to wages for the person's position, and
          (b) they are wages of a kind that is specified by the
          agreement to be exempt wages under this section.
     (4) The relevant Minister may, by written notice issued to an
     employer who enters into a Jobs Plus agreement, revoke the exemption
     under this section on the grounds, or in the circumstances, specified
     by the agreement.
     (5) The effect of the revocation is as follows--
          (a) the wages referred to in subsection (3) are taken never
          to have been exempt wages under this section,
          (b) the employer is liable to pay payroll tax on the wages
          even if the relevant Minister revokes the exemption under
          this section after the employer relies on the exemption as
          the reason for not paying payroll tax on the wages,
          (c) the Chief Commissioner must assess or reassess the
          employer's liability to pay payroll tax on the wages
          accordingly.
     (6) For the purposes of the Taxation Administration Act 1996, section
     9(3)(c), the Chief Commissioner is authorised to make a reassessment
     under this section until 1 July 2033.
     (7) An employer who enters into a Jobs Plus agreement cannot lodge an
     objection with the Chief Commissioner under the Taxation
     Administration Act 1996, Part 10, Division 1 to an assessment or
     reassessment under this section on the grounds that the relevant
     Minister has revoked an exemption under this section.
     (8) Without limiting the Taxation Administration Act 1996, section 82
     (b)(i), a Jobs Plus administrator may disclose to another Jobs Plus
     administrator information in relation to a Jobs Plus agreement,
     including personal information within the meaning of the Privacy and
     Personal Information Protection Act 1998 and confidential
     information--
          (a) to assist a Jobs Plus administrator to exercise a
          function under this section, including to assist the
          relevant Minister to give effect to the agreement, or
          (b) in connection with the administration of a taxation
          law.
     (9) The relevant Minister may delegate a function of the relevant
     Minister under this section to another Jobs Plus administrator,
     subject to the following--
          (a) the relevant Minister cannot delegate a function to a
          tax officer,
          (b) the relevant Minister cannot delegate a function under
          subsection (1)(a) or (4) to any person other than the Chief
          Executive Officer of Investment NSW,
          (c) the relevant Minister cannot delegate this power of
          delegation.
     (10) The State, or a Jobs Plus administrator, does not incur civil
     liability in connection with the exercise of a function under this
     section.
     (11) The relevant Minister must, until 1 July 2029, cause to be
     tabled in each House of Parliament an annual report containing the
     following for each financial year--
          (a) the total number of employers who entered into Jobs
          Plus agreements,
          (b) the total number of new jobs the employers agreed to
          create, as specified by the agreements,
          (c) the total number of new jobs in fact created by the
          employers, whether created in that financial year or an
          earlier financial year,
          (d) the total amount of payroll tax from which the
          employers were exempt under this section, whether in
          relation to that financial year or an earlier financial
          year.
     (11A) To avoid doubt, this section prevails over the provisions of a
     Jobs Plus agreement to the extent of an inconsistency.
     (11B) This section is repealed on 2 July 2033.
     (12) In this section--

     "give effect to" a Jobs Plus agreement includes--
          (a) comply with an obligation of the State under the
          agreement, and
          (b) exercise or enforce a right or power under the
          agreement.

     "Jobs Plus administrator" means each of the following--
          (a) the relevant Minister,
          (b) a tax officer,
          (c) a person employed in the Premier's Department,
          (d) a person employed in Investment NSW.

     "metropolitan area" means--
          (a) the Greater Sydney Region within the meaning of the
          Greater Sydney Commission Act 2015, and
          (b) the local government areas of Newcastle, Shellharbour
          and Wollongong.

     "new job", in relation to an employer who enters into a Jobs Plus
     agreement, means a position created by the employer after entering
     into the agreement.

     "relevant Minister" means the Minister for Jobs, Investment, Tourism
     and Western Sydney.

     "taxation law" and
     "tax officer" have the same meanings as in the Taxation
     Administration Act 1996.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 67
Definitions
 
 
67 Definitions
In this Part--

"business" includes--
     (a) a profession or trade, and
     (b) any other activity carried on for fee, gain or reward, and
     (c) the activity of employing one or more persons who perform duties
     in connection with another business, and
     (d) the carrying on of a trust (including a dormant trust), and
     (e) the activity of holding any money or property used for or in
     connection with another business,
whether carried on by 1 person or 2 or more persons together.

"group" means a group constituted under this Part, but does not include any
member of the group in respect of whom a determination under Division 4 is in
force.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 68
Grouping provisions to operate independently
 
 
68 Grouping provisions to operate independently
The fact that a person is not a member of a group constituted under a provision
of this Part does not prevent that person from being a member of a group
constituted under another provision of this Part.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 69
Constitution of groups
 
 
69 Constitution of groups
A
"group" is constituted by all the persons or bodies forming a group that is not
a part of any larger group.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 70
Groups of corporations
 
 
70 Groups of corporations
     (1) Corporations constitute a group if they are related bodies
     corporate within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001 of the
     Commonwealth.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 71
Groups arising from the use of common employees
 
 
71 Groups arising from the use of common employees
     (1) If one or more employees of an employer perform duties for or in
     connection with one or more businesses carried on by the employer and
     one or more other persons, the employer and each of those other
     persons constitute a group.
     (2) If one or more employees of an employer are employed solely or
     mainly to perform duties for or in connection with one or more
     businesses carried on by one or more other persons, the employer and
     each of those other persons constitute a group.
     (3) If one or more employees of an employer perform duties for or in
     connection with one or more businesses carried on by one or more
     other persons, being duties performed in connection with, or in
     fulfilment of the employer's obligation under, an agreement,
     arrangement or undertaking for the provision of services to any one
     or more of those other persons in connection with that business or
     those businesses, the employer and each of those other persons
     constitute a group.
     (4) Subsection (3) applies to an agreement, arrangement or
     undertaking--
          (a) whether the agreement, arrangement or undertaking is
          formal or informal, express or implied, and
          (b) whether or not the agreement, arrangement or
          undertaking provides for duties to be performed by the
          employees or specifies the duties to be performed by them.
     Note : Section 79 (Exclusion of persons from groups) allows the Chief
     Commissioner, for payroll tax purposes, to exclude persons from a
     group constituted under this section in certain circumstances.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 72
Groups of commonly controlled businesses
 
 
72 Groups of commonly controlled businesses
     (1) If a person or set of persons has a controlling interest in each
     of 2 businesses, the persons who carry on those businesses constitute
     a group.
          Note : Section 79 (Exclusion of persons from groups) allows
          the Chief Commissioner, for payroll tax purposes, to
          exclude persons from a group constituted under this section
          in certain circumstances.
     (2) For the purposes of this section, a person or set of persons has
     a controlling interest in a business if--
          (a) in the case of 1 person--the person is the sole owner
          (whether or not as trustee) of the business, or
          (b) in the case of a set of persons--the persons are
          together as trustees the sole owners of the business, or
          (c) in the case of a business carried on by a corporation--
               (i) the person or each of the set of persons is a
               director of the corporation and the person or set
               of persons is entitled to exercise more than 50%
               of the voting power at meetings of the directors
               of the corporation, or
               (ii) a director or set of directors of the
               corporation that is entitled to exercise more
               than 50% of the voting power at meetings of the
               directors of the corporation is under an
               obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
               accordance with the direction, instructions or
               wishes of that person or set of persons, or
          (d) in the case of a business carried on by a body
          corporate or unincorporate--that person or set of persons
          constitute more than 50% of the board of management (by
          whatever name called) of the body or control the
          composition of that board, or
          (e) in the case of a business carried on by a corporation
          that has a share capital--that person or set of persons
          can, directly or indirectly, exercise, control the exercise
          of, or substantially influence the exercise of, more than
          50% of the voting power attached to the voting shares, or
          any class of voting shares, issued by the corporation, or
          (f) in the case of a business carried on by a partnership--
          that person or set of persons--
               (i) own (whether beneficially or not) more than
               50% of the capital of the partnership, or
               (ii) is entitled (whether beneficially or not) to
               more than 50% of the profits of the partnership,
               or
          (g) in the case of a business carried on under a trust--the
          person or set of persons (whether or not as a trustee of,
          or beneficiary under, another trust) is the beneficiary in
          respect of more than 50% of the value of the interests in
          the first-mentioned trust.
     (3) If--
          (a) 2 corporations are related bodies corporate within the
          meaning of the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth,
          and
          (b) 1 of the corporations has a controlling interest in a
          business,
     the other corporation has a controlling interest in the business.
     (4) If--
          (a) a person or set of persons has a controlling interest
          in a business, and
          (b) a person or set of persons who carry on the business
          has a controlling interest in another business,
     the person or set of persons referred to in paragraph (a) has a
     controlling interest in that other business.
     (5) If--
          (a) a person or set of persons is the beneficiary of a
          trust in respect of more than 50% of the value of the
          interests in the trust, and
          (b) the trustee of the trust (whether alone or together
          with another trustee or trustees) has a controlling
          interest in the business of another trust,
     the person or set of persons has a controlling interest in the
     business.
     (6) A person who may benefit from a discretionary trust as a result
     of the trustee or another person, or the trustee and another person,
     exercising or failing to exercise a power or discretion, is taken,
     for the purposes of this Part, to be a beneficiary in respect of more
     than 50% of the value of the interests in the trust.
     (7) If--
          (a) a person or set of persons has a controlling interest
          in the business of a trust, and
          (b) the trustee of the trust (whether alone or together
          with another trustee or trustees) has a controlling
          interest in the business of a corporation,
     the person or set of persons is taken to have a controlling interest
     in the business of the corporation.
     (8) If--
          (a) a person or set of persons has a controlling interest
          in the business of a trust, and
          (b) the trustee of the trust (whether alone or together
          with another trustee or trustees) has a controlling
          interest in the business of a partnership,
     the person or set of persons is taken to have a controlling interest
     in the business of the partnership.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 73
Groups arising from tracing of interests in corporations
 
 
73 Groups arising from tracing of interests in corporations
     (1) An entity and a corporation form part of a group if the entity
     has a controlling interest in the corporation.
          Note : Section 79 (Exclusion of persons from groups) allows
          the Chief Commissioner, for payroll tax purposes, to
          exclude persons from a group constituted under this section
          in certain circumstances.
     (2) For the purposes of this section, an entity has a
     "controlling interest" in a corporation if the corporation has share
     capital and--
          (a) the entity has a direct interest in the corporation and
          the value of that direct interest exceeds 50%, or
          (b) the entity has an indirect interest in the corporation
          and the value of that indirect interest exceeds 50%, or
          (c) the entity has an aggregate interest in the corporation
          and the value of the aggregate interest exceeds 50%.
     (3) Division 3 applies for the purposes of the interpretation of this
     section.
          Note : Division 3 sets out the manner for determining
          whether an entity has a direct interest, indirect interest
          or aggregate interest in a corporation, and the value of
          such an interest.
     (4) In this section--

     "associated person" means a person who is associated with another
     person in accordance with any of the following provisions--
          (a) persons are associated persons if they are related
          persons,
          (b) natural persons are associated persons if they are
          partners in a partnership,
          (c) private companies are associated persons if common
          shareholders have a majority interest in each private
          company,
          (d) trustees are associated persons if any person is a
          beneficiary common to the trusts (not including a public
          unit trust scheme) of which they are trustees,
          (e) a private company and a trustee are associated persons
          if a related body corporate of the company (within the
          meaning of the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth)
          is a beneficiary of the trust (not including a public unit
          trust scheme) of which the trustee is a trustee.

     "domestic partner" of a person means a person to whom the person is
     not married but with whom the person is living as a couple on a
     genuine domestic basis (irrespective of gender).

     "entity" means--
          (a) a person, or
          (b) 2 or more persons who are associated persons (as
          defined in this section).

     "private company" means a company that is not limited by shares, or
     whose shares are not quoted on the Australian Stock Exchange or any
     exchange of the World Federation of Exchanges.

     "related person" means a person who is related to another person in
     accordance with any of the following provisions--
          (a) natural persons are related persons if--
               (i) one is the spouse or domestic partner of the
               other, or
               (ii) the relationship between them is that of
               parent and child, brothers, sisters, or brother
               and sister,
          (b) private companies are related persons if they are
          related bodies corporate within the meaning of the
          Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth,
          (c) a natural person and a private company are related
          persons if the natural person is a majority shareholder or
          director of the company or of another private company that
          is a related body corporate of the company within the
          meaning of the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth,
          (d) a natural person and a trustee are related persons if
          the natural person is a beneficiary of the trust (not being
          a public unit trust scheme) of which the trustee is a
          trustee,
          (e) a private company and a trustee are related persons if
          the company, or a majority shareholder or director of the
          company, is a beneficiary of the trust (not being a public
          unit trust scheme) of which the trustee is a trustee.
     (5) For the purposes of the definition of
     "domestic partner" in subsection (4), in determining whether persons
     are domestic partners of each other, all the circumstances of their
     relationship are to be taken into account, including any one or more
     of the matters referred to in section 4 (2) of the Property
     (Relationships) Act 1984 as may be relevant in a particular case.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 74
Smaller groups subsumed by larger groups
 
 
74 Smaller groups subsumed by larger groups
     (1) If a person is a member of 2 or more groups, the members of all
     the groups together constitute a group.
     (2) If 2 or more members of a group have together a controlling
     interest in a business (within the meaning of section 72), all the
     members of the group and the person or persons who carry on the
     business together constitute a group.
     Note : Section 79 (Exclusion of persons from groups) allows the Chief
     Commissioner, for payroll tax purposes, to exclude persons from a
     group constituted under this section in certain circumstances.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 74A
Groups arising from former entities
 
 
74A Groups arising from former entities
     (1) An entity (the
     "successor") and a former entity constitute a group if the successor
     and the former entity are or were both sufficiently influenced by the
     same other person (the
     "third party").
     (2) For this section, a successor or former entity is
     "sufficiently influenced" by a third party if the successor or former
     entity is accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal or
     informal, or might reasonably be expected, to act in accordance with
     the directions, instructions or wishes of the third party.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies whether the directions, instructions or
     wishes are, or might reasonably be expected to be, communicated
     directly or indirectly through another person.
     (4) The Chief Commissioner may determine that an entity and a former
     entity who would, but for the determination, be a member of a group
     under subsection (1) are not part of a group if the Chief
     Commissioner is satisfied the influence of the third party is not, or
     was not, intended to avoid tax or other commercial obligations.
     (5) In this section--

     "entity" includes--
          (a) a person, and
               Note--: Under the Interpretation Act 1987,
               Schedule 4, a person includes an individual, a
               corporation and a body corporate or politic.
          (b) a company, and
          (c) a trustee of a trust.

     "former entity" includes--
          (a) a corporation that is in administration or being wound
          up, or has executed a deed of company arrangement under the
          Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth, if the Chief
          Commissioner is satisfied the Chief Commissioner will not
          be able to recover from the corporation the amount the
          Chief Commissioner is entitled to recover from the
          corporation, and
          (b) a corporation that is deregistered under the
          Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth, Chapter 5A, and
          (c) a person who was a trustee of a trust but is no longer
          a trustee of the trust, whether or not the trust is
          dissolved.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 75
Application
 
 
75 Application
This Division applies for the purposes of section 73 (Groups arising from
tracing of interests in corporations).
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 76
Direct interest
 
 
76 Direct interest
     (1) An entity has a
     "direct interest" in a corporation if--
          (a) in the case of an entity that is a person--the person
          can, directly or indirectly, exercise, control the exercise
          of, or substantially influence the exercise of, the voting
          power attached to any voting shares issued by the
          corporation, or
          (b) in the case of an entity that is 2 or more persons who
          are associated persons--each of the associated persons can,
          directly or indirectly, exercise, control the exercise of,
          or substantially influence the exercise of, the voting
          power attached to any voting shares issued by the
          corporation.
     (2) The value of the direct interest of the entity in the corporation
     is the proportion (expressed as a percentage) of the voting power of
     all voting shares issued by the corporation that--
          (a) in the case of an entity that is a person--the person
          can directly or indirectly exercise, control the exercise
          of, or substantially influence the exercise of, as referred
          to in subsection (1), or
          (b) in the case of an entity that is 2 or more persons who
          are associated persons--the associated persons can, if
          acting together, directly or indirectly exercise, control
          the exercise of, or substantially influence the exercise
          of, as referred to in subsection (1).
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 77
Indirect interest
 
 
77 Indirect interest
     (1) An entity has an
     "indirect interest" in a corporation if the corporation is linked to
     another corporation (the
     "directly controlled corporation") in which the entity has a direct
     interest.
     (2) A corporation is linked to a directly controlled corporation if
     the corporation is part of a chain of corporations--
          (a) that starts with the directly controlled corporation,
          and
          (b) in which a link in the chain is formed if a corporation
          has a direct interest in the next corporation in the chain.
     (3) The following are examples of how subsections (1) and (2) work
     (the examples are cumulative)--
          (a) corporation A (a directly controlled corporation) has a
          direct interest in corporation B. Corporations A and B form
          part of a chain of corporations, and corporation B is
          linked to corporation A. Accordingly, an entity that has a
          direct interest in corporation A also has an indirect
          interest in corporation B,
          (b) corporation B also has a direct interest in corporation
          C. In this case, corporations A, B and C form part of a
          chain of corporations. Both corporations B and C are linked
          to corporation A. The entity that has a direct interest in
          corporation A has an indirect interest in both corporations
          B and C,
          (c) corporation B also has a direct interest in corporation
          D. There are now 2 chains of corporations, one consisting
          of A, B and C, and one consisting of A, B and D.
          Corporations B, C and D are all linked to corporation A and
          an entity that has a direct interest in corporation A would
          have an indirect interest in corporations B, C and D. An
          entity that has a direct interest in corporation B would
          have an indirect interest in corporations C and D. However,
          an entity that has a direct interest in corporation C only
          would not have an indirect interest in corporation D, as
          corporation D is not linked to corporation C.
     (4) The value of the indirect interest of an entity in a corporation
     (an
     "indirectly controlled corporation") that is linked to a directly
     controlled corporation is calculated by multiplying together the
     following--
          (a) the value of the direct interest of the entity in the
          directly controlled corporation,
          (b) the value of each direct interest that forms a link in
          the chain of corporations by which the indirectly
          controlled corporation is linked to the directly controlled
          corporation.
     (5) The following are examples of how subsection (4) works (the
     examples are cumulative)--
          (a) an entity has a direct interest (with a value of 80%)
          in corporation A. Corporation A has a direct interest (with
          a value of 70%) in corporation B. The value of the indirect
          interest of the entity in corporation B is 80%  70% (that
          is, 56%). Accordingly, in this example the entity has a
          controlling interest (within the meaning of section 73
          (Groups arising from tracing of interests in corporations))
          in corporation B,
          (b) corporation B also has a direct interest (with a value
          of 40%) in corporation C. The value of the indirect
          interest of the entity in corporation C is 80%  70%  40%
          (that is, 22.4%). Accordingly, in this example the entity
          does not have a controlling interest in corporation C.
     (6) It is possible for an entity to have more than one indirect
     interest in a corporation. This may occur if the corporation is
     linked to more than one corporation in which the entity has a direct
     interest, or if the corporation is linked to only one corporation in
     which the entity has a direct interest but is linked through more
     than one chain of corporations. In that case, the entity has an
     aggregate interest in the corporation (see section 78 (Aggregation of
     interests)).
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 78
Aggregation of interests
 
 
78 Aggregation of interests
     (1) An entity has an
     "aggregate interest" in a corporation if--
          (a) the entity has a direct interest and one or more
          indirect interests in the corporation, or
          (b) the entity has more than one indirect interest in the
          corporation.
     (2) The value of the aggregate interest of an entity in a corporation
     is the sum of the following--
          (a) the value of the direct interest (if any) of the entity
          in the corporation,
          (b) the value of each indirect interest of the entity in
          the corporation.
     (3) For example--
          (a) an entity has a direct interest (with a value of 40%)
          in corporation B,
          (b) the entity also has a direct interest (with a value of
          25%) in corporation A, which in turn has a direct interest
          (with a value of 60%) in corporation B. Accordingly, the
          entity also has an indirect interest in corporation B with
          a value of 15% (that is, 25%  60%),
          (c) the value of the entity's aggregate interest in
          corporation B is the sum of the direct interest (40%) and
          the indirect interest (15%), which is 55%,
          (d) accordingly, in this example, the entity has a
          controlling interest in corporation B (within the meaning
          of section 73 (Groups arising from tracing of interests in
          corporations)).
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 79
Exclusion of persons from groups
 
 
79 Exclusion of persons from groups
     (1) The Chief Commissioner may, by order in writing, determine that a
     person who would, but for the determination, be a member of a group
     is not a member of the group.
     (2) The Chief Commissioner may only make such a determination if
     satisfied, having regard to the nature and degree of ownership and
     control of the businesses, the nature of the businesses and any other
     matters the Chief Commissioner considers relevant, that a business
     carried on by the person, is carried on independently of, and is not
     connected with the carrying on of, a business carried on by any other
     member of that group.
     (3) The Chief Commissioner cannot exclude a person from a group if
     the person is a body corporate that, by reason of section 50 of the
     Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth, is related to another body
     corporate that is a member of that group.
     (4) This section extends to a group constituted by reason of section
     74 (Smaller groups subsumed by larger groups).
     (5) A determination can be expressed to take effect on a date that is
     earlier than the date of the determination.
     (6) The Chief Commissioner may by order in writing revoke a
     determination that applies in respect of a person if satisfied that
     the circumstances in which a determination may be made do not apply
     to the person.
     (7) The revocation of a determination can be expressed to take effect
     on a date that is earlier than the date of the determination.
     (8) This section does not apply to a person who is a member of a
     group to which section 74A applies.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 80
Designated group employers
 
 
80 Designated group employers
     (1) The members of a group may, with the approval of the Chief
     Commissioner, designate a qualified member of the group to be the
     designated group employer for the group for the purposes of this Act.
     (2) A member of a group is a qualified member if the member--
          (a) has paid during the preceding financial year wages that
          exceeded the threshold amount for that financial year
          (within the meaning of Schedule 1), or
          (b) is likely to pay during the current financial year
          wages that are likely to exceed that amount.
     (3) If none of the members of a group is a qualified member but the
     members together--
          (a) have paid during the preceding financial year wages
          that exceeded the threshold amount for that financial year
          (within the meaning of Schedule 1), or
          (b) are, in the opinion of the Chief Commissioner, likely
          to pay during the current financial year wages that will
          exceed that amount,
     the members may, with the approval of the Chief Commissioner,
     designate any member of the group to be the designated group employer
     for the group for the purposes of this Act.
     (4) If the members of a group do not designate a member as the
     designated group employer within 7 days after the end of the month in
     which the group is established, the Chief Commissioner may (but is
     not obliged to) designate any member of the group as the designated
     group employer.
     (5) The designated group employer of a group stops being the
     designated group employer from and including the earlier of the
     following days--
          (a) the first day of a return period during which there is
          a change in the membership of the group,
          (b) the first day of a return period during which the
          members of the group revoke the designation.
     (6) The designation of a designated group employer under subsection
     (1) or (3) must be by notice in writing.
     (7) Such a notice must--
          (a) be executed by or on behalf of each member of the
          group, and
          (b) be served on the Chief Commissioner.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 81
Joint and several liability
 
 
81 Joint and several liability
     (1) If a member of a group fails to pay an amount that the member is
     required to pay under this Act in respect of any period, every member
     of the group is liable jointly and severally to pay that amount to
     the Chief Commissioner.
     (2) If 2 or more persons are jointly or severally liable to pay an
     amount under this section, the Chief Commissioner may recover the
     whole of the amount from them, or any of them, or any one of them.
     (3) If, under this section, 2 or more persons are jointly and
     severally liable to pay an amount that is payable by any one of them,
     each person is also jointly and severally liable to pay--
          (a) any amount payable to the Chief Commissioner under this
          or any other Act in relation to that amount, including any
          interest and penalty tax, and
          (b) any costs and expenses incurred in relation to the
          recovery of that amount that the Chief Commissioner is
          entitled to recover from any such person.
     (4) A person who pays an amount in accordance with the liability
     imposed by this section has such rights of contribution or indemnity
     from the other person or persons as are just.
     (5) This section applies whether or not the person was an employer
     during the relevant period.
     (6) Each member of a group constituted under section 74A is liable
     jointly and severally for an amount payable under the Act by the
     former entity, within the meaning of that section, even if the amount
     became payable by the former entity before the group was constituted.
     (7) A reference in subsection (6) to amount payable by a former
     entity includes an amount that would have been payable by the former
     entity if the former entity had not executed a deed of company
     arrangement as referred to in section 74A(5), definition of
     "former entity", paragraph (a).
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 82
Determination of correct amount of payroll tax
 
 
82 Determination of correct amount of payroll tax
     (1) For the purposes of this Part, the
     "correct amount of payroll tax" payable by an employer in respect of
     a financial year is the amount determined in accordance with Schedule
     1 in respect of that financial year.
     (2) This Part applies in respect of payroll tax paid or payable
     whether as a group employer or as an individual employer.
     (3) If an employer is liable for payroll tax both as an individual
     employer and as a group employer (for different periods in the same
     financial year) separate adjustments are to be made under this Part
     in respect of any period as a group employer and any period as an
     individual employer (and for that purpose separate determinations of
     the correct amount of payroll tax payable by the employer are to be
     made).
     (4) In this Part--

     "group employer" means an employer who is a member of a group.

     "individual employer" means an employer who is not a member of a
     group.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 83
Annual adjustment of payroll tax
 
 
83 Annual adjustment of payroll tax
     (1) If the amount of payroll tax paid or payable by an employer when
     the employer made the returns relating to a financial year is greater
     than the correct amount of payroll tax payable by the employer in
     respect of the financial year, the Chief Commissioner (on application
     by the employer) is to refund to that employer an amount equal to the
     difference.
     (2) If the amount of payroll tax paid or payable by an employer when
     the employer made the returns relating to a financial year is less
     than the correct amount of payroll tax payable by the employer in
     respect of the financial year, the employer must pay to the Chief
     Commissioner as payroll tax an amount equal to the difference.
     (3) Any amount payable by an employer under this section in respect
     of a financial year must be paid within the period during which the
     employer is required to lodge a return under this Act in respect of
     the return period that is or includes the month of June in that
     financial year.
     (4) The amount of any refund payable to an employer in respect of a
     financial year under this section is to be reduced by the amount of
     any other refund of payroll tax made in respect of that financial
     year to that employer (whether under this section or otherwise)
     before the time of the refund under this section.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 84
Adjustment of payroll tax when employer changes circumstances
 
 
84 Adjustment of payroll tax when employer changes circumstances
     (1) If an employer changes their circumstances during a financial
     year, the employer must, if the amount of payroll tax paid or payable
     by the employer when the employer made returns relating to the
     relevant period prior to the change of circumstances is less than the
     correct amount of payroll tax payable by the employer in respect of
     the financial year, pay to the Chief Commissioner as payroll tax an
     amount equal to the difference.
     (2) A
     "change of circumstances" occurs when the employer--
          (a) ceases to pay or be liable to pay taxable wages and
          interstate wages, or
          (b) becomes a group employer (following a period as an
          individual employer), or
          (c) ceases to be a group employer (and becomes an
          individual employer).
     (3) The
     "relevant period" prior to a change of circumstances is the period
     prior to the change (during the financial year concerned and since
     any prior change of circumstances) for which the employer paid or was
     liable to pay taxable wages or interstate wages.
     (4) In calculating for the purposes of this section the correct
     amount of payroll tax payable by the employer, it is to be assumed
     that the wages paid or payable by the employer during the relevant
     period are the only wages paid or payable by the employer during the
     financial year concerned.
     (5) Any amount payable by an employer under this section in respect
     of a relevant period must be paid within the period during which the
     employer is required to lodge a return under this Act relating to
     that relevant period or the last return under this Act relating to
     the relevant period.
     (6) Any payroll tax paid or payable by an employer under this section
     is to be included as payroll tax paid or payable by the employer for
     the purposes of the annual adjustment of payroll tax under this Part.
     Note : If an employer ceases to be a group employer during a
     financial year an adjustment will be made under this section. If
     later in that financial year the employer ceases to pay wages there
     will be a further adjustment under this section. The first adjustment
     will adjust payroll tax paid for the period as a group employer
     against the correct amount of tax that should have been paid (based
     on the assumption that the period as a group employer is the only
     period for which the employer paid wages throughout the year). The
     second adjustment will adjust payroll tax paid for the period as an
     individual employer against the correct amount of tax that should
     have been paid (based on the assumption that the period as an
     individual employer is the only period for which the employer paid
     wages throughout the year). Any amount of payroll tax paid under this
     section is taken into account for the purposes of the annual
     adjustment of payroll tax.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 85
Special provision where wages fluctuate
 
 
85 Special provision where wages fluctuate
If a person who did not pay and was not liable to pay taxable wages or
interstate wages for any part of a financial year satisfies the Chief
Commissioner that, by reason of the nature of the person's trade or business,
the taxable wages and interstate wages, if any, paid or payable by the person
fluctuate with different periods of the financial year, the Chief Commissioner
may determine that the person is to be treated for the purposes of this Part--
     (a) if the person has conducted that trade or business in Australia
     during the whole of the financial year--as an employer who pays or is
     liable to pay taxable wages throughout the financial year, or
     (b) if the person has conducted that trade or business in Australia
     during part only of the financial year--as an employer who pays or is
     liable to pay taxable wages throughout that last-mentioned part of
     the financial year.
     Note : The effect of such a determination is that when the correct
     amount of payroll tax is calculated (for the purposes of a tax
     adjustment provided for by this Part) the employer may receive the
     benefit of the payroll tax threshold for the period for which the
     employer is to be treated as paying wages, and not just for the
     period for which the employer actually pays wages. Without such a
     determination, an employer may only receive the benefit of a
     proportion of the threshold amount that is equivalent to the
     proportion of the whole financial year for which the employer
     actually pays wages.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 86
Registration
 
 
86 Registration
     (1) An employer who is not already registered must apply for
     registration as an employer under this Act if--
          (a) during a month in a financial year the employer pays or
          is liable to pay, anywhere, wages of more than the weekly
          threshold amount per week that are wholly or partly taxable
          wages, or
          (b) the employer is a member of a group the members of
          which together during a month in a financial year pay or
          are liable to pay, anywhere, wages of more than the weekly
          threshold amount per week that are wholly or partly taxable
          wages,
     with the
     "weekly threshold amount" calculated in accordance with the following
     formula (disregarding any amount in cents)--
          [graphic]

          "N" is the number of days in the financial year.

          "TA" is the threshold amount for the financial year as
          provided by Schedule 1.
     (2) The application for registration is to be made to the Chief
     Commissioner in a form and manner approved by the Chief Commissioner
     within 7 days after the end of the month concerned.
     (3) The Chief Commissioner is to register the applicant as an
     employer under this Act.
     (4) The Chief Commissioner may cancel the registration of a person as
     an employer if satisfied that the person has ceased to pay or to have
     a liability to pay wages as described in subsection (1).
     (5) If the Chief Commissioner cancels the registration of a person as
     an employer in any financial year and that person subsequently pays
     or is liable to pay taxable wages during that financial year the
     person may, despite the fact that the person is not required to apply
     for registration, apply to the Chief Commissioner (in a form and
     manner approved by the Chief Commissioner) for registration as an
     employer, and the Chief Commissioner is then to register the person
     as an employer under this Act.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 87
Returns
 
 
87 Returns
     (1) Every employer who is registered or required to apply for
     registration as an employer under this Act must--
          (a) within 7 days after the end of each month except June,
          lodge with the Chief Commissioner a return relating to that
          month, and
          (b) within 28 days after the end of June in each year,
          lodge with the Chief Commissioner a return relating to that
          month and to the adjustment of payroll tax paid or payable
          by the employer during the financial year ending on the
          close of that month.
     (2) The designated group employer for a group may, with the approval
     of the Chief Commissioner, lodge a joint return for the purposes of
     this section covering specified members of the group (including the
     designated group employer).
     (3) If a joint return is lodged and the return would, if lodged by a
     single employer, comply with this section, each of the employers
     covered by the return is taken to have complied with this section.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 88
Application
 
 
88 Application
     (1) This Division applies to an agent of or trustee for an employer.
     (2) Nothing in this Division limits or otherwise affects the
     application of Part 5 to an agent or trustee, or 2 or more persons
     one or more of whom is an agent or trustee.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 89
Agents and trustees are answerable
 
 
89 Agents and trustees are answerable
An agent or trustee is answerable as the employer for the doing of all things
that are required to be done by or under this Act in respect of the payment of
any wages which are subject to payroll tax under this Act.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 90
Returns by agent or trustee
 
 
90 Returns by agent or trustee
     (1) An agent or trustee must, in respect of the wages referred to in
     section 89, make the returns required under Part 7, but in a
     representative capacity only, and each return must, except as
     otherwise provided by this Act, be separate and distinct from any
     other.
     (2) In the case of an executor or administrator, the returns must be
     the same as far as practicable as the deceased person, if living,
     would have been liable to make.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 91
Liability to pay tax
 
 
91 Liability to pay tax
     (1) An agent or trustee is personally liable for tax on the wages
     referred to in section 89 if--
          (a) after the Chief Commissioner has required the agent or
          trustee to make a return, or
          (b) while the tax remains unpaid,
     the agent or trustee, except with the written permission of the Chief
     Commissioner, disposes of or parts with any fund or money which comes
     to the agent or trustee from or out of which tax could legally be
     paid.
     (2) Otherwise than as provided in subsection (1), the agent or
     trustee is not personally liable to pay the tax in a representative
     capacity.
     (3) The agent or trustee must retain from time to time out of any
     money which comes to the agent or trustee in a representative
     capacity enough to pay the tax.
     (4) For the purpose of ensuring the payment of tax, the Chief
     Commissioner has the same remedies against attachable property of any
     kind vested in or under the control or management or in the
     possession of the agent or trustee, as the Chief Commissioner has
     against the property of any other person in respect of tax, and in as
     full and ample a manner.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 92
Indemnity for agent or trustee
 
 
92 Indemnity for agent or trustee
     (1) An agent or trustee is indemnified for all payments that the
     agent or trustee makes under this Act or in accordance with the
     requirements of the Chief Commissioner.
     (2) An agent or trustee who pays tax as agent or trustee may recover
     the amount paid from the person on whose behalf it was paid, or
     deduct it from any money in the agent's or trustee's hands belonging
     to that person.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 93
Tax not paid during lifetime
 
 
93 Tax not paid during lifetime
     (1) This section applies if, whether intentionally or not, a person
     escapes full payment of tax in his or her lifetime by reason of not
     having duly made full, complete and accurate returns.
     (2) The Chief Commissioner has the same powers and remedies against
     the trustees of the estate of the person in respect of the liability
     to which the person was subject as the Chief Commissioner would have
     had against the person if the person were still living.
     (3) The trustees must lodge the returns under this Act that the Chief
     Commissioner requires.
     (4) The trustees are subject to tax to the same extent as the
     deceased person would be subject to tax if he or she were still
     living, but the Chief Commissioner, in any circumstances the Chief
     Commissioner considers appropriate, may remit tax payable by the
     trustees under this section by any amount.
     (5) The amount of any tax payable by the trustees is a charge on all
     the deceased person's estate in their hands in priority to all other
     encumbrances.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 94
Payment of tax by executors or administrators
 
 
94 Payment of tax by executors or administrators
     (1) If, at the time of an employer's death, he or she had not paid
     the whole of the tax payable up to the date of death, the Chief
     Commissioner has the same powers and remedies for the assessment and
     recovery of tax from the executors and administrators as the Chief
     Commissioner would have had against the employer, if the employer
     were alive.
     (2) The executors or administrators must lodge any of the returns
     referred to in Part 7 that have not been lodged by the deceased.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 95
Assessment if no probate within 6 months of death
 
 
95 Assessment if no probate within 6 months of death
     (1) If, in respect of the estate of any deceased employer, probate
     has not been granted or letters of administration have not been taken
     out within 6 months after the death, the Chief Commissioner may make
     an assessment under section 8 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996
     of the tax liability of the deceased under this Act.
     (2) The Chief Commissioner must cause notice of the assessment to be
     published twice in a daily newspaper circulating in the State or
     Territory in which the deceased resided.
     (3) Any person claiming an interest in the estate of the deceased
     may, within 60 days after the first publication of notice of the
     assessment, lodge an objection with the Chief Commissioner in
     accordance with Division 1 of Part 10 of the Taxation Administration
     Act 1996.
     (4) Subject to any amendment of the assessment by the Chief
     Commissioner or by the Supreme Court, the assessment so made is
     conclusive evidence of the indebtedness of the deceased to the Chief
     Commissioner.
     (5) However, if probate of the will or letters of administration of
     the estate of the deceased is or are granted to a person after the
     assessment is first published, that person may, within 60 days after
     the date of the grant, lodge an objection in accordance with Division
     1 of Part 10 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 96
Person in receipt or control of money for absentee
 
 
96 Person in receipt or control of money for absentee
     (1) This section applies to a person (the
     "controller") who has the receipt, control or disposal of money
     belonging to a person resident out of Australia (the
     "principal") if the principal is liable to pay tax under this Act.
     (2) The controller must pay the tax payable by the principal at the
     time, or within the period, specified by the Chief Commissioner.
     (3) A controller who pays tax in accordance with subsection (2) may
     recover the amount paid from the principal or deduct it from any
     money in the controller's hands belonging to the principal.
     (4) A controller must from time to time retain out of any money which
     comes to the controller on behalf of the principal so much as is
     sufficient to pay the tax which is or will become due by the
     principal.
     (5) A controller is personally liable for the tax payable by the
     controller on behalf of the principal if--
          (a) after the tax becomes payable, or
          (b) after the Chief Commissioner has required the
          controller to pay the tax,
     the controller, except with the written permission of the Chief
     Commissioner, disposes of or parts with any fund or money then in the
     controller's possession, or which comes to the controller from or out
     of which the tax could legally be paid.
     (6) Otherwise than as provided in subsection (5), a controller is not
     personally liable to pay the tax payable by the principal.
     (7) A controller is indemnified for all payments which the controller
     makes under this Act or in accordance with the requirements of the
     Chief Commissioner.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 97
Agent for absentee principal winding-up business
 
 
97 Agent for absentee principal winding-up business
     (1) If an agent for an absentee principal has been required by the
     principal to wind-up the principal's business, the agent must notify
     the Chief Commissioner of the intention to wind-up the business
     before taking any steps to wind it up.
          : Maximum penalty--5 penalty units.
     (2) After receiving notice under subsection (1), the Chief
     Commissioner may notify the agent in writing of--
          (a) the amount (if any) of payroll tax for which the
          principal is liable, and
          (b) the date (at least 21 days after the notice is given)
          by which the tax must be paid.
     (3) An agent who is given notice under subsection (2) must--
          (a) set aside an amount out of the assets of the
          principal's business that is sufficient to pay the tax, and
          (b) pay the tax to the Chief Commissioner by the date
          specified in the notice.
          : Maximum penalty--5 penalty units.
     (4) If an agent contravenes this section, the agent is personally
     liable for any tax that becomes payable in respect of the principal's
     business.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 98
Recovery of tax paid on behalf of another person
 
 
98 Recovery of tax paid on behalf of another person
A person who, under the provisions of this Act, pays any tax for or on behalf
of another person is entitled to recover the amount so paid from the other
person as a debt, together with the costs of recovery, or to retain or deduct
that amount out of any money in the person's hands belonging or payable to the
other person.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 99
Liquidator to give notice
 
 
99 Liquidator to give notice
     (1) Within 14 days after becoming liquidator of a company that has
     been an employer registered or required to be registered under this
     Act, the liquidator must give the Chief Commissioner notice in
     writing of the liquidator's appointment.
     (2) As soon as practicable after receiving the notice, the Chief
     Commissioner must notify the liquidator of the amount that appears to
     the Chief Commissioner to be sufficient to provide for any tax which
     is or will become payable by the company.
     (3) The liquidator--
          (a) must not without leave of the Chief Commissioner part
          with any of the assets of the company until the liquidator
          has been so notified, and
          (b) must set aside out of the assets available for the
          payment of the tax, assets to the value of the amount so
          notified, or the whole of the assets so available if they
          are of less than that value, and
          (c) is, to the extent of the value of the assets which the
          liquidator is so required to set aside, liable as trustee
          to pay the tax.
     (4) A liquidator must not fail--
          (a) to comply with this section, or
          (b) as trustee duly to pay the tax for which the liquidator
          is liable under subsection (3).
          : Maximum penalty--50 penalty units.
     (5) If a liquidator commits an offence against subsection (4), the
     liquidator is personally liable to pay the tax, to the extent of the
     value of the assets of which the liquidator has taken possession and
     which are, or were at any time, available to the liquidator for the
     payment of the tax.
     (6) If more than one person is appointed as liquidator or required by
     law to carry out the winding-up of a company--
          (a) the obligations and liabilities attaching to a
          liquidator under this section attach to each of those
          persons, and
          (b) if any one of those persons has paid the tax due in
          respect of the company being wound-up, the others are each
          liable to pay that person that person's equal share of the
          amount of the tax so paid.
     (7) Despite anything in this section, all costs, charges and expenses
     that, in the Chief Commissioner's opinion, have been properly
     incurred by a liquidator in the winding-up of a company, including
     the remuneration of the liquidator, may be paid out of the assets of
     the company in priority to any tax payable in respect of the company.
     (8) Nothing in this section--
          (a) limits the liability of a liquidator under section 91,
          or
          (b) affects any of the provisions of the Corporations Act
          2001 of the Commonwealth.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 99A
Temporary reduction for businesses with annual wages of $10 million or less for
financial year 2019-2020
 
 
99A Temporary reduction for businesses with annual wages of $10 million or less
for financial year 2019-2020
     (1) An employer who is liable to pay payroll tax on wages paid or
     payable for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2019 is only
     required to pay 75% of that payroll tax if all Australian wages paid
     or payable by the employer are $10,000,000 or less.
     (2) An employer who is part of a group is not eligible for the
     reduction referred to in subsection (1) unless the employer provides
     the Chief Commissioner with the following information--
          (a) information about all other employers who are part of
          the group,
          (b) the amount of taxable wages and interstate wages paid
          or payable by each of those employers for the financial
          year commencing on 1 July 2019.
     (3) For the avoidance of doubt, an employer does not cease to be
     eligible for the reduction referred to in subsection (1) merely
     because the employer ceased paying wages before the commencement of
     this section.
     (4) In this section--

     "all Australian wages paid or payable" by an employer means the sum
     of the following--
          (a) all taxable wages paid or payable by the employer,
          (b) all interstate wages paid or payable by the employer,
          (c) all taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable
          by all members of the group that the employer is part of.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 99B
Temporary reduction for businesses with annual wages of $10 million or less for
financial year 2021-2022
 
 
99B Temporary reduction for businesses with annual wages of $10 million or less
for financial year 2021-2022
     (1) An employer who is liable to pay payroll tax on wages paid or
     payable for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2021 is only
     required to pay 50% of that payroll tax if--
          (a) all Australian wages paid or payable by the employer
          are $10,000,000 or less, and
          (b) the employer--
               (i) qualified for the 2021 COVID-19 JobSaver
               Payment scheme or the 2021 COVID-19 Business
               Grant scheme administered by Service NSW, or
               (ii) met the 30% or greater decline in turnover
               eligibility test for either of the schemes,
               whether or not the employer has applied for a
               payment or grant, or met other eligibility
               criteria for a payment or grant, under the
               schemes.
     (2) An employer who is part of a group is not eligible for the
     reduction referred to in subsection (1) unless the employer provides
     the Chief Commissioner with the following information--
          (a) information about all other employers who are part of
          the group,
          (b) the amount of taxable wages and interstate wages paid
          or payable by each of those employers for the financial
          year commencing on 1 July 2021.
     (3) To avoid doubt, an employer does not cease to be eligible for the
     reduction referred to in subsection (1) merely because the employer
     ceased paying wages before the commencement of this section.
     (4) The Chief Executive Officer of Service NSW is entitled to
     disclose, and the Chief Commissioner is entitled to receive, and to
     use in relation to the administration of a taxation law, information
     contained in, or relating to, an employer's application for a 2021
     COVID-19 JobSaver Payment or a 2021 COVID-19 Business Grant.
     (5) In this section--

     "all Australian wages paid or payable" by an employer means the sum
     of the following--
          (a) all taxable wages paid or payable by the employer,
          (b) all interstate wages paid or payable by the employer,
          (c) all taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable
          by all members of the group that the employer is part of.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 100
Provisions specific to this jurisdiction
 
 
100 Provisions specific to this jurisdiction
Schedule 2, which contains provisions that are applicable only to this
jurisdiction, has effect.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 101
Regulations
 
 
101 Regulations
     (1) The Governor may make regulations, not inconsistent with this
     Act, for or with respect to any matter that by this Act is required
     or permitted to be prescribed or that is necessary or convenient to
     be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act.
     (2) In particular, the Governor may make regulations for or with
     respect to the following--
          (a) the manner of making any application to the Chief
          Commissioner under this Act,
          (b) the evidence that the Chief Commissioner may require
          for the purpose of determining whether or not--
               (i) an employer was an employer for part only of
               a financial year, or
               (ii) a person was a member of a group at any time
               or during any period,
          (c) the signing of returns, applications, notices,
          statements or forms by or on behalf of employers and
          deeming any return, application, notice, statement or form
          signed on behalf of an employer to have been signed by the
          employer,
          (d) the authentication of any certificate, notice or other
          document issued for the purpose of this Act or any
          regulation.
     (3) A regulation may create an offence punishable by a penalty not
     exceeding 20 penalty units.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 102
Nature of proceedings for offences
 
 
102 Nature of proceedings for offences
Proceedings for an offence under this Act or the regulations may be dealt with
summarily before the Local Court.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 103
Savings, transitional and other provisions
 
 
103 Savings, transitional and other provisions
Schedule 3 has effect.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 104
Repeal
 
 
104 Repeal
The Pay-roll Tax Act 1971 is repealed.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 106
Review of Act
 
 
106 Review of Act
     (1) The Minister is to review this Act to determine whether the
     policy objectives of the Act remain valid and whether the terms of
     the Act remain appropriate for securing those objectives.
     (2) The review is to be undertaken as soon as possible after the
     period of 5 years from the date of assent to this Act.
     (3) A report on the outcome of the review is to be tabled in each
     House of Parliament within 12 months after the end of the period of 5
     years.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SCHEDULE 1
 
 
SCHEDULE 1 - Calculation of payroll tax liability for financial year commencing
1 July 2007 and subsequent financial years
(Sections 8, 82)
Part 1 - Interpretation 1 Definitions
In this Schedule--

"financial year" means the financial year commencing on 1 July 2007 or on 1
July in any subsequent financial year.

"FY" is the number of days in the financial year.

"R" is--
     (a) 6% until 1 January 2009, and
     (b) 5.75% on and from 1 January 2009 until the end of 31 December
     2009, and
     (c) 5.65% on and from 1 January 2010 until the end of 30 June 2010,
     and
     (d) 5.5% on and from 1 July 2010 until the end of 31 December 2010,
     and
     (e) 5.45% on and from 1 January 2011 until the end of 30 June 2020,
     and
     (f) 4.85% on and from 1 July 2020 until the end of 30 June 2022, and
     (g) 5.45% on and from 1 July 2022.

"relevant financial year" means the financial year to which the calculation of
the relevant payroll tax relates.

"TA" or
"threshold amount" is--
     (a) $600,000 for a financial year before the financial year
     commencing on 1 July 2008, or
     (b) for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2008 and subsequent
     financial years up to and including the financial year commencing on
     1 July 2012--the threshold amount for that financial year determined
     in accordance with clause 1A, or
     (c) for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2013 and subsequent
     financial years up to and including the financial year commencing on
     1 July 2017--$750,000, or
     (d) for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2018--$850,000, or
     (e) for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2019--$900,000, or
     (f) for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2020 and subsequent
     financial years--$1,200,000.
1A Indexation of threshold amount (financial years 2008-2012)
     (1) This clause applies to the determination of the threshold amount
     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2008 and subsequent
     financial years up to and including the financial year commencing on
     1 July 2012.
     (2) The threshold amount for a financial year is to be determined by
     multiplying $600,000 by A/B, where--

     "A" is the Sydney CPI number for March in the financial year before
     the financial year for which the threshold amount is to be
     determined, and

     "B" is the Sydney CPI number for March 2007, and

     "A/B" is calculated to 3 decimal places.
     (3) If the threshold amount for a financial year determined in
     accordance with subclause (2) would be an amount that is less than
     the threshold amount for the previous financial year, the threshold
     amount for the financial year is to be determined to be the same as
     the threshold amount for that previous financial year.
     (4) If the threshold amount determined under this clause for a
     financial year is not a multiple of $1,000, the amount is to be
     rounded to the nearest $1,000 (with an amount of $500 to be rounded
     down).
     (5) The Chief Commissioner is to publish a notice in the Gazette
     before the start of each financial year (starting with the financial
     year commencing on 1 July 2009 and ending with the financial year
     commencing on 1 July 2012) specifying the threshold amount determined
     under this clause for the financial year.
          Note : The threshold amount for the 2008 financial year
          determined under this clause is $623,000.
     (6) In this clause--

     "Sydney CPI number" means the Consumer Price Index (All Groups Index)
     for Sydney issued by the Australian Statistician.
Part 2 - Employers who are not members of a group 2 Application of Part
This Part applies only to an employer who is not a member of a group.
3 Definitions
In this Part--

     "C" is the number of days in the relevant financial year in respect
     of which the employer paid or was liable to pay taxable wages or
     interstate wages (otherwise than as a member of a group).

     "IW" represents the total interstate wages paid or payable by the
     employer concerned (otherwise than as a member of a group) during the
     relevant financial year.

     "TW" represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the
     employer concerned (otherwise than as a member of a group) during the
     relevant financial year.
4 Payroll of employer not more than threshold
An employer is not liable to pay payroll tax for a financial year if the total
taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the employer (otherwise
than as a member of a group) during that year is not more than the
"employer's threshold amount", being the amount calculated in accordance with
the following formula--
     [graphic]
5 Payroll of employer over threshold
If the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by an employer
(otherwise than as a member of a group) during a financial year is more than
the employer's threshold amount, the employer is liable to pay as payroll tax
for that year the amount of dollars calculated in accordance with the following
formula--
     [graphic]
Part 3 - Groups with a designated group employer 6 Application of Part
This Part applies only to an employer who is a member of a group for which
there is a designated group employer.
7 Definitions
In this Part--

     "C" is the number of days in the relevant financial year in respect
     of which at least one member of the group paid or was liable to pay
     (as a member of the group) taxable wages or interstate wages.

     "GIW" represents the total interstate wages paid or payable by the
     group concerned during the relevant financial year.

     "GTW" represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the group
     concerned during the relevant financial year.

     "TW" represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the
     employer concerned (as a member of the group) during the relevant
     financial year.
8 Payroll of group not more than threshold
None of the members of a group is liable to pay payroll tax for the financial
year if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during that year is not more than the
"group threshold amount", being the amount calculated in accordance with the
following formula--
     [graphic]
9 Payroll of group over threshold
     (1) If the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable
     by a group during the financial year is more than the group threshold
     amount, payroll tax is payable as provided by subclauses (2) and (3).
     (2) The designated group employer for the group is liable to pay as
     payroll tax for the financial year the amount of dollars calculated
     in accordance with the following formula--
          [graphic]
     (3) Each member of the group (other than that designated group
     employer) is liable to pay as payroll tax for the financial year the
     amount of dollars calculated in accordance with the following
     formula--
          [graphic]
Part 4 - Groups with no designated group employer 10 Application of Part
This Part applies only to an employer who is a member of a group for which
there is no designated group employer.
11 Definitions
In this Part--

     "TW" represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the
     employer concerned (as a member of the group) during the relevant
     financial year.
12 Calculation of payroll tax
Each member of the group is liable to pay as payroll tax for the financial year
the amount of dollars calculated in accordance with the following formula--
     [graphic]
Part 5 - Motor vehicle allowances 13 Continuous recording method
If an employer selects the continuous recording method for the purposes of
determining the number of business kilometres travelled during the financial
year, the following details are required to be recorded by the employer--
     (a) the odometer readings at the beginning and end of each business
     journey undertaken by the person during a financial year by means of
     a motor vehicle provided or maintained by the person,
     (b) the specific purpose for which each such business journey was
     taken,
     (c) the distance travelled by the person during the financial year in
     the course of all such business journeys (which is taken to be the
     "number of business kilometres travelled during the financial year"),
     calculated on the basis of the odometer readings referred to in
     paragraph (a).
14 Averaging method
     (1) If an employer selects the averaging method for the purposes of
     determining the number of business kilometres travelled during the
     financial year, the following details are required to be recorded by
     the employer--
          (a) the odometer readings at the beginning and end of each
          business journey undertaken by the person during the
          relevant 12-week period by means of a motor vehicle
          provided or maintained by the person,
               Note : Clause 15 defines the relevant 12-week
               period.
          (b) the specific purpose for which each such business
          journey was taken,
          (c) the distance travelled by the person during the
          relevant 12-week period in the course of all such business
          journeys, calculated on the basis of the odometer readings
          referred to in paragraph (a),
          (d) the odometer readings at the beginning and end of the
          relevant 12-week period for each motor vehicle provided or
          maintained by the person for the purpose of undertaking
          business journeys,
          (e) the distance travelled by each such vehicle during the
          relevant 12-week period, calculated on the basis of the
          odometer readings referred to in paragraph (d),
          (f) the distance travelled by the person in the course of
          business journeys undertaken by means of each such vehicle
          during the relevant 12-week period, calculated as a
          percentage of the distance travelled by that vehicle during
          that period (
          "the relevant percentage"),
          (g) the odometer readings at the beginning and end of the
          financial year for each vehicle provided or maintained by
          the person for the purpose of undertaking business
          journeys,
          (h) the distance travelled by each such vehicle during the
          financial year, calculated on the basis of the odometer
          readings referred to in paragraph (g),
          (i) the distance travelled by the person in the course of
          business journeys undertaken by means of each such vehicle
          during the financial year (which is taken to be the
          "number of business kilometres travelled during the
          financial year"), calculated on the basis that the
          percentage of that distance that was travelled by the
          person in the course of business journeys undertaken by
          means of each such vehicle during the financial year is the
          same as the relevant percentage.
     (2) For the next succeeding 4 financial years after the first
     financial year in which odometer details are recorded in accordance
     with subclause (1), an employer is not required to calculate the
     relevant percentage, or record the details referred to in subclause
     (1) (a)-(f), for the person but is required to record the other
     details referred to in that subclause.
     (3) Accordingly, for the next succeeding 4 financial years after the
     first financial year in which odometer details are recorded in
     accordance with subclause (1), the number of business kilometres
     travelled during the financial year is to be calculated (as referred
     to in subclause (1) (i)) on the basis of the relevant percentage
     calculated for the first financial year.
     (4) Despite subclauses (2) and (3), an employer is required to
     calculate the relevant percentage for a financial year, and record
     the details referred to in subclause (1) (a)-(f), if--
          (a) the Chief Commissioner serves a notice on the employer
          before the commencement of a financial year during that
          period directing the employer to keep the details referred
          to in subclause (1) (a)-(f) for that financial year, or
          (b) the employer wishes to use the recording method
          referred to in this clause for one or more additional motor
          vehicles used by the person in any financial year or for
          any other reason.
     (5) In a situation referred to in subclause (4), the new record for
     the financial year replaces the relevant percentage details
     previously recorded and subclauses (2) and (3) apply in relation to
     the new record for the financial year as if it were the first
     financial year in which odometer details were recorded.
     (6) An employer who has adopted and employed the method of recording
     referred to in subclauses (2) and (3) for a person for 4 successive
     financial years must, in the next succeeding financial year, make a
     fresh recording of all the details specified in subclause (1) if the
     employer intends to continue to use the same method of recording for
     the person. Subclauses (2) and (3) then apply in relation to the new
     record for the financial year as if it were the first financial year
     in which odometer details were recorded.
     (7) If the odometer of a motor vehicle is replaced or recalibrated
     during any period for which its readings are relevant for the
     purposes of this clause, the odometer readings immediately before and
     after the replacement or recalibration are to be recorded.
15 Meaning of relevant 12-week period
     (1) In clause 14,
     "relevant 12-week period" means a continuous period of at least 12
     weeks, selected by the employer, throughout which a motor vehicle is
     provided or maintained by a person. If the motor vehicle is provided
     or maintained for less than 12 weeks, the period must be the entire
     period for which the motor vehicle is provided or maintained.
     (2) The period may overlap the start or end of the financial year, so
     long as it includes part of the year.
     (3) If the averaging method is used for 2 or more motor vehicles for
     the same financial year, the odometer readings for those motor
     vehicles must cover periods that are concurrent.
16 Replacing one motor vehicle with another motor vehicle
     (1) For the purposes of using the averaging method, an employer may
     nominate one motor vehicle as having replaced another motor vehicle
     with effect from a day specified in the nomination.
     (2) After the nomination takes effect, the replacement motor vehicle
     is treated as the original motor vehicle, and the original motor
     vehicle is treated as a different motor vehicle. An employer need not
     repeat for the replacement vehicle the steps already taken for the
     original motor vehicle.
     (3) An employer must record the nomination in writing in the
     financial year in which the nomination takes effect.
     (4) However, the Chief Commissioner may allow an employer to record
     the nomination at a later time.
17 Changing method of recording
     (1) An employer may change from using the averaging method to using
     the continuous recording method with effect from the beginning of a
     financial year if the employer complies with clause 13 in respect of
     the financial year.
     (2) An employer may change from using the continuous recording method
     to using the averaging method with effect from the beginning of a
     financial year if the employer complies with clause 14 in respect of
     the financial year.
18 Definition
In this Part--

"business journey" means--
     (a) a journey undertaken in a motor vehicle by a person otherwise
     than in the application of the vehicle to a private use, being an
     application that, if the person is paid a motor vehicle allowance for
     that use, results in the provision of a fringe benefit (within the
     meaning of the FBTA Act) by the employer, or
     (b) a journey undertaken in a motor vehicle by a person in the course
     of producing assessable income of the person (within the meaning of
     the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 of the Commonwealth).
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SCHEDULE 2
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 - NSW specific provisions
(Sections 8, 100)
Part 1 - Introduction 1 Introduction to Schedule
This Schedule sets out provisions that apply only in this jurisdiction.
1A Payments by corporate collective investment vehicle to corporate director
     (1) Wages do not include amounts paid or payable by a CCIV to its
     corporate director.
     (2) In this clause--

     "CCIV" means a corporate collective investment vehicle within the
     meaning of the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth.

     "corporate director", of a CCIV, means the public company that is the
     director of the CCIV.
Part 2 - Calculation of payroll tax Division 1 - General 2 Calculation by
reference to return period
The amount of payroll tax that an employer is required to pay in relation to a
return of wages in respect of a financial year or a part of a financial year is
a proportion (equivalent to the ratio of the number of days to which the return
relates to the number of days in the financial year) of the payroll tax that
would be payable by the employer for the whole of that year.
3 Amount payable for whole of financial year
For the purposes of this Part, the payroll tax that would be payable by an
employer for the whole of a financial year is to be ascertained on the basis of
the following assumptions--
     (a) the assumption that the employer pays or is liable to pay taxable
     wages for the whole of the financial year,
     (b) the assumption that the total amount of taxable wages paid or
     payable by the employer during the financial year is a multiple
     (equivalent to the ratio of the number of days in the financial year
     to the number of days to which the return relates) of the taxable
     wages paid or payable by the employer during the period to which the
     return relates.
Division 2 - Calculation of payroll tax--financial years 2008-2010 3A Special
provision for financial years 2008-2010
For payroll tax payable in relation to a financial year commencing on 1 July
2008, 2009 or 2010--
     (a) the amount of payroll tax that an employer is required to pay is
     to be ascertained in accordance with Schedule 2A rather than Schedule
     1, and
     (b) clauses 2 and 3 do not apply to the calculation of that payroll
     tax, and
     (c) a reference in section 82 (Determination of correct amount of
     payroll tax) to Schedule 1 is to be read as a reference to Schedule
     2A.
Division 3 - Calculation of estimated monthly payroll tax 3B Application of
Division
     (1) An employer who is an eligible existing taxpayer or an eligible
     new taxpayer may opt to make payments of estimated payroll tax in
     respect of any month in a financial year (other than the month of
     June) as an alternative to making payments of tax based on wages paid
     or payable in the month.
     (2) The amount that the eligible existing taxpayer or eligible new
     taxpayer is required to pay as payroll tax in respect of the month is
     to be ascertained in accordance with this Division.
     (3) This Division does not affect the determination of the correct
     amount of payroll tax or the adjustment of payroll tax under Part 6
     of this Act.
3C Eligible taxpayers
     (1) An employer is an
     "eligible existing taxpayer" if--
          (a) payroll tax was payable by the employer in respect of
          the whole of the previous financial year, and the amount of
          the payroll tax payable was less than $150,000, or
          (b) payroll tax was payable by the employer in respect of
          part only of the previous financial year, and the amount of
          payroll tax that would have been payable by the employer
          for the whole of the financial year (ascertained in
          accordance with Division 1) is less than $150,000.
     (2) An employer is an
     "eligible new taxpayer" if--
          (a) the employer has not paid and is not liable to pay
          payroll tax in respect of the previous financial year, and
          (b) the employer has lodged returns in respect of at least
          3 separate months in the current financial year (other than
          the month of June), and
          (c) the amount of payroll tax that would be payable by the
          employer for the whole of the financial year (ascertained
          in accordance with Division 1) is less than $150,000.
3D Calculation of estimated monthly payroll tax
     (1) The amount of payroll tax that an eligible existing taxpayer is
     required to pay in relation to a return of wages in respect of a
     month (other than the month of June) in a financial year is the
     amount of dollars calculated in accordance with the formula--
          [graphic]

          "ME (existing)" is the amount of tax required to be paid by
          the eligible existing taxpayer.

          "T" is the total amount of payroll tax paid or payable by
          the eligible existing taxpayer in respect of the previous
          financial year.

          "R" is 0.03 or any other amount determined in respect of
          the financial year by the Chief Commissioner by notice
          published in the Gazette before 21 May in the preceding
          financial year.

          "D" is the total number of days to which the returns lodged
          by the eligible existing taxpayer in the previous financial
          year relate.
     where--
     (2) The amount of payroll tax that an eligible new taxpayer is
     required to pay in relation to a return of wages in respect of a
     month (other than the month of June) in a financial year is the
     amount of dollars calculated in accordance with the formula--
          [graphic]

          "ME (new)" is the amount of tax required to be paid by the
          eligible new taxpayer.

          "T" is the total amount of payroll tax paid or payable by
          the eligible new taxpayer in respect of the periods to
          which the returns lodged by the eligible new taxpayer in
          the current financial year relate.

          "D" is the total number of days to which the returns lodged
          by the eligible new taxpayer in the current financial year
          (inclusive of the first 3 returns, and any subsequent
          returns, lodged by the eligible new taxpayer in that year)
          relate.
     where--
Part 3 - Exemptions Division 1 - Education and training 4 Schools and colleges
Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or payable by a school or college
(other than a technical school or a technical college) that--
     (a) provides education at or below, but not above, the secondary
     level of education, and
     (b) is carried on by a body corporate, society or association
     otherwise than for the purpose of profit or gain to the individual
     members of the body corporate, society or association and is not
     carried on by or on behalf of the State of New South Wales.
5 Apprentices and trainees--exemption and rebate
     (1) Apprentice/trainee wages that are paid or payable before 1 July
     2008 are exempt wages.
     (2) An employer by whom apprentice/trainee wages are paid or payable
     on or after 1 July 2008 is entitled to a rebate of payroll tax paid
     in respect of those wages.
     (3) The amount of the rebate in respect of apprentice/trainee wages
     paid or payable in a particular period is the amount of the reduction
     in payroll tax payable by the employer that would result if the wages
     paid or payable by the employer in that period were reduced by the
     amount of those apprentice/trainee wages.
     (4) A rebate to which an employer is entitled under this clause is
     payable--
          (a) by refunding the amount of the rebate out of payroll
          tax paid by the employer, or
          (b) by allowing the amount of the rebate as an offset
          against payroll tax payable by the employer.
     (5) Wages are
     "apprentice/trainee wages" if the wages are paid or payable to--
          (a) an apprentice within the meaning of the Apprenticeship
          and Traineeship Act 2001, or
          (b) a trainee within the meaning of the Apprenticeship and
          Traineeship Act 2001, other than a trainee who has been
          continuously employed by the employer for more than 3
          months full-time or 12 months casual or part-time
          immediately prior to commencing employment as a trainee, or
          (c) a person employed in accordance with a group
          apprenticeship scheme or a group traineeship scheme
          approved for the time being by the Secretary of the
          Department of Industry, Skills and Regional Development
          (other than a person employed as referred to in clause 6).
     (6) The regulations may make provision for or with respect to the
     payment of a rebate provided for by this clause, including provision
     for or with respect to any of the following--
          (a) the time for payment of the rebate,
          (b) the method of payment of the rebate,
          (c) providing for an exemption from any requirement to
          lodge a return in respect of apprentice/trainee wages.
     (7) An approval in force for the purposes of section 10 (1) (m) of
     the Pay-roll Tax Act 1971 immediately before the commencement of this
     clause lapses on that commencement and has no operation for the
     purposes of this clause.
6 Exemption for non-profit group apprenticeship and traineeship schemes
     (1) Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or payable to an employee
     who is employed--
          (a) by a non-profit organisation that is approved by the
          Secretary of the Department of Industry, Skills and
          Regional Development for the purposes of this clause, and
          (b) in accordance with a group apprenticeship scheme or a
          group traineeship scheme approved for the time being by the
          Secretary of the Department of Industry, Skills and
          Regional Development.
     (2) An approval in force for the purposes of section 10 (1) (m) of
     the Pay-roll Tax Act 1971 immediately before the commencement of this
     clause lapses on that commencement and has no operation for the
     purposes of this clause.
Division 2 - Health care service providers 7 What is a health care service
provider?
For the purposes of Division 3 of Part 4 of this Act, a
"health care service provider" is--
     (a) a public hospital, or
     (b) a hospital that is carried on by a society or association
     otherwise than for the purposes of profit or gain to the individual
     members of the society or association.
8 Crown employees--public hospitals and local health districts
Wages paid or payable by the Crown in respect of staff employed in connection
with a public hospital or a local health district are exempt wages if the wages
are paid or payable--
     (a) for work of a kind ordinarily performed in connection with the
     conduct of public hospitals or of the local health district
     concerned, and
     (b) to a person engaged exclusively in that kind of work.
10 Ambulance Service
     (1) Wages paid or payable by the Crown in respect of staff of the NSW
     Health Service comprising the Ambulance Service of NSW are exempt
     wages if the wages are paid or payable--
          (a) for work of a kind ordinarily performed in connection
          with the provision of the services provided by the Health
          Secretary under Chapter 5A (Ambulance services) of the
          Health Services Act 1997, and
          (b) to a person engaged exclusively in that kind of work.
     (2) In this clause--

     "Health Secretary" has the same meaning as in the Health Services Act
     1997.
Division 2A - General practitioners in medical centres 10A Definitions
In this division--

"bulk billing arrangement", for general practitioner services, means an
arrangement where--
     (a) the person responsible for paying for the services assigns the
     person's right to a Medicare benefit for the service to the general
     practitioner who provided the service, and
     (b) the general practitioner accepts the Medicare benefit as full
     payment for the service.

"general practitioner" means a medical practitioner who is registered under the
Health Practitioner Regulation National Law (NSW) in the specialty of general
practice.

"general practitioner services" means professional services provided by a
general practitioner.

"medical centre" means premises, other than a private health facility, used to
provide general practitioner services at the premises or remotely--
     (a) by telephone, or
     (b) using other technology that enables audio, or audio and visual,
     communication between persons at different places.

"Metropolitan Sydney" has the meaning given by the regulations.

"practice arrangement" has the same meaning as in the Health Practitioner
Regulation National Law (NSW).

"prescribed billing arrangements", for general practitioner services, means
either or both of the following--
     (a) bulk billing arrangements for the services,
     (b) veterans arrangements for the services.

"private health facility" has the same meaning as in the Private Health
Facilities Act 2007.

"professional services" means a professional service specified in the Health
Insurance Act 1973 of the Commonwealth, section 3, definition of
"professional service", paragraph (a).

"relevant contract" has the same meaning as in this Act, Part 3, Division 7.

"relevant general practitioner wages" --see clause 10B(1).

"veterans arrangement", for general practitioner services, means an
arrangement--
     (a) approved by the Chief Commissioner, and
     (b) under which the general practitioner accepts as full payment for
     the services payment under one or more of the following Acts of the
     Commonwealth--
          (i) the Australian Participants in British Nuclear Tests
          and British Commonwealth Occupation Force (Treatment) Act
          2006,
          (ii) the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004,
          (iii) the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-
          related Claims) Act 1988,
          (iv) the Treatment Benefits (Special Access) Act 2019,
          (v) the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986.
10B Relevant general practitioner wages
     (1) Wages are
     "relevant general practitioner wages" if--
          (a) the wages are paid or payable to a general
          practitioner--
               (i) under a relevant contract, and
               (ii) for the provision of general practitioner
               services through a medical centre, and
          (b) the relevant contract is part of a practice
          arrangement, and
          (c) a relevant proportion of all the general practitioner
          services provided by general practitioners through the
          medical centre in the relevant financial year are provided
          under prescribed billing arrangements.
     (2) The
     "relevant proportion" of general practitioner services that must be
     provided under prescribed billing arrangements is--
          (a) for a medical centre in Metropolitan Sydney--at least
          80%, or
          (b) otherwise--at least 70%.
10C Rebate for relevant general practitioner wages
     (1) An employer is entitled to a rebate of payroll tax paid or
     payable for relevant general practitioner wages if the wages are paid
     or payable on or after 4 September 2024.
     (2) The amount of the rebate for a financial year for an employer is
     the difference between--
          (a) the payroll tax payable for the financial year by the
          employer when the relevant general practitioner wages are
          included, and
          (b) the payroll tax that would be payable for the financial
          year by the employer if the relevant general practitioner
          wages were not included.
     (3) The rebate may be given to the employer--
          (a) as a refund, or
          (b) as an offset against other payroll tax liabilities.
     (4) Regulations may be made about rebates under this clause,
     including--
          (a) specifying the time at which a rebate must be given,
          and
          (b) the circumstances in which a rebate will be given as a
          refund or as an offset.
10D Certain general practitioner wages exempt
     (1) Relevant general practitioner wages paid or payable before 4
     September 2024 are exempt unless payroll tax has been paid on the
     wages before that day.
     (2) In this clause--

     "relevant general practitioner wages" includes wages that would be
     relevant general practitioner wages if clause 10B(1)(c) did not
     apply.
Division 3 - Local government 11 Limitation on local government exemptions
For the purposes of section 60 (2) (e), the following activities are specified-
-
     (a) the supply of liquefied petroleum gas or hydraulic power and the
     supply and installation of associated fittings and appliances and of
     pipes and apparatus,
     (b) the operation of a transport service,
     (c) the supply of building materials,
     (d) the operation of a coal mine and the supply and distribution of
     coal.
Division 4 - Other exemptions 12 Continuation of certain exemptions--religious
institutions, public benevolent institutions, non-profit and charitable
organisations
     (1) Wages are exempt wages for the purposes of this Act if they are
     paid or payable by--
          (a) a religious institution, to a person in respect of time
          when the person engaged in religious work of the religious
          institution, being a religious institution in existence
          immediately before the repeal of the Pay-roll Tax Act 1971,
          or
          (b) a public benevolent institution (other than an
          instrumentality of the State), to a person in respect of
          time when the person is engaged in work of a public
          benevolent nature, being a public benevolent institution in
          existence immediately before the repeal of the Pay-roll Tax
          Act 1971, or
          (c) by a non-profit organisation (other than a school or
          college, statutory body or an instrumentality of the State)
          having as one of its objects a charitable, benevolent,
          philanthropic or patriotic purpose, to a person in respect
          of time when the person is engaged in charitable,
          benevolent, philanthropic or patriotic work of the non-
          profit organisation, being a non-profit organisation in
          existence immediately before the repeal of the Pay-roll Tax
          Act 1971, or
          (d) by an organisation (other than a school or college,
          statutory body or an instrumentality of the State) that--
               (i) was, immediately before the repeal of the
               Charitable Collections Act 1934, a charity within
               the meaning of that Act and registered or
               exempted from registration under that Act, and
               (ii) has not, since the repeal of that Act,
               altered its constitution in so far as its
               constitution relates to its charitable objects,
          to a person in respect of time when the person is engaged
          in the charitable work of the organisation, or
          (e) by a society or an institution (other than a school or
          college, statutory body or an instrumentality of the State)
          which--
               (i) is, in the opinion of the Chief Commissioner,
               a charitable society or institution, and
               (ii) was immediately before the repeal of the
               Pay-roll Tax Act 1971 approved by the Chief
               Commissioner for the purposes of section 10 (1)
               (k) of that Act,
          to a person in respect of time when the person is engaged
          in the charitable work of the society or institution.
     (2) Wages are exempt under subclause (1) (c) or (e) only if the
     organisation, society or institution concerned has not, since the
     repeal of the Pay-roll Tax Act 1971, altered its constitution in so
     far as its constitution relates to its charitable, benevolent,
     philanthropic or patriotic purposes.
13 Exemption for joint government water savings projects
Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or payable by a joint government
enterprise that has the function of allocating funds for water savings
projects.
13A Paternity leave
     (1) Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or payable to an employee
     in respect of paternity leave, being leave given to a male employee
     in connection with the pregnancy of a woman with his unborn child or
     the birth of his child (other than sick leave, recreation leave,
     annual leave or any similar leave).
     (2) It is immaterial whether the leave is taken during or after the
     pregnancy.
     (3) The exemption is limited to wages paid or payable in respect of a
     maximum of 14 weeks paternity leave in respect of any one pregnancy.
     (4) In subclause (3)--
          (a) a reference to 14 weeks paternity leave includes a
          reference to an equivalent period of leave at a reduced
          rate of pay, and
          (b) a reference to wages paid or payable in respect of a
          period of leave is a reference to the total wages that
          would normally have been paid or payable for that period of
          leave.
          Note : For a part-time employee, the exemption may apply to
          wages paid or payable for paternity leave that extends to
          28 weeks at half of the part-time rate of pay that would
          normally apply to the employee.
     (5) The exemption does not apply to any part of wages paid or payable
     in respect of paternity leave that comprises fringe benefits.
     (6) An employer wishing to claim an exemption under this clause in
     respect of paternity leave must obtain and keep a medical certificate
     in respect of, or statutory declaration by, the employee--
          (a) stating that a woman is or was pregnant with the
          employee's unborn child, or
          (b) stating that a woman has given birth to the employee's
          child and the date of birth.
     Note : Section 53 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996 requires
     these records to be kept for at least 5 years unless the Chief
     Commissioner authorises earlier destruction.
13B Employment agents supplying their common law employees
     (1) Wages are exempt wages if--
          (a) they are paid or payable for services that were
          performed under an employment agency contract by a service
          provider for a client of an employment agent, and
          (b) the service provider performed the services as an
          employee of the employment agent, and
          (c) the wages would be exempt wages under Part 4 (other
          than section 50 or Division 4 or 5 of that Part), or Part 3
          of Schedule 2 (other than clause 5 or 13A), had the service
          provider performed the services as an employee of the
          client, and
          (d) the client has given a declaration to the effect of
          paragraph (c), in the form approved by the Chief
          Commissioner, to the employment agent.
     (2) A reference in this clause to an
     "employee" does not include a reference to a person who is an
     employee only because the person is taken to be an employee by
     Division 8 of Part 3 or any other provision of this Act.
Part 4 - Government bodies--special provisions 14 Application of Act to certain
Public Service agencies
     (1) This clause applies in relation to any Public Service agency in
     which staff are employed under Part 4 of the Government Sector
     Employment Act 2013 to enable a statutory body to exercise its
     functions.
     (2) For the purposes of this Act, each Public Service agency to which
     this clause applies is taken to be a separate employer with respect
     to the matters specified in subclause (3). If the agency concerned
     comprises separate parts each of which is assigned to a different
     statutory body, each such part of the agency is taken to be a
     separate employer with respect to the matters specified in subclause
     (3) in so far as they relate to that part.
     (3) The matters that are specified for the purposes of subclause (2)
     are as follows--
          (a) the wages paid or payable to the staff of the agency or
          part of the agency,
          (b) any fees or other remuneration paid or payable to the
          members of the board or other governing body of the
          statutory body to which the staff of the agency (or part of
          the agency) are assigned,
          (c) any amount paid or payable under a relevant contract
          (within the meaning of Division 7 of Part 3 of this Act)
          entered into by the statutory body concerned.
     (4) In this clause--

     "Public Service agency" has the same meaning as in the Government
     Sector Employment Act 2013.
15 Grouping of government departments
     (1) The persons, groups of persons and bodies who are Public Service
     agencies within the meaning of the Government Sector Employment Act
     2013 (except a Staff Agency listed in Schedule 1 to that Act), the
     Independent Commission Against Corruption, the Judicial Commission
     and the NSW Police Force together constitute a group constituted
     under Part 5 (Grouping of employers) of this Act.
     (2) However, an employer that is taken to be a separate employer
     under clause 14 and the Health Professional Councils Authority Office
     are not part of that group.
16 Grouping of State owned corporations
For the purposes of Part 5 (Grouping of employers) of this Act, a statutory
State owned corporation (within the meaning of the State Owned Corporations Act
1989) is not a member of the same group as another statutory State owned
corporation because of section 72.
Part 5 - Recovery of payroll tax from principal contractors 17 Liability of
principal contractor for payroll tax payable in respect of employees of
subcontractor
     (1) This Part applies if--
          (a) a person (referred to in this Part as the
          "principal contractor") has entered into a contract for the
          carrying out of work by another person (referred to in this
          Part as the
          "subcontractor"), and
          (b) employees of that subcontractor (referred to in this
          Part as the
          "relevant employees") are engaged in carrying out the work,
          and
          (c) the work is carried out in connection with a business
          undertaking of the principal contractor.
     (2) If, at the end of the period of 60 days after the end of a
     financial year, any payroll tax payable by the subcontractor in
     respect of wages paid or payable to the relevant employees during the
     financial year for work done in connection with the contract has not
     been paid, the principal contractor is jointly and severally liable
     with the subcontractor for the payment of the payroll tax.
     (3) Section 45 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996 (subsection
     (3) excepted) applies to an amount payable under this clause.
          Note : Section 44 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996
          provides that the amount of tax payable may be recovered by
          the Chief Commissioner as a debt to the Chief Commissioner.
          Section 45 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996 provides
          that if parties are jointly and severally liable for the
          payment of an amount under a taxation law, the Chief
          Commissioner may recover the amount payable from any of the
          parties. It also provides for the recovery of interest,
          penalty tax and costs from the parties who are jointly and
          severally liable for the payment of the tax.
18 Written statement relieves principal contractor of liability
     (1) The principal contractor is not liable under this Part for the
     payment of any payroll tax payable in respect of wages paid or
     payable to the relevant employees during a period if the principal
     contractor has been given a written statement by the subcontractor in
     respect of that period.
     (2) The written statement is a statement comprising the following
     statements--
          (a) a statement by the subcontractor that the subcontractor
          is registered as an employer under this Act or is not
          required to be registered under this Act (whichever is
          applicable),
          (b) a statement by the subcontractor that all payroll tax
          payable by the subcontractor in respect of wages paid or
          payable to the relevant employees during any period of the
          contract for work done in connection with the contract has
          been paid,
          (c) a statement by the subcontractor as to whether the
          subcontractor is also a principal contractor in connection
          with that work,
          (d) if the subcontractor is also a principal contractor in
          connection with that work, a statement by the subcontractor
          as to whether the subcontractor has been given a written
          statement under this clause in the capacity of principal
          contractor in connection with that work.
     (3) The written statement may include any statement made by the
     subcontractor for the purposes of section 127 of the Industrial
     Relations Act 1996 or a similar provision under any other Act.
     (4) The written statement is to be in a form approved by the Chief
     Commissioner.
     (5) The subcontractor must keep a record of a written statement given
     to a principal contractor under this clause.
          Note : Section 53 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996
          requires the record to be kept for not less than 5 years
          after it was made.
     (6) The principal contractor may withhold any payment due to the
     subcontractor under the contract until the subcontractor gives a
     written statement under this clause for any period up to the date of
     the statement. Any penalty for late payment under the contract does
     not apply to any payment withheld under this subclause.
     (7) The written statement is not effective to relieve the principal
     contractor of liability under this Part if the principal contractor
     had, when given the statement, reason to believe it was false.
     (8) A subcontractor who gives the principal contractor a written
     statement knowing it to be false is guilty of an offence.
          : Maximum penalty--100 penalty units.
          Note : An offence against subclause (8) committed by a
          corporation is an executive liability offence attracting
          executive liability for a director or other person involved
          in the management of the corporation--see section 121 of
          the Taxation Administration Act 1996.
19 Right of recovery
The principal contractor is entitled to recover from the subcontractor as a
debt in a court of competent jurisdiction any payment made by the principal
contractor as a consequence of a liability arising under this Part.
20 Application of Part
     (1) This Part does not apply in relation to a contract if the
     subcontractor is in receivership or in the course of being wound up
     or, in the case of an individual, is bankrupt and if payments made
     under the contract are made to the receiver, liquidator or trustee in
     bankruptcy.
     (2) To avoid doubt, this Part extends to a principal contractor who
     is the owner or occupier of a building for the carrying out of work
     in connection with the building so long as the building is owned or
     occupied by the principal contractor in connection with a business
     undertaking of the principal contractor.
Part 6 - Miscellaneous 21 Exemption from lodging returns
     (1) If the Chief Commissioner is of the opinion that tax will not be
     payable by an employer, or, if paid, would be refunded, the Chief
     Commissioner may issue a certificate to that employer exempting the
     employer from lodging monthly returns in accordance with section 87
     and any employer to whom such a certificate is issued may refrain
     from lodging monthly returns but must, unless the contrary is
     expressed in the certificate, lodge a return relating to each
     financial year within 28 days after the close of that financial year.
     (2) A certificate issued under this clause may be either
     unconditional or subject to such conditions as are prescribed by the
     regulations or as the Chief Commissioner thinks fit.
     (3) The Chief Commissioner may, at any time, by notice in writing,
     revoke any certificate issued under this clause.
     (4) The issue of a certificate under this clause does not exempt an
     employer from the payment of any payroll tax, despite the fact that
     it may have the effect of postponing the time for payment of any
     payroll tax.
22 Functions of Hardship Review Board
The Hardship Review Board constituted under the State Debt Recovery Act 2018
may exercise its functions under that Act and the Taxation Administration Act
1996 in relation to payroll tax payable under this Act.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SCHEDULE 2A
 
 
SCHEDULE 2A - Special provisions for financial years 2008-2010
(Schedule 2, clause 3A)
Part 1 - Introduction 1 Application of Schedule
This Schedule applies for the purpose of ascertaining the payroll tax payable
by an employer in relation to a financial year commencing on 1 July 2008, 2009
or 2010.
2 Determination of amount of payroll tax
     (1) The amount that an employer is liable to pay as payroll tax for
     any period is to be determined in accordance with this Schedule.
     (2) The amount of payroll tax that an employer is required to pay in
     relation to a return of wages in respect of a period is the amount
     determined for that period in accordance with this Schedule.
3 Determination of payroll tax for full financial year
The amount that an employer is liable to pay as payroll tax for a financial
year is to be determined as the sum of the amount that the employer is liable
to pay as payroll tax for the first half of the financial year and the amount
that the employer is liable to pay as payroll tax for the second half of the
financial year, with those amounts determined in accordance with this Schedule.
     Note : This method of adding the payroll tax payable for 2 half-years
     accommodates the financial years commencing on 1 July 2008, 2009 and
     2010, in which the rate that applies in the first half of the year is
     different from the rate that applies in the second half of the year.
4 Definitions
In this Schedule--

"annual threshold amount" means the threshold amount under Schedule 1 for the
financial year of which the relevant period forms part.

"financial year" means a financial year commencing on 1 July 2008, 2009 or
2010.

"half-year" means the first or second half of a financial year (with the first
half comprising the months July to December and the second half comprising the
months January to June).

"N" is the number of days in the relevant period.

"R" has the same value as in Schedule 1 in respect of the relevant period.

"relevant period" means the period to which the calculation of the relevant
payroll tax relates.

"TA" or
"threshold amount" for a relevant period is the amount calculated by
multiplying the annual threshold amount by N/365.
     Note : Clauses 9 and 14 provide that when wages for half a financial
     year are less than the threshold amount for that half-year, the
     unused portion of that threshold amount is to be allocated to the
     other half of the financial year.
Part 2 - Employers who are not members of a group 5 Application of Part
This Part applies only to an employer who is not a member of a group.
6 Definitions
In this Part--

"C" is the number of days in the relevant period in respect of which the
employer paid or was liable to pay taxable wages or interstate wages (otherwise
than as a member of a group).

"IW" represents the total interstate wages paid or payable by the employer
concerned (otherwise than as a member of a group) during the relevant period.

"TW" represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the employer
concerned (otherwise than as a member of a group) during the relevant period.
7 Payroll of employer not more than threshold
An employer is not liable to pay payroll tax for a relevant period if the total
taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the employer (otherwise
than as a member of a group) during that period is not more than the
"employer's threshold amount" for that period, being the amount calculated in
accordance with the following formula--
     [graphic]
8 Payroll of employer over threshold
If the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by an employer
(otherwise than as a member of a group) during the relevant period is more than
the employer's threshold amount for that period, the employer is liable to pay
as payroll tax for that period the amount of dollars calculated in accordance
with the following formula--
     [graphic]
9 Increase in half-year threshold for threshold credit from other half-year
     (1) If the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable
     by an employer during a half-year otherwise than as a member of a
     group (
     "the half-year total") is less than the threshold amount for that
     half-year (
     "the half-year TA"), the difference between the half-year total and
     the half-year TA is to be added to the threshold amount for the other
     half-year of the financial year concerned to arrive at an
     "adjusted TA" for that other half-year.
     (2) When there is an adjusted TA for the second half of a financial
     year, the threshold amount for any relevant period in that second
     half is the amount determined by multiplying the adjusted TA by N/
     181.
     (3) When there is an adjusted TA for the first half of a financial
     year, that adjusted TA is the threshold amount that is to be used to
     determine the amount that the employer is liable to pay as payroll
     tax for that first half (as part of the determination of the amount
     of payroll tax payable for the full financial year) but is not to be
     used to redetermine the amount of payroll tax for any relevant period
     that is part of that first half.
Part 3 - Groups with a designated group employer 10 Application of Part
This Part applies only to an employer who is a member of a group for which
there is a designated group employer.
11 Definitions
In this Part--

"C" is the number of days in the relevant period in respect of which at least
one member of the group paid or was liable to pay (as a member of the group)
taxable wages or interstate wages.

"GIW" represents the total interstate wages paid or payable by the group
concerned during the relevant period.

"GTW" represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the group concerned
during the relevant period.

"TW" represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the employer
concerned (as a member of the group) during the relevant period.
12 Payroll of group not more than threshold
None of the members of a group is liable to pay payroll tax for the relevant
period if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during that period is not more than the
"group threshold amount" for that period, being the amount calculated in
accordance with the following formula--
     [graphic]
13 Payroll of group over threshold
     (1) If the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable
     by a group during the relevant period is more than the group
     threshold amount for that period, payroll tax is payable as provided
     by subclauses (2) and (3).
     (2) The designated group employer for the group is liable to pay as
     payroll tax for the relevant period the amount of dollars calculated
     in accordance with the following formula--
          [graphic]
     (3) Each member of the group (other than that designated group
     employer) is liable to pay as payroll tax for the relevant period the
     amount of dollars calculated in accordance with the following
     formula--
          [graphic]
14 Increase in second-half TA for first-half credit
     (1) If the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable
     by a group during a half-year (
     "the half-year total") is less than the threshold amount for that
     half-year (
     "the half-year TA"), the difference between the half-year total and
     the half-year TA is to be added to the threshold amount for the other
     half-year of the financial year concerned to arrive at an
     "adjusted TA" for that other half-year.
     (2) When there is an adjusted TA for the second half of a financial
     year, the threshold amount for any relevant period in that second
     half is the amount determined by multiplying the adjusted TA by N/
     181.
     (3) When there is an adjusted TA for the first half of a financial
     year, that adjusted TA is the threshold amount that is to be used to
     determine the amount that the employer is liable to pay as payroll
     tax for that first half (as part of the determination of the amount
     of payroll tax payable for the full financial year) but is not to be
     used to redetermine the amount of payroll tax for any relevant period
     that is part of that first half.
Part 4 - Groups with no designated group employer 15 Application of Part
This Part applies only to an employer who is a member of a group for which
there is no designated group employer.
16 Definitions
In this Part--

"TW" represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the employer
concerned (as a member of the group) during the relevant period.
17 Calculation of payroll tax
Each member of the group is liable to pay as payroll tax for the relevant
period the amount of dollars calculated in accordance with the following
formula--
     [graphic]
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SCHEDULE 3
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 - Savings, transitional and other provisions
(Section 103)
Part 1 - General 1 Regulations
     (1) The regulations may contain provisions of a savings or
     transitional nature consequent on the enactment of the following
     Acts--
          this Act
          State Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment (Budget) Act
          2008
          State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2008
          State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act (No 2) 2009
          State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2010
          State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act 2010
          State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2012
          Any Act that amends this Act
     (2) Any such provision may, if the regulations so provide, take
     effect from the date of assent to the Act concerned or a later date.
     (3) To the extent to which any such provision takes effect from a
     date that is earlier than the date of its publication in the Gazette,
     the provision does not operate so as--
          (a) to affect, in a manner prejudicial to any person (other
          than the State or an authority of the State), the rights of
          that person existing before the date of its publication, or
          (b) to impose liabilities on any person (other than the
          State or an authority of the State) in respect of anything
          done or omitted to be done before the date of its
          publication.
Part 2 - Provisions consequent on enactment of this Act 2 Definition
In this Part--

"old Act" means the Pay-roll Tax Act 1971 as in force immediately before its
repeal.
3 Application of this Act and old Act
     (1) This Act applies to payroll tax on taxable wages that are paid or
     payable on or after 1 July 2007.
     (2) Despite its repeal, the old Act continues to apply to payroll tax
     on taxable wages (within the meaning of the old Act) paid or payable
     before 1 July 2007.
     (3) The Taxation Administration Act 1996, as in force immediately
     before 1 July 2007, continues to apply on an after that day in
     respect of any matter to which the old Act continues to apply on and
     after that day.
4 Exclusion of redundancy and long service contributions as wages
The old Act applies to payroll tax on taxable wages (within the meaning of the
old Act) paid or payable before 1 July 2007 as if section 3AG of the old Act
had never been enacted.
5 Fringe benefits
An election by an employer under section 13A (2) of the old Act that was in
force immediately before 1 July 2007 remains in force on and after that date
for the purposes of this Act as if it were an election made by the employer
under section 16 (1) of this Act.
6 Superannuation contributions relating to pre-1 July 1996 service
     (1) Despite anything in section 11 or 17,
     "wages" do not include a superannuation contribution paid or payable
     in respect of services performed by an employee before 1 July 1996.
     (2) A superannuation contribution that is alleged by an employer to
     be paid in respect of services performed by an employee before 1 July
     1996 must be evidenced to the satisfaction of the Chief Commissioner
     in the employer's records for payroll tax purposes.
     (3) In particular, the employer's records must show the manner of
     calculation of the contribution and any actuarial basis for it.
     (4) For the purposes of subclause (3) and of any assessment of
     payroll tax to which that subclause is material, the certificate of a
     fellow or accredited member of the Institute of Actuaries of
     Australia to the effect that the actuarial basis on which an amount
     is calculated is justified is evidence and, in the absence of
     evidence to the contrary, proof of that fact.
     (5) If records are not kept as required by this clause, the Chief
     Commissioner is entitled to assume that a payment of money by an
     employer as a superannuation contribution on or after 1 July 1996 is
     an amount payable in respect of services performed by an employee on
     or after that day.
7 Superannuation payments not readily related to particular employees
For the purposes of an assessment of payroll tax, the Chief Commissioner may
determine--
     (a) whether, and the extent to which, any monetary or non-monetary
     contribution paid or payable by an employer to a superannuation,
     provident or retirement fund or scheme that is not identified by the
     employer as paid or payable in respect of a particular employee (and
     whether or not purporting to be so paid or payable on any actuarial
     basis) is to be regarded as a superannuation contribution paid or
     payable in respect of a particular employee, and
     (b) the portion of any monetary or non-monetary contribution paid by
     an employer as a superannuation contribution to a wholly or partly
     unfunded fund or scheme, being money paid in respect of an employee
     (or that is to be regarded under paragraph (a) to have been so paid)
     who performed services to the employer on or after, as well as
     before, 1 July 1997, that is to be regarded as having been paid in
     respect of services performed before that date.
8 Employment agents
A declaration under section 3C (4) (b) of the old Act that was in force
immediately before 1 July 2007 remains in force on and after that day for the
purposes of this Act as if it were a declaration made under section 40 (2) of
this Act.
9 Designated group employer
The designation of an employer as a designated group employer that had effect
under the old Act immediately before its repeal has effect as the designation
of a designated group employer under this Act.
10 Return lodgment exemption
A certificate in force or deemed to be in force under section 14 (Exemption
from furnishing returns) of the old Act immediately before its repeal is taken
to be an approval under Division 2 (Approval of special tax return
arrangements) of Part 6 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996, and for that
purpose is taken to be in terms appropriate to give it the same effect as it
had as a certificate under that section of the old Act.
11 Redundancy and long service contributions excluded from wages
A contribution to a redundancy benefit scheme or portable long service leave
fund that was paid or payable after 30 June 2006 and that would (but for this
clause) have constituted wages under the old Act because of the operation of
section 3AG of that Act is taken not to have constituted wages for the purposes
of the old Act.
12 Registration of employers
An employer who was registered under section 12 of the old Act immediately
before 1 July 2007 is taken, on and after that day, to be registered under
section 86 of this Act.
13 Agreements to reduce or avoid payroll tax
Sections 42 and 47 extend to an agreement, transaction or arrangement entered
into before the commencement of those sections.
14 Recovery of payroll tax from principal contractors
Part 5 of Schedule 2 extends to contracts entered into before the commencement
of that Part.
15 General saving
Any act, matter or thing that had effect under or for the purposes of a
provision of the old Act, or a provision of another Act repealed by this Act,
immediately before the repeal of the provision continues to have effect under
or for the purposes of the corresponding provision of this Act, subject to any
other provision of this Part or the regulations under this Part.
Part 3 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2008 16 Application of amendments
The amendments made to Schedule 1 by the State Revenue Legislation Amendment
Act 2008 apply to the financial year commencing on 1 July 2007 and any
subsequent financial year.
Part 4 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Further Amendment Act 2009 17 Functions of Hardship Review Board
     (1) Clause 22 of Schedule 2, as inserted by the State Revenue
     Legislation Further Amendment Act 2009, has effect on and from 1 July
     2007.
     (2) Anything done or omitted to be done by the Hardship Review Board,
     on or after 1 July 2007, that would have been validly done or omitted
     had clause 22 of Schedule 2 been in force at the time that it was
     done or omitted is taken to have been validly done or omitted.
     (3) In this clause, the
     "Hardship Review Board" means the Hardship Review Board constituted
     under Division 5 of Part 10 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996.
Part 5 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Further Amendment Act (No 2) 2009 18 Application of amendments
     (1) The amendments made to this Act by the State Revenue Legislation
     Further Amendment Act (No 2) 2009 apply in respect of taxable wages
     that are paid or payable on or after 1 July 2009.
     (2) The amendments made to this Act by the State Revenue Legislation
     Further Amendment Act (No 2) 2009 are to be applied for the purpose
     of determining the correct amount of payroll tax (within the meaning
     of section 82) payable by an employer in respect of the financial
     year commencing on 1 July 2009 (including in respect of expired
     months).
     (3) However, section 9 continues to apply in respect of an expired
     month as if the amendments made to this Act by the State Revenue
     Legislation Further Amendment Act (No 2) 2009 had not been made.
     (4) In this clause, an
     "expired month" is a month occurring after June 2009 that ended
     before the date of assent to the State Revenue Legislation Further
     Amendment Act (No 2) 2009.
Part 6 - Provision consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2010 19 Exemptions and rebates
The amendments to Schedule 2 made by the State Revenue Legislation Amendment
Act 2010 apply to wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2010.
Part 7 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Further Amendment Act 2010 20 Assessment and payment of payroll tax in relation
to employee shares and options
Anything done or omitted to be done by an employer in connection with the
assessment and payment of payroll tax, in respect of a month occurring after
June 2009 and before July 2011, that would have been validly done or omitted to
be done had the amendments made to this Act by the State Revenue Legislation
Further Amendment Act 2010 been in force, is taken to have been validly done or
omitted.
     Note : This provision validates a decision by an employer to treat
     the grant of a share or an option to an employee that is not an ESS
     interest as a fringe benefit under Division 2 of Part 3 of this Act
     and to determine the value of those fringe benefits in accordance
     with those provisions, rather than by reference to Division 4 of Part
     3 of this Act.
21 Determination of vesting date and value of employee shares and options
     (1) Division 4 of Part 3 of this Act continues to apply in respect of
     a share or an option granted before 1 July 2011 that constituted
     wages under old section 18, whether or not the grant of the share or
     option would constitute wages under new section 18, if the relevant
     day in relation to the grant of the share or option is not a day
     occurring before 1 July 2011.
          Note : For example, a share granted before 1 July 2011 that
          is not an ESS interest continues to be treated as wages
          under Division 4 of Part 3 of this Act if the vesting date
          for the share did not occur before 1 July 2011 and the
          employer did not elect to treat the date of the grant as
          the relevant day.
     (2) The assessment amendments apply in respect of any such share or
     option.
     (3) Accordingly, the vesting date and the value of the share or
     option are to be determined in accordance with the assessment
     amendments.
     (4) This clause does not apply in respect of a share or an option
     granted before 1 July 2011 if the liability for payroll tax in
     respect of the grant is determined in accordance with Division 2 of
     Part 3 (as permitted by clause 20).
     (5) In this clause--

     "assessment amendments" means the amendments made by Schedule 4 [4]-
     [6] to the State Revenue Legislation Further Amendment Act 2010.

     "new section 18" means section 18 as amended by the State Revenue
     Legislation Further Amendment Act 2010.

     "old section 18" means section 18 as in force immediately before 1
     July 2011.

     "relevant day" --see section 18 (3).
Part 8 - Provision consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2012 22 Maternity, adoption and paternity leave
The amendments made to this Act by the State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act
2012 have effect in respect of wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2012.
Part 9 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Further Amendment Act 2014 23 Relevant contracts
     (1) An amendment made to this Act by the State Revenue Legislation
     Further Amendment Act 2014 has effect in respect of any amount,
     benefit or payment referred to in section 40 that is paid, payable,
     provided or made on or after the date of commencement of the
     amendment, except as provided by subclause (2).
     (2) An amendment does not apply to any amount, benefit or payment
     paid, payable, provided or made for work performed before the date of
     commencement of the amendment.
Part 10 - Provision consequent on enactment of State Revenue and Other
Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2014 24 Repeal of Payroll Tax
Rebate Scheme (Disability Employment) Act 2011
The Payroll Tax Rebate Scheme (Disability Employment) Act 2011, as in force
immediately before its repeal, continues to apply--
     (a) in relation to the employment of a person if the employment
     commenced before the repeal of that Act, and
     (b) in relation to a claim for a rebate, or a rebate, in respect of
     such employment.
Part 11 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue Legislation
Amendment Act 2017 25 Motor vehicle allowances
The amendment to section 29 made by the State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act
2017 is taken to have effect in respect of wages paid or payable on or after 1
July 2016.
26 Exempt wages paid to living organ donors
Section 66C, as inserted by the State Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2017,
is taken to have effect in respect of wages paid or payable on or after 1 July
2013.
Part 12 - Provisions consequent on enactment of State Revenue and Other
Legislation Amendment Act 2019 27 Definition
In this Part--

"amending Act" means the State Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act
2019.
28 Extension of time for paying tax and lodging returns
     (1) The amendment made to section 9 by the amending Act has effect in
     respect of wages paid or payable in the month of June 2019, or in the
     month of June in any subsequent year.
     (2) The amendment made to section 87 by the amending Act has effect
     in respect of--
          (a) a return relating to the month of June 2019, or to the
          month of June in any subsequent year, and
          (b) the adjustment of payroll tax paid or payable during
          the financial year ending on the close of the month of June
          2019 or paid or payable during any subsequent financial
          year ending on the close of the month of June in that year.
Part 13 - Provision consequent on enactment of Payroll Tax Amendment Act 2020
29 Application of amendment
     (1) The amendments made to Schedule 1, clause 1 by the amending Act
     must be applied for the purpose of determining the correct amount of
     payroll tax, within the meaning of section 82, payable by an employer
     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2020 as if the amendments
     were in force on 30 June 2020.
     (2) In this clause--

     "amending Act" means the Payroll Tax Amendment Act 2020.
Part 14 - Provision consequent on enactment of Payroll Tax Amendment (Jobs
Plus) Act 2021 30 Application of amendments
     (1) The amendment of section 66E by the amending Act is taken to have
     had effect from the beginning of 1 January 2021.
     (2) An agreement with an employer that is entered into by the
     Minister for Jobs, Investment, Tourism and Western Sydney, or by a
     delegate of the Minister, and that is expressed to be for the
     purposes of section 66F of this Act is taken, for all purposes, to be
     a Jobs Plus agreement under section 66F, as inserted by the amending
     Act, even if the agreement was entered into before the commencement
     of that section on 1 July 2021.
     (3) In this clause--

     "amending Act" means the Payroll Tax Amendment (Jobs Plus) Act 2021.
Part 15 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Revenue Legislation Amendment
Act 2024 31 Relevant general practitioner wages
If Schedule 2, clause 10B applies only for part of a financial year, the
reference to financial year in clause 10B(1)(c) is taken to be a reference to
the part of the financial year.
32 Regulations
The Subordinate Legislation Act 1989, Part 2 does not apply to a regulation
made under this Act if the regulation is made after the date of assent to the
Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2024 and before 4 September 2024.
Part 16 - Provision consequent on enactment of Revenue Legislation Further
Amendment Act 2024 33 Application of amendments
The amendments made to Schedule 2, clauses 10A and 10B by the Revenue
Legislation Further Amendment Act 2024 are taken to have commenced on 4
September 2024.
 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- NOTES
 

Does not include amendments by
Sec 66F(11B) of this Act (sec 66F(11B) repeals sec 66F on 2.7.2033)

 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- NOTES
 

Historical notes
Table of amending instrumentsPayroll Tax Act
2007 No 21. Assented to 4.7.2007. Date of commencement, 1.7.2007, sec 2. This
Act has been amended as follows--

 _____________________________________________________________________________
||    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (Local                                       |
||    |      |Court) Amendment Act 2007. Assented to 13.12.2007.              |
||2007|No 94 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2, 6.7.2009, sec 2 and 2009 (314) LW|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue and Other                                         |
||2008|No 48 |Legislation Amendment (Budget) Act 2008. Assented to 30.6.2008. |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||    |      |Provisions) Act 2008. Assented to 1.7.2008.                     |
||    |No 62 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1.21, 1.7.2008, Sch 1.21; date of   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |      |Amendment Act 2008. Assented to 2.7.2008.                       |
||    |No 67 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 5 [1]-[3], 1.7.2008, sec 2 (2) (b); |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||2009|No 51 |Further Amendment Act 2009. Assented to 26.6.2009.              |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |No 91 |Further Amendment Act (No 2) 2009. Assented to 19.11.2009.      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||2010|No 46 |Amendment Act 2010. Assented to 28.6.2010.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Health Services Amendment                                       |
||    |      |(Local Health Networks) Act 2010. Assented to 16.11.2010.       |
||    |No 97 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2, 1.1.2011, sec 2 (1) and 2010     |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |No 118|Further Amendment Act 2010. Assented to 29.11.2010.             |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Health Services Amendment                                       |
||    |      |(Local Health Districts and Boards) Act 2011. Assented to       |
||2011|No 4  |16.5.2011.                                                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 1.7.2011, sec 2 and 2011 (313) LW         |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||2012|No 20 |Amendment Act 2012. Assented to 11.4.2012.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Miscellaneous Acts                                              |
||    |      |Amendment (Directors' Liability) Act 2012. Assented to          |
||    |No 97 |26.11.2012.                                                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 11.1.2013, sec 2 and 2012 (629) LW        |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue and Other                                         |
||    |      |Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2013. Assented to   |
||2013|No 50 |26.6.2013.                                                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue and Other                                         |
||    |      |Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2014. Assented to   |
||2014|No 37 |24.6.2014.                                                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |      |Further Amendment Act 2014. Assented to 23.10.2014.             |
||    |No 56 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 3 [1]-[3] and [5]-[7], 1.7.2014, sec|
||    |      |2 (2) (a); date of commencement of Sch 3 [4], 1.1.2016, sec 2   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||2016|No 14 |Amendment Act 2016. Assented to 11.5.2016.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||    |      |Provisions) Act 2016. Assented to 7.6.2016.                     |
||    |No 27 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 5, 28.6.2017, sec 2 (4) and 2017    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||2017|No 11 |Amendment Act 2017. Assented to 11.4.2017.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Electronic Transactions                                         |
||    |      |Legislation Amendment (Government Transactions) Act 2017.       |
||    |No 25 |Assented to 27.6.2017.                                          |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Local Government Amendment                                      |
||    |      |(Regional Joint Organisations) Act 2017. Assented to 30.11.2017.|
||    |No 65 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, 15.12.2017, sec 2 and 2017 (730) LW       |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Debt Recovery Act                                         |
||    |      |2018. Assented to 21.3.2018.                                    |
||2018|No 11 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 3.11, 27.8.2018, sec 2 and 2018     |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation                                       |
||    |No 39 |Amendment Act 2018. Assented to 27.6.2018.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Government Sector Finance                                       |
||    |      |Legislation (Repeal and Amendment) Act 2018. Assented to        |
||    |No 70 |22.11.2018.                                                     |
||    |      |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 4.80, 1.7.2021, sec 2(1) and 2021   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue and Other                                         |
||2019|No 8  |Legislation Amendment Act 2019. Assented to 1.7.2019.           |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Treasury Legislation                                            |
||2020|No 2  |Amendment (COVID-19) Act 2020. Assented to 25.3.2020.           |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |COVID-19 Legislation                                            |
||    |      |Amendment (Emergency Measures--Treasurer) Act 2020. Assented to |
||    |No 6  |14.5.2020.                                                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Amendment                             |
||    |No 19 |(COVID-19 Housing Response) Act 2020. Assented to 11.8.2020.    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Payroll Tax Amendment Act                                       |
||    |No 43 |2020. Assented to 27.11.2020.                                   |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Payroll Tax Amendment (Jobs Plus) Act                           |
||    |      |2021. Assented to 24.5.2021.                                    |
||2021|No 12 |                                                                |
||    |      |Date of commencement, except Sch 1[2], assent, sec 2(1); date of|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Payroll Tax Amendment (Payroll Tax                              |
||    |No 29 |Waiver) Act 2021. Assented to 18.11.2021.                       |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |State Revenue Legislation Amendment                             |
||2022|No 32 |Act 2022. Assented to 27.6.2022.                                |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||    |No 59 |Provisions) Act (No 2) 2022. Assented to 26.10.2022.            |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Revenue, Fines and Other Legislation                            |
||2023|No 18 |Amendment Act 2023. Assented to 4.9.2023.                       |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Treasury and Revenue Legislation                                |
||    |No 26 |Amendment Act 2023. Assented to 27.9.2023.                      |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||    |No 35 |Provisions) Act (No 2) 2023. Assented to 30.10.2023.            |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Revenue Legislation Amendment Act                               |
||2024|No 38 |2024. Assented to 24.6.2024.                                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Revenue Legislation Further Amendment                           |
||    |No 90 |Act 2024. Assented to 2.12.2024.                                |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Revenue and Other Legislation                                   |
||2025|No 37 |Amendment Act 2025. Assented to 1.7.2025.                       |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                      |
||    |No 48 |Provisions) Act 2025. Assented to 15.8.2025.                    |
||    |      |                                                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
Table of amendments

 _____________________________________________________________________________
||Sec 3                         |Am 2009 No 91, Sch 3 [1]; 2010 No 118, Sch 4 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 23                        |Am 2010 No 118, Sch 4 [5] [6]; 2022 No 59,   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 24                        |Am 2009 No 91, Sch 3 [4]; 2010 No 118, Sch 4 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 53                        |Am 2010 No 46, Sch 8 [1]; 2012 No 20, Sch 3  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 66E                       |Ins 2020 No 19, Sch 4. Am 2021 No 12, Sch 1  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 66F                       |Ins 2021 No 12, Sch 1[2]. Am 2023 No 35, Sch |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 74A                       |Ins 2023 No 18, Sch 5[1]. Am 2023 No 26, Sch |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 81                        |Am 2023 No 18, Sch 5[3]; 2024 No 90, Sch 6[2]|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Sec 99A                       |Ins 2020 No 2, Sch 1.2[1]. Am 2021 No 29, Sch|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                              |Am 2008 No 48, Sch 2 [2]-[4]; 2008 No 62, Sch|
||                              |1.21; 2008 No 67, Sch 5 [4] [5]; 2010 No 46, |
||Sch 1                         |Sch 8 [2]; 2013 No 50, Sch 4 [1]-[4]; 2018 No|
||                              |39, Sch 2; 2020 No 2, Sch 1.2[2]; 2020 No 43,|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                              |Am 2008 No 48, Sch 2 [5]; 2009 No 51, Sch 7.4|
||                              |[2]; 2010 No 46, Sch 8 [3] [4]; 2010 No 97,  |
||                              |Sch 2.24; 2011 No 4, Sch 2.27; 2012 No 20,   |
||                              |Sch 3 [2]; 2012 No 97, Sch 1.30; 2016 No 14, |
||Sch 2                         |Sch 4 [4]-[8]; 2016 No 27, Sch 5.6; 2017 No  |
||                              |11, Sch 3 [6] [7]; 2018 No 11, Sch 3.11; 2018|
||                              |No 70, Sch 4.80; 2019 No 8, Sch 3 [3]-[5];   |
||                              |2022 No 59, Sch 1.28[2]; 2024 No 38, Sch 5   |
||                              |[1]; 2024 No 90, Sch 6[4]-[6]; 2025 No 48,   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||Sch 2A                        |Ins 2008 No 48, Sch 2 [6]. Am 2010 No 46, Sch|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
||                              |Am 2008 No 48, Sch 2 [7]; 2008 No 67, Sch 5  |
||                              |[6] [7]; 2009 No 51, Sch 7.4 [3] [4]; 2009 No|
||                              |91, Sch 3 [8] [9]; 2010 No 46, Sch 8 [6] [7];|
||                              |2010 No 118, Sch 4 [9] [10]; 2012 No 20, Sch |
||Sch 3                         |3 [3] [4]; 2014 No 37, Sch 3.2; 2014 No 56,  |
||                              |Sch 3 [7]; 2017 No 11, Sch 3 [8]; 2019 No 8, |
||                              |Sch 3 [6]; 2020 No 43, cl 3(3); 2021 No 12,  |
||                              |Sch 1[3]; 2024 No 38, Sch 5[2]; 2024 No 90,  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
