PAYROLL TAX ACT 1971 - As at 1 July 2025 - Act 37 of 1971
 
TABLE OF PROVISIONS

**** TABLE OF PROVISIONS ****

PART 1 - PRELIMINARY
      1.  Short title

      2.  Dictionary

      3.  Meaning of superannuation contribution

     3A.  Meaning of termination payment

      4.  Other provisions about meaning of wages—superannuation
contributions and GST

     4A.  (Repealed)

      5.  Meaning of change of status

      6.  Meaning of final period

     6A.  Reference to periodic return period or return period

      7.  Notes in text

      8.  Relationship of Act with Administration Act

PART 2 - LIABILITY TO TAXATION
Division 1 - Imposition of liability
Subdivision 1 - Wages liable to payroll tax and mental health levy
     8A.  Application of sdiv 1

      9.  Wages liable to payroll tax and mental health levy—nexus with
Queensland

     9A.  State in which employee is based

     9B.  State in which employer is based

     9C.  Place and day of payment of wages

Subdivision 2 - Other provisions about imposing liability for payroll tax
     10.  Imposition of payroll tax on taxable wages

    10A.  Discount for regional employers

     11.  When liability for payroll tax arises

     12.  Employer to pay payroll tax

Subdivision 3 - Other provisions about imposing liability for mental health
levy
    12A.  Imposition of mental health levy on taxable wages

    12B.  When liability for mental health levy arises

    12C.  Particular employer to pay mental health levy

Subdivision 4 - Value of taxable wages
     13.  Value of taxable wages

Division 1A - Contractor provisions
    13A.  Definitions for div 1A

    13B.  Meaning of relevant contract

    13C.  Persons taken to be employers

    13D.  Persons taken to be employees

    13E.  Amounts taken to be wages

    13F.  Liability for payroll tax or mental health levy for payments taken to
be wages

Division 1B - Employment agents
    13G.  Meaning of employment agency contract

    13H.  Persons taken to be employers

    13I.  Persons taken to be employees

    13J.  Amounts taken to be wages

    13K.  Liability for payroll tax or mental health levy for payments taken to
be wages

    13L.  Employment agency contract reducing or avoiding liability to payroll
tax or mental health levy

   13LA.  Particular avoidance arrangements involving employment agents

Division 1C - Shares and options
    13M.  Application of div 1C

    13N.  Definitions for div 1C

    13O.  When share or option is granted

    13P.  Grant of share because of exercise of option

    13Q.  Day on which wages are paid or payable

    13R.  Election by grantor of relevant day

    13S.  Automatic election of relevant day

    13T.  Effect of rescission or cancellation of share or option

    13U.  Value of taxable wages

    13V.  When services are performed

    13W.  Place where wages are paid or payable

Division 1D - Allowances
Subdivision 1 - Motor vehicle allowances
    13X.  Definitions for sdiv 1

    13Y.  Exempt component of motor vehicle allowance

    13Z.  Working out the number of exempt kilometres

   13ZA.  Continuous recording method

   13ZB.  Averaging method—how it works

   13ZC.  Averaging method—records to be kept by employer

   13ZD.  Averaging method—what is the averaging period

   13ZE.  Averaging method—recalculation of relevant percentage

   13ZF.  Averaging method—replacing a business vehicle

   13ZG.  Switching between continuous recording and averaging methods

Subdivision 2 - Accommodation allowances
   13ZH.  Exempt rate for accommodation allowance

Division 2 - Exemptions
     14.  Exemption from payroll tax and mental health levy

    14A.  Exemption for parental, adoption, surrogacy or cultural parent leave

     15.  Exemption from payroll tax and mental health levy—certain CWA wages

    15A.  Exemption for services performed or rendered entirely in another
country

Division 3 - Periodic liability for payroll tax
Subdivision 1 - Employer other than the DGE for a group
     16.  Application of sdiv 1

    16J.  (Repealed)

    16K.  (Repealed)

    16L.  (Repealed)

     17.  Definitions for sdiv 1

     18.  Meaning of calculation day

    18A.  (Repealed)

     19.  Meaning of significant wage change

     20.  Amount of periodic liability

     21.  Determination by commissioner of fixed periodic deduction

Subdivision 2 - DGE for a group
     22.  Application of sdiv 2

     23.  Definition for sdiv 2

     24.  Meaning of calculation day

     25.  Meaning of significant wage change

     26.  Amount of periodic liability

     27.  Determination by commissioner of fixed periodic deduction

Subdivision 3 - Rebate
    27A.  Rebate for periodic liability

Division 4 - Annual liability for payroll tax
Subdivision 1 - Employer other than the DGE for a group
     28.  Application of sdiv 1

     29.  Definitions for sdiv 1

     30.  Amount of annual liability

     31.  Entitlement to annual refund amount

Subdivision 2 - DGE for a group
     32.  Application of sdiv 2

     33.  Definitions for sdiv 2

     34.  Amount of DGE’s annual liability

     35.  Entitlement to annual refund amount

Subdivision 3 - Rebate
    35A.  Rebate for annual payroll tax amount

Division 5 - Final liability for payroll tax
Subdivision 1 - Employer other than the DGE for a group
     36.  Application of sdiv 1

     37.  Definitions for sdiv 1

     38.  Amount of final liability

     39.  Entitlement to final refund amount

Subdivision 2 - DGE for a group
     40.  Application of sdiv 2

     41.  Definitions for sdiv 2

     42.  Amount of DGE’s final liability

     43.  Entitlement to final refund amount

Subdivision 3 - Rebate
    43A.  Rebate for final payroll tax amount

Division 5A - Periodic liability for mental health levy
    43B.  Application of division

    43C.  Meaning of adjusted primary threshold

    43D.  Meaning of adjusted additional threshold

    43E.  Meaning of primary periodic threshold and additional periodic
threshold

   43EA.  Meaning of current financial year

   43EB.  Meaning of calculation day

   43EC.  Meaning of significant wage change

    43F.  Amount of periodic levy liability

Division 5B - Annual liability for mental health levy
    43G.  Application of division

    43H.  Meaning of combined periodic liability

    43I.  Definitions for division

    43J.  Amount of annual levy liability

    43K.  Entitlement to annual levy refund amount

Division 5C - Final liability for mental health levy
    43L.  Application of division

    43M.  Definitions for division

    43N.  Amount of final levy liability

    43O.  Entitlement to final levy refund amount

Division 6 - Sharing of excess deduction by group members
     44.  Definitions for div 6

     45.  Meaning of excess deduction

     46.  Nomination by DGE of group members to share in excess deduction

    46A.  (Repealed)

    46B.  (Repealed)

    46C.  (Repealed)

     47.  Determination by commissioner of group members to share in excess
deduction

     48.  Sharing of excess deduction by entitled group members at end of
financial year

     49.  Sharing of excess deduction by entitled group members on group
ceasing to exist

Division 6A - Sharing of excess rebate by group members
    49A.  Definitions for div 6A

    49B.  Meaning of excess rebate

    49C.  Nomination by DGE of group members to share in excess rebate

    49D.  Determination by commissioner of group members to share in excess
rebate

    49E.  Sharing of excess rebate by entitled group members at end of relevant
financial year

    49F.  Sharing of excess rebate by entitled group members on group ceasing
to exist

Division 7 - Avoidance arrangements
     50.  Arrangements for avoidance of tax may be disregarded

Division 8 - Miscellaneous provisions
     51.  Wages paid by or to third parties

    51A.  Joint and several liability of group members

PART 3 - REGISTRATION AND RETURNS
Division 1 - Registration
     52.  Meaning of criteria for registration

     53.  Application for registration

     54.  Registration of employer without application

     55.  Notice of registration

     56.  Amendment of registration

     57.  Cancellation of registration

Division 2 - Returns
     58.  Definition for div 2

     59.  Periodic returns

     60.  Duration of periodic return period

     61.  Deemed lodgement of periodic return—payment by electronic transfer
of funds

     62.  Exemption from requirement to lodge periodic returns

     63.  Annual return

     64.  Final return

     65.  Further returns

PART 4 - GROUPING PROVISIONS
Division 1 - Interpretation
     66.  Definitions for pt 4

     67.  Grouping provisions to operate independently

Division 2 - Business groups
     68.  Constitution of groups

     69.  Groups of corporations

     70.  Groups arising from the use of common employees

     71.  Groups of commonly controlled businesses

     72.  Groups arising from tracing of interests in corporations

     73.  Smaller groups subsumed into larger groups

     74.  Exclusion of persons from groups

Division 2A - Business groups—interpretation provisions for tracing of
interests in corporations
    74A.  Application of div 2A

    74B.  Definitions for div 2A

    74C.  Who are associated persons

    74D.  Who are related persons

    74E.  Direct interest

    74F.  Indirect interest

    74G.  Aggregate interest

Division 3 - Designated group employer
     75.  Designation of group member as DGE

PART 5 - PROVISIONS ABOUT ASSESSMENTS
Division 1 - Reassessments
     76.  When registered employer may make reassessment

     77.  Reassessment—determination of periodic deduction

    77A.  Reassessment—determination of primary periodic threshold or
additional periodic threshold

     78.  Reassessment—annual liability of non-group employer who has lodged
a final return

    78A.  Reassessment—annual levy liability of non-group employer who has
lodged a final return

     79.  Reassessment of payroll tax liability—change of DGE

    79A.  Reassessment of levy liability—change of DGE

     80.  Reassessment of payroll tax liability—making or revocation of order
excluding a person from a group

    80A.  Reassessment of levy liability—making or revocation of order
excluding a person from a group

Division 2 - Provisions about particular assessments made by the commissioner
     81.  Provision about payroll tax assessments made by
commissioner—employer who is required to lodge periodic returns

    81A.  Provision about levy assessments made by commissioner—employer who
is required to lodge periodic returns

     82.  Provision about payroll tax assessments made by
commissioner—employer who is exempt from lodging periodic returns

    82A.  Provision about levy assessments made by commissioner—employer who
is exempt from lodging periodic returns

PART 6 - MISCELLANEOUS
Division 1 - Refund provisions
     83.  Application of annual refund amount, annual levy refund amount, final
refund amount or final levy refund amount

     84.  Provision for refunds under Administration Act to group members

     85.  Entitlement to a refund

Division 2 - Notification requirements
     86.  (Repealed)

     87.  Notification requirement—employers exempt from lodging periodic
returns

    87A.  Notification requirement—employers authorised to lodge periodic
returns for periods other than a month

     88.  Notification requirement—particular group members

    88A.  Notification requirements—annual information for groups

    88B.  Notification requirements—final return information for non-DGE
group member

    88C.  Notification requirements—final return information for DGE

    88D.  Notification requirements—employer joining a group

    88E.  Notification requirements—revised group wage information

     89.  Notification requirement—liquidators and other administrators

Division 3 - Other provisions
    89A.  Commissioner may give group information to incoming DGE

     90.  Commissioner may require payment of penalty

     91.  Period for keeping particular records relating to fringe benefits tax

     92.  Application of Act to trustees

     93.  Avoiding taxation

     94.  Notice of change of address for service

     95.  Cents to be disregarded for calculations

     96.  Approval of forms

     97.  Regulation-making power

    97A.  Application of particular amendments

PART 7 - SAVINGS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR PAYROLL TAX ADMINISTRATION
AMENDMENT ACT 2004
Division 1 - Preliminary
     98.  Definitions for pt 7

Division 2 - Application of amended Act and Administration Act
     99.  Application of amended Act in relation to liabilities etc. arising on
or after commencement

    100.  Registration under s 54 of person required to register before
commencement

    101.  Application of amended ss 58–62 for previous return periods

    102.  Assessment under amended s 81 in relation to particular pre-
commencement liabilities

    103.  Application of amended s 95 to calculations made under previous
provisions

    104.  This Act as a revenue law for the Administration Act

    105.  Application of Administration Act, s 38

    106.  Second or subsequent offences

Division 3 - Application of previous provisions
    107.  Application of previous provisions to particular liabilities etc.

Division 4 - Provisions about periodic liability after commencement
    108.  Fixed periodic deduction for periodic return periods after
commencement—existing determination

    109.  Fixed periodic deduction for periodic return periods after
commencement—existing nomination

    110.  Application of fixed periodic deduction to particular non-group
employers after commencement

Division 5 - Provisions for annual liability for transitional year
    111.  Purpose of div 5

    112.  Basic principles for working out employer’s annual liability

    113.  Employer who was not a group member for a prescribed period during
the transitional year

    114.  Employer who is a DGE on 30 June in the transitional year

Division 6 - Provisions for final liability for transitional final period
    115.  Purpose of div 6

    116.  When transitional final period starts

    117.  Employer who is a DGE on the last day of a transitional final period

Division 7 - Miscellaneous provisions
    118.  Commissioner assessment—employer who becomes a DGE in a
transitional year before commencement

    119.  Commissioner assessment—employer who ceases to be a DGE in a
transitional year before commencement

    120.  Delegations under previous s 4A

    121.  Employers registered under previous s 12 immediately before
commencement

    122.  Notices given by commissioner under previous s 13

    123.  Continuing effect of exemptions given by commissioner under previous
s14

    124.  Continuing use of particular forms

    125.  Application of ss 83 and 84

    126.  Application of s 88 notification requirement in relation to a
transitional year

    127.  Application of s 89 to particular liquidators

    128.  Application of s 94 to particular employers

    129.  References in amended Act

    130.  (Expired)

PART 8 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR PAYROLL TAX (HARMONISATION) AMENDMENT ACT
2008
    131.  Interpretation of amended provisions

    132.  Application of amended Act

    133.  Application of avoidance provision for employment agency contracts

    134.  Continuation of orders excluding person from group

PART 9 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR REVENUE AND OTHER LEGISLATION AMENDMENT
ACT 2010
Division 1 - Interpretation
    135.  Definitions for pt 9

Division 2 - Application of amended Act and Administration Act
    136.  Application of amended Act

    137.  Exemption of penalty under s 90

    138.  Remission of unpaid tax interest and penalty tax under the
Administration Act

    139.  Exemption for offences

    140.  Reassessment—final return included excluded wages

PART 10 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR REVENUE AND OTHER LEGISLATION AMENDMENT
ACT 2011
    141.  Assessment and payment of payroll tax for shares and options

    142.  Application of pt 2, div 1C for granting of particular shares or
options

PART 11 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISION FOR REVENUE AMENDMENT AND TRADE AND INVESTMENT
QUEENSLAND ACT 2013
    143.  Exemption under s 14A

PART 12 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISION FOR PAYROLL TAX REBATE, REVENUE AND OTHER
LEGISLATION AMENDMENT ACT 2015
    144.  Application of s 13B

PART 13 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISION FOR REVENUE LEGISLATION AMENDMENT ACT 2018
    145.  Retrospective application of increased rebate under ss 27A, 35A and
43A

PART 14 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISION FOR REVENUE AND OTHER LEGISLATION AMENDMENT
ACT 2018
    146.  Retrospective operation of amended s 13Y

PART 15 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR REVENUE LEGISLATION AMENDMENT ACT 2022
Division 1 - Extension of apprentice and trainee rebate
    147.  Retrospective application of particular provisions

Division 2 - Provisions about changes to deductions for financial year ending
30 June 2023
Subdivision 1 - Preliminary
    148.  Purpose of division

   148A.  Definitions for division

Subdivision 2 - Working out payroll tax for transitional financial year
   148B.  Working out fixed periodic deductions for transitional financial year

   148C.  Working out annual deduction for transitional financial
year—employer other than the DGE for a group

   148D.  Working out annual deduction for transitional financial year—DGE
for a group

   148E.  Working out final deduction for transitional financial
year—employer other than the DGE for a group

   148F.  Working out final deduction for transitional financial year—DGE for
a group

Subdivision 3 - Provisions for returns
   148G.  Additional information required for particular annual returns

   148H.  Additional information required for particular final returns

PART 16 - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR BETTING TAX AND OTHER LEGISLATION
AMENDMENT ACT 2022
    149.  Imposition and calculation of mental health levy for 2022–23
financial year

    150.  Notification requirements for groups in January 2023

    151.  Notification requirements under s 88A for 2022–23 financial year

SCHEDULE - Dictionary

 
- LONG TITLE
An Act to impose a tax upon employers in respect of certain wages
 
Short title
*** 1 Short title ***
This Act may be cited as the Payroll Tax Act 1971.
 
Dictionary
*** 2 Dictionary ***
The dictionary in the schedule defines particular words used in this Act.
 
Meaning of superannuation contribution
*** 3 Meaning of superannuation contribution ***
     (1) A
     "superannuation contribution" is a monetary or non-monetary
     contribution paid or payable by an employer for an employee, or by a
     company for a director of the company—
          (a) as a superannuation guarantee charge under the
          Superannuation Guarantee Act; or
          (b) to a superannuation fund under the Superannuation
          Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (Cwlth); or
          (c) to another form of superannuation, provident or
          retirement fund or scheme, including, for example, the
          following—
               (i) a retirement savings account under the
               Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997 (Cwlth);
               (ii) a wholly or partly unfunded fund or scheme.
          Examples of non-monetary contribution—
                    1 marketable securities
                    2 real property
     (2) In this section—

     "Superannuation Guarantee Act" means the Superannuation Guarantee
     (Administration) Act 1992 (Cwlth).

     "superannuation guarantee charge" does not include the following—
          (a) an additional superannuation guarantee charge under
          section 49 or part 7 of the Superannuation Guarantee Act;
          (b) the part of a superannuation guarantee charge equal to
          a superannuation contribution mentioned in subsection (1)
          (b) or (c) that is payable, and for which payroll tax has
          been paid to the commissioner, to the extent the
          contribution would have resulted in a reduction in the
          charge percentage under section 23 of the Superannuation
          Guarantee Act if the contribution had been paid.

     "unfunded", for a superannuation, provident or retirement fund or
     scheme, means the extent that an amount paid or payable by an
     employer for an employee, or by a company for a director of the
     company, covered by the fund or scheme is not paid or payable while
     the employee is employed by the employer, or the director is
     appointed as a director of the company.
 
Meaning of termination payment
*** 3A Meaning of termination payment ***
     (1) A
     "termination payment" is—
          (a) any of the following payments made because of the
          retirement from, or termination of, any office or
          employment of an employee—
               (i) an unused annual leave payment under the
               Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cwlth), section
               83 -10;
               (ii) an unused long service leave payment under
               the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cwlth),
               section 83 -75;
               (iii) so much of an employment termination
               payment paid or payable by an employer, whether
               paid or payable to the employee or to another
               entity, that would be included in the assessable
               income of the employee under the Income Tax
               Assessment Act 1997 (Cwlth), chapter 2, part 2 -
               40 if the whole employment termination payment
               had been paid to the employee; or
          (b) a following amount, if the amount would be an
          employment termination payment had it been paid or payable
          because of termination of employment—
               (i) an amount paid or payable by a company
               because of the termination of the services or
               office of a director of the company, whether paid
               or payable to the director or another entity;
               (ii) an amount paid or payable by a relevant
               contract employer because of the termination of
               the supply of the services of an employee under a
               relevant contract, whether paid or payable to the
               employee or another entity.
     (2) In this section—

     "employment termination payment" means—
          (a) an employment termination payment under the Income Tax
          Assessment Act 1997 (Cwlth), section 82 -130; or
          (b) a payment that is not an employment termination payment
          under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cwlth), section
          82 -130 only because it is received later than 12 months
          after the termination of a person’s employment; or
          (c) a transitional termination payment under the Income Tax
          (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 (Cwlth), section 82 -10.
 
Other provisions about meaning of wages—superannuation contributions and GST
*** 4 Other provisions about meaning of wages—superannuation contributions
and GST ***
     (1) This section applies for the definition of
     "wages" in the schedule.
          Note—
               Part 2, divisions 1A to 1D contain other
               provisions that apply for the definition
               "wages".
     (2) For paragraph (g) of the definition, a superannuation
     contribution paid or payable by an employer for an employee on or
     after 1 January 2000 is taken to be for the employee’s services
     performed or rendered on or after 1 January 2000.
     (3) However, if the commissioner is satisfied any part of a
     superannuation contribution mentioned in subsection (2) is for an
     employee’s services performed or rendered before 1 January 2000,
     the part is not wages.
     (4) Also, for paragraph (g) of the definition—
          (a) a superannuation contribution paid or payable by an
          employer to a superannuation, provident or retirement fund
          or scheme and not attributed by the employer as paid or
          payable for a particular employee or particular employees
          is taken to be paid or payable for the employee or
          employees decided by the commissioner; and
          (b) a superannuation contribution paid on or after 14
          September 1999 and before 1 January 2000 for an
          employee’s services to be performed or rendered on or
          after 1 January 2000 is taken to be paid on 1 January 2000.
     (5) For this Act, the amount or value of wages paid or payable to a
     person must be reduced by the relevant proportion of the amount of
     any GST paid or payable by the person on the supply to which the
     wages relate.
     (6) In this section—

     "relevant proportion", for GST paid or payable on a supply to which
     wages relate, means the proportion that the amount or value of the
     wages bears to the consideration for the supply to which the wages
     relate.
 
Meaning of change of status
*** 5 Meaning of change of status ***
     (1) A
     "change of status" happens for a person who is an employer if, during
     a financial year—
          (a) the person ceases to be an employer and does not intend
          to resume being an employer during the remainder of the
          year or the next financial year; or
               Example for paragraph (a)—
                    There is no change of status for a
                    fruit grower who ceases to pay wages
                    after the fruit picking season but
                    intends to resume paying wages later in
                    the financial year or in the next
                    financial year.
     (b) for a person who pays, or is liable to pay, taxable wages and who
     is not a group member—the person becomes a group member; or
     (c) for a person who pays, or is liable to pay, wages and is a non-
     DGE group member—
          (i) the person starts paying, or becomes liable to pay,
          taxable wages other than as a group member; or
          (ii) the person becomes the DGE for a group; or
     (d) the person ceases to be the DGE for a group; or
     (e) an administrator is appointed for the property of the person; or
     (f) the appointment of an administrator for the person’s property
     ceases to have effect.
     (2) A change of status happens—
          (a) if subsection (1) (a) applies—on the first day the
          person—
               (i) does not pay, and is not liable to pay,
               wages; and
               (ii) does not intend to resume paying wages for
               the remainder of the year or the next financial
               year; or
          (b) if subsection (1) (b) applies—on the first day the
          person is a group member; or
          (c) if subsection (1) (c) (i) applies—on the first day
          the person pays, or is liable to pay, taxable wages other
          than as a group member; or
          (d) if subsection (1) (c) (ii) applies—on the first day
          of the periodic return period in which the person becomes
          the DGE for the group; or
               Note—
                    See also section 75 (1) and (2).
     (e) if subsection (1) (d) applies—
          (i) if all the group members cease to pay, or be liable to
          pay, wages as members of the group during the relevant
          periodic return period on or before the day the person
          ceases to be the DGE for the group—on the first day the
          person is not the DGE for the group; or
          (ii) otherwise—on the first day of the relevant periodic
          return period; or
               Note—
                    See also section 75 (3).
     (f) if subsection (1) (e) applies—on the day the administrator is
     appointed; or
     (g) if subsection (1) (f) applies—on the day after the appointment
     ceases to have effect.
     (3) For subsection (2) (e), the relevant periodic return period is
     the periodic return period in which the person ceases to be the DGE
     for the group.
          Notes—
                    1 If an employer who is not a group
                    member changes status, the employer is
                    required to lodge a final return for,
                    and pay, payroll tax and the mental
                    health levy for the final period.
                    2 If an employer who is the DGE for a
                    group changes status, the DGE is
                    required to lodge a final return for,
                    and pay, payroll tax and the mental
                    health levy for the final period.
                    3 If an employer who is a non-DGE group
                    member changes status—
                         (a) the employer is required
                         to lodge a final return for,
                         and pay, payroll tax for the
                         final period; and
                         (b) the DGE for the group is
                         required to lodge a final
                         return for, and pay, the
                         mental health levy for the
                         final period.
 
Meaning of final period
*** 6 Meaning of final period ***
The
"final period", for a change of status of a person (the
"relevant change of status") happening during a financial year, means the
period—
     (a) starting on the latest of the following days in the year—
          (i) 1 July;
          (ii) the first day on which the person is required to
          register as an employer under part 3, division 1;
          (iii) if an earlier change of status has happened for the
          person during the year—the day of the change of status
          happening immediately before the relevant change of status;
          and
     (b) ending on the day before the relevant change of status happens.
     Example—
          An employer who is a group member from 1 July in a
          financial year ceases to be a group member on 1 September.
          The final period for the change of status is 1 July to 31
          August.
          If the employer then ceases to pay, or be liable to pay,
          wages from 1 June, the final period for the second change
          of status is 1 September to 31 May.
 
Reference to periodic return period or return period
*** 6A Reference to periodic return period or return period ***
Despite section 59 (1A), a reference in this Act, other than section 59 (1), to
a periodic return period or return period in relation to an employer is taken
to include the last periodic return period of a financial year for the
employer.
 
Notes in text
*** 7 Notes in text ***
A note in the text of this Act is part of the Act.
 
Relationship of Act with Administration Act
*** 8 Relationship of Act with Administration Act ***
     (1) This Act does not contain all the provisions about payroll tax or
     the mental health levy.
     (2) The Administration Act contains provisions dealing with, among
     other things, each of the following—
          (a) assessments of tax;
          (b) payments and refunds of tax;
          (c) imposition of interest and penalty tax;
          (d) objections and appeals against, or reviews of,
          assessments of tax;
          (e) record keeping obligations of taxpayers;
          (f) investigative powers, offences, legal proceedings and
          evidentiary matters;
          (g) service of documents;
          (h) registration of charitable institutions.
          Note—
               Under the Administration Act, section 3, that Act
               and this Act must be read together as if they
               together formed a single Act.
 
Application of sdiv 1
*** 8A Application of sdiv 1 ***
     (1) This subdivision applies for working out the wages paid or
     payable by an employer for services performed or rendered by a person
     that are liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under this
     Act.
     (2) If wages are paid or payable for a person other than an employee,
     a reference to an employee in this subdivision includes a reference
     to the person.
 
Wages liable to payroll tax and mental health levy—nexus with Queensland
*** 9 Wages liable to payroll tax and mental health levy—nexus with
Queensland ***
     (1) Wages are liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under
     this Act if—
          (a) the wages are paid or payable by an employer in
          relation to services performed or rendered by an employee
          entirely in Queensland; or
          (b) the wages are paid or payable by an employer in
          relation to services performed or rendered by an employee
          in 2 or more States, or partly in at least 1 State and
          partly outside all States, and—
               (i) the employee is based in Queensland; or
               (ii) if the employee is not based in a
               State—the employer is based in Queensland; or
               (iii) if both the employee and the employer are
               not based in a State—the wages are paid or
               payable in Queensland; or
               (iv) if both the employee and the employer are
               not based in a State and the wages are not paid
               or payable in a State—the wages are paid or
               payable for services performed or rendered mainly
               in Queensland; or
          (c) the wages are paid or payable by an employer in
          relation to services performed or rendered by an employee
          entirely outside all States and are paid or payable in
          Queensland.
          Note—
               Section 15A provides an exemption for wages paid
               or payable for services performed entirely in
               another country for a continuous period of more
               than 6 months.
     (2) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), the question of whether wages
     are liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under this Act
     must be decided by reference only to the services performed or
     rendered by the employee for the employer during the month in which
     the wages are paid or payable.
     (3) Wages paid or payable by an employer for an employee in a
     particular month are taken to be paid or payable in relation to the
     services performed or rendered by the employee for the employer
     during the month.
          Example—
               If wages paid in a month are paid to an employee
               for services performed or rendered over several
               months, the question of whether the wages are
               liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy
               under this Act must be decided by reference only
               to the services performed or rendered by the
               employee in the month the wages are paid. The
               services performed or rendered in previous months
               are disregarded. However, the services performed
               or rendered in previous months are relevant to
               the question of whether wages paid in the
               previous months are liable to payroll tax and the
               mental health levy under this Act.
     (4) If no services are performed or rendered by an employee for an
     employer during the month in which wages are paid or payable in
     relation to the employee—
          (a) the question of whether the wages are liable to payroll
          tax and the mental health levy under this Act must be
          decided by reference only to the services performed or
          rendered by the employee for the employer during the most
          recent earlier month in which the employee performed or
          rendered services for the employer; and
          (b) the wages are taken to be paid or payable in relation
          to the services performed or rendered by the employee for
          the employer in that most recent earlier month.
     (5) If no services were performed or rendered by an employee for an
     employer during the month in which wages are paid or payable in
     relation to the employee or in any earlier month—
          (a) the wages are taken to be paid or payable in relation
          to services performed or rendered by the employee in the
          month in which the wages are paid or payable; and
          (b) the services are taken to have been performed or
          rendered at a place where it may reasonably be expected
          that the services of the employee for the employer will
          first be performed.
     (6) All amounts of wages paid or payable in the same month by the
     same employer for the same employee must be aggregated for deciding
     whether the wages are liable to payroll tax and the mental health
     levy under this Act.
          Example—
               If 1 amount of wages is paid by an employer in a
               particular month in relation to services
               performed or rendered in Queensland, and another
               amount of wages is paid by the same employer in
               the same month in relation to services performed
               or rendered by the same employee in another
               State, the wages paid must be aggregated as if
               they were paid or payable in relation to all
               services performed or rendered by the employee in
               that month. Subsection (1) (b) would be applied
               to decide whether the wages are liable to payroll
               tax and the mental health levy under this Act.
     (7) If wages are paid in a different month from the month in which
     they are payable, the question of whether the wages are liable to
     payroll tax and the mental health levy under this Act must be decided
     by reference to the earlier of the relevant months.
 
State in which employee is based
*** 9A State in which employee is based ***
     (1) For this Act, the State in which an employee is based is the
     State in which the employee’s principal place of residence is
     located.
     (2) The State in which an employee is based must be decided by
     reference to the state of affairs existing during the month in which
     the relevant wages are paid or payable.
     (3) If more than 1 State would qualify as the State in which an
     employee is based during a month, the State in which the employee is
     based must be decided by reference to the state of affairs existing
     on the last day of that month.
     (4) An employee who does not have a principal place of residence is
     taken, for this Act, to be an employee who is not based in a State.
     (5) If wages are paid or payable to a corporate employee, the State
     in which the corporate employee is based must be worked out under
     section 9B instead of this section, as if a reference in section 9B
     to an employer were a reference to the employee.
     (6) In this section—

     "corporate employee" means a company—
          (a) taken to be an employee under section 13D or 13I; or
          (b) to whom a payment is made that is taken to be wages
          under section 13L or 50.
 
State in which employer is based
*** 9B State in which employer is based ***
     (1) For this Act, the State in which an employer is based is—
          (a) if the employer has an ABN—the State in which the
          employer’s registered business address is located; or
          (b) otherwise—the State in which the employer’s
          principal place of business is located.
     (2) If wages are paid or payable in connection with a business
     carried on by an employer under a trust, the employer’s registered
     business address is—
          (a) if the trust has an ABN—the registered business
          address of the trust; or
          (b) otherwise—the registered business address of the
          trustee of the trust.
     (3) If an employer has 2 or more registered business addresses
     located in different States at the same time, the State in which the
     employer is based at that time is the State in which the employer’s
     principal place of business is located.
     (4) The State in which an employer is based must be decided by
     reference to the state of affairs existing during the month in which
     the relevant wages are paid or payable.
     (5) If more than 1 State would qualify as the State in which an
     employer is based in a month, the State in which the employer is
     based must be decided by reference to the state of affairs existing
     on the last day of that month.
     (6) An employer who has neither a registered business address nor a
     principal place of business is taken, for this Act, to be an employer
     who is not based in a State.
     (7) In this section—

     "ABN" means an ABN (Australian Business Number) under the A New Tax
     System (Australian Business Number) Act 1999 (Cwlth).

     "registered business address" means an address for service of notices
     under the A New Tax System (Australian Business Number) Act 1999
     (Cwlth) as shown in the Australian Business Register kept under that
     Act.
 
Place and day of payment of wages
*** 9C Place and day of payment of wages ***
     (1) For this Act, wages are taken to have been paid at a place if,
     for the payment of the wages—
          (a) an instrument is sent or given or an amount is
          transferred by an employer to a person or a person’s
          agent at the place; or
          (b) an instruction is given by an employer for the
          crediting of an amount to the account of a person or a
          person’s agent at the place.
     (2) The wages are taken to have been paid on the day the instrument
     was sent or given, the amount was transferred, or the account was
     credited.
     (3) Subject to subsection (4), wages are taken to be payable at the
     place they are paid.
     (4) Wages that are not paid by the end of the month in which they are
     payable are taken to be payable at—
          (a) the place where wages were last paid by the employer
          for the employee; or
          (b) if wages have not previously been paid by the employer
          for the employee—the place where the employee last
          performed or rendered services for the employer before the
          wages became payable.
     (5) If wages paid or payable in the same month by the same employer
     for the same employee are paid or payable in more than 1 State, the
     wages paid or payable in that month are taken to be paid or payable
     in the State in which the highest proportion of the wages are paid or
     payable.
          Note—
               Section 9 requires all wages paid or payable in
               the same month by the same employer for the same
               employee to be aggregated for deciding whether
               the wages are liable to payroll tax or the mental
               health levy under this Act. Subsection (5)
               ensures only 1 State can be considered to be the
               State in which the wages are paid or payable.
     (6) This section is subject to section 13W.
     (7) In this section—

     "instrument" includes a cheque, bill of exchange, promissory note,
     money order, postal order issued by a post office or any other
     instrument.
 
Imposition of payroll tax on taxable wages
*** 10 Imposition of payroll tax on taxable wages ***
     (1) Subject to, and in accordance with, the provisions of this Act,
     there shall be charged, levied and paid for the use of Her Majesty on
     all taxable wages payroll tax at the rate of 4.75% of the taxable
     wages paid or payable in the financial year ending 30 June 2020 or in
     a later financial year.
     (2) However, the rate of payroll tax is increased for an employer to
     4.95% of taxable wages for each return period during which—
          (a) if the employer is a member of a group—the total of
          the taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by
          the members of the group is more than the threshold amount;
          or
          (b) otherwise—the total of the taxable wages and
          interstate wages paid or payable by the employer is more
          than the threshold amount.
     (3) The rate of payroll tax imposed under this section is subject to
     any discount that may apply under section 10A.
     (4) In this section—

     "threshold amount" means—
          (a) for an annual return period—$6,500,000; or
          (b) for a periodic return period that is a
          month—$541,666; or
          (c) for any other period—the amount worked out using the
          following formula—
               [graphic]
          where—

          "AA" means $6,500,000.

          "FYD" means the number of days in the financial year in
          which the period occurs.

          "PD" means the number of days in the period.

          "TA" means the threshold amount.
 
Discount for regional employers
*** 10A Discount for regional employers ***
     (1) This section applies to the return periods occurring in the
     financial years ending 30 June 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025,
     2026, 2027, 2028, 2029 and 2030.
     (2) Subject to subsection (4), for each return period, a regional
     employer is entitled to a discount of 1% on the rate of payroll tax
     imposed on taxable wages under section 10.
     (3) An employer is a
     "regional employer" for a return period if, during that period, the
     employer—
          (a) has a principal place of employment in regional
          Queensland; and
          (b) pays at least 85% of taxable wages to regional
          employees.
     (4) A regional employer is not entitled to a discount under
     subsection (2) for a return period ending after 30 June 2024 if the
     total amount of taxable wages paid or payable by the employer during
     that return period is more than the wage threshold.
     (5) In this section—

     "principal place of employment", of an employer, means—
          (a) if the employer has an ABN—the place at which the
          employer’s registered business address is located; or
          (b) otherwise—the place at which the employer’s
          principal place of business is located.

     "regional employee" means an employee whose principal place of
     residence is located in regional Queensland.

     "regional Queensland" means the following areas of the State as
     identified under statistical area level 4 in the document Australian
     Statistical Geography Standard, published by the Australian Bureau of
     Statistics—
          (a) Cairns;
          (b) Central Queensland;
          (c) Darling Downs Maranoa;
          (d) Mackay - Isaac - Whitsunday;
          (e) Queensland - Outback;
          (f) Townsville;
          (g) Wide Bay.

     "wage threshold" means—
          (a) for an annual return period—$350,000,000; or
          (b) for a periodic return period that is a
          month—$29,166,666; or
          (c) for any other period—the amount worked out using the
          following formula—
               [graphic]
          where—

          "AA" means $350,000,000.

          "FYD" means the number of days in the financial year in
          which the period occurs.

          "PD" means the number of days in the period.

          "WT" means the wage threshold.
 
When liability for payroll tax arises
*** 11 When liability for payroll tax arises ***
A liability for payroll tax imposed on taxable wages arises on the return date
for lodgement by an employer of a return.
 
Employer to pay payroll tax
*** 12 Employer to pay payroll tax ***
Payroll tax shall be paid by the employer by whom the taxable wages are paid or
payable.
 
Imposition of mental health levy on taxable wages
*** 12A Imposition of mental health levy on taxable wages ***
     (1) A mental health levy is imposed under this part on particular
     taxable wages paid or payable in a financial year.
     (2) Amounts attributable to the levy may be used only for providing a
     service or infrastructure that is consistent with—
          (a) the main objects stated in the Mental Health Act 2016,
          section 3 (1), including the way in which the main objects
          of that Act are to be achieved; or
          (b) the guiding principles stated in the Queensland Mental
          Health Commission Act 2013, section 5 (2) to (5).
     (3) A reference in subsection (2) to amounts attributable to the levy
     does not include amounts of penalty tax or unpaid tax interest, a
     penalty amount under section 90 or an amount recovered because of the
     imposition of a penalty for an offence.
 
When liability for mental health levy arises
*** 12B When liability for mental health levy arises ***
Liability for the mental health levy imposed on taxable wages arises on the
return date for lodgement by an employer of a return.
 
Particular employer to pay mental health levy
*** 12C Particular employer to pay mental health levy ***
The mental health levy must be paid by an employer as provided under divisions
5A, 5B and 5C.
 
Value of taxable wages
*** 13 Value of taxable wages ***
     (1) The value of taxable wages that are paid or payable in kind by an
     employer (other than fringe benefits under the Fringe Benefits
     Assessment Act) is the value under the regulations.
     (2) The employer must give evidence of the value of the taxable wages
     to the commissioner if asked by the commissioner.
     (3) If the commissioner is not satisfied with the evidence given by
     the employer, the commissioner may appoint a person to value the
     taxable wages.
     (4) If the value stated by the person appointed under subsection (3)
     is more than the value stated by the employer, the commissioner may
     claim all or part of the valuation costs from the employer.
     (5) The value of taxable wages comprising a fringe benefit under the
     Fringe Benefits Assessment Act is, unless otherwise prescribed by
     regulation, the value worked out using the following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "FBT rate" means the rate of fringe benefits tax imposed under the
     Fringe Benefits Assessment Act that applies when the employer’s
     liability for payroll tax or the mental health levy on the taxable
     wages arises.

     "TV" means—
          (a) if paragraph (b) does not apply—the value that would
          be the taxable value of the taxable wages as a fringe
          benefit for the Fringe Benefits Assessment Act; or
          (b) if the fringe benefit is an amortised fringe benefit
          under the Fringe Benefits Assessment Act, section 65CA
          —the amortised amount of the benefit calculated under
          that section.

     "V" means the value of the taxable wages.
     (6) This section does not apply to taxable wages comprising the grant
     of a share or option to which division 1C applies.
          Note—
               See section 13U (Value of taxable wages).
 
Definitions for div 1A
*** 13A Definitions for div 1A ***
In this division—

"contract" includes an agreement, arrangement or undertaking, whether formal or
informal and whether express or implied.

"relevant contract employee" see section 13D (2).

"re-supply", in relation to goods acquired from a person, includes—
     (a) supply to the person, or, if the person is a member of a group,
     to another group member, the acquired goods in an altered form or
     condition; and
     (b) supply to the person, or, if the person is a member of a group,
     to another group member, other goods in which the acquired goods have
     been incorporated.

"services" includes results, whether goods or services, of work performed.

"supply" includes—
     (a) supply by way of sale, exchange, lease, hire, or hire purchase;
     and
     (b) in relation to services, includes the providing, granting or
     conferring of services.
 
Meaning of relevant contract
*** 13B Meaning of relevant contract ***
     (1) A
     "relevant contract" is a contract under which a person (the
     "designated person"), in the course of a business carried on by the
     designated person—
          (a) supplies to another person services in relation to the
          performance of work; or
          (b) has supplied to the designated person the services of
          persons in relation to the performance of work; or
          (c) gives goods to individuals for work to be performed by
          those individuals in respect of the goods and for the goods
          to be re-supplied.
     (2) However, a
     "relevant contract" does not include a contract of service or a
     contract under which a person (the
     "designated person"), in the course of a business carried on by the
     designated person—
          (a) is supplied with services in relation to the
          performance of work, if the services are ancillary to—
               (i) the supply of goods under the contract by the
               person by whom the services are supplied; or
               (ii) the use of goods that are the property of
               the person by whom the services are supplied; or
          (b) is supplied with services in relation to the
          performance of work, if—
               (i) the services are of a kind not ordinarily
               required by the designated person and are
               performed or rendered by a person who ordinarily
               performs or renders services of that kind to the
               public generally; or
               (ii) the services are of a kind ordinarily
               required by the designated person for less than
               180 days in a financial year; or
               (iii) the services are provided for a period that
               does not exceed 90 days or for periods that, in
               the aggregate, do not exceed 90 days in the
               relevant financial year and are not services—
                    (A) provided by a person by whom
                    similar services are provided to the
                    designated person; or
                    (B) in relation to the performance of
                    work where any of the persons who
                    perform the work also perform similar
                    work for the designated person;
               for periods that, in the aggregate, exceed 90
               days in the relevant financial year; or
               (iv) the services are supplied under a contract
               to which subparagraphs (i) to (iii) do not apply
               and the commissioner is satisfied the services
               are performed or rendered by a person who
               ordinarily performs or renders services of that
               kind to the public generally in the relevant
               financial year; or
          (c) is supplied by a person (the
          "contractor") with services in relation to the performance
          of work under a contract to which paragraphs (a) and (b) do
          not apply, if the work to which the services relate is
          performed—
               (i) by 2 or more persons employed by, or who
               provide services for, the contractor in the
               course of a business carried on by the
               contractor; or
               (ii) if the contractor is a partnership of 2 or
               more individuals—by 1 or more of the members of
               the partnership and 1 or more persons employed
               by, or who provide services for, the contractor
               in the course of a business carried on by the
               contractor; or
               (iii) if the contractor is an individual—by the
               contractor and 1 or more persons employed by, or
               who provide services for, the contractor in the
               course of a business carried on by the
               contractor; or
          (d) is supplied with—
               (i) services solely for or ancillary to the
               conveyance of goods by means of a vehicle
               provided by the person conveying them; or
               (ii) services solely in relation to the
               procurement of persons desiring to be insured by
               the designated person; or
               (iii) services in relation to the door-to-door
               sale of goods solely for domestic purposes on
               behalf of the designated person.
     (3) For subsection (2) (b),
     "relevant financial year" means the financial year during which the
     designated person is supplied with the services.
     (3A) Subsection (2) (a), (b), (c) or (d) does not apply to a contract
     under which any additional services or work of a kind not covered by
     the relevant subsection is supplied or performed.
     (4) Subsection (2) does not apply if the commissioner is satisfied
     the contract or arrangement under which the services are supplied was
     entered into with an intention either directly or indirectly of
     avoiding the payment of tax by any person.
     (5) An employment agency contract under which services are supplied
     by an employment agent, or a service provider is procured by an
     employment agent, is not a relevant contract.
 
Persons taken to be employers
*** 13C Persons taken to be employers ***
     (1) For this Act, a person is taken to be an employer if, under a
     relevant contract—
          (a) the person supplies services to another person; or
          (b) the services of other persons are supplied to the
          person in relation to the performance of work; or
          (c) the person gives goods to individuals.
     (2) However, if a contract is a relevant contract under both section
     13B (1) (a) and (b) —
          (a) the person to whom, under the contract, the services of
          persons are supplied in relation to the performance of work
          is taken to be an employer; and
          (b) despite subsection (1) (a), the person who, under the
          contract, supplies the services is not taken to be an
          employer.
     (3) A person taken to be an employer under this section is a
     "relevant contract employer".
 
Persons taken to be employees
*** 13D Persons taken to be employees ***
     (1) For this Act, a person is taken to be an employee if, under a
     relevant contract—
          (a) the person performs work in relation to which services
          are supplied to another person; or
          (b) the person is an individual who re-supplies goods to an
          employer.
     (2) A person taken to be an employee under this section is a
     "relevant contract employee".
 
Amounts taken to be wages
*** 13E Amounts taken to be wages ***
     (1) For this Act, the following amounts paid or payable by a relevant
     contract employer under a relevant contract are taken to be wages—
          (a) amounts in relation to the performance of work for
          which services are supplied on or after 1 July 2008 under a
          relevant contract;
          (b) amounts in relation to the performance of work relating
          to the re-supply of goods by a relevant contract employee
          under a relevant contract on or after 1 July 2008.
          Note—
               Under section 132, this section applies only in
               relation to wages paid or payable on or after 1
               July 2008.
     (2) Subsection (1) (a) is taken to include the following, to the
     extent the following do not otherwise comprise wages under this
     Act—
          (a) a payment—
               (i) made by the relevant contract employer in
               relation to a relevant contract employee; and
               (ii) that would be a superannuation contribution
               if it were made in relation to a person in the
               capacity of an employee;
          (b) the value of a share or option—
               (i) granted or liable to be granted by a relevant
               contract employer in relation to a relevant
               contract employee; and
               (ii) that would comprise wages under this Act if
               the share or option were granted in relation to a
               person in the capacity of an employee.
     (3) For subsection (1), an amount paid or payable on or after 1 July
     2008 for the performance of work under a relevant contract is taken
     to be for services supplied, or goods re-supplied, on or after 1 July
     2008.
     (4) However, if the commissioner is satisfied any part of an amount
     mentioned in subsection (3) is for services supplied, or goods re-
     supplied, before 1 July 2008, the part is not wages.
     (5) If an amount mentioned in subsection (1) is included in a larger
     amount paid or payable by the relevant contract employer under the
     relevant contract, the part of the larger amount that is not
     attributable to the performance of work mentioned in subsection (1)
     (a) or (b) is the part decided by the commissioner.
 
Liability for payroll tax or mental health levy for payments taken to be wages
*** 13F Liability for payroll tax or mental health levy for payments taken to
be wages ***
     (1) If a relevant contract employer pays payroll tax on wages
     comprising a payment (the
     "primary payment") in relation to the performance of work—
          (a) no other person is liable for payroll tax on the
          primary payment; and
          (b) another person who is liable to pay wages comprising a
          payment (a
          "secondary payment") in relation to the work is not liable
          for payroll tax on the secondary payment.
     (2) If a relevant contract employer pays the mental health levy on
     wages comprising a payment (the
     "primary payment") in relation to the performance of work—
          (a) no other person is liable for the mental health levy on
          the primary payment; and
          (b) another person who is liable to pay wages comprising a
          payment (a
          "secondary payment") in relation to the work is not liable
          for the mental health levy on the secondary payment.
     (3) Subsection (2) (a) applies subject to part 2, divisions 5B and
     5C.
     (4) Subsection (1) (b) or (2) (b) does not apply if the commissioner
     is satisfied either the secondary payment or the primary payment is
     made with an intention either directly or indirectly of avoiding the
     payment of tax by the relevant contract employer or another person.
 
Meaning of employment agency contract
*** 13G Meaning of employment agency contract ***
     (1) An
     "employment agency contract" is a contract under which a person (an
     "employment agent") procures the services of another person (a
     "service provider") for a client of the employment agent.
     (2) However, a contract is not an employment agency contract if it
     is, or results in the creation of, a contract of employment between
     the service provider and the client.
     (3) Subsection (1) applies to a contract whether it is formal or
     informal, express or implied.
     (4) For this section—

     "contract" includes agreement, arrangement and undertaking.
 
Persons taken to be employers
*** 13H Persons taken to be employers ***
For this Act, the employment agent under an employment agency contract is taken
to be an employer.
 
Persons taken to be employees
*** 13I Persons taken to be employees ***
For this Act, the person who performs work in relation to which services are
supplied to the client under an employment agency contract is taken to be an
employee of the employment agent under the contract.
 
Amounts taken to be wages
*** 13J Amounts taken to be wages ***
     (1) For this Act, the following are taken to be wages paid or payable
     by the employment agent under an employment agency contract—
          (a) an amount paid or payable in relation to the service
          provider in respect of the provision of services in
          connection with the contract;
          (b) the value of a benefit provided in relation to the
          provision of services in connection with the contract that
          would be a fringe benefit if provided to a person in the
          capacity of an employee;
          (c) a payment made in relation to the service provider that
          would be a superannuation contribution if made in relation
          to a person in the capacity of an employee.
     (2) However, subsection (1) does not apply to an amount, benefit or
     payment mentioned in the subsection if—
          (a) the amount, benefit or payment would be exempt from
          payroll tax or the mental health levy under division 2,
          other than section 14 (2) (j), (k) or (l) or 14A, if it had
          been paid or provided by the client in relation to the
          service provider as an employee; and
          (b) the client has given the employment agent a
          declaration, in the approved form, that subsection (1) does
          not apply to the amount, benefit or payment.
 
Liability for payroll tax or mental health levy for payments taken to be wages
*** 13K Liability for payroll tax or mental health levy for payments taken to
be wages ***
     (1) This section applies if an employment agent—
          (a) under an employment agency contract, procures the
          services of a service provider for a client of the agent;
          and
          (b) pays payroll tax or the mental health levy on an
          amount, benefit or payment mentioned in section 13J (1)
          that is paid or payable by the employment agent in
          connection with that contract.
     (2) No other person, including another person engaged to procure the
     services of the service provider for the employment agent’s client,
     is liable for payroll tax or the mental health levy on wages paid or
     payable for the procurement or performance of services by the service
     provider for the client.
     (3) This section applies subject to sections 13L and 13LA and part 2,
     divisions 5B and 5C.
 
Employment agency contract reducing or avoiding liability to payroll tax or
mental health levy
*** 13L Employment agency contract reducing or avoiding liability to payroll
tax or mental health levy ***
     (1) If the effect of an employment agency contract is to reduce or
     avoid the liability of a party to the contract to the assessment,
     imposition or payment of payroll tax or the mental health levy, the
     commissioner may—
          (a) disregard the contract; and
          (b) determine that any party to the contract is taken to be
          an employer for this Act; and
          (c) determine that any payment made in respect of the
          contract is taken to be wages for this Act.
     (2) A reference in subsection (1) to a party to a contract includes,
     for a contract to which a non-DGE member of a group is a party, a
     reference to the DGE for the group.
     (3) If the commissioner makes a determination under subsection (1),
     the commissioner must give written notice of the determination to the
     person taken to be an employer for the purposes of this Act.
     (4) The notice must state the facts on which the commissioner relies
     and the reasons for making the determination.
 
Particular avoidance arrangements involving employment agents
*** 13LA Particular avoidance arrangements involving employment agents ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an avoidance arrangement exists in relation to an
          employment agency in a return period; and
          (b) the assumed non-adjusted tax and levy for the period is
          less than the assumed adjusted tax and levy for the period.
     (2) If this section applies in a return period, for the period—
          (a) if the avoidance arrangement involves an employment
          agent acting as trustee for a client of the employment
          agent under a trust or acting as agent for a client of the
          employment agent under an employment agency contract—
          section 92 (1) does not apply to the trustee or agent, or
          in relation to the trust or employment agency contract; and
          (b) if the avoidance arrangement involves a client of an
          employment agent acquiring, or clients of an employment
          agent jointly acquiring, a controlling interest in the
          business of the employment agent referable to the client or
          clients—the client or clients is or are taken not to have
          the controlling interest; and
          (c) the employment agent, or each employment agent,
          involved in the employment agency is answerable as an
          employer for doing everything required to be done under
          this Act for the payment of wages by the employment agent
          that are subject to payroll tax or the mental health levy
          under this Act (including the giving of returns and payment
          of payroll tax or the mental health levy); and
          (d) if the employment agency involves more than 1
          employment agent—the employment agents constitute a
          group.
     (3) For this section, a client has, or clients have, a controlling
     interest in a business if the client has, or the clients have, a
     controlling interest in the business under section 71.
     (4) In subsection (1) —
          (a) a reference to the assumed non-adjusted tax and levy
          for a return period is a reference to the total amount of
          payroll tax and the mental health levy that would be
          payable by the employment agent or agents involved in the
          employment agency for the period if the amount were
          calculated without applying any resultant provision; and
          (b) a reference to the assumed adjusted tax and levy for a
          return period is a reference to the total amount of payroll
          tax and the mental health levy that would be payable by the
          employment agent or agents involved in the employment
          agency for the period if the amount were calculated
          applying each relevant resultant provision.
     (5) To remove any doubt about the application of subsection (4) (b),
     it is declared that if an employment agency is involved in more than
     1 avoidance arrangement in a return period, subsection (4) (b) is to
     be applied by first applying each relevant resultant provision to
     each avoidance arrangement and then calculating the total amount for
     the subsection.
     (6) In this section—

     "avoidance arrangement" means an arrangement involving an employment
     agency if the arrangement involves 1 or more of the following—
          (a) an employment agent acting as trustee for a client of
          the employment agent under a trust;
          (b) an employment agent acting as agent for a client of the
          employment agent under an employment agency contract;
          (c) a client of an employment agent acquiring, or clients
          of an employment agent jointly acquiring, a controlling
          interest in the business of the employment agent referable
          to the client or clients.

     "client" includes an individual or company that—
          (a) under the Duties Act 2001, section 164, is a related
          person of the client; or
          (b) is related to the client in another way prescribed
          under a regulation.

     "employment agency" means a business enterprise involving—
          (a) the business of an employment agent; or
          (b) the businesses of 2 or more employment agents.

     "employment agency contract" see the definition
     "employment agent" for this section.

     "employment agent" means a person who, by a contract, agreement,
     arrangement or undertaking (the
     "employment agency contract"), procures the services of another
     person (the
     "worker") for a client of the agent, if the employment agency
     contract is not, and does not result in the creation of, a contract
     of employment between the worker and the client.

     "resultant provision" means subsection (2), paragraph (a), (b), (c)
     or (d).

     "return period" means—
          (a) for an employment agent who is required to lodge
          periodic returns—a periodic return period or financial
          year; or
          (b) for an employment agent who is exempt under section 62
          from lodging periodic returns—a financial year.
 
Application of div 1C
*** 13M Application of div 1C ***
This division applies for paragraphs (j) and (k) of the definition of
"wages" in the schedule.
 
Definitions for div 1C
*** 13N Definitions for div 1C ***
In this division—

"director", of a company, includes—
     (a) a person who, under a contract or other arrangement, is to be
     appointed as a director of the company; and
     (b) a former director of the company.

"granted", in relation to a share or option, see section 13O.

"grantee", in relation to a grant of a share or option comprising wages for
this Act, means the employee or director to whom the share or option is
granted.

"grantor", in relation to a grant of a share or option comprising wages for
this Act, means the employer or company by whom the share or option is granted.

"relevant day" see section 13Q (2).

"vesting day" see section 13R (2).
 
When share or option is granted
*** 13O When share or option is granted ***
     (1) A share is
     "granted" to a person if—
          (a) another person transfers the share to the person, other
          than by issuing the share to the person; or
          (b) another person allots the share to the person; or
          (c) the requirements for the grant of a share prescribed
          under a regulation are satisfied.
     (2) An option is
     "granted" to a person if—
          (a) another person transfers the right to the share to
          which the option relates to the person; or
          (b) another person creates the right to the share to which
          the option relates in the person; or
          (c) the requirements for the grant of an option prescribed
          under a regulation are satisfied.
     (3) Also, a share or an option is
     "granted" to a person if—
          (a) the person acquires a legal interest in the share or
          right from another person other than in a way mentioned in
          subsection (1) or (2); or
          (b) the person acquires a beneficial interest in the share
          or option from another person.
 
Grant of share because of exercise of option
*** 13P Grant of share because of exercise of option ***
Despite paragraphs (j) and (k) of the definition of
"wages" in the schedule, the grant of a share by a grantor does not comprise
wages if—
     (a) the grantor is required to grant the share because a person has
     exercised an option; and
     (b) either—
          (i) the grant of the option to the person comprises wages
          for this Act; or
          (ii) the option was granted to the person before 1 July
          2008.
 
Day on which wages are paid or payable
*** 13Q Day on which wages are paid or payable ***
     (1) Wages comprising the grant of a share or option are taken to be
     paid or payable on the relevant day.
     (2) The
     "relevant day" is the day the grantor elects under this division to
     treat as the day on which the wages comprising the grant of the share
     or option are paid or payable.
 
Election by grantor of relevant day
*** 13R Election by grantor of relevant day ***
     (1) A grantor may elect to treat either of the following as the day
     on which wages comprising the grant of a share or option are paid or
     payable—
          (a) the day the share or option is granted to the grantee;
          (b) the vesting day for the share or option.
     (2) The
     "vesting day" —
          (a) for a share—is the first of the following days—
               (i) the day the share vests in the grantee;
               (ii) the day that is 7 years after the day the
               share is granted to the grantee; or
          (b) for an option—is the first of the following days—
               (i) the day the share to which the option relates
               is granted to the grantee;
               (ii) the day the grantee exercises a right under
               the option to have the share to which it relates
               transferred or allotted to, or vest in, the
               grantee;
               (iii) the day that is 7 years after the day the
               option is granted to the grantee.
     (3) For subsection (2), a share
     "vests" in the grantee when—
          (a) any conditions applying to the grant of the share have
          been met; and
          (b) the grantee’s legal or beneficial interest in the
          share can not be rescinded.
 
Automatic election of relevant day
*** 13S Automatic election of relevant day ***
     (1) This section applies if a grantor grants a share or option to a
     grantee and any of the following applies—
          (a) the value of the grant of the share or option is not
          included in the taxable wages paid or payable by the
          grantor for a return period during which the share or
          option is granted;
          (b) the value of the taxable wages comprising the grant of
          the share or option is nil;
          (c) if the grantor were to elect to treat the day the share
          or option is granted as the relevant day, the wages would
          not be liable to payroll tax or the mental health levy.
     (2) If subsection (1) (a) applies, the grantor is taken to have
     elected to treat the vesting day for the share or option as the day
     on which the wages comprising the grant of the share or option are
     paid or payable.
     (3) If subsection (1) (b) or (c) applies, the grantor is taken to
     have elected to treat the day the share or option is granted as the
     day on which the wages comprising the grant of the share or option
     are paid or payable.
     (4) This section applies despite section 13R.
 
Effect of rescission or cancellation of share or option
*** 13T Effect of rescission or cancellation of share or option ***
     (1) If, before the vesting day, the grant of a share or option is
     withdrawn, cancelled or exchanged for consideration other than the
     grant of other shares or options—
          (a) the date of the withdrawal, cancellation or exchange is
          taken to be the vesting day for the share or option; and
          (b) despite section 13U (1) (a), the market value of the
          share or option on the vesting day is taken to be the
          amount of the consideration.
     (2) A grantor must reduce, by the relevant amount, the taxable wages
     paid or payable by the grantor for a financial year or final period,
     if—
          (a) the grantor included the value of a grant of a share or
          option in the taxable wages paid or payable by the grantor
          for a periodic return period falling in the financial year
          or final period; and
          (b) the grant is rescinded, during the financial year or
          final period, because the conditions of the grant were not
          met.
     (3) The commissioner must make a reassessment of a grantor’s
     liability for payroll tax and the mental health levy for a financial
     year or final period, to reduce the taxable wages of the grantor by
     the relevant amount, if—
          (a) the grantor included the value of a grant of a share or
          option in the taxable wages paid or payable by the grantor
          for the financial year or final period; and
          (b) the grant is rescinded, after the end of the financial
          year or final period, because the conditions of the grant
          were not met.
     (4) However, if the grantor is a non-DGE group member, subsection (3)
     applies as if a reference to making a reassessment of a grantor’s
     liability for the mental health levy were a reference to making a
     reassessment of the DGE’s liability for the mental health levy.
     (5) For subsections (2) and (3), the
     "relevant amount" is the value of the grant of a share or option
     previously included in the taxable wages of the grantor under
     subsection (2) (a) or (3) (a).
     (6) Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply only because the grantee
     fails to exercise an option or otherwise exercise the grantee’s
     rights in relation to a share or option.
 
Value of taxable wages
*** 13U Value of taxable wages ***
     (1) The value of taxable wages comprising the grant of a share or
     option is taken to be the amount equal to—
          (a) the value, in Australian currency, of the share or
          option on the relevant day; less
          (b) any consideration paid or given by the grantee for the
          share or option, other than consideration in the form of
          services performed.
     (2) For subsection (1) (a), the
     "value" of a share or option is—
          (a) the amount worked out under the regulations made under
          the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cwlth), section 83A -
          315, as applied by subsection (3); or
               Note—
                    See the Income Tax Assessment
                    Regulations 1997 (Cwlth), division 83A.
     (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply—the market value of the share
     or option.
     (3) For working out the value of a share or option under subsection
     (2) (a), the regulations mentioned in that subsection apply with the
     following changes—
          (a) the value of an option is worked out as if it were a
          right to acquire a beneficial interest in a share;
          (b) a reference to the acquisition of a beneficial interest
          in a share or right is taken to be a reference to the grant
          of a share or option;
          (c) with any other necessary changes.
     (4) In working out the market value of a share or option, anything
     that would prevent or restrict conversion of the share or option to
     money must be disregarded.
     (5) An employer must give evidence of the value of a share or option
     to the commissioner if asked by the commissioner.
     (6) If the commissioner is not satisfied with the evidence given by
     the employer under subsection (5), the commissioner may appoint a
     person to value the share or option.
     (7) If the value stated by the person appointed under subsection (6)
     is more than the value stated by the employer, the commissioner may
     claim all or part of the valuation costs from the employer.
 
When services are performed
*** 13V When services are performed ***
     (1) Wages comprising the grant of a share or option by a company to a
     director of the company by way of remuneration for the appointment of
     the director, but not for services performed, are taken to be paid or
     payable for services performed or rendered during the month in which
     the relevant day falls.
     (2) Wages comprising the grant of a share or option to which
     subsection (1) does not apply are taken to be paid or payable for
     services performed or rendered during the month in which the relevant
     day falls.
 
Place where wages are paid or payable
*** 13W Place where wages are paid or payable ***
     (1) Wages comprising the grant of a share or option are taken to be
     paid or payable in Queensland if—
          (a) for a share—the share is in a local company; or
          (b) for an option—the option is an option to acquire a
          share in a local company.
     (2) If subsection (1) does not apply, wages comprising the grant of a
     share or option are taken to be paid or payable elsewhere than in
     Queensland.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies to wages comprising the grant of a share
     or option by a company to a director of the company by way of
     remuneration for the appointment of the director, but not for
     services performed or rendered.
     (4) The wages are taken to be paid or payable for services performed
     or rendered in the place or places where it may reasonably be
     expected the services of the director for the company will be
     performed or rendered.
     (5) In this section—

     "local company" means—
          (a) a company that is—
               (i) registered or taken to be registered under
               the Corporations Act; and
               (ii) taken to be registered in Queensland for
               that Act; or
          (b) another body corporate incorporated under an Act.
 
Definitions for sdiv 1
*** 13X Definitions for sdiv 1 ***
In this subdivision—

"averaging method" means the method described in section 13ZB.

"averaging period" see section 13ZD (1).

"business journey" means—
     (a) a journey undertaken in a motor vehicle by a person, other than
     for applying the vehicle for a use that—
          (i) is a private use; and
          (ii) if the person is paid a motor vehicle allowance for
          the use—results in a fringe benefit under the Fringe
          Benefits Assessment Act being provided by the employer; or
     (b) a journey undertaken in a motor vehicle by a person in the course
     of producing assessable income of the person under the Income Tax
     Assessment Act 1936 (Cwlth).

"business vehicle", of an employee, means a motor vehicle provided or
maintained by the employee for undertaking business journeys.

"continuous recording method" means the method described in section 13ZA.

"number of exempt kilometres" see section 13Y (4), definition K.

"relevant percentage" see section 13ZB (4).
 
Exempt component of motor vehicle allowance
*** 13Y Exempt component of motor vehicle allowance ***
     (1) For this Act, a reference to wages, in relation to a return
     period, does not include a reference to the exempt component of a
     motor vehicle allowance paid or payable to an employee for the
     period.
     (2) If the total motor vehicle allowance paid or payable to an
     employee for a return period is not more than the exempt component of
     the allowance, the allowance does not comprise wages for this Act.
     (3) If the total motor vehicle allowance paid or payable to an
     employee for a return period is more than the exempt component for
     the allowance, if any, only the amount of the allowance exceeding the
     exempt component comprises wages for this Act.
     (4) The
     "exempt component" of a motor vehicle allowance paid or payable to an
     employee for a business vehicle for a return period is the amount
     worked out using the following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "E" means the exempt component.

     "K" means the number of exempt kilometres travelled by the vehicle
     during the return period, worked out under section 13Z (the
     "number of exempt kilometres").

     "R" means—
          (a) the rate determined under the Income Tax Assessment Act
          1997 (Cwlth), section 28 -25(4) for calculating a deduction
          for car expenses using the ‘cents per kilometre’ method
          for the financial year immediately preceding the financial
          year in which the allowance is paid or payable; or
          (b) if there is no rate under paragraph (a) —the rate
          prescribed by regulation.
 
Working out the number of exempt kilometres
*** 13Z Working out the number of exempt kilometres ***
     (1) For section 13Y (4), the number of exempt kilometres must be
     worked out using either of the following chosen by the employer—
          (a) the continuous recording method;
          (b) the averaging method.
               Note—
                    See section 13ZG (Switching between
                    continuous recording and averaging
                    methods) for requirements about
                    switching between the continuous
                    recording and averaging methods.
     (2) However, if the commissioner gives a written approval for the
     employer to use another method for working out the number of exempt
     kilometres, the number of exempt kilometres must be worked out using
     the approved method.
          Example of another method—
               using an estimate
     (3) An approval mentioned in subsection (2) —
          (a) may be given by the commissioner if the commissioner is
          satisfied use of the other method would be more appropriate
          in particular circumstances; and
          (b) may apply to—
               (i) the employer; or
               (ii) a class of employers that includes the
               employer.
     (4) As soon as practicable after giving an approval under subsection
     (2), the commissioner must give a copy of the approval to the
     employer or, if the approval applies to a class of employers, each
     employer to whom it applies.
 
Continuous recording method
*** 13ZA Continuous recording method ***
     (1) This section applies if, under section 13Z (1) (a), the employer
     uses the continuous recording method to work out the number of exempt
     kilometres for a business vehicle.
     (2) The employer must keep a record of the following details—
          (a) the odometer readings at the beginning and end of each
          business journey undertaken by the employee during the
          return period by means of the vehicle;
          (b) the specific purpose for which the journey was
          undertaken;
          (c) the distance travelled.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, section 118 (Period
               for keeping records).
     (3) The number of exempt kilometres is the distance of all business
     journeys mentioned in subsection (2) (a), worked out using the
     odometer readings mentioned in the subsection.
 
Averaging method—how it works
*** 13ZB Averaging method—how it works ***
     (1) This section applies if, under section 13Z (1) (b), the employer
     uses the averaging method to work out the number of exempt kilometres
     for a business vehicle.
     (2) The employer must keep the records mentioned in section 13ZC.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, section 118 (Period
               for keeping records).
     (3) The number of exempt kilometres is the number worked out using
     the following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "D" means the total distance travelled by the business vehicle during
     the return period, worked out using the odometer readings mentioned
     in section 13ZC (3) (a).

     "K" means the number of exempt kilometres.

     "RP" means the relevant percentage for the vehicle.
     (4) The
     "relevant percentage" for the business vehicle is the percentage
     worked out using the following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "B" means the distance travelled by the employee in the course of
     business journeys undertaken by means of the vehicle during the
     averaging period for the vehicle, worked out using the odometer
     readings mentioned in section 13ZC (2) (a).

     "RP" means the relevant percentage.

     "T" means the total distance travelled by the vehicle during the
     averaging period for the vehicle, worked out using the odometer
     readings mentioned in section 13ZC (2) (d).
     (5) If a relevant percentage for the business vehicle is worked out
     on the basis of an averaging period for the vehicle, the number of
     exempt kilometres for the vehicle for a return period mentioned in
     subsection (6) must be worked out using that relevant percentage.
     (6) For subsection (5), the return periods are—
          (a) any return period falling in or comprising the
          financial year in which the averaging period falls or, if
          the averaging period falls in 2 financial years, the second
          financial year in which the period falls, other than a
          return period ending before the averaging period ends; and
          (b) the return periods falling in or comprising any of the
          succeeding 4 financial years after the financial year
          mentioned in paragraph (a).
     (7) Subsection (5) applies subject to section 13ZE.
 
Averaging method—records to be kept by employer
*** 13ZC Averaging method—records to be kept by employer ***
     (1) An employer who, under section 13Z (1) (b), works out the number
     of exempt kilometres for a business vehicle using the averaging
     method must keep a record of the details stated in this section.
     (2) In relation to the averaging period for the business vehicle, the
     details are each of the following—
          (a) the odometer readings at the beginning and end of each
          business journey undertaken by the employee during the
          averaging period by means of the vehicle;
          (b) the specific purpose for which each business journey
          mentioned in paragraph (a) was undertaken;
          (c) the distance travelled by the employee during the
          averaging period in the course of all business journeys
          mentioned in paragraph (a), worked out using the odometer
          readings mentioned in the paragraph;
          (d) the odometer readings at the beginning and end of the
          averaging period;
          (e) the distance travelled by the vehicle during the
          averaging period, worked out using the odometer readings
          mentioned in paragraph (d);
          (f) the relevant percentage for the vehicle.
          Note—
               Under section 13ZB (5), the relevant percentage
               worked out on the basis of an averaging period
               must be used for the return periods mentioned in
               section 13ZB (6). While the employer is using
               that relevant percentage, the employer is not
               required to work out the relevant percentage
               again, or to make a new record of the details
               mentioned in subsection (2).
     (3) In relation to the return period to which the number of exempt
     kilometres relates, the details are each of the following—
          (a) the business vehicle’s odometer readings at the
          beginning and end of the return period;
          (b) the distance travelled by the vehicle during the return
          period, worked out using the odometer readings mentioned in
          paragraph (a);
          (c) the number of exempt kilometres for the vehicle for the
          return period.
     (4) If the odometer of the business vehicle is replaced or
     recalibrated during a return period for which its readings are
     relevant for using the averaging method, the employer must keep a
     record of the odometer readings immediately before and immediately
     after the replacement or recalibration.
 
Averaging method—what is the averaging period
*** 13ZD Averaging method—what is the averaging period ***
     (1) The
     "averaging period", for a business vehicle of an employee, means a
     continuous period of at least 12 weeks, chosen by the employer,
     throughout which the vehicle is provided or maintained by the
     employee.
     (2) The averaging period may overlap the start or end of a financial
     year.
          Note—
               See also section 13ZB (5) and (6) in relation to
               using a relevant percentage worked out on the
               basis of an averaging period that falls in 2
               financial years.
     (3) If the averaging method is used for more than 1 business vehicle
     of an employee for the same return period, the averaging period for
     the vehicles must be the same.
     (4) This section applies subject to section 13ZE.
 
Averaging method—recalculation of relevant percentage
*** 13ZE Averaging method—recalculation of relevant percentage ***
     (1) This section applies to an employer who, under section 13Z (1)
     (b), works out the number of exempt kilometres for a business vehicle
     using the averaging method.
     (2) The employer must recalculate the relevant percentage for the
     business vehicle if—
          (a) the commissioner gives the employer a written notice,
          before the start of a return period, directing the employer
          to recalculate the relevant percentage for the vehicle on
          the basis of an averaging period that falls wholly or
          partly during the return period; or
          (b) the employer wishes to start using the averaging method
          for 1 or more other business vehicles used by the employee.
               Note—
                    See also section 13ZD (3).
     (3) Also, the employer must recalculate the relevant percentage for
     the business vehicle if the employer—
          (a) has used a relevant percentage worked out on the basis
          of an averaging period for the vehicle for the succeeding 4
          financial years after the financial year mentioned in
          section 13ZB (6) (a); and
          (b) intends to continue using the averaging method to work
          out the number of exempt kilometres for the vehicle.
          Note—
               If the employer recalculates the relevant
               percentage on the basis of a new averaging
               period, the new averaging period applies for the
               purposes of section 13ZB (5) and the employer
               must use the new relevant percentage for the
               return periods mentioned in section 13ZB (6).
     (4) In this section—

     "recalculate" the relevant percentage for a business vehicle means—
          (a) record the details mentioned in section 13ZC (2) (a) to
          (e) in relation to a new averaging period for the vehicle;
          and
          (b) work out a new relevant percentage for the vehicle
          using the details mentioned in paragraph (a).
 
Averaging method—replacing a business vehicle
*** 13ZF Averaging method—replacing a business vehicle ***
     (1) An employer using the averaging method may nominate 1 business
     vehicle (the
     "replacement vehicle") to be the replacement of another business
     vehicle (the
     "original vehicle").
     (2) The employer must record the nomination in writing—
          (a) during the financial year in which the nomination takes
          effect; or
          (b) if the commissioner allows the employer to record the
          nomination at a later time—at the later time allowed by
          the commissioner.
     (3) The nomination takes effect on the day stated in it.
     (4) After the nomination takes effect, for the employer’s use of
     the averaging method the replacement vehicle is taken to be the
     original vehicle.
     (5) The employer need not repeat, for the replacement vehicle, the
     steps already taken under this subdivision for the original vehicle.
          Example—
               The employer is not required to recalculate the
               relevant percentage worked out for the original
               vehicle.
     (6) The employer must keep a record of—
          (a) the odometer reading of the original vehicle
          immediately before the nomination takes effect; and
          (b) the odometer reading of the replacement vehicle
          immediately after the nomination takes effect.
 
Switching between continuous recording and averaging methods
*** 13ZG Switching between continuous recording and averaging methods ***
     (1) An employer may change from using a recording method to using the
     other recording method with effect from the beginning of a financial
     year.
          Note—
               See section 13ZA (2) or 13ZC for the record
               keeping requirements with which the employer must
               comply for the financial year for the continuous
               recording method or averaging method.
     (2) In this section—

     "recording method" means the averaging method or continuous recording
     method.
 
Exempt rate for accommodation allowance
*** 13ZH Exempt rate for accommodation allowance ***
     (1) For this Act, a reference to wages does not include a reference
     to an accommodation allowance—
          (a) paid or payable to an employee for a night’s absence
          from the employee’s usual place of residence; and
          (b) that is not more than the exempt rate.
     (2) If an accommodation allowance paid or payable to an employee for
     a night’s absence from the employee’s usual place of residence is
     more than the exempt rate, the allowance comprises wages for this Act
     only to the extent it is more than the exempt rate.
     (3) The
     "exempt rate", for a financial year, is—
          (a) the total reasonable amount for daily travel allowance
          expenses using the lowest capital city for the lowest
          salary band for the year decided by the Commissioner of
          Taxation of the Commonwealth for the Income Tax Assessment
          Act 1997 (Cwlth), section 900 -50; or
          (b) if no decision mentioned in paragraph (a) is in
          force—the rate prescribed under a regulation.
 
Exemption from payroll tax and mental health levy
*** 14 Exemption from payroll tax and mental health levy ***
     (2) The wages liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under
     this Act do not include wages paid or payable—
          (a) by the Governor of a State; or
          (b) by a public hospital to a person during a period in
          respect of which the person is engaged exclusively in work
          of the hospital of a kind ordinarily performed in
          connection with the conduct of public hospitals; or
          (c) by a charitable institution in respect of a charitable
          institution to a person during a period in respect of which
          the person is engaged exclusively—
               (i) in the work of the second mentioned
               charitable institution for a qualifying exempt
               purpose; or
               (ii) where that second mentioned charitable
               institution is—
                    (A) a hospital, in the work of that
                    hospital of a kind ordinarily performed
                    in connection with the conduct of a
                    hospital; or
                    (B) a non-tertiary educational
                    institution, in the work of that
                    institution of a kind ordinarily
                    performed in connection with the
                    conduct of a non-tertiary educational
                    institution of the relevant kind; or
          (d) by a teachers’ training college (that is not a
          college of advanced education) declared under a regulation
          made for the purposes of this paragraph, in respect of such
          period (whether commencing before or after the commencement
          of the Payroll Tax Act Amendment Act 1985, section 6) as is
          specified under a regulation unless within any period so
          specified the college becomes a college of advanced
          education whereupon the exemption shall cease to apply; or
          (da) by the following entities—
               (i) a department, except to the extent those
               wages are paid or payable by a commercialised
               business unit;
               (ii) a Hospital and Health Service established
               for Queensland under the Hospital and Health
               Boards Act 2011, section 17; or
          (e) by a local government, except to the extent that those
          wages are paid or payable—
               (i) for or in connection with; or
               (ii) for or in connection with the construction
               of any buildings or the construction of any works
               or the installation of plant, machinery or
               equipment for use in or in connection with;
          electricity generation, distribution or supply, water
          supply, sewerage, the conduct of transport services
          (including ferries), of abattoirs, of public markets, of
          parking stations, of quarries, of cemeteries, of picture
          theatres, of milk supply, of hostels, of hotels or of
          bakeries or of any other activity that is a prescribed
          activity; or
          (f) to members of his or her official staff by—
               (i) a consular or other representative (other
               than a diplomatic representative) in Australia of
               the government of any other part of Her
               Majesty’s dominions or of any other country; or
               (ii) a trade commissioner representing in
               Australia any other part of Her Majesty’s
               dominions; or
          (g) by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission; or
          (h) by the Australian-American Educational Foundation; or
          (i) to a person who is a member of the defence force of the
          Commonwealth or of the armed force of any part of Her
          Majesty’s dominions, being wages paid or payable by
          reason of the person being such a member by the employer
          from whose employment the person is on leave; or
          (j) subject to subsections (3) to (7), to a person who is
          an apprentice or trainee under the Further Education and
          Training Act 2014, as the apprentice or trainee, for the
          period of the person’s apprenticeship or traineeship; or
          (k) subject to subsection (8), to an employee for a period
          when the employee is—
               (i) taking part in fire fighting or fire
               prevention activities, or associated activities,
               as a rural fire brigade member under the Fire
               Services Act 1990; or
               (ii) performing SES functions under the State
               Emergency Service Act 2024 as an SES volunteer
               under that Act; or
               (iii) performing functions as an honorary
               ambulance officer under the Ambulance Service Act
               1991; or
          (l) to a person who is an Aboriginal person or Torres
          Strait Islander employed under an employment project under
          the Community Development Employment Project funded by the
          Department of Employment and Workplace Relations (Cwlth) or
          the Torres Strait Regional Authority; or
          (m) by a medical practice to a general practitioner.
     (3) The exemption given in subsection (2) (j) does not apply to wages
     paid or payable to a trainee under a traineeship started with the
     trainee’s employer after the commencement of this subsection (the
     "current traineeship") if, immediately before the current traineeship
     starts, the trainee had been employed by the employer for a
     continuous period of at least—
          (a) for a full-time employee—3 months; or
          (b) for a part-time or casual employee—12 months.
     (5) Despite subsection (3), the exemption given in subsection (2) (j)
     applies to wages paid or payable to the trainee under the current
     traineeship if—
          (a) after the commencement of subsection (3), the trainee
          started, with the employer, a certificate II traineeship
          and subsection (2) (j) applied to wages paid or payable to
          the trainee under the certificate II traineeship; and
          (b) the current traineeship is a certificate III
          traineeship in the same training package as the certificate
          II traineeship; and
          (c) the trainee starts the current traineeship within 1
          year after obtaining the certificate II qualification.
     (6) For subsection (3), the trainee is taken to have been employed by
     the employer for a continuous period if, in the period, 1 of the
     following events is effected for the sole or dominant purpose of
     obtaining the benefit of Commonwealth or State funding, or an
     exemption under subsection (2) (j), in relation to the traineeship—
          (a) the trainee’s employment ends, and restarts, with the
          employer;
          (b) the trainee’s employer changes.
     (7) For subsection (5) (a), a reference to the trainee’s employer
     includes a reference to the former owner of the business in which the
     trainee is employed if—
          (a) ownership of the business changes after the trainee
          starts the certificate II traineeship; and
          (b) the certificate III traineeship is with the new owner.
     (8) The exemption given in subsection (2) (k) does not apply to wages
     paid or payable as annual leave, long service leave, recreation leave
     or sick leave.
     (9) In this section—

     "Australian Qualifications Framework" has the meaning given under the
     Higher Education Support Act 2003 (Cwlth), schedule 1.

     "certificate II traineeship" means a traineeship leading to a
     certificate II qualification under the Australian Qualifications
     Framework.

     "certificate III traineeship" means a traineeship leading to a
     certificate III traineeship qualification under the Australian
     Qualifications Framework.

     "charitable institution" means an institution registered under the
     Administration Act, part 11A, other than a university or university
     college.

     "commercialised business unit" means a division, branch or other part
     of a department carrying on a business activity included in the list
     published under the Queensland Competition Authority Act 1997,
     section 39 (4).

     "department" means a department under the Financial Accountability
     Act 2009, section 8.

     "general practitioner" means—
          (a) a person registered under the Health Practitioner
          Regulation National Law to practise in the medical
          profession in the specialty of general practice; or
          (b) a medical practitioner specified in the Health
          Insurance (General Medical Services Table) Regulations 2021
          (Cwlth), schedule 1, part 1, clause 1.1.3; or
          (c) a person—
               (i) who is a prescribed medical practitioner
               within the meaning of the Health Insurance
               (General Medical Services Table) Regulations 2021
               (Cwlth); and
               (ii) who predominantly provides services of the
               kind ordinarily provided by a general
               practitioner mentioned in paragraph (a).

     "medical practice" means an entity, other than a hospital, carrying
     on a business at which services of the kind ordinarily provided by a
     person mentioned in the definition
     "general practitioner", paragraph (a) are provided, whether or not
     the services are provided from particular premises.

     "non-tertiary educational institution" means an institution, not
     carried on by or on behalf of the State, the principal object and
     pursuit of which is—
          (a) the education of students in primary or secondary
          schools, or both; or
          (b) the conduct of a rural training school; or
          (c) the conduct of a kindergarten or preschool; or
          (d) any 2 or more of those objects and pursuits.

     "qualifying exempt purpose" means each of the following—
          (a) activities of a religious nature;
          (b) public benevolent purposes;
          (c) educational purposes;
          (d) conducting a kindergarten;
          (e) the care of sick, aged, infirm, afflicted or
          incorrigible people;
          (f) the relief of poverty;
          (g) the care of children by—
               (i) being responsible for them on a full-time
               basis; and
               (ii) providing them with all necessary food,
               clothing and shelter; and
               (iii) providing for their general wellbeing and
               protection;
          (h) another charitable purpose or promotion of the public
          good;
          (i) providing a residence to a minister, or members of a
          religious order, who is or are engaged in an object or
          pursuit of a kind mentioned in any of paragraphs (a) to
          (h).
 
Exemption for parental, adoption, surrogacy or cultural parent leave
*** 14A Exemption for parental, adoption, surrogacy or cultural parent leave
***
     (1) The wages liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under
     this Act do not include wages paid or payable to an employee for
     parental leave, adoption leave, surrogacy leave or cultural parent
     leave.
     (2) It is immaterial whether—
          (a) the parental leave is taken during or after the
          pregnancy; or
          (b) the adoption leave is taken before or after the
          adoption; or
          (c) the surrogacy leave is taken before or after a child
          starts residing with the employee under a surrogacy
          arrangement; or
          (d) the cultural parent leave is taken before or after a
          cultural recognition order is made transferring the
          parental rights and responsibility for a child to the
          employee.
     (3) The exemption under subsection (1) is limited to wages paid or
     payable for—
          (a) not more than 14 weeks’ maternity leave for any 1
          pregnancy; and
          (b) not more than 14 weeks’ paternity leave for any 1
          pregnancy; and
          (c) not more than 14 weeks’ adoption leave for any 1
          adoption; and
          (d) not more than 14 weeks’ surrogacy leave for any 1
          surrogacy arrangement; and
          (e) not more than 14 weeks’ cultural parent leave for any
          1 cultural recognition order.
     (4) A reference in subsection (3) to 14 weeks’ leave is a reference
     to—
          (a) for a full-time employee who takes leave on less than
          full pay—a period equivalent to 14 weeks’ leave on full
          pay; or
          (b) for a part-time employee—
               (i) if the employee takes leave on the
               employee’s part-time rate of pay—a period of
               14 weeks’ leave on that rate of pay; or
               (ii) if the employee takes leave on a rate of pay
               that is less than the employee’s part-time rate
               of pay—a period equivalent to 14 weeks’ leave
               on the employee’s part-time rate of pay.
     (5) An employer who claims an exemption under subsection (1) must
     obtain and keep as a record—
          (a) for wages paid or payable for maternity leave—a
          medical certificate for, or statutory declaration by, the
          employee stating—
               (i) the employee is or was pregnant; or
               (ii) the employee has given birth and the date of
               birth; or
          (b) for wages paid or payable for paternity leave—a
          statutory declaration by the employee stating—
               (i) a female is or was pregnant with his unborn
               child; or
               (ii) his child has been born and the date of
               birth; or
          (c) for wages paid or payable for adoption leave—a
          statutory declaration by the employee stating—
               (i) a child has been placed in the custody of the
               employee pending the making of an adoption order;
               or
               (ii) that an adoption order has been made or
               recognised in favour of the employee; or
          (d) for wages paid or payable for surrogacy leave—a
          statutory declaration by the employee stating a child has
          started residing with the employee under a surrogacy
          arrangement; or
          (e) for wages paid or payable for cultural parent leave—a
          statutory declaration by the employee stating a child has
          started residing with the employee under a cultural
          recognition order.
          Note—
               Under the Administration Act, section 118, these
               records must be kept for at least 5 years.
     (6) The exemption under subsection (1) does not apply to wages
     comprising a fringe benefit under the Fringe Benefits Assessment Act.
     (7) In this section—

     "adoption leave" means leave given to an employee in connection with
     the adoption of a child by the employee, other than annual leave,
     recreation leave, sick leave or similar leave.

     "cultural parent" see the Meriba Omasker Kaziw Kazipa (Torres Strait
     Islander Traditional Child Rearing Practice) Act 2020, section 10.

     "cultural parent leave", for a cultural parent, means leave given to
     an employee in connection with a cultural recognition order
     transferring the parental rights and responsibility for a child to
     the employee, other than annual leave, recreation leave, sick leave
     or similar leave.

     "cultural recognition order" see the Meriba Omasker Kaziw Kazipa
     (Torres Strait Islander Traditional Child Rearing Practice) Act 2020,
     schedule 1.

     "maternity leave" means leave given to a female employee in
     connection with her pregnancy or the birth of her child, other than
     annual leave, recreation leave, sick leave or similar leave.

     "parental leave" means maternity leave or paternity leave.

     "paternity leave" means leave given to a male employee in connection
     with the pregnancy of a female carrying his unborn child or the birth
     of his child, other than annual leave, recreation leave, sick leave
     or similar leave.

     "surrogacy arrangement" has the meaning given by the Surrogacy Act
     2010.

     "surrogacy leave" means leave given to an employee in connection with
     a child residing with the employee under a surrogacy arrangement,
     other than annual leave, recreation leave, sick leave or similar
     leave.
 
Exemption from payroll tax and mental health levy—certain CWA wages
*** 15 Exemption from payroll tax and mental health levy—certain CWA wages
***
     (1) CWA is not required to lodge a return.
     (2) Divisions 3 to 5 apply to CWA as if—
          (a) a reference in section 20 to the
          "periodic deduction" were a reference to the taxable wages
          paid or payable by CWA during the periodic return period;
          and
          (b) a reference in section 29 to the
          "annual deduction" were a reference to the taxable wages
          paid or payable by CWA during the financial year; and
          (c) a reference in section 37 to the
          "final deduction" were a reference to the taxable wages
          paid or payable by CWA during the final period.
     (3) For divisions 5A to 5C, CWA’s periodic levy liability, annual
     levy liability and final levy liability are nil.
     (4) However, CWA is required to lodge a return and subsections (2)
     and (3) do not apply if—
          (a) wages are paid or payable by CWA in carrying on a
          business activity predominantly on a commercial basis (
          "CWA’s commercial wages"); or
          (b) CWA is a member of a group.
     (5) If subsection (4) (a) applies and subsection (4) (b) does not
     apply—
          (a) payroll tax payable is the amount bearing the same
          proportion to payroll tax payable on CWA’s taxable wages
          as CWA’s commercial wages bear to taxable wages before
          deducting the prescribed amount; and
          (b) CWA’s taxable wages are taken to include only CWA’s
          commercial wages for the purpose of determining CWA’s
          periodic levy liability, annual levy liability and final
          levy liability.
     (6) If subsection (4) (b) applies—
          (a) the annual amount of payroll tax payable by the members
          of the group must be reduced by an amount bearing the same
          proportion to the payroll tax payable as CWA’s taxable
          wages (other than CWA’s commercial wages) bear to the
          taxable wages paid or payable by the members of the group;
          and
          (b) CWA’s taxable wages are taken to include only CWA’s
          commercial wages for the purpose of determining—
               (i) CWA’s periodic levy liability; and
               (ii) the DGE’s annual levy liability and final
               levy liability.
     (7) For this section, a business activity by CWA is taken to be
     conducted on a commercial basis if it is conducted in a similar way
     to similar business activities conducted by anyone else on a
     commercial basis.
     (8) For this section, a business activity does not include—
          (a) the conduct of a student hostel; and
          (b) the conduct of a hostel subsidised under the Aged or
          Disabled Persons Care Act 1954 (Cwlth); and
          (c) an activity of a type prescribed under a regulation.
     (9) In this section—

     "CWA" means Queensland Country Women’s Association.
 
Exemption for services performed or rendered entirely in another country
*** 15A Exemption for services performed or rendered entirely in another
country ***
The wages liable to payroll tax and the mental health levy under this Act do
not include wages paid or payable by an employer for an employee for services
performed or rendered entirely in another country for a continuous period of
more than 6 months after wages were first paid for the employee for the
services.
 
Application of sdiv 1
*** 16 Application of sdiv 1 ***
This subdivision applies to an employer who—
     (a) is required under section 59 to lodge periodic returns; and
     (b) is not the DGE for a group.
 
Definitions for sdiv 1
*** 17 Definitions for sdiv 1 ***
In this subdivision—

"actual periodic deduction", for the employer for a periodic return period,
means the greater of zero and the amount worked out using the following
formula—
     [graphic]
where—

"APD" means the actual periodic deduction in dollars.

"E" (maximum deduction per month) means 108,333.

"F" means the number of days in the period for which the employer pays, or is
liable to pay, taxable wages.

"G" means the total number of days in the period.

"M" means the number of months in the period.

"TW" means the amount of taxable wages paid or payable in the period.

"fixed periodic deduction", for the employer for a periodic return period,
means—
     (a) the amount of the employer’s deduction for the period
     determined by the commissioner under section 21; or
     (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply—the greater of zero and the
     amount worked out on the most recent calculation day using the
     following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "AW" means the total amount of taxable wages and interstate wages
     estimated by the employer to be payable by the employer for the
     financial year in which the period falls.

     "E" means 108,333.

     "FPD" means the fixed periodic deduction in dollars.

     "M" means the number of months in the period.

     "QW" means the total amount of taxable wages estimated by the
     employer to be payable by the employer for the financial year in
     which the period falls.
 
Meaning of calculation day
*** 18 Meaning of calculation day ***
For working out the employer’s fixed periodic deduction for a periodic return
period in a financial year, each of the following days in the year is a
"calculation day" —
     (a) 1 July;
     (b) the day the employer is first registered, or required to
     register, as an employer under part 3, division 1;
     (c) the first day of a periodic return period during which the
     employer pays, or is liable to pay, interstate wages, if the
     employer’s periodic deduction for the preceding periodic return
     period was, under section 20 (2), the actual periodic deduction for
     the employer for the period;
     (d) the last day of a periodic return period during which a
     significant wage change happens for the employer;
     (e) the day a determination by the commissioner of the employer’s
     fixed periodic deduction under section 21 ceases to have effect, if
     the commissioner does not make a further determination of the
     deduction;
     (f) the day a change to the employer’s periodic return period takes
     effect under section 60.
 
Meaning of significant wage change
*** 19 Meaning of significant wage change ***
     (1) A
     "significant wage change" happens during a periodic return period for
     an employer if—
          (a) the employer’s deduction for the period is, under
          section 20 (2), the fixed periodic deduction; and
          (b) the previous estimated wages differ by more than 30%
          from the current estimated wages.
     (2) In this section—

     "current estimated wages" means the total amount of taxable wages and
     interstate wages, or the total amount of taxable wages, for the
     financial year estimated by the employer at the end of the periodic
     return period mentioned in subsection (1).

     "previous estimated wages" means the estimated total amount of
     taxable wages and interstate wages, or the estimated total amount of
     taxable wages, used for working out the fixed periodic deduction.
 
Amount of periodic liability
*** 20 Amount of periodic liability ***
     (1) The employer’s liability (
     "periodic liability") for payroll tax for a periodic return period is
     the amount worked out by applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax
     to—
          (a) for a non-DGE group member—the total taxable wages
          paid or payable by the employer during the period; or
          (b) for another employer—the greater of zero and the
          amount equal to the total taxable wages paid or payable by
          the employer during the period less the periodic deduction.
     (2) For subsection (1) (b), the periodic deduction is—
          (a) if the employer pays, or is liable to pay interstate
          wages during the period—the employer’s fixed periodic
          deduction for the period; or
          (b) if the employer does not pay, and is not liable to pay,
          interstate wages during the period and the employer is a
          previous interstate wage payer—the employer’s fixed
          periodic deduction for the period; or
          (c) if the employer does not pay, and is not liable to pay,
          interstate wages during the period and paragraph (b) does
          not apply—the employer’s actual periodic deduction for
          the period.
     (2A) Subsection (1) does not apply for the last periodic return
     period of a financial year for the employer.
     (3) In this section—

     "previous interstate wage payer" means an employer who—
          (a) paid, or was liable to pay, interstate wages at any
          time during—
               (i) the financial year (the
               "current year") in which the periodic return
               period falls; or
               (ii) the most recently ended financial year; and
          (b) intends to resume paying, or being liable to pay,
          interstate wages during the current year or the next
          financial year.
          Note 1—
               Under section 30 (1) (a) of the Administration
               Act, an employer’s liability for payroll tax
               for a periodic return period must be paid on the
               date the employer is required to lodge a periodic
               return for the period.
     Note 2—
          An employer may be required, under the Administration Act,
          to include assessed interest or penalty tax in an
          assessment of periodic liability.
 
Determination by commissioner of fixed periodic deduction
*** 21 Determination by commissioner of fixed periodic deduction ***
     (1) The commissioner may, by written notice given to the employer,
     determine the amount of the employer’s fixed periodic deduction for
     a periodic return period, if the employer—
          (a) either—
               (i) pays, or is liable to pay, taxable wages and
               interstate wages for the period; or
               (ii) is a previous interstate wage payer within
               the meaning of section 20; and
          (b) is not a group member.
     (1A) Subsection (1) does not apply for the last periodic return
     period of a financial year for the employer.
     (2) The determination must state the periodic return periods to which
     it applies.
     (3) The determination may apply for a periodic return period starting
     before or after, or the periodic return period in which, the
     determination is made.
     (4) The commissioner may, at any time by written notice given to the
     employer, revoke a determination made under subsection (1) with
     effect from the first day of the periodic return period stated in the
     notice.
     (5) The periodic return period stated in a notice under subsection
     (4) may be before or after, or the same periodic return period as,
     the periodic return period in which the notice is given but may not
     be before the date of the determination being revoked.
 
Application of sdiv 2
*** 22 Application of sdiv 2 ***
This subdivision applies to the DGE for a group.
 
Definition for sdiv 2
*** 23 Definition for sdiv 2 ***
In this subdivision—

"fixed periodic deduction", for the DGE for a periodic return period, means—
     (a) the amount of the DGE’s deduction for the period determined by
     the commissioner under section 27; or
     (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply—the greater of zero and the
     amount worked out on the most recent calculation day using the
     following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "AW" means the total amount of taxable wages and interstate wages
     estimated by the members of the group to be payable by the members
     for the financial year in which the period falls.

     "E" means 108,333.

     "FPD" means the fixed periodic deduction in dollars.

     "M" means the number of months in the period.

     "QW" means the total amount of taxable wages estimated by the members
     of the group to be payable by the members for the financial year in
     which the period falls.
 
Meaning of calculation day
*** 24 Meaning of calculation day ***
For working out the DGE’s fixed periodic deduction for a periodic return
period in a financial year, each of the following days in the year is a
"calculation day" —
     (a) 1 July;
     (b) the day the DGE first becomes the DGE for the group;
     (c) the last day of a periodic return period during which a
     significant wage change happens for the group;
     (d) the day a determination by the commissioner of the DGE’s
     periodic deduction under section 27 ceases to have effect, if the
     commissioner does not make a further determination of the deduction;
     (e) the day a change in the DGE’s periodic return period takes
     effect under section 60.
 
Meaning of significant wage change
*** 25 Meaning of significant wage change ***
     (1) A
     "significant wage change" happens during a periodic return period for
     a group if the previous estimated wages differ by more than 30% from
     the current estimated wages.
     (2) In this section—

     "current estimated wages" means the total amount of taxable wages and
     interstate wages, or the total amount of taxable wages, for the
     financial year estimated by the members of the group at the end of
     the periodic return period mentioned in subsection (1).

     "previous estimated wages" means the estimated total amount of
     taxable wages and interstate wages, or the estimated total amount of
     taxable wages, of the members of the group used for working out the
     fixed periodic deduction for the DGE for a periodic return period.
 
Amount of periodic liability
*** 26 Amount of periodic liability ***
     (1) The DGE’s liability (
     "periodic liability") for payroll tax for a periodic return period is
     the amount worked out by applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax
     to the greater of zero and the amount equal to the total taxable
     wages paid or payable by the DGE during the period less the DGE’s
     fixed periodic deduction for the period.
          Note 1—
               Under section 30 (1) (a) of the Administration
               Act, a DGE’s liability for payroll tax for a
               periodic return period must be paid on the date
               the DGE is required to lodge a periodic return
               for the period.
     Note 2—
          A DGE may be required, under the Administration Act, to
          include assessed interest or penalty tax in an assessment
          of periodic liability.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply for the last periodic return period
     of a financial year for the DGE.
 
Determination by commissioner of fixed periodic deduction
*** 27 Determination by commissioner of fixed periodic deduction ***
     (1) The commissioner may, by written notice given to the DGE,
     determine the amount of the DGE’s fixed periodic deduction for a
     periodic return period.
     (1A) Subsection (1) does not apply for the last periodic return
     period of a financial year for the DGE.
     (2) The determination must state the periodic return periods to which
     it applies.
     (3) The determination may apply for a periodic return period starting
     before or after, or the periodic return period in which, the
     determination is made.
     (4) The commissioner may, at any time by written notice given to the
     DGE, revoke a determination made under subsection (1) with effect
     from the first day of the periodic return period stated in the
     notice.
     (5) The periodic return period stated in a notice under subsection
     (4) may be before or after, or the same periodic return period as,
     the periodic return period in which the notice is given but may not
     be before the date of the determination being revoked.
     (6) The commissioner may make a determination, or revoke a
     determination, under this section in relation to the deduction amount
     for a non-DGE group member.
     (7) If the commissioner makes a determination mentioned in subsection
     (6), the group member is, on the first day of the first periodic
     return period to which the determination applies, taken to have been
     designated under section 75 (1) or (2) as the DGE for the group.
 
Rebate for periodic liability
*** 27A Rebate for periodic liability ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) wages are paid or payable during a periodic return
          period in an eligible year by an employer, or a DGE for a
          group, to a person who is an apprentice or trainee under
          the Further Education and Training Act 2014; and
          (b) the wages are not taxable wages under section 14 (2)
          (j).
     (2) The employer’s, or DGE’s, periodic liability for payroll tax
     for each periodic return period is reduced by the amount of the
     rebate for the period.
     (3) In this section—

     "rebate", for a periodic return period, means the lesser of the
     following amounts—
          (a) the amount worked out using the following formula—
               [graphic]
          where—

          "R" means—
               (a) if the periodic return period is in an
               eligible year ending on 30 June 2017, 2018, 2019,
               2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 or 2026—2;
               or
               (b) otherwise—4.

          "T" means the appropriate rate of payroll tax for the
          periodic return period.

          "W" means the amount of wages mentioned in subsection (1)
          for the periodic return period;
          (b) the employer’s, or DGE’s, periodic liability for
          payroll tax for the periodic return period.
 
Application of sdiv 1
*** 28 Application of sdiv 1 ***
This subdivision applies to an employer who—
     (a) is required, under section 63, to lodge an annual return for a
     financial year; and
     (b) is not the DGE for a group on 30 June in the year.
          Note—
               For provisions about a DGE’s annual liability,
               see subdivision 2.
 
Definitions for sdiv 1
*** 29 Definitions for sdiv 1 ***
     (1) In this subdivision—

     "annual adjustment amount", for the employer for a financial year,
     means the difference between—
          (a) the employer’s annual payroll tax amount for the
          year; and
          (b) the employer’s periodic liability for periodic return
          periods in the year.

     "annual deduction", for the employer for a financial year, means the
     greater of zero and the amount worked out using the following
     formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the number of days in the part of the year starting on 1
     July and ending on 31 December for which the employer pays, or is
     liable to pay, wages, other than foreign wages.

     "AD" means the annual deduction in dollars.

     "AW" means the employer’s annual wages for the year.

     "B" means the number of days in the part of the year starting on 1
     January and ending on 30 June for which the employer pays, or is
     liable to pay, wages, other than foreign wages.

     "C" means the number of days in the year.

     "IW" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable in the
     year.

     "K" means 1,300,000.

     "annual payroll tax amount", for the employer for a financial year,
     means—
          (a) if the employer is not a group member on 30 June in the
          year and the employer’s annual deduction for the year is
          greater than the employer’s annual wages for the
          year—zero; or
          (b) if the employer is not a group member on 30 June in the
          year and paragraph (a) does not apply—the amount worked
          out by applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax to the
          employer’s annual wages for the year less the
          employer’s annual deduction for the year; or
          (c) if the employer is a group member on 30 June in the
          year—the amount worked out by applying the appropriate
          rate of payroll tax to the employer’s annual wages for
          the year.

     "annual wages", for the employer for a financial year, means the
     total taxable wages paid or payable by the employer during the year.
     (2) Despite subsection (1), definition annual deduction, if a person
     who did not pay and was not liable to pay taxable wages or interstate
     wages for any part of a financial year satisfies the commissioner
     that, by reason of the nature of the person’s trade or business,
     the taxable wages and interstate wages (if any) paid or payable by
     the person fluctuate with different periods of the financial year,
     the commissioner may treat the person—
          (a) if the person has conducted that trade or business in
          Australia during the whole of the financial year—as an
          employer throughout the financial year; or
          (b) if the person has conducted that trade or business in
          Australia during part only of the financial year—as an
          employer during that lastmentioned part of the financial
          year.
     (3) However, if under section 64 (2) the person lodged, or was
     required to lodge, 1 or more final returns during the year,
     subsection (2) can apply in relation to the person only if the person
     did not pay, and was not liable to pay, taxable wages or interstate
     wages for a part of the year after the end of the last final period.
     (4) Also, the commissioner may treat the person, under subsection
     (2), as an employer only during the part of the year after the end of
     the last final period.
 
Amount of annual liability
*** 30 Amount of annual liability ***
     (1) The employer’s liability (
     "annual liability") for payroll tax for a financial year is—
          (a) the employer’s annual adjustment amount for the year,
          if—
               (i) the employer lodged, or was required under
               section 59 to lodge, a periodic return during the
               year; and
               (ii) the employer’s annual payroll tax amount
               for the year is greater than the employer’s
               periodic liability for periodic return periods in
               the year; or
          (b) the employer’s annual payroll tax amount for the
          year, if the employer was not required under section 59 to
          lodge a periodic return during the year.
               Example for paragraph (b)—
                    The amount of an employer’s annual
                    liability would be the annual payroll
                    tax amount if the employer was exempt,
                    under a certificate issued by the
                    commissioner under section 62, from
                    lodging periodic returns during the
                    financial year.
     (2) However, if under section 64 (2) the employer lodged, or was
     required to lodge, 1 or more final returns during the financial year,
     for working out the employer’s annual liability—
          (a) taxable wages and interstate wages (
          "final return wages") paid or payable by the employer for a
          final period during the year are not included in the
          employer’s wages for the year; and
          (b) the periodic liability amount for the employer for a
          final period during the year (
          "final return liability") is not included in the
          employer’s periodic liability for periodic return periods
          in the year; and
          (c) the employer’s annual deduction must be worked out
          without having regard to the days in a final period during
          the year.
     (3) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to a final period
     during the year if—
          (a) the commissioner makes an original assessment of the
          employer’s annual liability, other than under the
          Administration Act, section 14 (a); and
          (b) the employer is not a group member on 30 June in the
          year; and
          (c) the employer was not a group member during the final
          period; and
          (d) the employer’s annual liability would be greater if
          the final return wages and final return liability for the
          final period were not included.
               Note—
                    See also section 78
                    (Reassessment—annual liability of
                    non-group employer who has lodged a
                    final return).
     (4) If the commissioner includes final return wages and final return
     liability under subsection (3) for working out the employer’s
     annual liability, the annual deduction for the employer for the
     financial year must be worked out having regard to the days in a
     final period mentioned in subsection (3).
          Note 1—
               Under section 30 (1) (a) of the Administration
               Act, an employer’s annual liability for a
               financial year must be paid on the date the
               employer is required to lodge an annual return
               for the financial year.
     Note 2—
          An employer may be required, under the Administration Act,
          to include assessed interest or penalty tax in an
          assessment of annual liability.
 
Entitlement to annual refund amount
*** 31 Entitlement to annual refund amount ***
     (1) This section applies if the employer’s periodic liability for
     periodic return periods in a financial year is greater than the
     employer’s annual payroll tax amount for the year.
     (2) The employer is entitled to a refund of the amount (the
     "annual refund amount") of the difference between the periodic
     liability and the annual payroll tax amount.
     (3) Subsection (2) is subject to section 83.
     (4) However, the employer is not entitled to a refund of the amount
     more than 5 years after the making of the assessment of the
     employer’s annual liability for the year.
     (5) This section does not apply in relation to a reassessment of the
     employer’s annual liability.
          Note—
               Entitlement to refunds on reassessments is
               provided for in the Administration Act, part 4,
               division 2.
 
Application of sdiv 2
*** 32 Application of sdiv 2 ***
This subdivision applies to an employer who, on 30 June in a financial year, is
the DGE for a group.
 
Definitions for sdiv 2
*** 33 Definitions for sdiv 2 ***
In this subdivision—

"annual adjustment amount", for the DGE for a financial year, means the
difference between—
     (a) the DGE’s annual payroll tax amount for the year; and
     (b) the DGE’s periodic liability for periodic return periods in the
     designated period for the DGE in the year.

"annual deduction", for the DGE for a financial year, means the greater of zero
and the amount worked out using the following formula—
     [graphic]
where—

"A" means the number of days in the designated period for the DGE—
     (a) that are in the part of the year starting on 1 July and ending on
     31 December, whether or not wholly or partly concurrent; and
     (b) for which 1 or more relevant group employers pay, or are liable
     to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or interstate wages or
     taxable wages and interstate wages.

"AD" means the annual deduction in dollars.

"B" means the number of days in the designated period—
     (a) that are in the part of the year starting on 1 January and ending
     on 30 June, whether or not wholly or partly concurrent; and
     (b) for which 1 or more relevant group employers pay, or are liable
     to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or interstate wages or
     taxable wages and interstate wages.

"C" means the number of days in the year.

"IW" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable for the designated
period by each relevant group employer as a member of the group.

"K" means 1,300,000.

"TW" means the amount of taxable wages paid or payable for the designated
period by each relevant group employer as a member of the group.

"annual payroll tax amount" for the DGE for a financial year, means—
     (a) if the DGE’s annual deduction for the year is greater than the
     DGE’s annual wages for the year—zero; or
     (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply—the amount worked out by
     applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax to the DGE’s annual
     wages for the year less the DGE’s annual deduction for the year.

"annual wages", for the DGE for a financial year, means the total taxable wages
paid or payable by the DGE during the designated period for the DGE in the
year.

"relevant group employer", for the designated period for the DGE in a financial
year, means an employer who was a member of the group for all or part of the
period.
 
Amount of DGE’s annual liability
*** 34 Amount of DGE’s annual liability ***
     (1) The DGE’s liability (
     "annual liability") for payroll tax for a financial year is—
          (a) the DGE’s annual adjustment amount for the year,
          if—
               (i) the DGE lodged, or was required under section
               59 to lodge, a periodic return during the
               designated period for the DGE in the year; and
               (ii) the DGE’s annual payroll tax amount for
               the year is greater than the DGE’s periodic
               liability for periodic return periods in the
               designated period; or
          (b) the DGE’s annual payroll tax amount for the year, if
          the DGE was not required under section 59 to lodge a
          periodic return during the designated period for the DGE in
          the year.
          Example—
               A group member is the DGE from 1 January to 30
               June in a financial year. The DGE’s annual
               liability for the year would be worked out
               without having regard to the part of the
               financial year before 1 January.
     (2) If the DGE does not pay the DGE’s annual liability for the
     financial year on the return date for lodgement of the DGE’s annual
     return, every relevant group employer for the designated period is
     liable jointly and severally to pay the amount of the liability.
          Note 1—
               Under section 30 (1) (a) of the Administration
               Act, a DGE’s annual liability for a financial
               year must be paid on the date the DGE is required
               to lodge an annual return for the financial year.
     Note 2—
          A DGE may be required, under the Administration Act, to
          include assessed interest or penalty tax in an assessment
          of annual liability.
 
Entitlement to annual refund amount
*** 35 Entitlement to annual refund amount ***
     (1) This section applies if the DGE’s periodic liability for
     periodic return periods in the designated period for the DGE in a
     financial year is greater than the DGE’s annual payroll tax amount
     for the year.
     (2) The DGE is entitled to a refund of the amount (the
     "annual refund amount") of the difference between the periodic
     liability and the annual payroll tax amount.
     (3) Subsection (2) is subject to section 83.
     (4) However, the DGE is not entitled to a refund of the amount more
     than 5 years after the making of the assessment of the DGE’s annual
     liability for the year.
     (5) This section does not apply in relation to a reassessment of the
     DGE’s annual liability.
          Note—
               Entitlement to refunds on reassessments is
               provided for in the Administration Act, part 4,
               division 2.
 
Rebate for annual payroll tax amount
*** 35A Rebate for annual payroll tax amount ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) wages are paid or payable during an eligible year by an
          employer, or a DGE for a group, to a person who is an
          apprentice or trainee under the Further Education and
          Training Act 2014; and
          (b) the wages are not taxable wages under section 14 (2)
          (j).
     (2) The employer’s, or DGE’s, annual payroll tax amount for the
     eligible year is reduced by the amount of the rebate for the eligible
     year.
     (3) However, if under section 64 (2) the employer or DGE lodged, or
     was required to lodge, 1 or more final returns during the eligible
     year, the amount of the wages mentioned in subsection (1) paid or
     payable for a final period during the year are not to be included in
     working out the amount of the rebate.
     (4) In this section—

     "rebate", for an eligible year, means the lesser of the following
     amounts—
          (a) the amount worked out using the following formula—
               [graphic]
          where—

          "R" means—
               (a) if the eligible year ends on 30 June 2017,
               2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 or
               2026—2; or
               (b) otherwise—4.

          "T" means the appropriate rate of payroll tax for the
          eligible year.

          "W" means the amount of wages mentioned in subsection (1)
          for the eligible year;
          (b) the employer’s, or DGE’s, annual payroll tax amount
          for the eligible year.
 
Application of sdiv 1
*** 36 Application of sdiv 1 ***
This subdivision applies to an employer who—
     (a) is required under section 64 (2) to lodge a final return for a
     final period; and
     (b) is not the DGE for a group on the last day of the final period.
          Note—
               For provisions about a DGE’s final liability,
               see subdivision 2.
 
Definitions for sdiv 1
*** 37 Definitions for sdiv 1 ***
In this subdivision—

"final adjustment amount", for the employer for a final period, means the
difference between—
     (a) the employer’s final payroll tax amount for the period; and
     (b) the employer’s periodic liability amount for the final period.

"final deduction", for the employer for a final period, means the greater of
zero and the amount worked out using the following formula—
     [graphic]
where—

"A" means the number of days in the part of the final period starting on 1 July
and ending on 31 December for which the employer pays, or is liable to pay,
wages.

"B" means the number of days in the part of the final period starting on 1
January and ending on 30 June for which the employer pays, or is liable to pay,
wages.

"C" means—
     (a) if the final period is within a financial year that includes 29
     February—366; or
     (b) otherwise—365.

"FD" means the final deduction in dollars.

"FW" means the employer’s final wages for the period.

"IW" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable in the period.

"K" means 1,300,000.

"final payroll tax amount", for the employer for a final period, means—
     (a) if the employer is not a group member on the last day of the
     period and the employer’s final deduction for the period is greater
     than the employer’s final wages for the period—zero; or
     (b) if the employer is not a group member on the last day of the
     period and paragraph (a) does not apply—the amount worked out by
     applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax to the employer’s
     final wages for the period less the employer’s final deduction for
     the period; or
     (c) if the employer is a group member on the last day of the
     period—the amount worked out by applying the appropriate rate of
     payroll tax to the employer’s final wages for the period.

"final wages", for the employer for a final period, means the total taxable
wages paid or payable by the employer during the period.

"wages" does not include foreign wages.
 
Amount of final liability
*** 38 Amount of final liability ***
     (1) The employer’s liability (
     "final liability") for payroll tax for a final period is—
          (a) the employer’s final adjustment amount for the
          period, if—
               (i) either—
                    (A) the employer lodged, or was
                    required under section 59 to lodge, a
                    periodic return during the period; or
                    (B) after the last day of the final
                    period, the employer will be required
                    under section 59 to lodge a periodic
                    return for a periodic return period
                    that is wholly or partly within the
                    final period; and
               (ii) the employer’s final payroll tax amount
               for the period is greater than the employer’s
               periodic liability amount for the final period;
               or
          (b) the employer’s final payroll tax amount for the
          period, if—
               (i) the employer was not required under section
               59 to lodge a periodic return during the period;
               and
               (ii) paragraph (a) does not apply.
               Example for paragraph (b)—
                    The amount of an employer’s final
                    liability would be the final payroll
                    tax amount if the employer was exempt,
                    under a certificate issued by the
                    commissioner under section 62, from
                    lodging periodic returns during the
                    final period.
     (2) However, subsection (3) applies if—
          (a) the employer did not pay and was not liable to pay
          taxable wages or interstate wages for any part of the final
          period; and
          (b) the employer satisfies the commissioner that, because
          of the nature of the employer’s trade or business, the
          taxable wages and interstate wages, if any, paid or payable
          by the employer fluctuate with different periods of the
          financial year.
     (3) If this subsection applies, for working out the employer’s
     final liability for the final period, the commissioner may treat the
     employer—
          (a) if the employer has conducted the employer’s trade or
          business in Australia during the whole of the final
          period—as an employer throughout the final period; or
          (b) if the employer has conducted the employer’s trade or
          business in Australia during part only of the final
          period—as an employer during that part of the final
          period.
          Note 1—
               Under section 30 (1) (a) of the Administration
               Act, an employer’s final liability for a final
               period must be paid on the date the employer is
               required to lodge a final return for the final
               period.
     Note 2—
          An employer may be required, under the Administration Act,
          to include assessed interest or penalty tax in an
          assessment of final liability.
 
Entitlement to final refund amount
*** 39 Entitlement to final refund amount ***
     (1) This section applies if the employer’s periodic liability
     amount for a final period is greater than the employer’s final
     payroll tax amount for the period.
     (2) The employer is entitled to a refund of the amount (the
     "final refund amount") of the difference between the periodic
     liability amount and the final payroll tax amount.
     (3) Subsection (2) is subject to section 83.
     (4) However, the employer is not entitled to a refund of the amount
     more than 5 years after the making of the assessment of the
     employer’s final liability for the period.
     (5) This section does not apply in relation to a reassessment of the
     employer’s final liability.
          Note—
               Entitlement to refunds on reassessments is
               provided for in the Administration Act, part 4,
               division 2.
 
Application of sdiv 2
*** 40 Application of sdiv 2 ***
This subdivision applies to an employer who is the DGE for a group on the last
day of a final period.
 
Definitions for sdiv 2
*** 41 Definitions for sdiv 2 ***
In this subdivision—

"final adjustment amount", for the DGE for a final period, means the difference
between—
     (a) the DGE’s final payroll tax amount for the period; and
     (b) the DGE’s periodic liability amount for the final period.

"final deduction", for the DGE for a final period, means the greater of zero
and the amount worked out using the following formula—
     [graphic]
where—

"A" means the number of days—
     (a) that are in the part of the final period starting on 1 July and
     ending on 31 December; and
     (b) for which 1 or more relevant group employers pay, or are liable
     to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or interstate wages or
     taxable wages and interstate wages.

"B" means the number of days—
     (a) that are in the part of the final period starting on 1 January
     and ending on 30 June; and
     (b) for which 1 or more relevant group employers pay, or are liable
     to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or interstate wages or
     taxable wages and interstate wages.

"C" means—
     (a) if the final period is within a financial year that includes 29
     February—366; or
     (b) otherwise—365.

"FD" means the final deduction in dollars.

"IW" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable for the final period
by each relevant group employer as a member of the group.

"K" means 1,300,000.

"TW" means the amount of taxable wages paid or payable for the final period by
each relevant group employer as a member of the group.

"final payroll tax amount", for the DGE for a final period, means—
     (a) if the DGE’s final deduction for the period is greater than the
     DGE’s final wages for the period—zero; or
     (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply—the amount worked out by
     applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax to the DGE’s final
     wages for the period less the DGE’s final deduction for the period.

"final wages", for the DGE for a final period, means the total taxable wages
paid or payable by the DGE during the period.

"relevant group employer", for a final period for the DGE, means an employer
who was a member of the group for all or part of the period.
 
Amount of DGE’s final liability
*** 42 Amount of DGE’s final liability ***
     (1) The DGE’s liability (
     "final liability") for payroll tax for a final period is—
          (a) the DGE’s final adjustment amount for the period,
          if—
               (i) either—
                    (A) the DGE lodged, or was required
                    under section 59 to lodge, a periodic
                    return during the period; or
                    (B) after the last day of the final
                    period, the DGE will be required under
                    section 59 to lodge a periodic return
                    for a periodic return period that is
                    wholly or partly within the final
                    period; and
               (ii) the DGE’s final payroll tax amount for the
               period is greater than the DGE’s periodic
               liability amount for the period; or
          (b) the DGE’s final payroll tax amount for the period,
          if—
               (i) the DGE was not required under section 59 to
               lodge a periodic return during the period; and
               (ii) paragraph (a) does not apply.
     (2) If the DGE does not pay the DGE’s final liability for the
     period on the return date for lodgement of the DGE’s final return,
     every relevant group employer for the period is liable jointly and
     severally to pay the amount of the liability.
          Note 1—
               Under section 30 (1) (a) of the Administration
               Act, a DGE’s final liability for a final period
               must be paid on the date the DGE is required to
               lodge a final return for the final period.
     Note 2—
          A DGE may be required, under the Administration Act, to
          include assessed interest or penalty tax in an assessment
          of final liability.
 
Entitlement to final refund amount
*** 43 Entitlement to final refund amount ***
     (1) This section applies if the DGE’s periodic liability amount for
     a final period is greater than the DGE’s final payroll tax amount
     for the period.
     (2) The DGE is entitled to a refund of the amount (the
     "final refund amount") of the difference between the periodic
     liability amount and the final payroll tax amount.
     (3) Subsection (2) is subject to section 83.
     (4) However, the DGE is not entitled to a refund of the amount more
     than 5 years after the making of the assessment of the DGE’s final
     liability for the period.
     (5) This section does not apply in relation to a reassessment of the
     DGE’s final liability.
          Note—
               Entitlement to refunds on reassessments is
               provided for in the Administration Act, part 4,
               division 2.
 
Rebate for final payroll tax amount
*** 43A Rebate for final payroll tax amount ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) wages are paid or payable during a final period in an
          eligible year by an employer, or a DGE for a group, to a
          person who is an apprentice or trainee under the Further
          Education and Training Act 2014; and
          (b) the wages are not taxable wages under section 14 (2)
          (j).
     (2) The employer’s, or DGE’s, final payroll tax amount for the
     final period is reduced by the amount of the rebate for the period.
     (3) In this section—

     "rebate", for a final period, means the lesser of the following
     amounts—
          (a) the amount worked out using the following formula—
               [graphic]
          where—

          "R" means—
               (a) if the final period is in an eligible year
               ending on 30 June 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021,
               2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 or 2026—2; or
               (b) otherwise—4.

          "T" means the appropriate rate of payroll tax for the final
          period.

          "W" means the amount of wages mentioned in subsection (1)
          for the final period;
          (b) the employer’s, or DGE’s, final payroll tax amount
          for the final period.
 
Application of division
*** 43B Application of division ***
This division applies to an employer who is required under section 59 to lodge
periodic returns.
 
Meaning of adjusted primary threshold
*** 43C Meaning of adjusted primary threshold ***
     (1) The
     "adjusted primary threshold" for a financial year for an employer who
     is not a group member is the amount worked out using the following
     formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the adjusted primary threshold for the financial year for
     the employer.

     "B" means $10m.

     "C" means the amount of taxable wages estimated by the employer to be
     payable by the employer for the financial year.

     "D" means the total amount of taxable wages and interstate wages
     estimated by the employer to be payable by the employer for the
     financial year.
     (2) The
     "adjusted primary threshold" for a financial year for an employer who
     is a group member is the amount worked out using the following
     formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the adjusted primary threshold for the financial year for
     the employer.

     "B" means $10m.

     "C" means the total amount of taxable wages estimated to be payable
     by all members of the group for the financial year.

     "D" means the total amount of taxable wages and interstate wages
     estimated to be payable by all members of the group for the financial
     year.

     "E" means the amount of taxable wages estimated by the employer to be
     payable by the employer for the financial year.
 
Meaning of adjusted additional threshold
*** 43D Meaning of adjusted additional threshold ***
     (1) The
     "adjusted additional threshold" for an employer who is not a group
     member for a financial year is the amount worked out using the
     following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the adjusted additional threshold for the employer.

     "B" means $100m.

     "C" means the amount of taxable wages estimated by the employer to be
     payable by the employer for the financial year.

     "D" means the total amount of taxable wages and interstate wages
     estimated by the employer to be payable by the employer for the
     financial year.
     (2) The
     "adjusted additional threshold" for an employer who is a group member
     for a financial year is the amount worked out using the following
     formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the adjusted additional threshold for the employer.

     "B" means $100m.

     "C" means the total amount of taxable wages estimated to be payable
     by all members of the group for the financial year.

     "D" means the total amount of taxable wages and interstate wages
     estimated to be payable by all members of the group for the financial
     year.

     "E" means the amount of taxable wages estimated by the employer to be
     payable by the employer for the financial year.
 
Meaning of primary periodic threshold and additional periodic threshold
*** 43E Meaning of primary periodic threshold and additional periodic threshold
***
     (1) The commissioner may, by written notice given to an employer,
     determine—
          (a) the amount of the employer’s primary periodic
          threshold for a periodic return period; or
          (b) the amount of the employer’s additional periodic
          threshold for a periodic return period.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply for the last periodic return period
     of a financial year for the employer.
     (3) The
     "primary periodic threshold" for an employer for a periodic return
     period is—
          (a) if an amount has been determined under subsection (1)
          (a) —that amount; or
          (b) otherwise—the amount worked out on the most recent
          calculation day using the following formula—
               [graphic]
          where—

          "A" means the adjusted primary threshold for the employer
          for the current financial year.

          "M" means the number of months in the period.

          "PPT" means the primary periodic threshold for the employer
          for the periodic return period.
     (4) The
     "additional periodic threshold" for an employer for a periodic return
     period is—
          (a) if an amount has been determined under subsection (1)
          (b) —that amount; or
          (b) otherwise—the amount worked out on the most recent
          calculation day using the following formula—
               [graphic]
          where—

          "A" means the adjusted additional threshold for the
          employer for the current financial year.

          "APT" means the additional periodic threshold for the
          employer for the periodic return period.

          "M" means the number of months in the periodic return
          period.
 
Meaning of current financial year
*** 43EA Meaning of current financial year ***
The
"current financial year" for a periodic return period is the financial year in
which the periodic return period occurs.
 
Meaning of calculation day
*** 43EB Meaning of calculation day ***
     (1) This section applies for working out an employer’s primary
     periodic threshold or additional periodic threshold, for a periodic
     return period, under section 43E.
     (2) Each of the following days is a
     "calculation day" —
          (a) 1 July in the current financial year;
          (b) a day on which a change to the periodic return period
          takes effect under section 60;
          (c) if a relevant determination for the periodic return
          period has been made—a day that the relevant
          determination stops applying;
          (d) a day, in the current financial year, that the employer
          is first registered, or required to register, as an
          employer under part 3, division 1;
          (e) for an employer who is not a group member and who has
          paid, is liable to pay, or anticipates paying or being
          liable to pay, interstate wages during the current
          financial year—the last day of a periodic return period,
          in the current financial year, during which a significant
          wage change happens for the employer;
          (f) for an employer who stops being a group member in the
          current financial year—the first day that the employer
          pays, or becomes liable to pay, taxable wages other than as
          a group member;
          (g) for an employer who is a group member but is not the
          DGE for the group—the last day of a periodic return
          period, in the current financial year, during which the
          employer receives revised group wage information from the
          DGE for the group under section 88E;
          (h) for an employer who is the DGE for a group—the last
          day of a periodic return period, in the current financial
          year, during which—
               (i) a significant wage change happens for the
               group; or
               (ii) an employer becomes a member of the group
               (whether or not the employer had previously been
               a member of the group); or
               (iii) a non-DGE group member pays, or becomes
               liable to pay, taxable wages other than as a
               group member.
     (3) Subsection (2) (c) does not apply if, at the time the relevant
     determination stops applying, another relevant determination starts
     to apply.
     (4) In this section—

     "relevant determination" means—
          (a) in relation to an employer’s primary periodic
          threshold for a periodic return period—a determination
          under section 43E (1) (a); or
          (b) in relation to an employer’s additional periodic
          threshold for a periodic return period—a determination
          under section 43E (1) (b).
 
Meaning of significant wage change
*** 43EC Meaning of significant wage change ***
     (1) A
     "significant wage change" happens during a periodic return period for
     an employer or group if the previous estimated wages for the period
     differ by more than 30% from the current estimated wages for the
     period.
     (2) In this section—

     "current estimated wages", in relation to a periodic return period,
     means—
          (a) for an employer—the total amount of the taxable wages
          and any interstate wages, for the current financial year,
          estimated by the employer at the end of the periodic return
          period; or
          (b) for a group—the total amount of the taxable wages and
          any interstate wages, for the current financial year,
          estimated by the members of the group at the end of the
          periodic return period.

     "previous estimated wages", in relation to a periodic return period,
     means—
          (a) for an employer—the total amount of the taxable wages
          and any interstate wages, for the current financial year,
          estimated by the employer at the most recent of the
          following days—
               (i) the end of the previous periodic return
               period;
               (ii) the most recent calculation day for the
               periodic return period under section 43EB (2); or
          (b) for a group—the total amount of the taxable wages and
          any interstate wages, for the current financial year,
          estimated by the members of the group at the most recent of
          the following days—
               (i) the end of the previous periodic return
               period;
               (ii) the most recent calculation day for the
               periodic return period under section 43EB (2).
 
Amount of periodic levy liability
*** 43F Amount of periodic levy liability ***
     (1) An employer’s liability (
     "periodic levy liability") for the mental health levy for a periodic
     return period is the total of—
          (a) the primary periodic liability under subsection (2);
          and
          (b) the additional periodic liability under subsection (3).
     (2) For subsection (1) (a), the primary periodic liability for a
     periodic return period is the greater of the amount worked out using
     the following formula and zero—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the number of days the employer paid, or was liable to pay,
     wages in the period.

     "B" means the number of days in the period.

     "L" means the primary periodic liability for the period.

     "PPT" means the primary periodic threshold for the employer for the
     period.

     "R" means 0.25%.

     "TW" means the amount of the employer’s taxable wages for the
     period.
     (3) For subsection (1) (b), the additional periodic liability for a
     periodic return period is the greater of the amount worked out using
     the following formula and zero—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the number of days the employer paid, or was liable to pay,
     wages in the period.

     "APT" means the additional periodic threshold for the employer for
     the period.

     "B" means the number of days in the period.

     "L" means the additional periodic liability for the period.

     "R" means 0.5%.

     "TW" means the amount of the employer’s taxable wages for the
     period.
     (4) There is no periodic levy liability for the last periodic return
     period of a financial year.
          Notes—
                    1 Under section 30 (1) (a) of the
                    Administration Act, an employer’s
                    periodic levy liability for a periodic
                    return period must be paid on the date
                    the employer is required to lodge a
                    periodic return for the period.
                    2 An employer may be required, under
                    the Administration Act, to include
                    assessed interest or penalty tax in an
                    assessment of periodic levy liability.
 
Application of division
*** 43G Application of division ***
This division applies to an employer who is required, under section 63, to
lodge an annual return for a financial year if the employer—
     (a) is not a member of a group on 30 June in the year; or
     (b) is the DGE for a group on 30 June in the year.
 
Meaning of combined periodic liability
*** 43H Meaning of combined periodic liability ***
The
"combined periodic liability", for the employer for the financial year, is—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the total of the
     employer’s periodic levy liability for each periodic return period
     in the year; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the total of each group
     member’s total periodic levy liability for each periodic return
     period in the year.
 
Definitions for division
*** 43I Definitions for division ***
In this division—

"additional annual levy amount", for the employer for the financial year, means
the greater of the amount worked out using the following formula and zero—
     [graphic]
where—

"A" means the additional annual levy amount for the employer for the financial
year.

"B" means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the total taxable
     wages paid or payable by the employer for the financial year; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the total taxable wages
     paid or payable by all members of the group for the financial year.

"C" means $100m.

"D" means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the total taxable
     wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the employer for the
     financial year; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the total taxable wages
     and interstate wages paid or payable by all members of the group for
     the financial year.

"E" means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the number of days
     the employer paid, or was liable to pay, wages for the financial
     year; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the number of days in
     the financial year for which 1 or more relevant group employers paid,
     or were liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or
     interstate wages, or taxable wages and interstate wages.

"F" means the number of days in the financial year.

"R" means 0.5%.

"annual levy adjustment amount", for the employer for the financial year, means
the difference between—
     (a) the employer’s annual levy amount for the financial year; and
     (b) the employer’s combined periodic liability for the financial
     year.

"annual levy amount", for the employer for the financial year, means the total
of—
     (a) the primary annual levy amount; and
     (b) the additional annual levy amount.

"primary annual levy amount", for the employer for the financial year, means
the greater of the amount worked out using the following formula and zero—
     [graphic]
where—

"A" means the primary annual levy amount for the employer for the financial
year.

"B" means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the total taxable
     wages paid or payable by the employer for the financial year; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the total taxable wages
     paid or payable by all members of the group for the financial year.

"C" means $10m.

"D" means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the total taxable
     wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the employer for the
     financial year; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the total taxable wages
     and interstate wages paid or payable by all members of the group for
     the financial year.

"E" means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the number of days
     the employer paid, or was liable to pay, wages for the financial
     year; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the number of days in
     the financial year for which 1 or more relevant group employers paid,
     or were liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or
     interstate wages, or taxable wages and interstate wages.

"F" means the number of days in the financial year.

"R" means 0.25%.

"relevant group employer", in relation to the DGE for a group, for a financial
year, means an employer who was a member of the group for all or part of the
financial year.
 
Amount of annual levy liability
*** 43J Amount of annual levy liability ***
     (1) The employer’s liability (
     "annual levy liability") for the mental health levy for the financial
     year is—
          (a) the employer’s annual levy adjustment amount for the
          year, if—
               (i) the employer (or if the employer is the DGE
               of a group, a group member) lodged, or was
               required under section 59 to lodge, a periodic
               return during the year; and
               (ii) the employer’s annual levy amount for the
               year is greater than the employer’s combined
               periodic liability for the year; or
          (b) the employer’s annual levy amount for the year, if
          the employer (or if the employer is the DGE of a group,
          each group member) was not required under section 59 to
          lodge a periodic return during the year.
               Example for paragraph (b)—
                    The amount of an employer’s annual
                    levy liability would be the annual levy
                    amount if the employer was exempt,
                    under a certificate issued by the
                    commissioner under section 62, from
                    lodging periodic returns during the
                    financial year.
     (2) Subsection (1) applies subject to subsections (3) to (7).
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if—
          (a) the employer is not a group member on 30 June in the
          financial year; and
          (b) under section 64 (2) or (5), a person lodged, or was
          required to lodge, a final return for a final period during
          the financial year stating the person’s final levy
          liability or final levy refund amount for the final period;
          and
          (c) the stated final levy liability or final levy refund
          amount was calculated wholly or partly with reference to
          wages paid or payable by the employer during the final
          period (
          "final levy return wages").
     (4) For working out the employer’s annual levy liability for the
     financial year—
          (a) the final levy return wages are not included in the
          wages paid or payable for the financial year; and
          (b) the part of the periodic levy liability amount
          attributable to the final levy return wages (the
          "final levy return liability") is not included in the
          employer’s combined periodic liability for the financial
          year; and
          (c) the employer is taken not to have paid, or been liable
          to pay, wages for the days in the final period on which the
          employer paid, or was liable to pay, the final levy return
          wages.
     (5) Subsection (6) applies if—
          (a) the employer is the DGE for a group on 30 June in the
          financial year; and
          (b) under section 64 (2) or (5), a person lodged, or was
          required to lodge, a final return for a final period during
          the financial year stating the person’s final levy
          liability or final levy refund amount for the final period;
          and
          (c) the stated final levy liability or final levy refund
          amount was calculated wholly or partly with reference to
          wages paid or payable by a person during the final period
          (
          "final levy return wages").
     (6) For working out the DGE’s annual levy liability for the
     financial year—
          (a) the final levy return wages are not included in the
          wages paid or payable by members of the group for the
          financial year; and
          (b) the part of the periodic levy liability amount
          attributable to the final levy return wages (the
          "final levy return liability") is not included in the
          DGE’s combined periodic liability for the financial year;
          and
          (c) the person mentioned in subsection (5) (c) is taken not
          to have paid, or been liable to pay, taxable wages or
          interstate wages, or taxable wages and interstate wages, as
          a member of the group for the days in the final period on
          which the person paid, or was liable to pay, the final levy
          return wages.
     (7) Subsections (2) to (6) do not apply in relation to a final period
     during the financial year if—
          (a) the commissioner makes an original assessment of the
          employer’s annual levy liability, other than under the
          Administration Act, section 14 (a); and
          (b) the employer is not a group member on 30 June in the
          year; and
          (c) the employer was not a group member during the final
          period; and
          (d) the employer’s annual levy liability would be greater
          if the final levy return wages and final levy return
          liability for the final period were not included.
          Notes—
                    1 Under section 30 (1) (a) of the
                    Administration Act, an employer’s
                    annual levy liability for a financial
                    year must be paid on the date the
                    employer is required to lodge an annual
                    return for the financial year.
                    2 An employer may be required, under
                    the Administration Act, to include
                    assessed interest or penalty tax in an
                    assessment of annual levy liability.
 
Entitlement to annual levy refund amount
*** 43K Entitlement to annual levy refund amount ***
     (1) This section applies if the employer’s combined periodic
     liability for the financial year is greater than the employer’s
     annual levy liability for the year.
     (2) The employer is entitled to a refund of the amount (the
     "annual levy refund amount") of the difference between the combined
     periodic liability and the annual levy amount.
     (3) Subsection (2) is subject to section 83.
     (4) However, the employer is not entitled to a refund of the amount
     more than 5 years after the making of the assessment of the
     employer’s annual levy liability for the financial year.
     (5) This section does not apply in relation to a reassessment of the
     employer’s annual levy liability.
          Note—
               Entitlement to refunds on reassessments is
               provided for in the Administration Act, part 4,
               division 2.
 
Application of division
*** 43L Application of division ***
     (1) This division applies to an employer who is required under
     section 64 to lodge a final return for a final period if the
     employer—
          (a) is not a member of a group on the last day of the final
          period; or
          (b) is the DGE for a group on the last day of the final
          period.
     (2) For this division, a reference to the final period for an
     employer who is the DGE for a group is a reference to the final
     period for the change of status of—
          (a) if the change of status happens to a group member—the
          group member; or
          (b) if the change of status happens to the DGE—the DGE.
 
Definitions for division
*** 43M Definitions for division ***
In this division—

"additional final levy amount", for the employer for the final period, means
the greater of the amount worked out using the following formula and zero—
     [graphic]
where—

"A" means the additional final levy amount for the employer for the final
period.

"C" means $100m.

"D" means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the total taxable
     wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the employer during the
     final period; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the total taxable wages
     and interstate wages paid or payable by all relevant group employers
     during the final period.

"E" means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the number of days
     in the part of the final period starting on 1 July and ending on 31
     December for which the employer paid, or was liable to pay, wages; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the number of days in
     the part of the final period starting on 1 July and ending on 31
     December for which 1 or more relevant group employers paid, or were
     liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or interstate
     wages or taxable wages and interstate wages during the final period.

"F" means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the number of days
     in the part of the final period starting on 1 January and ending on
     30 June for which the employer paid, or was liable to pay, wages; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the number of days in
     the part of the final period starting on 1 January and ending on 30
     June for which 1 or more relevant group employers paid, or were
     liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or interstate
     wages or taxable wages and interstate wages during the period.

"FW" means the employer’s final wages for the final period.

"G" means—
     (a) if the final period is within a financial year that includes 29
     February—366; or
     (b) otherwise—365.

"R" means 0.5%.

"final levy adjustment amount", for the employer for the final period, means
the difference between—
     (a) the employer’s final levy amount for the final period; and
     (b) the employer’s periodic levy liability amount for the final
     period.

"final levy amount", for the employer for the final period, means the total
of—
     (a) the primary final levy amount; and
     (b) the additional final levy amount.

"final wages", for the employer for the final period, means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the total taxable
     wages paid or payable by the employer during the final period; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the total taxable wages
     paid or payable by all members of the group during the final period.

"partial levy amount", for a periodic return period, means the amount worked
out using the following formula—
     [graphic]
where—

"P" means the partial levy amount in dollars.

"PL" means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the employer’s
     periodic levy liability for the period; or
     (b) if the employer is a DGE for a group—the total periodic levy
     liability for the period for all group members.

"X" means the number of days in the period that are in the final period.

"Y" means the total number of days in the final period.

"periodic levy liability amount", for an employer for the final period, means
the sum of—
     (a) either—
          (i) if the employer is not a member of a group—the
          employer’s periodic levy liability for a periodic return
          period wholly within the final period, even if the return
          date for lodging the periodic return is after the return
          date for lodging the final return; or
          (ii) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the total of
          each group member’s total periodic levy liability for a
          periodic return period wholly within the final period, even
          if the return date for lodging the periodic return is after
          the return date for lodging the final return; and
     (b) for a day in the final period not included in a periodic return
     period mentioned in paragraph (a) —the partial levy amount for the
     periodic return period that includes the day, even if the return date
     for lodging the periodic return is after the return date for lodging
     the final return.

"primary final levy amount", for the employer for the final period, means the
greater of the amount worked out using the following formula and zero—
     [graphic]
where—

"A" means the primary final levy amount for the employer for the final period.

"C" means $10m.

"D" means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the total taxable
     wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the employer during the
     final period; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the total taxable wages
     and interstate wages paid or payable by all relevant group employers
     during the final period.

"E" means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the number of days
     in the part of the final period starting on 1 July and ending on 31
     December for which the employer paid, or was liable to pay, wages; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the number of days in
     the part of the final period starting on 1 July and ending on 31
     December for which 1 or more relevant group employers paid, or were
     liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or interstate
     wages or taxable wages and interstate wages.

"F" means—
     (a) if the employer is not a member of a group—the number of days
     in the part of the final period starting on 1 January and ending on
     30 June for which the employer paid, or was liable to pay, wages; or
     (b) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the number of days in
     the part of the final period starting on 1 January and ending on 30
     June for which 1 or more relevant group employers paid, or were
     liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or interstate
     wages or taxable wages and interstate wages.

"FW" means the employer’s final wages for the final period.

"G" means—
     (a) if the final period is within a financial year that includes 29
     February—366; or
     (b) otherwise—365.

"R" means 0.25%.

"relevant group employer", for the final period in relation to the DGE for a
group, means an employer who was a member of the group for all or part of the
period.
 
Amount of final levy liability
*** 43N Amount of final levy liability ***
     (1) This section states the employer’s liability (
     "final levy liability") for the mental health levy for the final
     period.
     (2) The employer’s final levy liability for the final period is the
     employer’s final levy adjustment amount for the period if—
          (a) either—
               (i) the employer (or if the employer is the DGE
               for a group, a group member) lodged, or was
               required under section 59 to lodge, a periodic
               return during the period; or
               (ii) after the last day of the final period—
                    (A) if the employer is not a member of
                    a group—the employer will be required
                    under section 59 to lodge a periodic
                    return for a periodic return period
                    that is wholly or partly within the
                    final period; or
                    (B) if the employer is the DGE for a
                    group—the group member whose status
                    has changed will be required under
                    section 59 to lodge a periodic return
                    for a periodic return period that is
                    wholly or partly within the final
                    period; and
          (b) the employer’s final levy amount for the period is
          greater than the employer’s periodic levy liability
          amount for the final period.
     (3) The employer’s final levy liability for the final period is the
     employer’s final levy amount for the period, if—
          (a) the employer (or if the employer is the DGE for a
          group, each group member) was not required under section 59
          to lodge a periodic return during the period; and
          (b) subsection (2) does not apply.
          Example—
               The amount of an employer’s final levy
               liability would be the final levy amount if the
               employer was exempt, under a certificate issued
               by the commissioner under section 62, from
               lodging periodic returns during the final period.
     (4) However, subsection (5) applies if—
          (a) for an employer who is not a member of a group—
               (i) the employer did not pay and was not liable
               to pay taxable wages or interstate wages for any
               part of the final period; and
               (ii) the employer satisfies the commissioner
               that, because of the nature of the employer’s
               trade or business, the taxable wages and
               interstate wages, if any, paid or payable by the
               employer fluctuate with different periods of the
               financial year; or
          (b) for an employer who is the DGE for a group—
               (i) the group member whose status has changed did
               not pay and was not liable to pay taxable wages
               or interstate wages for any part of the final
               period; and
               (ii) the employer satisfies the commissioner
               that, because of the nature of the group
               member’s trade or business, the taxable wages
               and interstate wages, if any, paid or payable by
               the group member fluctuate with different periods
               of the financial year.
     (5) For working out the employer’s final levy liability for the
     final period, the commissioner may—
          (a) for an employer who is not a member of a group, treat
          the employer—
               (i) if the employer has conducted the
               employer’s trade or business in Australia
               during the whole of the final period—as an
               employer throughout the final period; or
               (ii) if the employer has conducted the
               employer’s trade or business in Australia
               during part only of the final period—as an
               employer during that part of the final period; or
          (b) for an employer who is the DGE for a group, treat the
          group member whose status has changed—
               (i) if the group member has conducted the
               member’s trade or business in Australia during
               the whole of the final period—as an employer
               throughout the final period; or
               (ii) if the group member has conducted the
               member’s trade or business in Australia during
               part only of the final period—as an employer
               during that part of the final period.
          Notes—
                    1 Under section 30 (1) (a) of the
                    Administration Act, an employer’s
                    final levy liability for a final period
                    must be paid on the date the employer
                    is required to lodge a final return for
                    the final period.
                    2 An employer may be required, under
                    the Administration Act, to include
                    assessed interest or penalty tax in an
                    assessment of final levy liability.
 
Entitlement to final levy refund amount
*** 43O Entitlement to final levy refund amount ***
     (1) This section applies if the employer’s periodic levy liability
     amount for the final period is greater than the employer’s final
     levy amount for the period.
     (2) The employer is entitled to a refund of the amount (the
     "final levy refund amount") of the difference between the periodic
     levy liability amount and the final levy amount.
     (3) Subsection (2) is subject to section 83.
     (4) However, the employer is not entitled to a refund of the amount
     more than 5 years after the making of the assessment of the
     employer’s final levy liability for the final period.
     (5) This section does not apply in relation to a reassessment of the
     employer’s final levy liability.
          Note—
               Entitlement to refunds on reassessments is
               provided for in the Administration Act, part 4,
               division 2.
 
Definitions for div 6
*** 44 Definitions for div 6 ***
In this division—

"entitled group member", for an excess deduction, means a non-DGE group member
who—
     (a) is nominated by the DGE for the group under section 46, or
     determined by the commissioner under section 47, as a group member to
     share in the excess deduction; and
     (b) if the excess deduction is shared by the entitled group members
     at the end of the relevant financial year under section 48 —is a
     member of the group on 30 June in the year and has an annual
     liability for the year.

"order of entitled group members" means the order in which entitled group
members are to share in an excess deduction under a nomination made by the DGE
for the group under section 46, or a determination made by the commissioner
under section 47, for the assessment of the DGE’s annual liability or final
liability.

"relevant financial year", for an excess deduction, means—
     (a) if the excess deduction relates to an assessment of annual
     liability of the DGE for the group—the financial year to which the
     assessment relates; or
     (b) if the excess deduction relates to an assessment of final
     liability of the DGE for the group—the financial year that includes
     the final period to which the assessment relates.
 
Meaning of excess deduction
*** 45 Meaning of excess deduction ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies—
          (a) for an assessment of the annual liability of the DGE
          for a group, if the DGE’s annual deduction for the
          financial year is greater than the DGE’s annual wages for
          the year; or
          (b) for an assessment of the final liability of the DGE for
          a group, if the DGE’s final deduction for the final
          period is greater than the DGE’s final wages for the
          period.
     (2) The amount of the difference is the
     "excess deduction" for the assessment.
     (3) In this section—

     "annual deduction" see section 33.

     "annual wages" see section 33.

     "final deduction" see section 41.

     "final wages" see section 41.
 
Nomination by DGE of group members to share in excess deduction
*** 46 Nomination by DGE of group members to share in excess deduction ***
The DGE for a group may nominate, in an annual return or a final return lodged
under section 64 (2) —
     (a) 1 or more group members to share in any excess deduction for the
     assessment of the DGE’s annual liability or final liability; and
     (b) the order in which the members are to share in the excess
     deduction.
 
Determination by commissioner of group members to share in excess deduction
*** 47 Determination by commissioner of group members to share in excess
deduction ***
     (1) This section applies, for an assessment of annual liability or
     final liability of the DGE for a group, if—
          (a) the DGE does not make a nomination under section 46;
          and
          (b) there is an excess deduction.
     (2) The commissioner may make a determination of—
          (a) 1 or more non-DGE group members to share in the excess
          deduction; and
          (b) the order in which the members are to share in the
          excess deduction.
     (3) The determination may apply in relation to an assessment of the
     DGE’s annual liability or final liability made before or after the
     determination is made.
 
Sharing of excess deduction by entitled group members at end of financial year
*** 48 Sharing of excess deduction by entitled group members at end of
financial year ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) there is an excess deduction for an assessment of the
          annual liability or final liability of the DGE for a group;
          and
          (b) if the excess deduction is for an assessment of the
          DGE’s final liability—at least 1 member of the group
          continues to pay, or be liable to pay, wages as a member of
          the group for the period—
               (i) starting on the day the DGE’s change of
               status happens; and
               (ii) ending on 30 June in the relevant financial
               year.
     (2) An entitled group member for the excess deduction is, after the
     end of the relevant financial year, entitled to the following share
     of the excess deduction—
          (a) if the member is first in the order of entitled group
          members—the lesser of the following amounts—
               (i) the excess deduction;
               (ii) the member’s annual wages for the year;
          (b) for another entitled group member, the lesser of the
          following amounts—
               (i) so much of the excess deduction remaining
               after the preceding entitled group member in the
               order of entitled group members has received the
               preceding member’s share;
               (ii) the member’s annual wages for the year.
     (3) The commissioner must make an assessment or reassessment of an
     entitled group member’s annual liability for the year.
     (4) An assessment or reassessment mentioned in subsection (3) must be
     made on the basis that, for part 2, division 4, subdivision 1, the
     member’s
     "annual payroll tax amount" for the year is the amount worked out by
     applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax to the member’s annual
     wages for the year less the member’s share of the excess deduction
     under subsection (2).
     (5) In this section—

     "annual wages" see section 29 (1).
 
Sharing of excess deduction by entitled group members on group ceasing to exist
*** 49 Sharing of excess deduction by entitled group members on group ceasing
to exist ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) there is an excess deduction for an assessment of final
          liability of the DGE for a group; and
          (b) all members of the group cease to pay, or be liable to
          pay, wages as members of the group before 30 June in the
          relevant financial year.
     (2) An entitled group member for the excess deduction is, after all
     group members have ceased to pay, or be liable to pay, wages as
     members of the group, entitled to the following share of the excess
     deduction—
          (a) if the member is first in the order of entitled group
          members—the lesser of the following amounts—
               (i) the excess deduction;
               (ii) the member’s final wages for the relevant
               final period; or
          (b) for another entitled group member, the lesser of the
          following amounts—
               (i) so much of the excess deduction remaining
               after the preceding entitled group member in the
               order of entitled group members has received the
               preceding member’s share;
               (ii) the member’s final wages for the relevant
               final period.
     (3) The commissioner must make an assessment or reassessment of an
     entitled group member’s final liability for the relevant final
     period.
     (4) An assessment or reassessment mentioned in subsection (3) must be
     made on the basis that, for part 2, division 5, subdivision 1, the
     member’s
     "final payroll tax amount" for the relevant final period is the
     amount worked out by applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax to
     the member’s final wages for the period less the member’s share
     of the excess deduction under subsection (2).
     (5) In this section—

     "final wages" see section 37.

     "relevant final period", for an entitled group member, means the
     final period for the change of status of the member happening at the
     time the member ceases to pay, or be liable to pay, wages as a member
     of the group.
 
Definitions for div 6A
*** 49A Definitions for div 6A ***
In this division—

"entitled group member", for an excess rebate, means a group member who—
     (a) is nominated by the DGE for the group under section 49C, or
     determined by the commissioner under section 49D, as a group member
     to share in the excess rebate; and
     (b) if the excess rebate is shared by the entitled group members at
     the end of the relevant financial year under section 49E —is a
     member of the group on 30 June in the year and has an annual
     liability for the year.

"order of entitled group members" means the order in which entitled group
members are to share in an excess rebate under a nomination made by the DGE for
the group under section 49C, or a determination made by the commissioner under
section 49D, for an assessment of the annual liability or final liability
relating to the relevant financial year of a member of the group.

"relevant financial year", for an excess rebate, means—
     (a) if the excess rebate relates to an assessment of annual
     liability—the eligible year to which the assessment relates; or
     (b) if the excess rebate relates to an assessment of final
     liability—the eligible year that includes the final period.
 
Meaning of excess rebate
*** 49B Meaning of excess rebate ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies—
          (a) for an assessment of the annual liability relating to
          the relevant financial year of a non-DGE group member, if
          the relevant annual amount for the member for the year is
          greater than the member’s annual payroll tax amount for
          the year; or
          (b) for an assessment of the annual liability relating to
          the relevant financial year of a DGE, if the relevant
          annual amount for the DGE for the year is greater than the
          DGE’s annual payroll tax amount for the year; or
          (c) for an assessment of the final liability relating to
          the relevant financial year of a non-DGE group member, if
          the relevant final amount for the member for the final
          period is greater than the member’s final payroll tax
          amount; or
          (d) for an assessment of the final liability relating to
          the relevant financial year of a DGE, if the relevant final
          amount for the DGE for the final period is greater than the
          DGE’s final payroll tax amount.
     (2) The amount of the difference is the
     "excess rebate" for the assessment.
     (3) In this section—

     "annual payroll tax amount", for a DGE, see section 33.

     "annual payroll tax amount", for a non-DGE group member, see section
     29 (1).

     "final payroll tax amount", for a DGE, see section 41.

     "final payroll tax amount", for a non-DGE group member, see section
     37.

     "relevant annual amount" means the amount worked out under section
     35A (4), definition rebate, paragraph (a).

     "relevant final amount" means the amount worked out under section 43A
     (3), definition rebate, paragraph (a).
 
Nomination by DGE of group members to share in excess rebate
*** 49C Nomination by DGE of group members to share in excess rebate ***
The DGE for a group may nominate, in an annual return or a final return lodged
under section 64 (2) —
     (a) 1 or more group members, including the DGE, to share in any
     excess rebate for the assessment of a group member’s annual
     liability or final liability relating to the relevant financial year;
     and
     (b) the order in which the members are to share in the excess rebate.
 
Determination by commissioner of group members to share in excess rebate
*** 49D Determination by commissioner of group members to share in excess
rebate ***
     (1) This section applies, for an assessment of annual liability or
     final liability relating to the relevant financial year of a group
     member (the
     "first member"), if—
          (a) the DGE for the group does not make a nomination under
          section 49C; and
          (b) there is an excess rebate.
     (2) The commissioner may make a determination of—
          (a) 1 or more group members to share in the excess rebate;
          and
          (b) the order in which the members are to share in the
          excess rebate.
     (3) The determination may apply in relation to an assessment of the
     first member’s annual liability or final liability relating to the
     relevant financial year made before or after the determination is
     made.
 
Sharing of excess rebate by entitled group members at end of relevant financial
year
*** 49E Sharing of excess rebate by entitled group members at end of relevant
financial year ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) there is an excess rebate for an assessment of the
          annual liability or final liability relating to the
          relevant financial year of a group member; and
          (b) if the excess rebate is for an assessment of the
          member’s final liability—at least one other member of
          the group continues to pay, or be liable to pay, wages as a
          group member for the period—
               (i) starting on the day the member’s change of
               status happens; and
               (ii) ending on 30 June in the relevant financial
               year.
     (2) An entitled group member for the excess rebate is, after the end
     of the relevant financial year, entitled to the following share of
     the excess rebate—
          (a) if the member is first in the order of entitled group
          members, the lesser of the following amounts—
               (i) the excess rebate;
               (ii) the member’s annual payroll tax amount
               relating to the relevant financial year;
          (b) for another entitled group member, the lesser of the
          following amounts—
               (i) so much of the excess rebate remaining after
               the preceding entitled group member in the order
               of entitled group members has received the
               preceding member’s share;
               (ii) the member’s annual payroll tax amount
               relating to the relevant financial year.
     (3) The commissioner must make an assessment or reassessment of an
     entitled group member’s annual liability for the year.
     (4) An assessment or reassessment mentioned in subsection (3) must be
     made on the basis that, for part 2, division 4, subdivision 1 or 2,
     the member’s annual payroll tax amount for the year is the amount
     worked out by applying the appropriate rate of payroll tax to the
     member’s annual wages for the year less the member’s share of the
     excess rebate under subsection (2).
     (5) In this section—

     "annual wages" see section 29 (1) or 33.
 
Sharing of excess rebate by entitled group members on group ceasing to exist
*** 49F Sharing of excess rebate by entitled group members on group ceasing to
exist ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) there is an excess rebate for an assessment of final
          liability relating to the relevant financial year of a
          group member; and
          (b) all members of the group cease to pay, or be liable to
          pay, wages as members of the group before 30 June in the
          relevant financial year.
     (2) An entitled group member for the excess rebate is, after all
     group members have ceased to pay, or be liable to pay, wages as
     members of the group, entitled to the following share of the excess
     rebate—
          (a) if the member is first in the order of entitled group
          members, the lesser of the following amounts—
               (i) the excess rebate;
               (ii) the member’s final payroll tax amount for
               the relevant final period relating to the
               relevant financial year; or
          (b) for another entitled group member, the lesser of the
          following amounts—
               (i) so much of the excess rebate remaining after
               the preceding entitled group member in the order
               of entitled group members has received the
               preceding member’s share;
               (ii) the member’s final payroll tax amount for
               the relevant final period relating to the
               relevant financial year.
     (3) The commissioner must make an assessment or reassessment of an
     entitled group member’s final liability for the relevant final
     period.
     (4) An assessment or reassessment mentioned in subsection (3) must be
     made on the basis that, for part 2, division 5, subdivision 1 or 2,
     the member’s final payroll tax amount for the relevant final period
     is the amount worked out by applying the appropriate rate of payroll
     tax to the member’s final wages for the period less the member’s
     share of the excess rebate under subsection (2).
     (5) In this section—

     "final wages" see section 37 or 41.

     "relevant final period", for an entitled group member, means the
     final period for the change of status of the member happening at the
     time the member ceases to pay, or be liable to pay, wages as a member
     of the group.
 
Arrangements for avoidance of tax may be disregarded
*** 50 Arrangements for avoidance of tax may be disregarded ***
     (1) Where any person enters into any agreement, transaction, or
     arrangement, whether in writing or otherwise, whereby a natural
     person performs or renders, for or on behalf of another person,
     services in respect of which any payment is made to some other person
     related or connected to the natural person performing or rendering
     the services and the effect of such agreement, transaction or
     arrangement is to reduce or avoid the liability of any person to the
     assessment, imposition or payment of payroll tax or the mental health
     levy, the commissioner may—
          (a) disregard such agreement, transaction, or arrangement;
          and
          (b) determine that any party to such agreement, transaction
          or arrangement shall be deemed to be an employer for the
          purposes of this Act; and
          (c) determine that any payment made in respect of such
          agreement, transaction or arrangement shall be deemed to be
          wages for the purposes of this Act.
     (2) Where the commissioner makes a determination under subsection
     (1), the commissioner shall serve a notice to that effect on the
     person deemed to be an employer for the purposes of this Act and
     shall set out in the notice the facts on which the commissioner
     relies and the commissioner’s reasons for making the determination.
          Note—
               See also sections 13L and 13LA for particular
               provisions about avoidance arrangements relating
               to employment agency contracts.
 
Wages paid by or to third parties
*** 51 Wages paid by or to third parties ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if money or other consideration—
          (a) for an employee’s services as an employee of an
          employer, is paid or given or to be paid or given—
               (i) to the employee, by a person other than the
               employer; or
               (ii) to a person other than the employee, by the
               employer; or
               (iii) to a person other than the employee, by a
               person other than the employer; and
          (b) had it been paid or given, or to be paid or given,
          directly by the employer to the employee, would be wages
          paid or payable by the employer to the employee for this
          Act.
          Example of other consideration—
               the grant of a share or option
     (2) The money or other consideration is taken to be wages paid or
     payable by the employer to the employee.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if money or other consideration—
          (a) by way of remuneration for the appointment or services
          of a director of a company to the company, is paid or given
          or to be paid or given—
               (i) to the director by a person other than the
               company; or
               (ii) to a person other than the director by the
               company; or
               (iii) to a person other than the director by a
               person other than the company; and
          (b) had it been paid or given, or to be paid or given,
          directly by the company to the director, would comprise
          wages paid or payable by the company for this Act.
          Example of other consideration—
               the grant of a share or option
     (4) The money or other consideration is taken to be wages paid or
     payable by the company to the director.
     (5) In this section—

     "director" of a company includes—
          (a) a person who, under a contract or other arrangement, is
          to be appointed as a director of the company; and
          (b) a former director of the company.
 
Joint and several liability of group members
*** 51A Joint and several liability of group members ***
     (1) This section applies if a member of a group fails to pay an
     amount the member is required to pay under this Act in respect of a
     period.
     (2) Every member of the group is liable jointly and severally to pay
     the amount, whether or not the member was an employer during the
     period to which the amount relates.
     (3) This section is subject to sections 34 (2) and 42 (2).
 
Meaning of criteria for registration
*** 52 Meaning of criteria for registration ***
For this division, the
"criteria for registration" are that, during a month, an employer pays, or is
liable to pay, taxable wages and the employer—
     (a) pays, or is liable to pay, wages anywhere of more than $25,000 a
     week; or
     (b) is a group member.
 
Application for registration
*** 53 Application for registration ***
     (1) An employer who is not already registered as an employer under
     this division and who meets the criteria for registration must,
     within 7 days after the end of the month during which the employer
     meets the criteria, give the commissioner an application for
     registration as an employer.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (2) The application must be made in the approved form.
     (3) If—
          (a) the commissioner cancels the registration of a person
          as an employer in a financial year; and
          (b) the person subsequently pays or is liable to pay
          taxable wages (otherwise than as a member of a group)
          during the financial year;
     the person may give the commissioner an application, in the approved
     form, for registration as an employer, even though the person is not
     required under subsection (1) to apply for registration as an
     employer.
     (4) If an employer applies under subsection (1) or (3) for
     registration as an employer, the commissioner must register the
     employer.
 
Registration of employer without application
*** 54 Registration of employer without application ***
The commissioner may, by written notice given to a person who meets the
criteria for registration, register the person as an employer.
 
Notice of registration
*** 55 Notice of registration ***
     (1) On registration of a person as an employer, the commissioner must
     give written notice to the person of the registration.
     (2) The notice must state each of the following—
          (a) the date of registration;
          (b) the types of reassessments the employer is required or
          permitted to make;
          (c) whether the employer is permitted to remit the whole or
          part of unpaid tax interest or penalty tax.
 
Amendment of registration
*** 56 Amendment of registration ***
     (1) The commissioner may amend an employer’s registration by
     written notice given to the employer.
     (2) The notice must state the particulars of the employer’s notice
     of registration that are amended.
 
Cancellation of registration
*** 57 Cancellation of registration ***
     (1) The commissioner must cancel the registration of a person as an
     employer if—
          (a) the person has—
               (i) ceased to be an employer; and
               (ii) lodged a final return and paid the
               person’s final liability and final levy
               liability, if any, for the final period; or
          (b) each of the following applies—
               (i) the person is not a group member;
               (ii) the person has lodged an annual return and
               paid the person’s annual liability and annual
               levy liability, if any, for a financial year;
               (iii) before lodging the annual return, the
               person ceased to be an employer paying, or being
               liable to pay, wages mentioned in section 52 (a);
               (iv) the commissioner is satisfied the person
               will not pay, or be liable to pay, wages
               mentioned in section 52 (a) during the next
               financial year.
     (2) If the commissioner cancels the registration of a person as an
     employer, the commissioner must give written notice of the
     cancellation to the person.
 
Definition for div 2
*** 58 Definition for div 2 ***
In this division—

"relevant employer" means an employer who is—
     (a) registered as an employer under division 1; or
     (b) required to apply for registration as an employer under division
     1.
 
Periodic returns
*** 59 Periodic returns ***
     (1) A relevant employer must, not later than 7 days after the last
     day of each periodic return period for all or part of which the
     employer is a relevant employer, lodge a return for taxable wages
     paid or payable by the employer for the period.
          Note—
               Failure to lodge a periodic return is an offence
               under section 121 of the Administration Act.
     (1A) Subsection (1) does not apply for the last periodic return
     period of a financial year for the employer.
     (2) However, if the commissioner considers it would be unduly onerous
     to require the employer to lodge periodic returns within the 7-day
     period required under subsection (1), the commissioner may, by
     written notice, vary the time within which the employer is required
     to lodge returns under this section.
     (3) The commissioner may revoke a notice given under subsection (2)
     at any time by written notice.
     (4) The return must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) state the employer’s periodic liability for the
          periodic return period; and
          (c) state the employer’s periodic levy liability for the
          periodic return period.
     (5) This section is subject to sections 60 to 62.
          Note—
               Lodgement of an annual return or final return
               does not, of itself, affect a relevant
               employer’s obligation to lodge periodic
               returns.
 
Duration of periodic return period
*** 60 Duration of periodic return period ***
     (1) Subject to subsection (2), a periodic return period is the
     period—
          (a) starting on the first day of a month; and
          (b) ending on the last day of the month.
     (2) However, if the commissioner considers it would be unduly onerous
     to require the employer to lodge periodic returns for each month, the
     commissioner may, by written notice, authorise the employer to lodge
     periodic returns for the periods stated in the notice.
     (3) A period stated in the notice must be less than 1 year.
     (4) The commissioner may revoke a notice given under subsection (2)
     at any time by written notice.
 
Deemed lodgement of periodic return—payment by electronic transfer of funds
*** 61 Deemed lodgement of periodic return—payment by electronic transfer of
funds ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an amount of payroll tax or mental health levy may be
          or is required to be, under the Administration Act, section
          29 or 29A, paid by the electronic transfer of funds; and
          (b) an employer makes a payment of periodic liability or
          periodic levy liability for a periodic return period by an
          electronic transfer of funds as required under that Act;
          and
          (c) using an approved information system, the employer
          gives the commissioner a breakdown of the payment between
          primary tax and assessed interest.
     (2) The employer is taken to have lodged a periodic return for the
     periodic return period to which the payment relates.
     (3) The amount of the payment is, for the Administration Act, section
     14 (a), taken to be the amount of the employer’s periodic liability
     and periodic levy liability stated in the return.
     (4) However, if the employer makes more than 1 payment for a periodic
     return period by the electronic transfer of funds, subsections (2)
     and (3) apply only to the first payment made by the employer for the
     period.
     (5) In this section—

     "primary tax" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.
 
Exemption from requirement to lodge periodic returns
*** 62 Exemption from requirement to lodge periodic returns ***
     (1) If the commissioner considers that no tax will be payable by a
     relevant employer or, if paid, would be refunded, the commissioner
     may issue a certificate to the employer exempting the employer from
     the requirement under section 59 to lodge periodic returns.
     (2) An employer to whom a certificate is issued under subsection (1)
     is not required to lodge periodic returns.
          Note—
               An employer who is not required to lodge periodic
               returns is subject to a notification requirement
               under section 87 and is not exempt from the
               requirement to lodge an annual return or final
               return.
     (3) A certificate issued under subsection (1) may be either
     unconditional or subject to such conditions as are prescribed or as
     the commissioner thinks fit.
     (4) The commissioner may, at any time by notice in writing, revoke
     any certificate issued under subsection (1).
     (5) The issue of a certificate under subsection (1) shall not exempt
     an employer from the payment of any payroll tax or mental health
     levy, notwithstanding that it may have the effect of postponing the
     time for payment of any payroll tax or mental health levy.
 
Annual return
*** 63 Annual return ***
     (1) This section applies to an employer who is a relevant employer on
     30 June in a financial year.
     (2) The employer must, not later than 21 July immediately after the
     end of the year, lodge a return for taxable wages paid or payable by
     the employer for the year.
          Note—
               Failure to lodge an annual return is an offence
               under section 121 of the Administration Act.
     (3) The return must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) state—
               (i) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the
               wages that were paid or payable during the
               designated period for the DGE in the year, as a
               member of the group, by each employer who was a
               member of the group for all or part of the
               designated period; or
               (ii) for another employer, the wages that were
               paid or payable during the year by the employer,
               other than wages that were included, or required
               to be included, in a final return for a final
               period for the employer during the year; and
          (c) state the employer’s annual liability or annual
          refund amount for the year; and
          (d) if the employer is not a group member or is the DGE for
          a group—state the employer’s annual levy liability or
          annual levy refund amount for the year.
     (4) Despite subsection (2), an employer is not required to lodge an
     annual return for a financial year if the employer—
          (a) under section 64 (2), lodged or was required to lodge a
          final return during the year; and
          (b) did not pay, and was not liable to pay, taxable wages
          during the financial year after the last day of the final
          period for which the final return was lodged or required to
          be lodged.
          Note—
               Lodgement of a final return does not, of itself,
               affect a relevant employer’s obligation to
               lodge an annual return.
 
Final return
*** 64 Final return ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if, during a financial year, a change of
     status happens for a relevant employer.
     (2) The employer must, not later than 21 days after the change of
     status happens, lodge a return for taxable wages paid or payable by
     the employer for the final period for the change of status.
          Note—
               Failure to lodge a final return is an offence
               under section 121 of the Administration Act.
     (3) The return must—
          (a) be in the approved form; and
          (b) state—
               (i) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the
               wages that were paid or payable during the
               period, as a member of the group, by each
               employer who was a member of the group for all or
               part of the period; or
               (ii) for another employer, the wages that were
               paid or payable during the period by the
               employer; and
          (c) state the employer’s final liability or final refund
          amount for the period; and
          (d) if the employer is not a member of a group on the last
          day of the final period—state the employer’s final levy
          liability or final levy refund amount for the period.
     (4) Subsection (5) applies if, during a financial year, a change of
     status happens for a relevant employer who is a member of a group
     (the
     "relevant group member").
     (5) The employer who is the DGE for the group on the last day of the
     final period for the change of status must lodge a return for taxable
     wages paid or payable by the group members for the final period.
          Note—
               Failure to lodge a final return is an offence
               under section 121 of the Administration Act.
     (6) The return must—
          (a) be lodged within 21 days after the end of the periodic
          return period in which the last day of the final period
          occurs; and
          (b) be in the approved form; and
          (c) state the wages that were paid or payable during the
          period, as a member of the group, by each employer who was
          a member of the group for all or part of the period; and
          (d) state the DGE’s final levy liability or final levy
          refund amount for the period.
 
Further returns
*** 65 Further returns ***
The commissioner may, by notice in writing, call upon any employer or person to
lodge, within the time specified in the notice, such return or such further or
fuller return, as the commissioner requires, whether on the employer’s or
person’s own behalf or as an agent or a trustee.
 
Definitions for pt 4
*** 66 Definitions for pt 4 ***
In this part—

"business" includes any of the following, whether carried on by 1 person or 2
or more persons together—
     (a) a profession or trade;
     (b) any other activity carried on for fee, gain or reward;
     (c) the activity of employing 1 or more persons who perform duties in
     connection with another business;
     (d) the carrying on of a trust, including a dormant trust;
     (e) the activity of holding money or property used in connection with
     another business.

"related body corporate" see the Corporations Act, section 9.
 
Grouping provisions to operate independently
*** 67 Grouping provisions to operate independently ***
The fact that a person is not a member of a group constituted under a provision
of this part does not prevent the person being a member of a group constituted
under another provision of this part.
 
Constitution of groups
*** 68 Constitution of groups ***
A group is constituted by all the persons forming a group that is not part of a
larger group.
 
Groups of corporations
*** 69 Groups of corporations ***
Corporations constitute a group if they are related bodies corporate.
 
Groups arising from the use of common employees
*** 70 Groups arising from the use of common employees ***
     (1) If 1 or more employees of an employer perform duties in
     connection with 1 or more businesses carried on by the employer and 1
     or more other persons, the employer and each of those other persons
     constitute a group.
     (2) If 1 or more employees of an employer are employed solely or
     mainly to perform duties in connection with 1 or more businesses
     carried on by 1 or more other persons, the employer and each of those
     other persons constitute a group.
     (3) If 1 or more employees of an employer perform duties—
          (a) in connection with 1 or more businesses carried on by 1
          or more other persons; and
          (b) in connection with, or in fulfilment of the
          employer’s obligation under, a relevant agreement;
     the employer and each of those other persons constitute a group.
     (4) In this section—

     "relevant agreement" means an agreement, arrangement or undertaking
     for services to be provided to 1 or more of the other persons in
     connection with the business or those businesses carried on by the
     other person or persons—
          (a) whether the agreement, arrangement or undertaking is
          formal or informal, express or implied; and
          (b) whether or not the agreement, arrangement or
          undertaking provides for duties to be performed by the
          employees or states the duties to be performed by them.
          Note—
               Section 74 allows the commissioner to exclude,
               for payroll tax and mental health levy purposes,
               persons from a group constituted under this
               section in some circumstances.
 
Groups of commonly controlled businesses
*** 71 Groups of commonly controlled businesses ***
     (1) If a person or set of persons has a controlling interest in each
     of 2 businesses, the persons who carry on those businesses constitute
     a group.
          Note—
               Section 74 allows the commissioner to exclude,
               for payroll tax and mental health levy purposes,
               persons from a group constituted under this
               section in some circumstances.
     (2) For this section, a person or set of persons has a
     "controlling interest" in a business if any of the following
     applies—
          (a) for 1 person—the person is the sole owner of the
          business, whether or not as trustee;
          (b) for a set of persons—together the persons are the
          sole owners of the business as trustees;
          (c) for a business carried on by a corporation—
               (i) the person or each person in the set of
               persons is a director of the corporation, and the
               person or set of persons is entitled to exercise
               more than 50% of the voting power at meetings of
               the directors of the corporation; or
               (ii) a director or set of directors of the
               corporation that is entitled to exercise more
               than 50% of the voting power at meetings of the
               directors of the corporation is under an
               obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
               accordance with the direction, instruction or
               wishes of the person or set of persons;
          (d) for a business carried on by a body corporate or
          unincorporate—the person or set of persons constitute
          more than 50% of, or control the composition of, the board
          of management, by whatever name called, of the body;
          (e) for a business carried on by a corporation with a share
          capital—the person or set of persons can, directly or
          indirectly, exercise, control the exercise of, or
          substantially influence the exercise of, more than 50% of
          the voting power attached to the voting shares, or a class
          of voting shares, issued by the corporation;
          (f) for a business carried on by a partnership—the person
          or set of persons—
               (i) own, whether beneficially or not, more than
               50% of the capital of the partnership; or
               (ii) is entitled, whether beneficially or not, to
               more than 50% of the profits of the partnership;
          (g) for a business carried on under a trust—the person or
          set of persons, whether or not as the trustee or
          beneficiary of another trust, is the beneficiary in respect
          of more than 50% of the value of the interests in the trust
          under which the business is carried on.
     (3) If—
          (a) 2 corporations are related bodies corporate; and
          (b) 1 of the corporations has a controlling interest in a
          business;
     the other corporation has a controlling interest in the business.
     (4) If—
          (a) a person or set of persons has a controlling interest
          in a business; and
          (b) a person or set of persons who carry on the business
          has a controlling interest in another business;
     the person or set of persons mentioned in paragraph (a) has a
     controlling interest in the other business.
     (5) If—
          (a) a person or set of persons is the beneficiary of a
          trust in respect of more than 50% of the value of the
          interests in the trust; and
          (b) the trustee of the trust, whether alone or together
          with another trustee or trustees, has a controlling
          interest in the business of another trust;
     the person or set of persons has a controlling interest in the
     business.
     (6) A person who may benefit from a discretionary trust as a result
     of the trustee or another person, or the trustee and another person,
     exercising or failing to exercise a power or discretion, is taken for
     this part to be a beneficiary of the trust in respect of more than
     50% of the value of the interests in the trust.
     (7) If—
          (a) a person or set of persons has a controlling interest
          in the business of a trust; and
          (b) the trustee of the trust, whether alone or together
          with another trustee or trustees, has a controlling
          interest in the business of a corporation;
     the person or set of persons has a controlling interest in the
     business of the corporation.
     (8) If—
          (a) a person or set of persons has a controlling interest
          in the business of a trust; and
          (b) the trustee of the trust, whether alone or together
          with 1 or more other trustees, has a controlling interest
          in the business of a partnership;
     the person or set of persons has a controlling interest in the
     business of the partnership.
 
Groups arising from tracing of interests in corporations
*** 72 Groups arising from tracing of interests in corporations ***
     (1) A relevant entity and a corporation constitute a group if the
     entity has a controlling interest in the corporation.
          Note—
               Section 74 allows the commissioner to exclude,
               for payroll tax and mental health levy purposes,
               persons from a group constituted under this
               section in some circumstances.
     (2) For this section, a relevant entity has a
     "controlling interest" in a corporation if—
          (a) the corporation has share capital; and
          (b) the entity has an interest in the corporation; and
          (c) the value of the interest is more than 50%.
     (3) In this section—

     "interest" means a direct interest, indirect interest or aggregate
     interest under section 74B.

     "relevant entity" see section 74B.
 
Smaller groups subsumed into larger groups
*** 73 Smaller groups subsumed into larger groups ***
     (1) If a person is a member of 2 or more groups, the members of all
     the groups together constitute a group.
     (2) If 2 or more members of a group have together a controlling
     interest in a business within the meaning of section 71, all the
     members of the group and the person or persons who carry on the
     business together constitute a group.
          Note 1—
               Section 74 allows the commissioner to exclude,
               for payroll tax and mental health levy purposes,
               persons from a group constituted under this
               section in some circumstances.
     Note 2—
          See also section 68.
 
Exclusion of persons from groups
*** 74 Exclusion of persons from groups ***
     (1) The commissioner may, by order in writing (an
     "exclusion order"), exclude a person from a group.
     (2) The commissioner may make an exclusion order only if the
     commissioner is satisfied a business carried on by the person is
     carried on independently of, and is not connected with the carrying
     on of, a business carried on by any other member of the group.
     (3) For deciding whether to make an exclusion order, the commissioner
     must have regard to—
          (a) the nature and degree of ownership and control of the
          businesses carried on by the person and the other members
          of the group; and
          (b) the nature of the businesses; and
          (c) any other matters the commissioner considers relevant.
     (4) Despite subsection (1), the commissioner can not make an
     exclusion order if the person and another body corporate that is a
     member of the group are related bodies corporate.
     (5) The commissioner may, by order in writing, revoke an exclusion
     order if the commissioner is satisfied the circumstances in which an
     exclusion order may be made do not apply to the person.
     (6) An exclusion order or order revoking an exclusion order takes
     effect on the date stated in it, which may be a date earlier than the
     date of the exclusion order.
 
Application of div 2A
*** 74A Application of div 2A ***
This division applies for interpreting section 72.
 
Definitions for div 2A
*** 74B Definitions for div 2A ***
In this division—

"aggregate interest" see section 74G (1).

"associated persons" see section 74C.

"direct interest" see section 74E.

"indirect interest" see section 74F.

"private company" means a company that is not limited by shares, or whose
shares are not quoted on the Australian Stock Exchange or any exchange of the
World Federation of Exchanges.

"related persons" see section 74D.

"relevant entity" means—
     (a) a person; or
     (b) 2 or more associated persons.
 
Who are associated persons
*** 74C Who are associated persons ***
Persons are
"associated persons" if they are any of the following—
     (a) related persons;
     (b) individuals who are partners in a partnership;
     (c) private companies in which common shareholders have a majority
     interest;
     (d) trustees of trusts, other than public unit trust schemes, of
     which there is a common beneficiary;
     (e) a private company and a trustee of a trust, other than a public
     unit trust scheme, if a related body corporate of the company is a
     beneficiary of the trust.
 
Who are related persons
*** 74D Who are related persons ***
     (1) Persons are
     "related persons" if they are any of the following—
          (a) individuals, if—
               (i) 1 is the spouse of the other; or
               (ii) the relationship between them is that of
               parent and child, brothers, sisters, or brother
               and sister;
          (b) private companies that are related bodies corporate;
          (c) an individual and a private company, if the individual
          is a majority shareholder or director of—
               (i) the company; or
               (ii) another private company that is a related
               body corporate of the company;
          (d) an individual and a trustee of a trust, other than a
          public unit trust scheme, of which the individual is a
          beneficiary;
          (e) a private company and a trustee of a trust, other than
          a public unit trust scheme, if the company, or a majority
          shareholder or director of the company, is a beneficiary of
          the trust.
     (2) In this section—

     "de facto partner" means 1 of 2 persons who is a de facto partner
     within the meaning of the Acts Interpretation Act 1954, section 32DA,
     if—
          (a) the persons are living, and for at least 2 years have
          lived, together as a couple on a genuine domestic basis
          within the meaning of the Acts Interpretation Act 1954,
          section 32DA; or
          (b) the persons are not living, but for at least 2 years
          were living, together as a couple on a genuine domestic
          basis within the meaning of the Acts Interpretation Act
          1954, section 32DA.

     "spouse" includes a de facto partner and a civil partner.
 
Direct interest
*** 74E Direct interest ***
     (1) A relevant entity has a
     "direct interest" in a corporation if—
          (a) for a relevant entity that is a person—the person
          can, directly or indirectly, exercise the voting power
          attached to any voting shares issued by the corporation; or
          (b) for a relevant entity that is 2 or more associated
          persons—each of the associated persons can, directly or
          indirectly, exercise the voting power attached to any
          voting shares issued by the corporation.
     (2) The value of the relevant entity’s direct interest in the
     corporation is the percentage equivalent to the proportion of the
     voting power of all voting shares issued by the corporation that—
          (a) for a relevant entity that is a person—the person
          can, directly or indirectly, exercise; or
          (b) for a relevant entity that is 2 or more associated
          persons—the associated persons can, if acting together,
          directly or indirectly exercise.
     (3) In this section—

     "exercise", in relation to voting power attached to voting shares
     issued by a corporation, includes control the exercise of, or
     substantially influence the exercise of, the voting power.
 
Indirect interest
*** 74F Indirect interest ***
     (1) A relevant entity has an
     "indirect interest" in a corporation if the corporation is linked to
     another corporation (the
     "directly controlled corporation") in which the entity has a direct
     interest.
          Note—
               It is possible for a relevant entity to have more
               than 1 indirect interest in a corporation. In
               that case, the relevant entity has an aggregate
               interest in the corporation under section 74G (1)
               (b).
                    Example--
                         Examples—
                                   1 The
                                   relevant
                                   entity has
                                   a direct
                                   interest
                                   in
                                   corporations
                                   A and B.
                                   Both
                                   corporations
                                   A and B
                                   have a
                                   direct
                                   interest
                                   in
                                   corporation
                                   C.
                                   2 The
                                   relevant
                                   entity has
                                   a direct
                                   interest
                                   in
                                   corporation
                                   A.
                                   Corporation
                                   A is
                                   linked to
                                   another
                                   corporation
                                   through
                                   more than
                                   1 chain of
                                   corporations.
     (2) A corporation is linked to the directly controlled corporation if
     the corporation is part of a chain of corporations—
          (a) that starts with the directly controlled corporation;
          and
          (b) in which a link is formed if a corporation has a direct
          interest in the next corporation in the chain.
          Examples—
                    1 A relevant entity has a direct
                    interest in corporation A (the directly
                    controlled corporation). Corporation A
                    has a direct interest in corporation B.
                    Corporations A and B are linked and
                    form part of a chain of corporations.
                    Therefore, the relevant entity has a
                    direct interest in corporation A, and
                    an indirect interest in corporation B.
                    2 Corporation B also has a direct
                    interest in corporation C. Corporations
                    B and C are linked to corporation A,
                    and corporations A, B and C form part
                    of a chain of corporations. The
                    relevant entity has a direct interest
                    in corporation A, and an indirect
                    interest in corporations B and C.
                    3 Corporation B also has a direct
                    interest in corporation D. There are
                    now 2 chains of corporations, 1
                    consisting of corporations A, B and C
                    and the other consisting of
                    corporations A, B and D. Corporations
                    B, C and D are all linked to
                    corporation A. The relevant entity has
                    a direct interest in corporation A, and
                    an indirect interest in corporations B,
                    C and D. However, if a relevant entity
                    had a direct interest in corporation C
                    only, the entity would not have an
                    indirect interest in corporation D
                    because corporation D is not linked to
                    corporation C.
     (3) The value of a relevant entity’s indirect interest in a
     corporation (the
     "indirectly controlled corporation") that is linked to a directly
     controlled corporation is the percentage worked out by multiplying
     the following amounts—
          (a) the value of the relevant entity’s direct interest in
          the directly controlled corporation;
          (b) the value of each direct interest that forms a link in
          the chain of corporations by which the indirectly
          controlled corporation is linked to the directly controlled
          corporation.
          Examples—
                    1 A relevant entity has a direct
                    interest (with a value of 80%) in
                    corporation A. Corporation A has a
                    direct interest (with a value of 70%)
                    in corporation B. The value of the
                    relevant entity’s indirect interest
                    in corporation B is 80% x 70% = 56%.
                    For section 72, the relevant entity has
                    a controlling interest in corporation
                    B.
                    2 Corporation B also has a direct
                    interest (with a value of 40%) in
                    corporation C. The value of the
                    relevant entity’s indirect interest
                    in corporation C is 80% x 70% x 40% =
                    22.4%. For section 72, the relevant
                    entity does not have a controlling
                    interest in corporation C.
 
Aggregate interest
*** 74G Aggregate interest ***
     (1) A relevant entity has an
     "aggregate interest" in a corporation if—
          (a) the entity has a direct interest and 1 or more indirect
          interests in the corporation; or
          (b) the entity has more than 1 indirect interest in the
          corporation.
     (2) The value of a relevant entity’s aggregate interest in a
     corporation is the sum of the following amounts—
          (a) the value of the direct interest, if any, of the entity
          in the corporation;
          (b) the value of each indirect interest of the entity in
          the corporation.
          Example—
               A relevant entity has a direct interest (with a
               value of 40%) in corporation B. The relevant
               entity also has a direct interest (with a value
               of 25%) in corporation A. Corporation A has a
               direct interest (with a value of 60%) in
               corporation B. Accordingly, the relevant entity
               also has an indirect interest in corporation B
               with a value of 15% (25% x 60%). The value of the
               relevant entity’s aggregate interest in
               corporation B is 40% + 15% = 55%. For section 72,
               the relevant entity has a controlling interest in
               corporation B.
 
Designation of group member as DGE
*** 75 Designation of group member as DGE ***
     (1) The members of a group may, by an instrument in writing in the
     approved form executed by or on behalf of each member of the group
     and served on the commissioner, designate 1 of its members to be the
     DGE in respect of the group for the purposes of this Act.
     (2) If the members of a group do not in accordance with subsection
     (1) designate 1 of the members of the group to be the DGE in respect
     of the group for the purposes of this Act, the commissioner may
     exercise in respect of the group the powers of designation conferred
     on members of the group by that subsection and for the purposes of
     this Act such a designation by the commissioner shall be by
     instrument in writing served on the member of the group designated as
     the DGE and shall have the same effect and give rise to the same
     consequences as if validly made by the members of the group.
     (3) Subject to subsection (4), the DGE in respect of a group ceases
     to be the DGE in respect of that group on and from the first day of
     the periodic return period relating to the DGE during which—
          (a) the composition of the group alters; or
          (b) the members of the group, by an instrument in writing
          in the approved form executed by or on behalf of each of
          them who is known to the commissioner to be a member of the
          group and served on the commissioner, revoke the
          designation;
     whichever occurs the earlier.
     (4) The members of a group may exercise the power of revoking a
     designation conferred by subsection (3) only with the prior written
     consent of the commissioner or, if at the same time as revoking the
     designation, the members make a further designation of 1 of their
     members to be the DGE in substitution for the member whose
     designation is revoked.
     (5) Where the commissioner has exercised the powers conferred on the
     commissioner by subsection (2), the commissioner may, by instrument
     in writing served on the member of the group designated as the DGE,
     revoke the commissioner’s designation of that member as the DGE and
     thereafter may further exercise the powers conferred on the
     commissioner by that subsection.
 
When registered employer may make reassessment
*** 76 When registered employer may make reassessment ***
     (1) An employer who is registered as an employer under part 3,
     division 1 may make a reassessment of the employer’s periodic
     liability, annual liability or final liability only if—
          (a) the employer is required or permitted under the
          employer’s notice of registration; and
          (b) the employer is satisfied the amount assessed is not
          correct; and
          (c) the commissioner has not made an assessment of the
          liability, other than under the Administration Act, section
          14 (a).
               Note—
                    See, also, section 24 (Reassessment by
                    self assessors) of the Administration
                    Act.
     (2) A registered employer must not make a self assessment of a
     reassessment made by the commissioner.
 
Reassessment—determination of periodic deduction
*** 77 Reassessment—determination of periodic deduction ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the commissioner—
               (i) makes a determination under section 21 (1) or
               27 (1) of the amount of an employer’s deduction
               for a periodic return period; or
               (ii) revokes a determination mentioned in
               subparagraph (i); and
          (b) the making or revocation of the determination—
               (i) relates to a periodic return period for which
               an assessment of the employer’s periodic
               liability has been made; and
               (ii) would change the amount of the employer’s
               periodic liability for the period.
     (2) A reassessment of the employer’s periodic liability for the
     periodic return period must be made to give effect to the making or
     revocation of the determination.
     (3) If a reassessment required under subsection (2) would change the
     amount of the employer’s annual liability for a financial year, or
     final liability for a final period, for which an assessment has been
     made, a reassessment of the employer’s annual liability or final
     liability must be made to take into account the making or revocation
     of the determination.
 
Reassessment—determination of primary periodic threshold or additional
periodic threshold
*** 77A Reassessment—determination of primary periodic threshold or
additional periodic threshold ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the commissioner makes or revokes a determination under
          section 43E (1); and
          (b) the making or revocation of the determination—
               (i) relates to a periodic return period for which
               an assessment of the employer’s periodic levy
               liability has been made; and
               (ii) would change the amount of the employer’s
               periodic levy liability for the period.
     (2) A reassessment of the employer’s periodic levy liability for
     the periodic return period must be made to give effect to the making
     or revocation of the determination.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if a reassessment required under
     subsection (2) would change the amount of any of the following (each
     an
     "affected liability") for which an assessment has been made—
          (a) the employer’s annual levy liability for a financial
          year;
          (b) the employer’s final levy liability for a final
          period;
          (c) for an employer who is a non-DGE group member—
               (i) the DGE’s annual levy liability for a
               financial year; or
               (ii) the DGE’s final levy liability for a final
               period.
     (4) A reassessment of the affected liability must be made to take
     into account the making or revocation of the determination.
 
Reassessment—annual liability of non-group employer who has lodged a final
return
*** 78 Reassessment—annual liability of non-group employer who has lodged a
final return ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an employer is not a group member on 30 June in a
          financial year; and
          (b) under section 64 (2), the employer lodged, or was
          required to lodge, a final return for a final period during
          the year, and the employer was not a group member during
          the final period; and
          (c) the original assessment of the employer’s annual
          liability for the year—
               (i) was not made by the commissioner; and
               (ii) was made as required under section 30 (2);
               and
          (d) the employer’s annual liability for the year worked
          out as required under section 30 (2) is greater than it
          would be if the final return wages and final return
          liability for a final period mentioned in paragraph (b)
          were included for working out the liability.
     (2) Despite section 30 (2), the commissioner must make a reassessment
     of the employer’s annual liability for the year to include the
     final return wages and final return liability mentioned in subsection
     (1) (d) for working out the liability.
     (3) If the commissioner includes final return wages and final return
     liability under subsection (2) for working out the employer’s
     annual liability, the employer’s annual deduction for the financial
     year must be worked out having regard to the days in a final period
     mentioned in subsection (1) (b).
     (4) In this section—

     "final return liability" means the employer’s periodic liability
     amount for a final period mentioned in subsection (1) (b).

     "final return wages" means taxable wages paid or payable by the
     employer for a final period mentioned in subsection (1) (b).
 
Reassessment—annual levy liability of non-group employer who has lodged a
final return
*** 78A Reassessment—annual levy liability of non-group employer who has
lodged a final return ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an employer is not a group member on 30 June in a
          financial year; and
          (b) under section 64 (2), the employer lodged, or was
          required to lodge, a final return for a final period during
          the year, and the employer was not a group member during
          the final period; and
          (c) the original assessment of the employer’s annual levy
          liability for the year—
               (i) was not made by the commissioner; and
               (ii) was made as required under section 43J (4);
               and
          (d) the employer’s annual levy liability for the year
          worked out as required under section 43J (4) is greater
          than it would be if the final return wages and final return
          liability for a final period mentioned in paragraph (b)
          were included for working out the liability.
     (2) Despite section 43J (4), the commissioner must make a
     reassessment of the employer’s annual levy liability for the year
     to include the final return wages and final return liability
     mentioned in subsection (1) (d) for working out the liability.
     (3) In this section—

     "final return liability" means the employer’s periodic liability
     amount for a final period mentioned in subsection (1) (b).

     "final return wages" means taxable wages and interstate wages paid or
     payable by the employer for a final period mentioned in subsection
     (1) (b).
 
Reassessment of payroll tax liability—change of DGE
*** 79 Reassessment of payroll tax liability—change of DGE ***
     (1) This section applies for an employer who is a group member if—
          (a) the DGE for the group changes; and
               Note—
                    See section 75 (Designation of group
                    member as DGE).
     (b) the change of DGE—
          (i) relates to a periodic return period for which an
          assessment of the employer’s periodic liability has been
          made; and
          (ii) would change the amount of the employer’s periodic
          liability for the period.
     (2) A reassessment of the employer’s periodic liability for the
     periodic return period must be made to give effect to the change of
     DGE.
     (3) If a reassessment required under subsection (2) would change the
     amount of the employer’s annual liability for a financial year, or
     final liability for a final period, for which an assessment has been
     made, a reassessment of the employer’s annual liability or final
     liability must be made to take into account the change of DGE.
 
Reassessment of levy liability—change of DGE
*** 79A Reassessment of levy liability—change of DGE ***
     (1) This section applies for an employer who is a group member if—
          (a) the DGE for the group changes; and
               Note—
                    See section 75 (Designation of group
                    member as DGE).
     (b) the change of DGE—
          (i) relates to a periodic return period for which an
          assessment of the employer’s periodic levy liability has
          been made; and
          (ii) would change the amount of the employer’s periodic
          levy liability for the period.
     (2) A reassessment of the employer’s periodic levy liability for
     the periodic return period must be made to give effect to the change
     of DGE.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if a reassessment required under
     subsection (2) would change the amount of any of the following (each
     an
     "affected liability") for which an assessment has been made—
          (a) the employer’s annual levy liability for a financial
          year;
          (b) the employer’s final levy liability for a final
          period;
          (c) if the employer is not the DGE—
               (i) the DGE’s annual levy liability for a
               financial year; or
               (ii) the DGE’s final levy liability for a final
               period.
     (4) A reassessment of the affected liability must be made to take
     into account the change of DGE.
 
Reassessment of payroll tax liability—making or revocation of order excluding
a person from a group
*** 80 Reassessment of payroll tax liability—making or revocation of order
excluding a person from a group ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the commissioner—
               (i) makes an order under section 74 excluding a
               person from a group; or
               (ii) revokes an order mentioned in subparagraph
               (i); and
          (b) the making or revocation of the order—
               (i) relates to a periodic return period for which
               an assessment of the person’s periodic
               liability has been made; and
               (ii) would change the amount of the person’s
               periodic liability for the period.
     (2) A reassessment of the person’s periodic liability for the
     periodic return period must be made to give effect to the making or
     revocation of the order.
     (3) If a reassessment required under subsection (2) would change the
     amount of the person’s annual liability for a financial year, or
     final liability for a final period, for which an assessment has been
     made, a reassessment of the person’s annual liability or final
     liability must be made to take into account the making or revocation
     of the order.
 
Reassessment of levy liability—making or revocation of order excluding a
person from a group
*** 80A Reassessment of levy liability—making or revocation of order
excluding a person from a group ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the commissioner—
               (i) makes an order under section 74 excluding a
               person from a group; or
               (ii) revokes an order mentioned in subparagraph
               (i); and
          (b) the making or revocation of the order—
               (i) relates to a periodic return period for which
               an assessment of the person’s periodic levy
               liability has been made; and
               (ii) would change the amount of the person’s
               periodic levy liability for the period.
     (2) A reassessment of the person’s periodic levy liability for the
     periodic return period must be made to give effect to the making or
     revocation of the order.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if a reassessment required under
     subsection (2) would change the amount of any of the following (each
     an
     "affected liability") for which an assessment has been made—
          (a) the person’s annual levy liability for a financial
          year;
          (b) the person’s final levy liability for a final period;
          (c) if subsection (1) (a) (ii) applies and, immediately
          after the revocation, the person is not the DGE—
               (i) the DGE’s annual levy liability for a
               financial year; or
               (ii) the DGE’s final levy liability for a final
               period.
     (4) A reassessment of the affected liability must be made to take
     into account the making or revocation of the determination.
 
Provision about payroll tax assessments made by commissioner—employer who is
required to lodge periodic returns
*** 81 Provision about payroll tax assessments made by commissioner—employer
who is required to lodge periodic returns ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if an employer lodged, or was required
     under section 59 to lodge, a periodic return during all or part of a
     financial year (the
     "relevant period").
     (2) In making an assessment or reassessment of the employer’s
     annual liability for the year, the commissioner may treat the
     employer as if the employer had been exempt under section 62 from
     lodging periodic returns during all or part of the relevant period.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if an employer lodged, or was required
     under section 59 to lodge, a periodic return during all or part of a
     final period (also the
     "relevant period").
     (4) In making an assessment or reassessment of the employer’s final
     liability for the final period, the commissioner may treat the
     employer as if the employer had been exempt under section 62 from
     lodging periodic returns during all or part of the relevant period.
     (5) If subsection (2) or (4) applies—
          (a) the employer must be treated for this Act and the
          Administration Act as if the employer did not have periodic
          liability, and had been exempt under section 62 from
          lodging periodic returns, for periodic return periods
          during all or part of the relevant period; and
          (b) any assessment of periodic liability for a periodic
          return period mentioned in paragraph (a) is taken not to
          have been made; and
          (c) the commissioner may apply, in the order required under
          the Administration Act, section 42, the whole or part of an
          amount paid or payable by the employer for periodic
          liability for a periodic return period mentioned in
          paragraph (a) as payment for a prescribed payroll tax
          liability of the employer; and
          (d) the commissioner is not prevented from making a
          subsequent reassessment of the employer’s periodic
          liability, annual liability or final liability under
          section 82.
     (6) For this section, the circumstances in which an employer was
     required under section 59 to lodge a periodic return during the
     relevant period include an assessment or reassessment mentioned in
     section 82 (2) or (4) being made by the commissioner in relation to
     the period.
 
Provision about levy assessments made by commissioner—employer who is
required to lodge periodic returns
*** 81A Provision about levy assessments made by commissioner—employer who is
required to lodge periodic returns ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if an employer lodged, or was required
     under section 59 to lodge, a periodic return during all or part of a
     financial year (the
     "relevant period").
     (2) In making an annual levy liability assessment for the employer
     for the year, the commissioner may treat the employer as if the
     employer had been exempt under section 62 from lodging periodic
     returns during all or part of the relevant period.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if an employer lodged, or was required
     under section 59 to lodge, a periodic return during all or part of a
     final period (also the
     "relevant period").
     (4) In making a final levy liability assessment for the employer for
     the final period, the commissioner may treat the employer as if the
     employer had been exempt under section 62 from lodging periodic
     returns during all or part of the relevant period.
     (5) If subsection (2) or (4) applies—
          (a) the employer must be treated for this Act and the
          Administration Act as if the employer did not have periodic
          levy liability, and had been exempt under section 62 from
          lodging periodic returns, for periodic return periods
          during all or part of the relevant period; and
          (b) any assessment of periodic levy liability for a
          periodic return period mentioned in paragraph (a) is taken
          not to have been made; and
          (c) the commissioner may apply, in the order required under
          the Administration Act, section 42, the whole or part of an
          amount paid or payable by the employer for periodic levy
          liability for a periodic return period mentioned in
          paragraph (a) as payment for—
               (i) for an employer who is a non-DGE group
               member—a prescribed levy liability of the
               employer; or
               (ii) for an employer who is a group member
               (whether or not the employer is the DGE)—a
               prescribed levy liability of another group
               member; and
          (d) the commissioner is not prevented from making a
          subsequent reassessment under section 82A of—
               (i) for an employer who is not a group member or
               who is the DGE for a group—the employer’s
               periodic levy liability, annual levy liability or
               final levy liability; or
               (ii) for an employer who is a non-DGE group
               member—the employer’s periodic levy liability
               or the DGE’s annual levy liability or final
               levy liability.
     (6) For this section, the circumstances in which an employer was
     required under section 59 to lodge a periodic return during the
     relevant period include an assessment or reassessment mentioned in
     section 82A (2) or (5) being made by the commissioner in relation to
     the period.
     (7) In this section—

     "annual levy liability assessment", for a year, for an employer,
     means—
          (a) if the employer is not a group member or is the DGE for
          a group—an assessment or reassessment of the employer’s
          annual levy liability for the year; or
          (b) if the employer is a non-DGE group member—an
          assessment or reassessment of the DGE’s annual levy
          liability for the year.

     "final levy liability assessment", for a final period, for an
     employer, means—
          (a) if the employer is not a group member or is the DGE for
          a group—an assessment or reassessment of the employer’s
          final levy liability for the final period; or
          (b) if the employer is a non-DGE group member—an
          assessment or reassessment of the DGE’s final levy
          liability for the final period.
 
Provision about payroll tax assessments made by commissioner—employer who is
exempt from lodging periodic returns
*** 82 Provision about payroll tax assessments made by commissioner—employer
who is exempt from lodging periodic returns ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) an employer was exempt under section 62 from lodging a
          periodic return during all or part of a financial year (the

          "exemption period"); or
          (b) the commissioner authorised the employer, under section
          60, to lodge periodic returns for periods other than a
          month during all or part of a financial year (also the
          "exemption period").
     (2) In making an assessment or reassessment of the employer’s
     periodic liability for a periodic return period during the exemption
     period, and the employer’s annual liability for the year, the
     commissioner may treat the employer as if the employer had been
     required under section 59 to lodge a periodic return for each month
     during all or part of the exemption period.
     (3) Subsection (4) applies if—
          (a) an employer was exempt under section 62 from lodging a
          periodic return during all or part of a final period (also
          the
          "exemption period"); or
          (b) the commissioner authorised the employer, under section
          60, to lodge periodic returns for periods other than a
          month during all or part of a final period (also the
          "exemption period").
     (4) In making an assessment or reassessment of the employer’s
     periodic liability for a periodic return period during the exemption
     period, and the employer’s final liability for the final period,
     the commissioner may treat the employer as if the employer had been
     required under section 59 to lodge a periodic return for each month
     during all or part of the exemption period.
     (5) The commissioner may make an assessment or reassessment mentioned
     in subsection (2) or (4) only if—
          (a) the employer contravenes section 87 or 87A during the
          exemption period; or
          (b) the employer gave the commissioner false or misleading
          information in contravention of the Administration Act,
          section 122 or 123, and the commissioner relied on the
          information in—
               (i) granting an exemption under section 62; or
               (ii) authorising the employer, under section 60,
               to lodge periodic returns for periods other than
               a month; or
          (c) the commissioner has made an assessment or reassessment
          mentioned in section 81 (2) or (4) in relation to the
          exemption period.
     (6) If the commissioner makes an assessment or reassessment mentioned
     in subsection (2) or (4) —
          (a) the employer must be treated for this Act and the
          Administration Act, other than the Administration Act,
          section 121, as if the employer had been required under
          section 59 to lodge, on the return date, a periodic return
          for each month during all or part of the exemption period;
          and
          (b) the commissioner is not prevented from making a
          subsequent reassessment of the employer’s annual
          liability or final liability under section 81.
     (7) For this section, the circumstances in which an employer was
     exempt under section 62 from lodging a periodic return during the
     exemption period include an assessment or reassessment mentioned in
     section 81 (2) or (4) being made by the commissioner in relation to
     the period.
 
Provision about levy assessments made by commissioner—employer who is exempt
from lodging periodic returns
*** 82A Provision about levy assessments made by commissioner—employer who is
exempt from lodging periodic returns ***
     (1) Subsection (2) applies if—
          (a) an employer was exempt under section 62 from lodging a
          periodic return during all or part of a financial year (the

          "exemption period"); or
          (b) the commissioner authorised the employer, under section
          60, to lodge periodic returns for periods other than a
          month during all or part of a financial year (also the
          "exemption period").
     (2) In making a relevant assessment for the employer for the
     exemption period, the commissioner may treat the employer as if the
     employer had been required under section 59 to lodge a periodic
     return for each month during all or part of the exemption period.
     (3) For subsection (2), a
     "relevant assessment" is—
          (a) if the employer is not a group member or is the DGE for
          a group—
               (i) an assessment or reassessment of the
               employer’s periodic levy liability for a
               periodic return period during the exemption
               period; or
               (ii) an assessment or reassessment of the
               employer’s annual levy liability for the year;
               or
          (b) if the employer is a non-DGE group member—
               (i) an assessment or reassessment of the
               employer’s periodic levy liability for a
               periodic return period during the exemption
               period; or
               (ii) an assessment or reassessment of the DGE’s
               annual levy liability for the year.
     (4) Subsection (5) applies if—
          (a) an employer was exempt under section 62 from lodging a
          periodic return during all or part of a final period (also
          the
          "exemption period"); or
          (b) the commissioner authorised the employer, under section
          60, to lodge periodic returns for periods other than a
          month during all or part of a final period (also the
          "exemption period").
     (5) In making a relevant assessment, the commissioner may treat the
     employer as if the employer had been required under section 59 to
     lodge a periodic return for each month during all or part of the
     exemption period.
     (6) For subsection (5), a
     "relevant assessment" is—
          (a) if the employer is not a group member or is the DGE for
          a group—
               (i) an assessment or reassessment of the
               employer’s periodic levy liability for a
               periodic return period during the exemption
               period; or
               (ii) an assessment or reassessment of the
               employer’s final levy liability for the final
               period; or
          (b) if the employer is a non-DGE group member—
               (i) an assessment or reassessment of the
               employer’s periodic levy liability for a
               periodic return period during the exemption
               period; or
               (ii) an assessment or reassessment of the DGE’s
               final levy liability for the final period.
     (7) The commissioner may make an assessment or reassessment mentioned
     in subsection (2) or (5) only if—
          (a) the employer contravenes section 87 or 87A during the
          exemption period; or
          (b) the employer gave the commissioner false or misleading
          information in contravention of the Administration Act,
          section 122 or 123, and the commissioner relied on the
          information in—
               (i) granting an exemption under section 62; or
               (ii) authorising the employer, under section 60,
               to lodge periodic returns for periods other than
               a month; or
          (c) the commissioner has made an assessment or reassessment
          mentioned in section 81A (2) or (4) in relation to the
          exemption period.
     (8) If the commissioner makes an assessment or reassessment mentioned
     in subsection (2) or (5) —
          (a) the employer must be treated for this Act and the
          Administration Act, other than the Administration Act,
          section 121, as if the employer had been required under
          section 59 to lodge, on the return date, a periodic return
          for each month during all or part of the exemption period;
          and
          (b) the commissioner is not prevented from making a
          subsequent reassessment of—
               (i) for an employer who is not a group member or
               who is the DGE for a group—the employer’s
               annual levy liability or final levy liability
               under section 81A; or
               (ii) for an employer who is a non-DGE group
               member—the DGE’s annual levy liability or
               final levy liability under section 81A.
     (9) For this section, the circumstances in which an employer was
     exempt under section 62 from lodging a periodic return during the
     exemption period include an assessment or reassessment mentioned in
     section 81A (2) or (4) being made by the commissioner in relation to
     the period.
 
Application of annual refund amount, annual levy refund amount, final refund
amount or final levy refund amount
*** 83 Application of annual refund amount, annual levy refund amount, final
refund amount or final levy refund amount ***
     (1) This section applies if an employer is entitled to an annual
     refund amount, annual levy refund amount, final refund amount or
     final levy refund amount on an original assessment of the
     employer’s annual liability, annual levy liability, final liability
     or final levy liability.
          Note—
               See the Administration Act, part 4, division 2,
               for provisions about entitlement to refunds on a
               reassessment of an employer’s annual liability,
               annual levy liability, final liability or final
               levy liability.
     (2) The commissioner may apply the amount wholly or partly as payment
     for—
          (a) a tax law liability of the employer; or
          (b) if the employer is a group member—a prescribed
          payroll tax liability or prescribed levy liability of
          another member of the group; or
          (c) a liability mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) that the
          commissioner reasonably believes will become payable within
          60 days after the entitlement to the refund arises.
     (3) If the commissioner does not apply any part of the amount as
     payment for a liability mentioned in subsection (2) within the 60 day
     period mentioned in subsection (2) (c), the commissioner must refund
     immediately to the employer the amount not applied.
     (4) However subsections (2) and (3) do not prevent the commissioner
     from holding the amount for any period, or applying the amount for
     any purpose, at the employer’s request or with the employer’s
     consent.
     (5) This section applies despite the Administration Act, section 36.
     (6) The Administration Act, section 39, applies to a refund of an
     amount to the employer, or an application of an amount as payment for
     an employer, under this section.
     (7) For subsection (6), a reference to a taxpayer in the
     Administration Act, section 39, includes a reference to—
          (a) the employer; and
          (b) if the employer is a group member—another member of
          the group.
 
Provision for refunds under Administration Act to group members
*** 84 Provision for refunds under Administration Act to group members ***
     (1) This section applies if a group member is entitled to a refund,
     under the Administration Act, section 37, of an amount paid by the
     group member under this Act or the Administration Act in relation to
     payroll tax or the mental health levy.
     (2) The commissioner may apply all or part of the amount as payment
     for—
          (a) a prescribed payroll tax liability or prescribed levy
          liability of another member of the group; or
          (b) a liability mentioned in paragraph (a) that the
          commissioner reasonably believes will become payable within
          60 days after the entitlement to the refund arises.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies in addition to the Administration Act,
     section 38 (2).
     (4) If the commissioner applies any part of the amount held to a
     liability mentioned in subsection (2) within the 60 day period
     mentioned in subsection (2) (b) —
          (a) the Administration Act, section 38 (3) does not apply;
          and
          (b) the commissioner must refund immediately to the
          employer any part of the amount not applied under
          subsection (2) or the Administration Act, section 38 (2).
     (5) This section has effect subject to the Administration Act,
     section 39.
     (6) For subsection (5) —
          (a) the Administration Act, section 39 applies to an amount
          applied under subsection (2) as a payment for a group
          member; and
          (b) a reference to a taxpayer in the Administration Act,
          section 39, includes a reference to a group member.
 
Entitlement to a refund
*** 85 Entitlement to a refund ***
     (1) An employer is not entitled to a refund of an amount of payroll
     tax paid, or purportedly paid, by the employer other than under—
          (a) section 31, 35, 39 or 43; or
          (b) the Administration Act, part 4, division 2.
     (2) An employer is not entitled to a refund of an amount of the
     mental health levy paid, or purportedly paid, by the employer other
     than under—
          (a) section 43K or 43O; or
          (b) the Administration Act, part 4, division 2.
 
Notification requirement—employers exempt from lodging periodic returns
*** 87 Notification requirement—employers exempt from lodging periodic
returns ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an employer is exempt under section 62 from lodging
          periodic returns; and
          (b) the total taxable wages paid or payable by the employer
          for a month is greater than $108,333 in each of 3
          consecutive months.
     (2) Within 28 days of the last day of the third month mentioned in
     subsection (1) (b), the employer must give written notice to the
     commissioner stating that the event mentioned in the subsection has
     happened.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
 
Notification requirement—employers authorised to lodge periodic returns for
periods other than a month
*** 87A Notification requirement—employers authorised to lodge periodic
returns for periods other than a month ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the commissioner authorised an employer, under section
          60 (2), to lodge periodic returns for periods other than a
          month during all or part of a financial year; and
          (b) there has been a relevant wage change during a periodic
          return period for the employer.
     (2) For subsection (1) (b), a
     "relevant wage change" happens during a periodic return period for
     the employer if the employer’s current estimated wages is more than
     30% more than the employer’s previous annual wages.
     (3) Within 28 days after the last day of the periodic return period,
     the employer must give written notice to the commissioner stating
     that a relevant wage change has happened during the period for the
     employer.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (4) In this section—

     "current estimated wages", of the employer, means the total amount of
     taxable wages and interstate wages, or the total amount of taxable
     wages, for the financial year estimated by the employer at the end of
     the periodic return period.

     "previous annual wages", of the employer, means the total amount of
     taxable wages and interstate wages, or the total amount of taxable
     wages, paid or payable by the employer during the previous financial
     year.
 
Notification requirement—particular group members
*** 88 Notification requirement—particular group members ***
     (1) This section applies to an employer who is a non-DGE group
     member—
          (a) at any time during the designated period for the
          employer who is the DGE for the group on 30 June in a
          financial year; or
          (b) at any time during a final period for the DGE for the
          group.
     (2) The employer must, within 7 days after the last day, notify the
     DGE of the taxable wages and interstate wages that were paid or
     payable by the employer, as a member of the group, during—
          (a) if subsection (1) (a) applies—the designated period
          for the DGE in the year; or
          (b) if subsection (1) (b) applies—the final period for
          the DGE.
               Note—
                    See also section 126 (Application of s
                    88 notification requirement in relation
                    to a transitional year).
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (3) In this section—

     "last day" means—
          (a) if subsection (1) (a) applies—
               (i) if the employer is not a member of the group
               on 30 June in the year—the last day of the
               final period for the employer ending on the day
               the employer ceases to pay, or be liable to pay,
               wages as a member of the group; or
               (ii) otherwise—30 June in the year; or
          (b) if subsection (1) (b) applies—
               (i) if the employer is not a member of the group
               on the last day of the final period for the
               DGE—the last day of the final period for the
               employer ending on the day the employer ceases to
               pay, or be liable to pay, wages as a member of
               the group; or
               (ii) otherwise—the last day of the final period
               for the DGE.
 
Notification requirements—annual information for groups
*** 88A Notification requirements—annual information for groups ***
     (1) This section provides for the giving of—
          (a) particular information relating to each financial year
          (the
          "relevant financial year"); and
          (b) particular information relating to the financial year
          immediately following the relevant financial year (the
          "following financial year").
     (2) On or before 7 July in the relevant financial year, an employer
     who was a non-DGE group member on 1 July of the relevant financial
     year must give the following information to the DGE for the group—
          (a) the employer’s name and ABN;
          (b) an estimate of the total amount of the taxable wages,
          and the total amount of any interstate wages, that will be
          payable by the employer as a member of the group for the
          relevant financial year.
     (3) On or before 28 July in the relevant financial year, the DGE for
     a group must give the following information to each employer who was
     a group member on 1 July in the relevant financial year—
          (a) an estimate of the total amount of the taxable wages
          that will be payable by all group members for the relevant
          financial year;
          (b) an estimate of the total amount of the interstate wages
          that will be payable by all group members for the relevant
          financial year.
     (4) The information given under subsection (3) may be determined from
     the information received under subsection (2) (b).
     (5) On or before 7 July in the following financial year, an employer
     who was a non-DGE group member at any time during the relevant
     financial year must give the following information to the DGE for the
     group—
          (a) the employer’s name and ABN;
          (b) the total amount of the taxable wages, and the total
          amount of any interstate wages, paid or payable by the
          employer as a member of the group for the relevant
          financial year;
          (c) the employer’s periodic levy liability as a member of
          the group for each periodic return period in the relevant
          financial year.
     (6) A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with
     subsection (2), (3) or (5).
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
 
Notification requirements—final return information for non-DGE group member
*** 88B Notification requirements—final return information for non-DGE group
member ***
     (1) This section applies if a change of status happens for an
     employer (the
     "affected employer") who is a non-DGE group member.
     (2) Within 7 days after the end of the final periodic return period,
     the affected employer must give the following information to the DGE
     for the group—
          (a) the total amount of the taxable wages, and the total
          amount of any interstate wages, paid or payable by the
          affected employer as a member of the group during the
          nominated final period;
          (b) the affected employer’s total periodic levy liability
          amount for the nominated final period.
     (3) On or before the due day, an employer who is a non-DGE group
     member, other than the affected employer, must give the following
     information to the DGE for the group—
          (a) the total amount of the taxable wages, and the total
          amount of any interstate wages, paid or payable by the
          employer as a member of the group during the nominated
          final period;
          (b) the employer’s total periodic levy liability amount
          for the nominated final period.
     (4) A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with
     subsection (2) or (3).
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (5) In this section—

     "due day", for an employer to give information to the DGE under
     subsection (3), means the day that is 7 days after the later of—
          (a) the last day of the final periodic return period; and
          (b) the day on which the DGE asks the employer for the
          information.

     "final periodic return period" means the periodic return period in
     which the last day of the nominated final period occurs.

     "nominated final period" means the final period for the change of
     status mentioned in subsection (1).

     "partial levy amount", for an employer for a periodic return period,
     means the amount worked out using the following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "P" means the partial levy amount in dollars.

     "PL" means the employer’s periodic levy liability for the periodic
     return period.

     "X" means the number of days in the periodic return period that are
     in the nominated final period.

     "Y" means the total number of days in the nominated final period.

     "total periodic levy liability amount", for an employer, for the
     nominated final period, means the sum of the following amounts—
          (a) the employer’s periodic levy liability for each
          periodic return period wholly within the nominated final
          period (irrespective of the return date for lodgement of
          the periodic return for the periodic return period);
          (b) the partial levy amount for each periodic return period
          (irrespective of the return date for lodgement of the
          periodic return for the periodic return period) that
          includes a day that is—
               (i) in the nominated final period; and
               (ii) not in a periodic return period mentioned in
               paragraph (a).
 
Notification requirements—final return information for DGE
*** 88C Notification requirements—final return information for DGE ***
     (1) This section applies if a change of status happens for the DGE
     for a group.
     (2) On or before the due day, each employer who is a non-DGE group
     member must give the following information to the DGE—
          (a) the total amount of the taxable wages, and the total
          amount of any interstate wages, paid or payable by the
          employer as a member of the group during the nominated
          final period;
          (b) the employer’s total periodic levy liability amount
          for the nominated final period.
     (3) A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with
     subsection (2).
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (4) In this section—

     "due day", for an employer to give information to the DGE, means the
     day that is 7 days after the later of—
          (a) the last day of the final periodic return period; and
          (b) the day on which the DGE asks the employer for the
          information.

     "final periodic return period" means the periodic return period in
     which the last day of the nominated final period occurs.

     "nominated final period" means the final period for the change of
     status mentioned in subsection (1).

     "partial levy amount", for an employer for a periodic return period,
     means the amount worked out using the following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "P" means the partial levy amount in dollars.

     "PL" means the employer’s periodic levy liability for the periodic
     return period.

     "X" means the number of days in the periodic return period that are
     in the nominated final period.

     "Y" means the total number of days in the nominated final period.

     "total periodic levy liability amount", for an employer who is a non-
     DGE group member, for the nominated final period, means the sum of
     the following amounts—
          (a) the employer’s periodic levy liability for each
          periodic return period wholly within the nominated final
          period (irrespective of the return date for lodgement of
          the periodic return for the periodic return period);
          (b) the partial levy amount for each periodic return period
          (irrespective of the return date for lodgement of the
          periodic return for the periodic return period) that
          includes a day that is—
               (i) in the nominated final period; and
               (ii) not in a periodic return period mentioned in
               paragraph (a).
 
Notification requirements—employer joining a group
*** 88D Notification requirements—employer joining a group ***
     (1) This section applies if an employer becomes a group member and
     does not become the DGE for the group at the same time.
     (2) Within 7 days after the day the employer joins the group, the
     employer must give the following information to the DGE—
          (a) an estimate of the total amount of the taxable wages
          paid or payable by the member, as a member of the group,
          from the day of becoming a member until the end of the
          current financial year;
          (b) an estimate of the total amount of the interstate wages
          paid or payable by the member, as a member of the group,
          from the day of becoming a member until the end of the
          current financial year.
     (3) A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with
     subsection (2).
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (4) In this section—

     "current financial year" means the financial year in which the
     employer becomes a group member.
 
Notification requirements—revised group wage information
*** 88E Notification requirements—revised group wage information ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the DGE for a group becomes aware that a significant
          wage change has happened during a periodic return period
          for the group; or
          (b) the DGE for a group receives information from an
          employer under section 88D; or
          (c) an employer joins a group and becomes the DGE for the
          group at the same time; or
          (d) the DGE for a group becomes aware that a group member
          has started paying, or become liable to pay, taxable wages
          other than as a member of the group; or
          (e) the DGE for a group starts paying, or becomes liable to
          pay, taxable wages other than as a member of the group.
     (2) Within 7 days after the thing mentioned in subsection (1) (a) to
     (e) happens, the DGE must give the following information to each non-
     DGE group member—
          (a) an estimate of the total amount of the taxable wages
          that will be payable by all group members for the current
          financial year;
          (b) an estimate of the total amount of the interstate wages
          that will be payable by all group members for the current
          financial year.
     (3) A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with
     subsection (2).
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (4) It is sufficient compliance with a requirement under subsection
     (2) (a) or (b) to give an estimate of an amount if the DGE gives the
     estimate based on the latest information held by the DGE at the time
     the requirement arises.
     (5) In this section—

     "current financial year" means the financial year in which the thing
     mentioned in subsection (1) (a) to (e) happens.

     "significant wage change" see section 43EC.
 
Notification requirement—liquidators and other administrators
*** 89 Notification requirement—liquidators and other administrators ***
     (1) This section applies to a person who—
          (a) becomes the liquidator of a company that is—
               (i) being wound up; and
               (ii) an employer registered, or required to be
               registered, as an employer under part 3, division
               1; or
          (b) is appointed as administrator for the property of a
          person who is registered, or required to be registered, as
          an employer under part 3, division 1.
     (2) The person must, within 14 days of becoming the liquidator or
     being appointed as the administrator, give written notice to the
     commissioner stating the person has become the liquidator or been
     appointed as the administrator.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—40 penalty units.
     (3) The Administration Act, section 48, does not apply to the person.
     (4) In this section—

     "administrator" does not include a liquidator.
 
Commissioner may give group information to incoming DGE
*** 89A Commissioner may give group information to incoming DGE ***
     (1) This section applies if an employer becomes the DGE for a group.
     (2) The commissioner may give the DGE any information relating to the
     group that was received from a previous DGE for the group under part
     3, division 2 or part 6, division 2.
 
Commissioner may require payment of penalty
*** 90 Commissioner may require payment of penalty ***
     (1) This section applies if an employer—
          (a) does not lodge a periodic return, annual return or
          final return in contravention of this Act; or
          (b) does not pay, in contravention of this Act, an amount
          of the employer’s liability for payroll tax or the mental
          health levy in relation to a return; or
          (c) gives the commissioner a return containing false or
          misleading information in contravention of the
          Administration Act, section 122 or 123.
     (2) The commissioner may, by written notice given to the employer,
     require the employer to pay a penalty of an amount (the
     "penalty amount") that is not more than the greater of the following
     amounts—
          (a) 75% of the relevant liability amount;
          (b) $100.
     (3) The notice must state—
          (a) the date for payment of the penalty amount, being a day
          that is at least 30 days after the employer receives the
          notice; and
          (b) the reasons for the decision to require payment of the
          penalty amount.
     (4) The commissioner may enter into an arrangement for payment of the
     penalty amount by instalments.
     (5) The arrangement may include provision for the payment of interest
     calculated at the rate for unpaid tax interest for the period
     starting on the start day and ending on the day the penalty amount is
     paid in full, both days inclusive.
     (6) For this section—

     "levy liability" means the employer’s liability for the mental
     health levy in relation to the return.

     "payroll tax liability" means the employer’s liability for payroll
     tax in relation to the return.

     "relevant liability amount" means—
          (a) if subsection (1) (a) applies—the total amount of the
          employer’s payroll tax liability and levy liability; or
          (b) if subsection (1) (b) applies and the unpaid amount is
          an amount of the employer’s payroll tax liability—the
          total amount of the payroll tax liability; or
          (c) if subsection (1) (b) applies and the unpaid amount is
          an amount of the employer’s levy liability—the total
          amount of the levy liability; or
          (d) if subsection (1) (b) applies and the unpaid amount is
          an amount of the employer’s payroll tax liability and
          levy liability—the total amount of the liabilities; or
          (e) if subsection (1) (c) applies and the false or
          misleading information relates to the calculation of the
          employer’s payroll tax liability—the total amount of
          the payroll tax liability; or
          (f) if subsection (1) (c) applies and the false or
          misleading information relates to the calculation of the
          employer’s levy liability—the total amount of the levy
          liability; or
          (g) if subsection (1) (c) applies and the false or
          misleading information relates to the calculation of the
          employer’s payroll tax liability and levy liability—the
          total amount of the liabilities.

     "start day" means the day after the failure or contravention
     mentioned in subsection (1).
          Note—
               The penalty amount is a debt payable to the
               commissioner and may be recovered in a court of
               competent jurisdiction, see the Administration
               Act, section 45.
 
Period for keeping particular records relating to fringe benefits tax
*** 91 Period for keeping particular records relating to fringe benefits tax
***
     (1) This section applies to an employer who elects under a regulation
     to include in returns estimated value amounts for fringe benefits.
     (2) The employer must keep a record of the fringe benefits paid or
     payable by the employer during the financial year in which the
     election is made.
     (3) The person must keep the record until 5 years has elapsed after
     the earlier of the following—
          (a) the employer lodges a final return;
          (b) the employer elects under a regulation to include in
          returns actual value amounts for fringe benefits.
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
     (4) The Administration Act, section 118, does not apply to the
     keeping of the record.
 
Application of Act to trustees
*** 92 Application of Act to trustees ***
     (1) If an employer pays, or is liable to pay, wages as trustee of a
     trust—
          (a) the employer must lodge returns, and pay payroll tax
          and the mental health levy, as required under this Act in
          the employer’s capacity as trustee; and
          (b) except as otherwise provided under this Act, each
          return mentioned in paragraph (a) must be separate and
          distinct from any return lodged by the employer for wages
          paid or payable—
               (i) other than as trustee; or
               (ii) as trustee of another trust; and
          (c) the employer must do all other things required under
          this Act in relation to wages paid by the employer.
          Example—
               An employer, Company X, pays wages in its
               personal capacity and also as a trustee of Trust
               Y and Trust Z. The company and trusts are not
               members of a group and all are registered or
               required to register as employers under part 3,
               division 1. The employer must lodge 3 separate
               returns: for Company X in its personal capacity,
               as trustee of Trust Y and as trustee of Trust Z.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not exclude, limit or otherwise affect the
     operation of part 4 to the extent the part applies to—
          (a) a trustee; or
          (b) 2 or more persons, 1 or more of whom is a trustee.
 
Avoiding taxation
*** 93 Avoiding taxation ***
Any person who, by any wilful act, default or neglect, or by any fraud, art or
contrivance whatever, avoids or attempts to avoid payroll tax or mental health
levy imposed under this Act, shall be guilty of an offence.
     Penalty--
          Maximum penalty—20 penalty units and treble the amount of
          payroll tax avoided or attempted to be avoided and treble
          the amount of mental health levy avoided or attempted to be
          avoided.
     Note—
          This provision is an executive liability provision under
          the Taxation Administration Act 2001, section 140.
 
Notice of change of address for service
*** 94 Notice of change of address for service ***
     (1) An employer who is registered as an employer under part 3,
     division 1 must give the commissioner written notice of a change of
     the employer’s address for service within 1 month after each
     change.
          Note—
               Failure to give the notice is an offence under
               the Administration Act, section 120.
     (2) In this section—

     "address for service", for an employer, means—
          (a) the employer’s address for service shown in the last
          return lodged by the employer; or
          (b) if the employer has given the commissioner a notice
          under this section, the address stated in the last notice
          given.
 
Cents to be disregarded for calculations
*** 95 Cents to be disregarded for calculations ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) for this Act, it is necessary to do any of the
          following—
               (i) reduce an amount by a fixed sum for each
               other fixed sum by which another amount exceeds
               another amount or a certain proportion of a third
               amount;
               (ii) calculate the proportion that 1 amount bears
               to another amount;
               (iii) calculate an amount using a formula; and
          (b) if subsection (2) did not apply, 1 or more of the
          amounts mentioned in paragraph (a), or an amount included
          in a formula, would be amounts of dollars and cents.
     (2) The cents must be disregarded.
 
Approval of forms
*** 96 Approval of forms ***
The commissioner may approve forms for use under this Act.
 
Regulation-making power
*** 97 Regulation-making power ***
     (1) The Governor in Council may make regulations under this Act.
     (2) Regulations may be made with respect to—
          (a) the way of making an application to the commissioner
          under this Act; and
          (b) the evidence the commissioner may require to decide
          whether or not—
               (i) an employer was an employer for part only of
               a financial year; or
               (ii) a person was a member of a group; or
               (iii) a notice under section 59 (2) or 60 (2) or
               a certificate under section 62 (1) should be
               given; and
          (c) providing that a return, application, notice, statement
          or form signed on behalf of an employer is taken to have
          been signed by the employer; and
          (d) in relation to fringe benefits, what is to be included
          in a return as the value of fringe benefits paid or payable
          by an employer; and
          (e) any other matter for the application of this Act to a
          fringe benefit.
     (3) A regulation may impose a penalty of not more than 20 penalty
     units for a contravention of the regulation.
 
Application of particular amendments
*** 97A Application of particular amendments ***
This Act, as amended by the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2022, part 8,
division 3, subdivisions 1 and 2, applies in relation to taxable wages paid or
payable from 1 January 2023 in the financial year starting on 1 July 2022 and
each later financial year.
 
Definitions for pt 7
*** 98 Definitions for pt 7 ***
In this part—

"amended", for a provision of this Act, means the provision as amended or
inserted by the amending Act.

"amended Act" means this Act as amended by the amending Act.

"amending Act" means the Payroll Tax Administration Amendment Act 2004.

"commencement" means the commencement of section 38 of the amending Act.

"post-commencement liability" means a liability for payroll tax arising on or
after the commencement, other than a liability relating to a transitional
return period.
     Example—
          The commencement is on 1 March 2005.
          For an employer who is required under previous section 13
          to lodge returns for quarterly periods starting on 1 July,
          1 October, 1 January and 1 April, the employer’s
          liability for payroll tax for the return period ending on
          30 June 2005 would be a post-commencement liability.
          An employer’s liability for payroll tax for the 2004/2005
          financial year would be a post-commencement liability.

"pre-commencement act or omission" means an act or omission done or omitted to
be done for this Act before the commencement.

"pre-commencement liability" means a liability for payroll tax arising before
the commencement.
     Example—
          The commencement is on 1 March 2005.
          For an employer who is required under previous section 13
          to lodge returns for each month, the employer’s liability
          for payroll tax for the previous return period ending on 28
          February 2005 would be a pre-commencement liability.
          For an employer who is required under previous section 13
          to lodge returns for quarterly periods starting on 1 July,
          1 October, 1 January and 1 April, the employer’s
          liability for payroll tax for the previous return period
          ending on 31 December 2004 would be a pre-commencement
          liability.

"prescribed period" means a prescribed period under previous section 11C or
16L.

"previous", for a provision of this Act, means the provision as in force before
the commencement.

"previous return period" means a return period within the meaning of previous
section 3(1) ending before the commencement.

"transitional final period" means the final period for the first change of
status happening for an employer on or after the commencement during a
transitional year.

"transitional return period" means a return period within the meaning of
previous section 3(1) that has started but not ended before the commencement.
     Example—
          The commencement is on 1 March 2005. For an employer who is
          required under previous section 13 to lodge returns for
          quarterly periods starting on 1 July, 1 October, 1 January
          and 1 April, the return period ending on 31 March 2005
          would be a transitional return period. However, for an
          employer required to lodge monthly returns, there would not
          be a transitional return period.

"transitional year" means the financial year during which the commencement
falls, except if the commencement is on the first day of the year.
     Example—
          The commencement is on 1 March 2005. The 2004/2005
          financial year would be a transitional year.
          The commencement is on 1 July 2005. There would not be a
          transitional year.
 
Application of amended Act in relation to liabilities etc. arising on or after
commencement
*** 99 Application of amended Act in relation to liabilities etc. arising on or
after commencement ***
     (1) The amended Act applies in relation to—
          (a) a post-commencement liability; and
          (b) an act or omission done or omitted to be done for this
          Act on or after the commencement.
               Example for subsection (1)(b)—
                    The commencement is on 1 March 2005.
                    After the commencement, it is
                    discovered that a person was required
                    to apply for registration as an
                    employer from 1 July 2004. After 1
                    March 2005, the continuing failure to
                    apply for registration is, although it
                    may also relate to a pre-commencement
                    liability, an act or omission done or
                    omitted to be done for this Act after
                    the commencement.
     (2) Subsection (1) has effect subject to division 4.
 
Registration under s 54 of person required to register before commencement
*** 100 Registration under s 54 of person required to register before
commencement ***
     (1) This section applies if a person was required to apply for
     registration as an employer under previous section 12 but did not do
     so before the commencement.
     (2) The commissioner may register the person under section 54.
     (3) If the commissioner registers the person under section 54, a
     reference in the previous provisions of this Act to an employer
     registered under section 12 is taken to include a reference to the
     person.
 
Application of amended ss 58–62 for previous return periods
*** 101 Application of amended ss 58–62 for previous return periods ***
     (1) This section applies if an employer was required under previous
     section 13 or 14 to furnish a return for a previous return period but
     did not do so before the commencement.
     (2) Amended sections 58 to 62 apply in relation to the employer for
     the previous return period.
     (3) For subsection (2), the employer is taken to be a relevant
     employer for the return period.
     (4) Previous sections 13 and 14 do not apply to the employer for the
     previous return period.
     (5) However, subsection (4) does not affect the employer’s
     liability for contravening previous section 13 or 14 before the
     commencement.
 
Assessment under amended s 81 in relation to particular pre-commencement
liabilities
*** 102 Assessment under amended s 81 in relation to particular pre-
commencement liabilities ***
     (1) The commissioner may make an assessment under section 81(2) in
     relation to an employer’s liability for payroll tax for a financial
     year ending before the commencement.
     (2) For subsection (1), a reference in section 81(5)(c) to a
     prescribed payroll tax liability of the employer is taken to be a
     reference to tax, within the meaning of previous section 3, payable
     by the employer.
     (3) Section 81(5)(d) does not apply if the commissioner makes an
     assessment mentioned in subsection (1).
     (4) This section applies subject to section 104.
     (5) In this section—

     "assessment" means an assessment under previous part 5.
 
Application of amended s 95 to calculations made under previous provisions
*** 103 Application of amended s 95 to calculations made under previous
provisions ***
     (1) Amended section 95 applies for a calculation made under the
     previous provisions of this Act.
     (2) Previous section 3(3) does not apply for the calculation.
 
This Act as a revenue law for the Administration Act
*** 104 This Act as a revenue law for the Administration Act ***
     (1) This section provides for how the Administration Act applies to
     this Act, in relation to particular liabilities, acts and omissions,
     as a revenue law under the Administration Act.
          Note—
               The Administration Act applies to this Act, as a
               revenue law, except to the extent its application
               is limited or modified under this section or
               section 105 or 106.
     Editor’s note—
          The Administration Act, section 6 (Revenue laws), declares
          this Act to be a revenue law.
     (2) The provisions of the Administration Act mentioned in subsection
     (3) do not apply in relation to—
          (a) a pre-commencement liability; or
          (b) a liability for payroll tax for a transitional return
          period.
     (3) For subsection (2), the provisions of the Administration Act that
     do not apply are each of the following—
          (a) part 3 (Assessments of tax);
          (b) part 4 (Payments and refunds of tax and other amounts),
          other than sections 29, 34, 40(1)(a) and (b) and (2), 41
          and 42, division 4, division 5, subdivision 1 and sections
          49 to 53;
          (c) part 5 (Interest and penalty tax);
          (d) sections 124, 125 and 132.
     (4) To remove doubt, it is declared that the Administration Act
     applies in relation to an act or omission done or omitted to be done
     on or after the commencement, even if the act or omission relates to
     a liability mentioned in subsection (2).
          Example—
               The commencement is on 1 March 2005. During an
               audit in July 2005 in relation to the 2003/2004
               financial year, a taxpayer fails to provide wage
               details for the financial year as required under
               the Administration Act, part 7. Failure to
               provide the information would be an omission
               after the commencement, even though it relates to
               a pre-commencement liability.
     (5) However, the Administration Act, sections 124, 125 and 132 do not
     apply in relation to an act or omission mentioned in subsection (4)
     if the act or omission relates to a liability mentioned in subsection
     (2).
     (6) For applying the Administration Act, part 4, in relation to a
     liability, act or omission mentioned in subsection (2) or (4)—
          (a) a liability mentioned in subsection (2)(a) or (b) is
          taken to be an assessment liability for the Administration
          Act, sections 41 and 42; and
          (b) penal tax and additional tax are not primary tax for
          the Administration Act, section 42; and
          (c) an assessment of further tax under previous part 5 is
          taken to be a reassessment for the Administration Act,
          section 46.
     (7) Subsection (4) applies subject to subsection (8).
     (8) However, to the extent this Act applies to an act or omission
     mentioned in subsection (4), the application of the Administration
     Act, section 136 is subject to previous section 38.
     (9) If, under this section, a provision of the Administration Act
     relating to a particular matter applies to this Act and this Act
     contains provision about the same matter, this Act does not apply to
     the matter.
 
Application of Administration Act, s 38
*** 105 Application of Administration Act, s 38 ***
An amount relating to a post-commencement liability may be applied under the
Administration Act, section 38, as payment for a pre-commencement liability or
a liability for payroll tax for a transitional return period.
 
Second or subsequent offences
*** 106 Second or subsequent offences ***
     (1) For applying the Administration Act, section 138 to this Act, the
     reference in subsection (1)(b) of that section to a further offence
     is a reference to an offence committed on or after the commencement.
     (2) If the Administration Act, section 138(1)(a), applies for an
     offence against a previous provision of this Act that is repealed by
     the amending Act, the reference in subsection (1)(b) of that section
     to a further offence against the provision includes a reference to an
     offence against a provision of the amended Act or the Administration
     Act that corresponds to the previous provision.
 
Application of previous provisions to particular liabilities etc.
*** 107 Application of previous provisions to particular liabilities etc. ***
     (1) Despite their amendment or repeal by the amending Act, the
     previous provisions of this Act continue to apply in relation to—
          (a) a pre-commencement liability; and
          (b) a liability for payroll tax in relation to a
          transitional return period; and
          (c) a pre-commencement act or omission.
     (2) However, previous section 16L(5) does not apply.
     (3) Also, subsection (1) has effect subject to sections 100, 101, 103
     and 104(9).
 
Fixed periodic deduction for periodic return periods after
commencement—existing determination
*** 108 Fixed periodic deduction for periodic return periods after
commencement—existing determination ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) there is a transitional year; and
          (b) a determination by the commissioner of the amount of an
          employer’s deduction for a return period, made under
          previous section 9(7) or 16I(4), is in effect immediately
          before the commencement.
     (2) The amount determined is, for part 2, division 3, the
     employer’s fixed periodic deduction for each periodic return period
     in the transitional year.
     (3) However, if the commissioner determines the employer’s fixed
     periodic deduction under amended section 21 or 27 on or after the
     commencement during the transitional year, the amount determined
     under the section is the employer’s fixed periodic deduction.
 
Fixed periodic deduction for periodic return periods after
commencement—existing nomination
*** 109 Fixed periodic deduction for periodic return periods after
commencement—existing nomination ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) there is a transitional year; and
          (b) immediately before the commencement—
               (i) a nomination made by an employer under
               previous section 9(5) is in effect; or
               (ii) a nomination made by the members of a group
               or the commissioner under previous section 16I(1)
               or (1A) of the amount of the DGE’s deduction is
               in effect.
     (2) The amount nominated is, for part 2, division 3, the employer’s
     fixed periodic deduction for each periodic return period in the
     transitional year until the earlier of the following—
          (a) there is a calculation day;
          (b) the commissioner determines the employer’s fixed
          periodic deduction under amended section 21 or 27.
     (3) Subsection (2) applies subject to section 110.
 
Application of fixed periodic deduction to particular non-group employers after
commencement
*** 110 Application of fixed periodic deduction to particular non-group
employers after commencement ***
     (1) This section applies to an employer—
          (a) who is not a member of a group on the commencement; and
          (b) whose deduction for the last previous return period
          ending before the commencement was an amount worked out
          under previous section 9(3).
     (2) For section 20, the employer can not be a previous interstate
     wage payer for a periodic return period unless the employer has paid,
     or been liable to pay, interstate wages on or after the commencement.
 
Purpose of div 5
*** 111 Purpose of div 5 ***
This division provides for working out an employer’s annual liability for a
transitional year.
 
Basic principles for working out employer’s annual liability
*** 112 Basic principles for working out employer’s annual liability ***
     (1) This section applies if there was a prescribed period during the
     year for—
          (a) the employer; or
          (b) if the employer was a member of a group during the
          year—the group.
     (2) For working out the employer’s annual liability for the
     transitional year—
          (a) taxable wages paid or payable by the employer for the
          prescribed period are not included in the employer’s
          annual wages for the year; and
          (b) payroll tax paid or payable by the employer for the
          prescribed period is not included in the employer’s
          periodic liability for periodic returns during the year;
          and
          (c) the employer’s annual deduction must be worked out
          without having regard to the days in the prescribed period.
     (3) This section applies subject to sections 113, 114, 118 and 119.
 
Employer who was not a group member for a prescribed period during the
transitional year
*** 113 Employer who was not a group member for a prescribed period during the
transitional year ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the employer is not a member of a group on 30 June in
          the transitional year; and
          (b) there was a prescribed period for the employer during
          the year; and
          (c) the employer was not a member of a group for the
          prescribed period; and
          (d) the employer’s annual liability for the transitional
          year worked out as required under section 112(2) is greater
          than it would be if the section did not apply to the
          employer.
     (2) If the commissioner makes an original assessment of the
     employer’s annual liability for the year, other than under the
     Administration Act, section 14(a), section 112(2) does not apply to
     the employer.
     (3) If the original assessment of the employer’s annual liability
     for the year was made by the commissioner under the Administration
     Act, section 14(a), the commissioner must make a reassessment of the
     liability on the basis that section 112(2) does not apply to the
     employer.
 
Employer who is a DGE on 30 June in the transitional year
*** 114 Employer who is a DGE on 30 June in the transitional year ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the employer became the DGE for a group—
               (i) during the transitional year; and
               (ii) before the commencement; and
          (b) the employer is the DGE for the group continuously
          until 30 June in the year; and
          (c) immediately before becoming the DGE for the group, the
          employer was a member of the group.
     (2) For working out the employer’s annual liability for the
     transitional year—
          (a) taxable wages paid or payable by the employer for the
          period (the
          "group member period") in the year during which the
          employer was a member of the group must be included in the
          employer’s annual wages for the year; and
          (b) payroll tax paid or payable by the employer for the
          group member period must be included in the employer’s
          periodic liability for periodic return periods during the
          designated period; and
          (c) the employer’s annual deduction must be worked out
          having regard to each of the following—
               (i) the days in the year on which any employer
               paid, or was liable to pay, wages as a member of
               the group, even if the days are not included in
               the designated period for the DGE for the year;
               and
               (ii) the taxable wages and interstate wages paid
               or payable by any employer, as a member of the
               group, on the days mentioned in subparagraph (i);
               and
          (d) even if section 34(1)(a) does not apply, the
          employer’s liability is the annual adjustment amount if
          the employer was required, under previous part 3, to
          furnish a return during the year when the employer was a
          member of the group.
     (3) The employer’s annual return for the transitional year must
     state the wages that were paid or payable, as a member of the group,
     by an employer—
          (a) during the designated period for the DGE in the year;
          and
          (b) on the days in the year mentioned in subsection (2)(c)
          (i).
     (4) Subsection (3) applies despite section 63(3)(b).
 
Purpose of div 6
*** 115 Purpose of div 6 ***
This division provides for working out an employer’s final liability for a
transitional final period.
 
When transitional final period starts
*** 116 When transitional final period starts ***
     (1) A transitional final period starts on the latest of the following
     days in the transitional year—
          (a) 1 July;
          (b) the first day on which the person is required to
          register as an employer under previous part 4;
          (c) if there was a prescribed period for the employer
          during the transitional year—the day after the last day
          of the latest prescribed period for the employer during the
          year.
     (2) This section applies despite section 6(a).
          Example—
               The commencement is on 1 March 2005. An employer
               who has been a member of a group from 1 July 2004
               becomes the DGE for the group on 1 May 2005. This
               is the first change of status for the employer on
               or after the commencement. The final period for
               the change of status is a transitional final
               period starting on 1 July 2004.
 
Employer who is a DGE on the last day of a transitional final period
*** 117 Employer who is a DGE on the last day of a transitional final period
***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the employer became the DGE for a group—
               (i) during a transitional year; and
               (ii) before the commencement; and
          (b) the employer is the DGE for the group continuously
          until the last day of the transitional final period; and
          (c) immediately before becoming the DGE for the group, the
          employer was a member of the group.
     (2) For working out the employer’s final liability for the
     transitional final period—
          (a) taxable wages paid or payable by the employer for the
          period (the
          "group member period") in the year during which the
          employer was a member of the group must be included in the
          employer’s final wages for the final period; and
          (b) payroll tax paid or payable by the employer for the
          group member period must be included in the employer’s
          periodic liability amount for the final period; and
          (c) the employer’s final deduction must be worked out
          having regard to each of the following—
               (i) the days in the year before the final period
               starts on which any employer paid, or was liable
               to pay, wages as a member of the group, even if
               the employer to whom this section applies was not
               a member of the group on those days;
               (ii) the taxable wages and interstate wages paid
               or payable by any employer, as a member of the
               group, on the days mentioned in subparagraph (i);
               and
          (d) even if section 42(1)(a) does not apply, the
          employer’s liability is the final adjustment amount if
          the employer was required, under previous part 3, to
          furnish a return during the year when the employer was a
          member of the group.
     (3) The employer’s final return for the transitional final period
     must state the wages that were paid or payable, as a member of the
     group, by an employer—
          (a) during the final period; and
          (b) on the days in the transitional year mentioned in
          subsection (2)(c)(i).
     (4) Subsection (3) applies despite section 64(3)(b).
 
Commissioner assessment—employer who becomes a DGE in a transitional year
before commencement
*** 118 Commissioner assessment—employer who becomes a DGE in a transitional
year before commencement ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to an employer if—
          (a) the employer becomes the DGE for a group—
               (i) during a transitional year; and
               (ii) before the commencement; and
          (b) either—
               (i) the employer—
                    (A) lodges, or is required under
                    section 64 to lodge, a final return for
                    a change of status happening in the
                    transitional year after the
                    commencement; and
                    (B) is the DGE for the group on the
                    last day of the final period; or
               (ii) if subparagraph (i) does not apply, the
               employer—
                    (A) lodges, or is required under
                    section 63 to lodge, an annual return
                    for the transitional year; and
                    (B) is the DGE for the group on 30 June
                    in the year.
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment of the employer’s
     final liability or annual liability, as applicable, to reduce the
     relevant deduction by the total amount of the deductions claimed
     during the year under previous section 16I by any earlier DGE for the
     group.
     (3) Also, in making an original assessment of the employer’s final
     liability or annual liability, as applicable, the commissioner must
     reduce the relevant deduction by the total amount of the deductions
     claimed during the year under previous section 16I by any earlier DGE
     for the group.
     (4) In this section—

     "earlier DGE", for the group, means an employer who was the DGE for
     the group at any time during the transitional year before the
     employer to whom this section applies becomes the DGE for the group.

     "relevant deduction" means—
          (a) for an employer to whom subsection (1)(b)(i)
          applies—the employer’s final deduction for the final
          period; or
          (b) for an employer to whom subsection (1)(b)(ii)
          applies—the employer’s annual deduction for the
          transitional year.
 
Commissioner assessment—employer who ceases to be a DGE in a transitional
year before commencement
*** 119 Commissioner assessment—employer who ceases to be a DGE in a
transitional year before commencement ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to an employer who—
          (a) ceases to be the DGE for a group—
               (i) during a transitional year; and
               (ii) before the commencement; and
          (b) either—
               (i) the employer lodges, or is required under
               section 64 to lodge, a final return for a change
               of status happening in the transitional year
               after the commencement; or
               (ii) if subparagraph (i) does not apply—lodges,
               or is required under section 63 to lodge, an
               annual return for the transitional year.
     (2) The commissioner must make a reassessment of the employer’s
     final liability or annual liability, as applicable, to reduce the
     relevant wages by the total amount of the deductions claimed by the
     employer under previous section 16I during the year.
     (3) Also, in making an original assessment of the employer’s final
     liability or annual liability, as applicable, the commissioner must
     reduce the relevant wages by the total amount of the deductions
     claimed by the employer under previous section 16I during the year.
     (4) In this section—

     "relevant wages" means—
          (a) for an employer to whom subsection (1)(b)(i)
          applies—the employer’s final wages for the final
          period; or
          (b) for an employer to whom subsection (1)(b)(ii)
          applies—the employer’s annual wages for the
          transitional year.
 
Delegations under previous s 4A
*** 120 Delegations under previous s 4A ***
A delegation under previous section 4A in force immediately before the
commencement continues in force.
 
Employers registered under previous s 12 immediately before commencement
*** 121 Employers registered under previous s 12 immediately before
commencement ***
An employer who is registered as an employer under previous section 12
immediately before the commencement is, on and from the commencement, taken to
be registered under part 3, division 1.
 
Notices given by commissioner under previous s 13
*** 122 Notices given by commissioner under previous s 13 ***
     (1) A notice given by the commissioner under previous section 13(2)
     (a) and in force immediately before the commencement is, on and from
     the commencement, taken to be a notice given under section 59(2).
     (2) A notice given by the commissioner under previous section 13(2)
     (b) and in force immediately before the commencement is, on and from
     the commencement, taken to be a notice given under section 60(2).
 
Continuing effect of exemptions given by commissioner under previous s14
*** 123 Continuing effect of exemptions given by commissioner under previous
s14 ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) the commissioner issued a certificate (an
          "existing exemption"), under previous section 14, exempting
          an employer from lodging monthly returns; and
          (b) the existing exemption was in force immediately before
          the commencement.
     (2) The existing exemption is, on the commencement, taken to be a
     certificate exempting the employer from the requirement under section
     59 to lodge periodic returns.
     (3) To remove doubt, it is declared that the employer is required to
     lodge annual returns under section 63 even if the existing exemption
     states the employer is not required to lodge returns for each
     financial year.
 
Continuing use of particular forms
*** 124 Continuing use of particular forms ***
A form approved before the commencement relating to a provision of this Act
repealed by the amending Act may continue to be used after the commencement to
facilitate the operation of this part.
 
Application of ss 83 and 84
*** 125 Application of ss 83 and 84 ***
A refund to which section 83 or 84 applies may be applied under the section as
payment for a liability mentioned in section 83(2) or 84(2), as applicable,
even if the liability—
     (a) arose before the commencement; or
     (b) is for a transitional return period.
 
Application of s 88 notification requirement in relation to a transitional year
*** 126 Application of s 88 notification requirement in relation to a
transitional year ***
     (1) This section applies to an employer who is a non-DGE group
     member—
          (a) at any time during a transitional year, if the employer
          who is the DGE for the group on 30 June in the year became
          the DGE before the commencement; or
          (b) if there is a transitional final period for the DGE for
          the group—at any time in the transitional year on or
          before the last day of the final period.
     (2) If subsection (1)(a) applies, the wages the employer must notify
     to the DGE under section 88(2) are the taxable wages and interstate
     wages paid or payable by the employer, as a member of the group,
     during the transitional year.
     (3) If subsection (1)(b) applies, the wages the employer must notify
     to the DGE under section 88(2) are the taxable wages and interstate
     wages paid or payable by the employer, as a member of the group, at
     any time in the transitional year on or before the last day of the
     DGE’s transitional final period.
     (4) Subsections (2) and (3) apply despite section 88(2)(a) and (b).
 
Application of s 89 to particular liquidators
*** 127 Application of s 89 to particular liquidators ***
     (1) This section applies to a person who—
          (a) becomes a liquidator within 14 days before the
          commencement; and
          (b) does not give notice of the matter under previous
          section 25 before the commencement.
     (2) Section 89 applies to the liquidator as if the time within which
     the person is required to give notice under section 89(2) were 14
     days after the commencement.
 
Application of s 94 to particular employers
*** 128 Application of s 94 to particular employers ***
     (1) This section applies to an employer—
          (a) whose address for service changes within 1 month before
          the commencement; and
          (b) who does not give notice of the change under the
          Payroll Tax Regulation 1999, section 26, before the
          commencement.
     (2) Section 94 applies to the employer as if the time within which
     the person is required to give notice under section 94 were 1 month
     after the commencement.
 
References in amended Act
*** 129 References in amended Act ***
For the application of this part, if the context permits, a reference in the
amended Act—
     (a) to periodic liability includes a reference to liability for
     payroll tax under previous part 3; and
     (b) to a periodic return includes a reference to a return under
     previous section 13; and
     (c) to a periodic return period includes a reference to a previous
     return period or a transitional return period; and
     (d) to a return date includes a reference to the date by which a
     return is required to be furnished under previous section 13; and
     (e) to an employer required under section 59 to lodge a periodic
     return includes a reference to an employer required under previous
     section 13 to furnish a return; and
     (f) to an employer authorised under section 60 to lodge periodic
     returns for periods other than a month includes a reference to an
     employer authorised under previous section 13(2)(b) to furnish
     returns for periods other than a month; and
     (g) to unpaid tax interest includes a reference to penal tax under
     previous section 22; and
     (h) to penalty tax includes a reference to additional tax under
     previous section 18.
 
- SECT 130
*** 130 ***
 
Interpretation of amended provisions
*** 131 Interpretation of amended provisions ***
     (1) The amendments made to this Act by the Payroll Tax
     (Harmonisation) Amendment Act 2008 are intended to enhance the
     consistency of this Act with the Payroll Tax Act 2007 (NSW) and the
     Payroll Tax Act 2007 (Vic).
          Note—
               Minor variations in language used in some of the
               amended provisions are not intended to alter
               their meaning from the corresponding provisions
               in the New South Wales and Victorian Acts. For
               example—
                    • the phrase “in relation to”
                    used in sections 13B to 13D, 13E(1),
                    13F, 13I and 13J(1) and (2)(a), is
                    intended to have the same meaning as
                    the phrase “for or in relation to”,
                    or “to or in relation to”, used in
                    the corresponding provisions; and
                    • the phrase “in connection with”
                    used in sections 66 and 70(1), (2) and
                    (3)(a) is intended to have the same
                    meaning as the phrase “for or in
                    connection with” used in the
                    corresponding provisions.
     (2) However, this section does not apply to the extent—
          (a) the Payroll Tax (Harmonisation) Amendment Act 2008
          inserted section 14(2)(k)(iii) of this Act; or
          (b) section 14A, as inserted by the Payroll Tax
          (Harmonisation) Amendment Act 2008, section 11, applies to
          paternity leave.
 
Application of amended Act
*** 132 Application of amended Act ***
This Act, as amended by the Payroll Tax (Harmonisation) Amendment Act 2008,
applies in relation to wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2008.
 
Application of avoidance provision for employment agency contracts
*** 133 Application of avoidance provision for employment agency contracts ***
Section 13L applies to employment agency contracts made before, on or after the
commencement of this section.
 
Continuation of orders excluding person from group
*** 134 Continuation of orders excluding person from group ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) an order excluding a person from a group, made by the
          commissioner under section 68, 69, 70 or 71, as it was in
          force before 1 July 2008, is in effect immediately before 1
          July 2008; and
          (b) the composition of the group is not changed, other than
          the order mentioned in paragraph (a) no longer having
          effect, because of the commencement of the Payroll Tax
          (Harmonisation) Amendment Act 2008.
     (2) The order mentioned in paragraph (a) is taken to be an exclusion
     order made by the commissioner under section 74(1).
 
Definitions for pt 9
*** 135 Definitions for pt 9 ***
In this part—

"amended Act" means this Act as amended by the amending Act.

"amending Act" means the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2010, part
8, other than section 97.

"pre-amended Act" means this Act as it was in force from time to time before
the commencement of this section.

"relevant employer" means an employer by whom relevant wages are paid or
payable and who—
     (a) if the employer lodged a final return before 1 July 2010 and
     paid, in compliance with the pre-amended Act, the employer’s
     liability for payroll tax in relation to the return—notifies the
     commissioner in writing of the amount of the relevant wages no later
     than 21 July 2010; or
     (b) otherwise—includes the relevant wages in a return lodged no
     later than 21 July 2010.

"relevant wages" means wages—
     (a) paid or payable by an employer on or after 1 July 2009 but before
     1 July 2010; and
     (b) that are not taxable wages under the pre-amended Act and are
     taxable wages under the amended Act.
 
Application of amended Act
*** 136 Application of amended Act ***
The amended Act applies, and is taken on and from 1 July 2009 to have applied,
to wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2009.
 
Exemption of penalty under s 90
*** 137 Exemption of penalty under s 90 ***
Section 90(2) does not apply in relation to a relevant employer’s liability
for payroll tax under the amended Act for relevant wages.
 
Remission of unpaid tax interest and penalty tax under the Administration Act
*** 138 Remission of unpaid tax interest and penalty tax under the
Administration Act ***
The commissioner must remit the whole of any unpaid tax interest and penalty
tax in relation to a relevant employer’s liability for payroll tax under the
amended Act for relevant wages.
     Note—
          For the commissioner’s power to remit unpaid tax interest
          and penalty tax, see the Administration Act, section 60.
 
Exemption for offences
*** 139 Exemption for offences ***
     (1) This section applies if a relevant person does not comply with a
     requirement under this Act or the Administration Act in relation to
     relevant wages.
     (2) The relevant person does not commit an offence against this Act
     or the Administration Act if—
          (a) for a relevant person who lodged a final return before
          1 July 2010 and paid, in compliance with the pre-amended
          Act, the relevant person’s liability for payroll tax in
          relation to the return—the relevant person notifies the
          commissioner in writing of the amount of the relevant wages
          no later than 21 July 2010; or
          (b) otherwise—the relevant person includes the relevant
          wages in a return lodged no later than 21 July 2010.
     (3) In this section—

     "relevant person" means—
          (a) an employer by whom relevant wages were paid or
          payable; or
          (b) an administrator for an employer mentioned in paragraph
          (a).
 
Reassessment—final return included excluded wages
*** 140 Reassessment—final return included excluded wages ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) excluded wages are paid or payable by an employer; and
          (b) before 21 July 2010, the employer lodges a final return
          including all taxable wages under the pre-amended Act paid
          or payable by the employer for the final period.
     (2) The employer may lodge a written application for a reassessment.
     (3) If the employer lodges an application under subsection (2), the
     commissioner must make a reassessment of the employer’s final
     liability disregarding the excluded wages for working out the
     liability.
          Note—
               The Administration Act, sections 18 and 21 and
               part 4, division 2 apply for the reassessment and
               the refund of any excess tax paid by the
               employer.
     (4) In this section—

     "excluded wages" means wages—
          (a) paid or payable by an employer on or after 1 July 2009
          but before 1 July 2010; and
          (b) that are taxable wages under the pre-amended Act and
          are not taxable wages under the amended Act.
 
Assessment and payment of payroll tax for shares and options
*** 141 Assessment and payment of payroll tax for shares and options ***
     (1) This section applies to an act or omission of an employer if—
          (a) the act or omission relates to the assessment or
          payment of payroll tax for wages paid or payable by the
          employer on or after 1 July 2009 but before 1 July 2011;
          and
          (b) the act or omission would have been valid if the
          following provisions as in force on the commencement of
          this section applied to the act or omission—
               (i) section 13;
               (ii) part 2, division 1C;
               (iii) schedule, definition
               "share";
               (iv) schedule, definition
               "wages", other than paragraph 2.
     (2) The act or omission is taken to have been valid.
 
Application of pt 2, div 1C for granting of particular shares or options
*** 142 Application of pt 2, div 1C for granting of particular shares or
options ***
     (1) This section applies if—
          (a) a share or option was granted under section 13O before
          1 July 2011; and
          (b) the relevant day under section 13Q for the grant of the
          share or option was not before 1 July 2011; and
          (c) the grant constituted wages under the former Act,
          schedule, definition
          "wages", paragraph (j), whether or not the grant
          constitutes wages under the amended Act, schedule,
          definition
          "wages", paragraph (j) or (k).
     (2) Sections 13R and 13U, as in force on the commencement of this
     section, apply for the share or option.
     (3) In this section—

     "amended Act" means this Act as amended by the Revenue and Other
     Legislation Amendment Act 2011.

     "former Act" means this Act as in force before the commencement of
     this section.
 
Exemption under s 14A
*** 143 Exemption under s 14A ***
Section 14A(4)(b), as amended by the Revenue Amendment and Trade and Investment
Queensland Act 2013, is taken to have had effect on and from 16 April 2011.
 
Application of s 13B
*** 144 Application of s 13B ***
     (1) Section 13B, as amended by the Payroll Tax Rebate, Revenue and
     Other Legislation Amendment Act 2015, applies in respect of work
     performed on or after the commencement, regardless of when amounts
     are paid or become payable for the performance of the work.
     (2) To remove any doubt, it is declared that section 13B as in force
     immediately before the commencement continues to apply in respect of
     work performed before the commencement, regardless of when amounts
     are paid or become payable for the performance of the work.
 
Retrospective application of increased rebate under ss 27A, 35A and 43A
*** 145 Retrospective application of increased rebate under ss 27A, 35A and 43A
***
Sections 27A, 35A and 43A as amended by the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act
2018 —
     (a) apply, and are taken to have applied from 1 July 2016, in
     relation to wages paid or payable in the financial year ending on 30
     June 2017; and
     (b) apply, and are taken to have applied from 1 July 2017, in
     relation to wages paid or payable in the financial year ending on 30
     June 2018.
 
Retrospective operation of amended s 13Y
*** 146 Retrospective operation of amended s 13Y ***
Section 13Y, as amended by the Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act
2018, is taken to have had effect since 1 July 2016.
 
Retrospective application of particular provisions
*** 147 Retrospective application of particular provisions ***
     (1) Sections 27A, 35A and 43A, as amended by the Revenue Legislation
     Amendment Act 2022, apply, and are taken to have applied from 1 July
     2021, in relation to wages paid or payable in the financial year
     ending on 30 June 2022.
     (2) Schedule, definition
     "eligible year", as amended by the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act
     2022, applies, and is taken to have applied from 1 July 2021, in
     relation to an assessment of a person’s annual liability or final
     liability relating to the financial year ending on 30 June 2022 for
     the purposes of part 2, division 6A.
 
Purpose of division
*** 148 Purpose of division ***
This division provides for transitional arrangements, for the financial year
ending on 30 June 2023, in relation to the amendment of this Act by the Revenue
Legislation Amendment Act 2022, part 8, division 3.
     Note—
          See also the repealed Payroll Tax (Transitional) Regulation
          2022, made under section 148 as it was in force before its
          replacement by the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2023.
 
Definitions for division
*** 148A Definitions for division ***
In this division—

"first half", of the transitional financial year, means the period starting on
1 July 2022 and ending on 31 December 2022.

"second half", of the transitional financial year, means the period starting on
1 January 2023 and ending on 30 June 2023.

"transitional financial year" means the financial year ending on 30 June 2023.
 
Working out fixed periodic deductions for transitional financial year
*** 148B Working out fixed periodic deductions for transitional financial year
***
     (1) This section applies for working out a fixed periodic deduction
     under section 17 or 23 for the transitional financial year.
     (2) A calculation day under sections 18 and 24 is taken to include 1
     January in that year.
 
Working out annual deduction for transitional financial year—employer other
than the DGE for a group
*** 148C Working out annual deduction for transitional financial
year—employer other than the DGE for a group ***
     (1) This section applies to an employer—
          (a) who is required, under section 63, to lodge an annual
          return for the transitional financial year; and
          (b) who is not the DGE for a group on 30 June 2023.
     (2) Despite section 29, definition
     "annual deduction", the annual deduction for the employer for the
     transitional financial year is the greater of zero and the amount
     worked out by adding the deduction (first half) and deduction (second
     half) for the employer.
     (3) For subsection (2), the employer’s
     "deduction (first half)" is the amount worked out using the following
     formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the number of days in the first half of the transitional
     financial year for which the employer pays, or is liable to pay,
     wages, other than foreign wages.

     "AW1" means the amount of the employer’s annual wages that are paid
     or payable for the first half of the transitional financial year.

     "B" means the number of days in the second half of the transitional
     financial year for which the employer pays, or is liable to pay,
     wages, other than foreign wages.

     "C" means the number of days in the transitional financial year.

     "D1" means the employer’s deduction (first half) in dollars.

     "IW1" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable by the
     employer for the first half of the transitional financial year.

     "K" means 1,300,000.

     "X" see subsection (5).
     (4) Also, for subsection (2), the employer’s
     "deduction (second half)" is the amount worked out using the
     following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the number of days in the first half of the transitional
     financial year for which the employer pays, or is liable to pay,
     wages, other than foreign wages.

     "AW2" means the amount of the employer’s annual wages that are paid
     or payable for the second half of the transitional financial year.

     "B" means the number of days in the second half of the transitional
     financial year for which the employer pays, or is liable to pay,
     wages, other than foreign wages.

     "C" means the number of days in the transitional financial year.

     "D2" means the employer’s deduction (second half) in dollars.

     "IW2" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable by the
     employer for the second half of the transitional financial year.

     "K" means 1,300,000.

     "X" see subsection (5).
     (5) For subsections (3) and (4), the amount for
     "X" is to be worked out using the following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "AW" means the amount of the employer’s annual wages for the
     transitional financial year.

     "AWhalf" means the amount of annual wages paid or payable by the
     employer—
          (a) in relation to the deduction (first half)—for the
          first half of the transitional financial year; or
          (b) in relation to the deduction (second half)—for the
          second half of the transitional financial year.

     "IW" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable by the
     employer for the transitional financial year.

     "IWhalf" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable by the
     employer—
          (a) in relation to the deduction (first half)—for the
          first half of the transitional financial year; or
          (b) in relation to the deduction (second half)—for the
          second half of the transitional financial year.
     (6) In this section—

     "annual wages" see section 29 (1).
 
Working out annual deduction for transitional financial year—DGE for a group
*** 148D Working out annual deduction for transitional financial year—DGE for
a group ***
     (1) This section applies to an employer if on 30 June 2023 the
     employer is the DGE for a group.
     (2) Despite section 33, definition
     "annual deduction", the annual deduction for the DGE for the
     transitional financial year is the greater of zero and the amount
     worked out by adding the deduction (first half) and deduction (second
     half) for the DGE.
     (3) For subsection (2), the DGE’s
     "deduction (first half)" is the amount worked out using the following
     formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the number of days in the designated period for the DGE—
          (a) that are in the first half of the transitional
          financial year, whether or not wholly or partly concurrent;
          and
          (b) for which 1 or more relevant group employers pay, or
          are liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or
          interstate wages, or taxable wages and interstate wages.

     "B" means the number of days in the designated period for the DGE—
          (a) that are in the second half of the transitional
          financial year, whether or not wholly or partly concurrent;
          and
          (b) for which 1 or more relevant group employers pay, or
          are liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or
          interstate wages, or taxable wages and interstate wages.

     "C" means the number of days in the transitional financial year.

     "D1" means the DGE’s deduction (first half) in dollars.

     "IW1" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable for the
     part of the designated period for the DGE occurring in the first half
     of the transitional financial year by each relevant group employer as
     a member of the group.

     "K" means 1,300,000.

     "TW1" means the amount of taxable wages paid or payable for the part
     of the designated period for the DGE occurring in the first half of
     the transitional financial year by each relevant group employer as a
     member of the group.

     "X" see subsection (5).
     (4) For subsection (2), the DGE’s
     "deduction (second half)" is the amount worked out using the
     following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the number of days in the designated period for the DGE—
          (a) that are in the first half of the transitional
          financial year, whether or not wholly or partly concurrent;
          and
          (b) for which 1 or more relevant group employers pay, or
          are liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or
          interstate wages, or taxable wages and interstate wages.

     "B" means the number of days in the designated period for the DGE—
          (a) that are in the second half of the transitional
          financial year, whether or not wholly or partly concurrent;
          and
          (b) for which 1 or more relevant group employers pay, or
          are liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or
          interstate wages, or taxable wages and interstate wages.

     "C" means the number of days in the transitional financial year.

     "D2" means the DGE’s deduction (second half) in dollars.

     "IW2" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable for the
     part of the designated period for the DGE occurring in the second
     half of the transitional financial year by each relevant group
     employer as a member of the group.

     "K" means 1,300,000.

     "TW2" means the amount of taxable wages paid or payable for the part
     of the designated period for the DGE occurring in the second half of
     the transitional financial year by each relevant group employer as a
     member of the group.

     "X" see subsection (5).
     (5) For subsections (3) and (4), the amount for
     "X" is to be worked out using the following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "IW" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable by each
     relevant group employer as a member of the group during the
     designated period for the DGE.

     "IWhalf" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable by each
     relevant group employer as a member of the group—
          (a) in relation to the deduction (first half)—for the
          part of the designated period for the DGE occurring in the
          first half of the transitional financial year; or
          (b) in relation to the deduction (second half)—for the
          part of the designated period for the DGE occurring in the
          second half of the transitional financial year.

     "TW" means the amount of taxable wages paid or payable by each
     relevant group employer as a member of the group during the
     designated period for the DGE.

     "TWhalf" means the amount of taxable wages paid or payable by each
     relevant group employer as a member of the group—
          (a) in relation to the deduction (first half)—for the
          part of the designated period for the DGE occurring in the
          first half of the transitional financial year; or
          (b) in relation to the deduction (second half)—for the
          part of the designated period for the DGE occurring in the
          second half of the transitional financial year.
     (6) In this section—

     "relevant group employer", for the designated period for the DGE for
     a group in the transitional financial year, means an employer who was
     a member of the group for all or part of the designated period.
 
Working out final deduction for transitional financial year—employer other
than the DGE for a group
*** 148E Working out final deduction for transitional financial year—employer
other than the DGE for a group ***
     (1) This section applies to an employer if—
          (a) the employer is required, under section 64, to lodge a
          final return for a final period; and
          (b) the employer is not the DGE for a group on the last day
          of the final period; and
          (c) all or part of the final period occurs in the second
          half of the transitional financial year.
     (2) Despite section 37, definition
     "final deduction", the final deduction for the employer for the final
     period is the greater of zero and the amount worked out by adding the
     deduction (first half) and deduction (second half) for the employer.
     (3) For subsection (2), the employer’s
     "deduction (first half)" is the amount worked out using the following
     formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the number of days in the part of the final period
     occurring in the first half of the transitional financial year for
     which the employer pays, or is liable to pay, wages.

     "B" means the number of days in the part of the final period
     occurring in the second half of the transitional financial year for
     which the employer pays, or is liable to pay, wages.

     "C" means the number of days in the transitional financial year.

     "D1" means the employer’s deduction (first half) in dollars.

     "FW1" means the amount of the employer’s final wages that are paid
     or payable for the part of the final period occurring in the first
     half of the transitional financial year.

     "IW1" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable by the
     employer for the part of the final period occurring in the first half
     of the transitional financial year.

     "K" means 1,300,000.

     "X" see subsection (5).
     (4) Also, for subsection (2), the employer’s
     "deduction (second half)" is the amount worked out using the
     following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the number of days in the part of the final period
     occurring in the first half of the transitional financial year for
     which the employer pays, or is liable to pay, wages.

     "B" means the number of days in the part of the final period
     occurring in the second half of the transitional financial year for
     which the employer pays, or is liable to pay, wages.

     "C" means the number of days in the transitional financial year.

     "D2" means the employer’s deduction (second half) in dollars.

     "FW2" means the amount of the employer’s final wages that are paid
     or payable for the part of the final period occurring in the second
     half of the transitional financial year.

     "IW2" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable by the
     employer for the part of the final period occurring in the second
     half of the transitional financial year.

     "K" means 1,300,000.

     "X" see subsection (5).
     (5) For subsections (3) and (4), the amount for
     "X" is to be worked out using the following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "FW" means the amount of the employer’s final wages for the final
     period.

     "FWhalf" means the amount of final wages paid or payable by the
     employer—
          (a) in relation to the deduction (first half)—for the
          part of the final period occurring in the first half of the
          transitional financial year; or
          (b) in relation to the deduction (second half)—for the
          part of the final period occurring in the second half of
          the transitional financial year.

     "IW" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable by the
     employer for the final period.

     "IWhalf" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable by the
     employer—
          (a) in relation to the deduction (first half)—for the
          part of the final period occurring in the first half of the
          transitional financial year; or
          (b) in relation to the deduction (second half)—for the
          part of the final period occurring in the second half of
          the transitional financial year.
     (6) In this section—

     "final wages" see section 37.

     "wages" does not include foreign wages.
 
Working out final deduction for transitional financial year—DGE for a group
*** 148F Working out final deduction for transitional financial year—DGE for
a group ***
     (1) This section applies to an employer if—
          (a) on the last day of a final period, the employer is the
          DGE for a group; and
          (b) all or part of the final period occurs in the second
          half of the transitional financial year.
     (2) Despite section 41, definition
     "final deduction", the final deduction for the DGE for the final
     period is the greater of zero and the amount worked out by adding the
     deduction (first half) and deduction (second half) for the DGE.
     (3) For subsection (2), the DGE’s
     "deduction (first half)" is the amount worked out using the following
     formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the number of days—
          (a) that are in the part of the final period occurring in
          the first half of the transitional financial year; and
          (b) for which 1 or more relevant group employers pay, or
          are liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or
          interstate wages, or taxable wages and interstate wages.

     "B" means the number of days—
          (a) that are in the part of the final period occurring in
          the second half of the transitional financial year; and
          (b) for which 1 or more relevant group employers pay, or
          are liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or
          interstate wages, or taxable wages and interstate wages.

     "C" means the number of days in the transitional financial year.

     "D1" means the DGE’s deduction (first half) in dollars.

     "IW1" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable for the
     part of the final period occurring in the first half of the
     transitional financial year by each relevant group employer as a
     member of the group.

     "K" means 1,300,000.

     "TW1" means the amount of taxable wages paid or payable for the part
     of the final period occurring in the first half of the transitional
     financial year by each relevant group employer as a member of the
     group.

     "X" see subsection (5).
     (4) Also, for subsection (2), the DGE’s
     "deduction (second half)" is the amount worked out using the
     following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "A" means the number of days—
          (a) that are in the part of the final period occurring in
          the first half of the transitional financial year; and
          (b) for which 1 or more relevant group employers pay, or
          are liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or
          interstate wages, or taxable wages and interstate wages.

     "B" means the number of days—
          (a) that are in the part of the final period occurring in
          the second half of the transitional financial year; and
          (b) for which 1 or more relevant group employers pay, or
          are liable to pay, as members of the group taxable wages or
          interstate wages, or taxable wages and interstate wages.

     "C" means the number of days in the transitional financial year.

     "D2" means the DGE’s deduction (second half) in dollars.

     "IW2" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable for the
     part of the final period occurring in the second half of the
     transitional financial year by each relevant group employer as a
     member of the group.

     "K" means 1,300,000.

     "TW2" means the amount of taxable wages paid or payable for the part
     of the final period occurring in the second half of the transitional
     financial year by each relevant group employer as a member of the
     group.

     "X" see subsection (5).
     (5) For subsections (3) and (4), the amount for
     "X" is to be worked out using the following formula—
          [graphic]
     where—

     "IW" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable for the
     final period by each relevant group employer as a member of the
     group.

     "IWhalf" means the amount of interstate wages paid or payable by each
     relevant group employer as a member of the group—
          (a) in relation to the deduction (first half)—for the
          part of the final period occurring in the first half of the
          transitional financial year; or
          (b) in relation to the deduction (second half)—for the
          part of the final period occurring in the second half of
          the transitional financial year.

     "TW" means the amount of taxable wages paid or payable for the final
     period by each relevant group employer as a member of the group.

     "TWhalf" means the amount of taxable wages paid or payable by each
     relevant group employer as a member of the group—
          (a) in relation to the deduction (first half)—for the
          part of the final period occurring in the first half of the
          transitional financial year; or
          (b) in relation to the deduction (second half)—for the
          part of the final period occurring in the second half of
          the transitional financial year.
     (6) In this section—

     "relevant group employer", for a final period for the DGE for a
     group, means an employer who was a member of the group for all or
     part of the final period.
 
Additional information required for particular annual returns
*** 148G Additional information required for particular annual returns ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to an annual return for the
     transitional financial year if a provision under subdivision 2, or
     the repealed Payroll Tax (Transitional) Regulation 2022, part 2,
     applies for working out the annual deduction for the taxable wages
     the subject of the annual return.
     (2) In addition to the requirements under section 63 (3), the return
     must also state—
          (a) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the wages that
          were paid or payable by each relevant group employer as a
          member of the group for the part of the designated period
          for the DGE occurring in the second half of the
          transitional financial year; or
          (b) for another employer—the wages that were paid or
          payable by the employer for the second half of the
          transitional financial year, other than wages that were
          included, or required to be included, in a final return for
          a final period for the employer during the financial year.
     (3) In this section—

     "relevant group employer", for the designated period for the DGE for
     a group in the transitional financial year, means an employer who was
     a member of the group for all or part of the designated period.
 
Additional information required for particular final returns
*** 148H Additional information required for particular final returns ***
     (1) This section applies in relation to a final return for the
     transitional financial year if a provision under subdivision 2, or
     the repealed Payroll Tax (Transitional) Regulation 2022, part 2,
     applies for working out the final deduction for taxable wages the
     subject of the final return.
     (2) In addition to the requirements under section 64 (3), the return
     must also state—
          (a) if the employer is the DGE for a group—the wages that
          were paid or payable by each relevant group employer as a
          member of the group for the part of the final period
          occurring in the second half of the transitional financial
          year; or
          (b) for another employer—the wages that were paid or
          payable by the employer for the part of the final period
          occurring in the second half of the transitional financial
          year.
     (3) In this section—

     "relevant group employer", for a final period for the DGE for a
     group, means an employer who was a member of the group for all or
     part of the final period.
 
Imposition and calculation of mental health levy for 2022–23 financial year
*** 149 Imposition and calculation of mental health levy for 2022–23
financial year ***
     (1) The mental health levy is not imposed on taxable wages paid or
     payable before 1 January 2023.
     (2) A reference in part 2, division 5A to 5C to taxable wages or
     interstate wages paid or payable by a person for a financial year is,
     for the financial year ending 30 June 2023, taken to be a reference
     to taxable wages or interstate wages paid or payable by a person for
     the period from 1 January to 30 June 2023.
     (3) For the application of part 2, division 5A to the financial year
     ending 30 June 2023, 1 January 2023 is taken to be a calculation day
     under section 43EB.
     (4) For the application of part 2, division 5A to 5C to the financial
     year ending 30 June 2023—
          (a) a reference in section 43C(1) or (2) to $10m is taken
          to be a reference to $5m; and
          (b) a reference in section 43D(1) or (2) to $100m is taken
          to be a reference to $50m; and
          (c) a reference in section 43I, definition
          "additional annual levy amount" to $100m is taken to be a
          reference to $50m; and
          (d) a reference in section 43I, definition
          "primary annual levy amount" to $10m is taken to be a
          reference to $5m; and
          (e) a reference in section 43M, definition
          "additional final levy amount" to $100m is taken to be a
          reference to $50m; and
          (f) a reference in section 43M, definition
          "primary final levy amount" to $10m is taken to be a
          reference to $5m.
 
Notification requirements for groups in January 2023
*** 150 Notification requirements for groups in January 2023 ***
     (1) An employer who is a non-DGE group member on 1 January 2023 must,
     on or before 9 January 2023, give the following information to the
     DGE for the group—
          (a) the employer’s name and ABN;
          (b) an estimate of the total amount of the taxable wages,
          and the total amount of any interstate wages, that will be
          payable by the employer as a member of the group for the
          period from 1 January to 30 June 2023.
     (2) An employer who is the DGE for a group on 9 January 2023 must, on
     or before 30 January 2023, give the following information to each
     employer who was a non-DGE group member on 1 January 2023—
          (a) an estimate of the total amount of the taxable wages
          that will be payable by all group members for the period
          from 1 January to 30 June 2023;
          (b) an estimate of the total amount of the interstate wages
          that will be payable by all group members for the period
          from 1 January to 30 June 2023.
     (3) The information given under subsection (2) may be determined from
     the information received under subsection (1).
     (4) A person must not fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply with
     subsection (1) or (2).
          Penalty--
               Maximum penalty—100 penalty units.
 
Notification requirements under s 88A for 2022–23 financial year
*** 151 Notification requirements under s 88A for 2022–23 financial year ***
Section 88A applies to the financial year ending 30 June 2023 as a relevant
financial year as follows—
     (a) to remove any doubt, it is declared that—
          (i) section 88A(2) to (4) does not apply to the relevant
          financial year; and
          (ii) a reference in section 88A(5) to the following
          financial year is a reference to the financial year
          starting 1 July 2023;
     (b) a reference in section 88A(5) to the relevant financial year is
     taken to be a reference to the period from 1 January to 30 June 2023.
 
- SCHEDULE
*** SCHEDULE Dictionary ***

"actual periodic deduction", for part 2, division 3, subdivision 1, see section
17.

"additional annual levy amount", for part 2, division 5B, see section 43I.

"additional final levy amount", for part 2, division 5C, see section 43M.

"additional periodic threshold", for part 2, division 5A, see section 43E.

"adjusted additional threshold", for part 2, division 5A, see section 43D.

"adjusted primary threshold", for part 2, division 5A, see section 43C.

"Administration Act" means the Taxation Administration Act 2001.

"administrator" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"agent"...

"aggregate interest", for part 4, division 2A, see section 74B.

"amended", for part 7, see section 98.

"amended Act" —
     (a) for part 7, see section 98; and
     (b) for part 9, see section 135.

"amending Act" —
     (a) for part 7, see section 98; and
     (b) for part 9, see section 135.

"annual adjustment amount" —
     (a) for part 2, division 4, subdivision 1, see section 29 (1); and
     (b) for part 2, division 4, subdivision 2, see section 33.

"annual deduction" —
     (a) for part 2, division 4, subdivision 1, see section 29 (1); and
     (b) for part 2, division 4, subdivision 2, see section 33.

"annual levy adjustment amount", for part 2, division 5B, see section 43I.

"annual levy amount", for part 2 division 5B, see section 43I.

"annual levy liability" see section 43J.

"annual liability" —
     (a) for an employer other than the DGE for a group—see section 30
     (1); and
     (b) for the DGE for a group—see section 34 (1).

"annual payroll tax amount" —
     (a) for part 2, division 4, subdivision 1, see sections 29 (1) and 48
     (4); and
     (b) for part 2, division 4, subdivision 2, see section 33.

"annual refund amount" —
     (a) for an employer other than the DGE for a group—see section 31
     (2); or
     (b) for the DGE for a group—see section 35 (2).

"annual return" means a return mentioned in section 63.

"annual wages" —
     (a) for part 2, division 4, subdivision 1, see section 29 (1); and
     (b) for part 2, division 4, subdivision 2, see section 33.

"approved form" see section 96.

"approved information system" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"assessed interest", see the Administration Act, section 54 (3).

"assessment" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"associated persons", for part 4, division 2A, see section 74B.

"Australia" means the States.

"averaging method", for part 2, division 1D, subdivision 1, see section 13X.

"averaging period", for part 2, division 1D, subdivision 1, see section 13X.

"business", for part 4, see section 66.

"business journey", for part 2, division 1D, subdivision 1, see section 13X.

"business vehicle", for part 2, division 1D, subdivision 1, see section 13X.

"calculation day" —
     (a) for part 2, division 3, subdivision 1, see section 18; and
     (b) for part 2, division 3, subdivision 2, see section 24; and
     (c) for part 2, division 5A, see section 43EB.

"change of status" see section 5 (1).

"client"...

"combined periodic liability", for part 2, division 5B, see section 43H.

"commencement", for part 7, see section 98.

"commissioner" means the Commissioner of State Revenue appointed under the
Administration Act.

"Commonwealth Act"...

"company" includes all bodies and associations (corporate and unincorporate)
and partnerships.

"continuous recording method", for part 2, division 1D, subdivision 1, see
section 13X.

"contract", for part 2, division 1A, see section 13A.

"corporation" see the Corporations Act.

"corresponding law" means—
     (a) in relation to Queensland—a law in force in Queensland imposing
     on employers a tax on wages paid or payable by them and the
     assessment and collection of the tax, but does not include this Act;
     and
     (b) in relation to another State—means a law in force in the State
     imposing on employers a tax on wages paid or payable by them and the
     assessment and collection of the tax.

"criteria for registration", for part 3, division 1, see section 52.

"current financial year", for a periodic return period, for part 2, division
5A, see section 43EA.

"death benefit ETP"...

"designated group employer", in relation to a group, means the member of that
group who under section 75 is for the time being the designated group employer
in respect of that group.

"designated period", for an employer who is the DGE for a group on 30 June in a
financial year—
     (a) means the part of the year for which the employer was the DGE for
     the group; but
     (b) does not include a part of the year for which the DGE lodged, or
     was required under section 64 (2) to lodge, a final return.

"DGE" means designated group employer.

"direct interest", for part 4, division 2A, see section 74B.

"director" —
     (a) of a company, includes a member of the governing body of the
     company; and
     (b) for part 2, division 1C, see section 13N.

"eligible year" means a financial year ending 30 June 2010, 2011, 2012, 2016,
2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 or 2026.

"employer" means any person who pays or is liable to pay any wages and includes
the Crown in right of the State of Queensland and any person taken to be an
employer under another provision of this Act.
     Note—
          For provisions under which persons are taken to be
          employers, see, for example, sections 13C (relevant
          contract employers) and 13H (employment agents under
          employment agency contracts).

"employment agency contract" see section 13G (1).

"employment agent", under an employment agency contract, see section 13G (1).

"entitled group member", for part 2, division 6, see section 44.

"ETP"...

"excess deduction", for part 2, division 6, see section 45 (2).

"false or misleading" includes false or misleading because of the omission of a
statement.

"final adjustment amount" —
     (a) for part 2, division 5, subdivision 1, see section 37; and
     (b) for part 2, division 5, subdivision 2, see section 41.

"final deduction" —
     (a) for part 2, division 5, subdivision 1, see section 37; and
     (b) for part 2, division 5, subdivision 2, see section 41.

"final levy adjustment amount", for part 2, division 5C, see section 43M.

"final levy amount", for part 2, division 5C, see section 43M.

"final levy liability" see section 43N.

"final liability" —
     (a) for an employer other than the DGE for a group—see section 38
     (1); and
     (b) for the DGE for a group—see section 42 (1).

"final payroll tax amount" —
     (a) for part 2, division 5, subdivision 1, see sections 37 and 49
     (4); and
     (b) for part 2, division 5, subdivision 2, see section 41.

"final period" see section 6.

"final refund amount" —
     (a) for an employer other than the DGE for a group—see section 39
     (2); or
     (b) for the DGE for a group—see section 43 (2).

"final return" means a return mentioned in section 64.

"final wages" —
     (a) for part 2, division 5, subdivision 1, see section 37; and
     (b) for part 2, division 5, subdivision 2, see section 41; and
     (c) for part 2, division 5C, see section 43M.

"financial year"...

"fixed periodic deduction" —
     (a) for part 2, division 3, subdivision 1, see section 17; and
     (b) for part 2, division 3, subdivision 2, see section 23.

"foreign wages" means wages that are not taxable wages and are not interstate
wages.

"fringe benefit" means—
     (a) a benefit that, in relation to an employee, or an employer of an
     employee, is a fringe benefit under the Fringe Benefits Assessment
     Act; or
     (b) anything prescribed by regulation to be a fringe benefit;
but does not include—
     (c) a car parking fringe benefit within the meaning of that Act; or
     (d) anything prescribed by regulation not to be a fringe benefit.

"Fringe Benefits Assessment Act" means the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act
1986 (Cwlth).

"granted", for part 2, division 1C, see section 13N.

"grantee", for part 2, division 1C, see section 13N.

"grantor", for part 2, division 1C, see section 13N.

"group" means a group constituted under part 4.

"group member" means a person who is a member of a group.

"indirect interest", for part 4, division 2A, see section 74B.

"interstate wages" means wages that are taxable wages within the meaning of a
corresponding law.

"liquidator" means the person who, whether or not appointed as liquidator, is
the person required by law to carry out the winding-up of a company.

"Local Authority"...

"mental health levy" means mental health levy imposed under section 12A.

"Minister"...

"month"...

"non-DGE group member" means a group member, other than the DGE for the group.

"number of exempt kilometres", for part 2, division 1D, subdivision 1, see
section 13X.

"option" means an option or right, whether actual, prospective or contingent,
of a person to—
     (a) acquire a share; or
     (b) have a share transferred or allotted to the person.

"order of entitled group members", for part 2, division 6, see section 44.

"original assessment" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"paid or payable", in relation to wages that are fringe benefits, means—
     (a) paid;
     (b) if another meaning is prescribed by regulation—that meaning.

"partial amount", for a periodic return period, means the amount worked out
using the following formula—
     [graphic]
where—

"PA" means the partial amount in dollars.

"PL" means the employer’s periodic liability for the period.

"X" means the number of days in the period that are in the final period.

"Y" means the total number of days in the period.

"partial levy amount", for part 2, division 5C, see section 43M.

"pay", in relation to wages, includes provide, confer and assign.

"payroll tax" means payroll tax chargeable under section 10.

"penalty tax" see the Administration Act, section 58 (1).

"periodic levy liability" see section 43F (1).

"periodic levy liability amount" see section 43M.

"periodic liability" —
     (a) for an employer other than the DGE for a group, see section 20
     (1); or
     (b) for the DGE for a group, see section 26.

"periodic liability amount", for an employer for a final period, means the sum
of—
     (a) the employer’s periodic liability for a periodic return period
     wholly within the final period, even if the return date for lodging
     the periodic return is after the return date for lodging the final
     return; and
     (b) for a day in the final period not included in a periodic return
     period mentioned in paragraph (a) —the partial amount for the
     periodic return period that includes the day, even if the return date
     for lodging the periodic return is after the return date for lodging
     the final return.

"periodic return" means a return mentioned in section 59.

"periodic return period", for lodgement of periodic returns by an employer,
means the period under section 60 for which the employer is required to lodge
periodic returns.

"person"...

"post-commencement liability", for part 7, see section 98.

"pre-amended Act", for part 9, see section 135.

"pre-commencement act or omission", for part 7, see section 98.

"pre-commencement liability", for part 7, see section 98.

"prescribed levy liability" means a liability for any of the following—
     (a) the mental health levy;
     (b) unpaid tax interest in relation to an assessment of liability for
     the mental health levy;
     (c) penalty tax in relation to an assessment of liability for the
     mental health levy;
     (d) any other amount payable under this Act or the Administration
     Act, or a liability to pay costs ordered by a court or QCAT, in
     relation to the mental health levy.

"prescribed payroll tax liability" means a liability for any of the
following—
     (a) payroll tax;
     (b) unpaid tax interest in relation to an assessment of liability for
     payroll tax;
     (c) penalty tax in relation to an assessment of liability for payroll
     tax;
     (d) any other amount payable under this Act or the Administration
     Act, or a liability to pay costs ordered by a court or QCAT, in
     relation to payroll tax.

"prescribed period", for part 7, see section 98.

"previous", for part 7, see section 98.

"previous return period", for part 7, see section 98.

"primary annual levy amount", for part 2, division 5B, see section 43I.

"primary final levy amount", for part 2, division 5C, see section 43M.

"primary periodic threshold", for part 2, division 5A, see section 43E.

"private company", for part 4, division 2A, see section 74B.

"reasonably believes" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"reassessment" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"related body corporate", for part 4, see section 66.

"related persons", for part 4, division 2A, see section 74B.

"relevant contract" see section 13B.

"relevant contract employee" see section 13A.

"relevant contract employer" see section 13C (3).

"relevant day", for part 2, division 1C, see section 13N.

"relevant employer" —
     (a) for part 3, division 2, see section 58; and
     (b) for part 9, see section 135.

"relevant entity", for part 4, division 2A, see section 74B.

"relevant financial year" means—
     (a) for part 2, division 6, see section 44; or
     (b) for part 2, division 6A, see section 49A.

"relevant group employer" —
     (a) for part 2, division 4, subdivision 2, see section 33; and
     (b) for part 2, division 5, subdivision 2, see section 41; and
     (c) for part 2, division 5C, see section 43M.

"relevant percentage", for part 2, division 1D, subdivision 1, see section 13X.

"relevant wages", for part 9, see section 135.

"re-supply", for part 2, division 1A, see section 13A.

"return" means a form approved for lodgement by an employer.

"return date", for lodgement of a periodic return, annual return or final
return by an employer, means the date by which the employer is required under
part 3, division 2 to lodge the return and pay tax.

"return period", in relation to an employer, means each of the following
periods for which the employer is required under this Act to lodge a return—
     (a) a periodic return period;
     (b) a financial year;
     (c) a final period.

"self assessment" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"service provider", in relation to an employment agency contract, see section
13G (1).

"services", for part 2, division 1A, see section 13A.

"share" means a share in a company and includes a stapled security.

"significant wage change" —
     (a) for part 2, division 3, subdivision 1, see section 19; and
     (b) for part 2, division 3, subdivision 2, see section 25; and
     (c) for part 2, division 5A, see section 43EC.

"State" includes a Territory.

"superannuation contribution" see section 3.

"supply", for part 2, division 1A, see section 13A.

"tax" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"taxable ETP"...

"taxable wages" means wages that, under section 9, are liable to payroll tax
and the mental health levy.

"tax law liability" see the Administration Act, schedule 2.

"termination payment" see section 3A.

"transitional final period", for part 7, see section 98.

"transitional return period", for part 7, see section 98.

"transitional year", for part 7, see section 98.

"trustee", in addition to every person appointed or constituted trustee by act
of parties, by order or declaration of a court or by operation of law,
includes—
     (a) an executor or administrator, guardian, committee, receiver or
     liquidator; and
     (b) every person having or taking upon himself or herself the
     administration or control of any real or personal property affected
     by any express or implied trust, or acting in any fiduciary capacity,
     or having the possession, control or management of any real or
     personal property of a person under any legal or other disability.

"unpaid tax interest" see the Administration Act, section 54 (1).

"vesting day", for part 2, division 1C, see section 13N.

"voting share" see the Corporations Act, part 1.2, section 9.

"wages", for part 2, division 5, subdivision 1, see section 37.

"wages" —
     1 means any wages, remuneration, salary, commission, bonuses or
     allowances paid or payable (whether at piecework rates or otherwise
     and whether paid or payable in cash or in kind) to an employee as an
     employee, and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
     includes—
          (a) any amount paid or payable by way of remuneration to a
          person holding office under the Crown in right of the State
          of Queensland or in the service of the Crown in right of
          the State of Queensland; and
          (b) any amount paid or payable under any prescribed classes
          of contracts to the extent to which that payment is
          attributable to labour; and
          (c) any amount paid or payable by a company by way of
          remuneration to a director of that company; and
          (d) any amount paid or payable by way of commission to an
          insurance or time payment canvasser or collector; and
          (e) the provision by the employer of meals or sustenance or
          the use of premises or quarters as consideration or part
          consideration for the employee’s services; and
          (f) fringe benefits; and
          (g) a superannuation contribution, other than a
          superannuation contribution—
               (i) paid or payable by a company for a director
               of the company before 1 July 2008; or
               (ii) for services performed or rendered by an
               employee before 1 January 2000; and
          (h) a termination payment; and
          (i) an amount taken to be wages under another provision of
          this Act; and
          Note—
               See, for example, sections 13E (amounts paid or
               payable under a relevant contract), 13J (amounts
               paid or payable under an employment agency
               contract) and 51 (amounts paid or payable by or
               to third parties).
     (j) a share or option granted by an employer to an employee in
     relation to services performed or rendered by the employee, if the
     share or option is—
          (i) an ESS interest under the Income Tax Assessment Act
          1997 (Cwlth), section 83A -10; and
          (ii) granted to the employee under an employee share scheme
          within the meaning of that section; and
          Note—
               See part 2, division 1C for provisions that apply
               for interpreting this paragraph.
     (k) a share or option granted by a company to a director of the
     company by way of remuneration for the appointment or services of the
     director.
          Note—
               See part 2, division 1C for provisions that apply
               for interpreting this paragraph.
     2 However,
     "wages" does not include a benefit that is an exempt benefit under
     the Fringe Benefits Assessment Act.
