PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007 

- TABLE OF PROVISIONS

PART 1--PRELIMINARY
1. Purposes  
2. Commencement  
3. Definitions  
3A. Meaning of regional employer   
3B. Meaning of regional employee  
4. Taxation Administration Act 1997  
5. Act binds the Crown  

PART 2--IMPOSITION OF PAYROLL TAX

Division 1--Imposition of tax

6. Imposition of payroll tax  
7. Who is liable for payroll tax?  
8. Amount of payroll tax  
9. When must payroll tax be paid?  

Division 2--Taxable wages

10. What are taxable wages?  
11. Wages that are taxable in this jurisdiction  
11A. Jurisdiction in which employee is based  
11B. Jurisdiction in which employer is based  
11C. Place and date of payment of wages  

Division 3--Other

12. Payroll tax paid under corresponding applied law  

PART 3--WAGES

Division 1--General concept of wages

13. What are wages?  

Division 2--Fringe benefits

14. Wages include fringe benefits  
15. Value of wages comprising fringe benefits  
16. Employer election regarding taxable value of fringe benefits  

Division 3--Superannuation contributions

17. Wages include superannuation contributions  

Division 4--Shares and options

18. Inclusion of grant of shares and options as wages  
19. Choice of relevant day  
20. Deemed choice of relevant day in special cases  
21. Effect of rescission, cancellation of share or option  
22. Grant of share pursuant to exercise of option  
23. Value of shares and options  
24. Inclusion of shares and options granted to directors as wages  
26. Place where wages are payable  

Division 5--Termination payments

27. Definitions  
28. Termination payments  

Division 6--Allowances

29. Motor vehicle allowances  
30. Accommodation allowances  

Division 7--Contractor provisions

31. Definitions  
32. What is a relevant contract?  
33. Persons taken to be employers  
34. Persons taken to be employees  
35. Amounts under relevant contracts taken to be wages  
36. Liability provisions  

Division 8--Employment agents

36A. Division not applicable to wages paid to common law employees  
37. Definitions  
38. Persons taken to be employers  
39. Persons taken to be employees  
40. Amounts taken to be wages  
41. Liability provisions  
42. Agreement to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax  

Division 9--Other

43. Value of wages paid in kind  
44. GST excluded from wages  
45. Wages paid by group employers  
46. Wages paid by or to third parties  
47. Agreement etc. to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax  

PART 4--EXEMPTIONS

Division 1--Non-profit organisations

48. Non-profit organisations  

Division 2--Education and training

49. Schools and educational services and training  
50. Community Development Employment Project  

Division 3--Health care service providers

51. Health care service providers  
52. Division not to limit other exemptions  

Division 4--Parental leave

53. Parental leave  

Division 5--Volunteer firefighters and emergency service volunteers

55. Volunteer firefighters  
56. Emergency service volunteers  
57. Limitation of exemption  

Division 6--Local government

58. Municipal councils  
59. Local government business entities  
60. Limitation on local government exemptions  

Division 7--Other government and defence

61. State Governors  
62. Defence personnel  
63. War Graves Commission  

Division 8--Foreign government representatives and international agencies

64. Consular and non-diplomatic representatives  
65. Trade commissioners  
66. Australian&#8211;American Fulbright Commission  

Division 9--Services outside Australia

66A. Wages paid or payable for or in relation to services performed in other countries  

Division 10--Miscellaneous

66B. Employment agents supplying their common law employees  

PART 5--GROUPING OF EMPLOYERS

Division 1--Interpretation

67. Definitions  
68. Grouping provisions to operate independently  

Division 2--Business groups

69. Constitution of groups  
70. Groups of corporations  
71. Groups arising from the use of common employees  
72. Groups of commonly controlled businesses  
73. Groups arising from tracing of interests in corporations  

Division 3--sets out the manner for determining whether antentity has a direct interest, indirect interest or aggregate interest in a corporation, and the value of such an interest.

74. Smaller groups subsumed by larger groups  

Division 3--Business groups--tracing of interests in corporations

75. Application  
76. Direct interest  
77. Indirect interest  
78. Aggregation of interests  

Division 4--Miscellaneous

79. Exclusion of persons from groups  
80. Designated group employers  
81. Joint and several liability  

PART 6--ADJUSTMENTS OF TAX
82. Determination of correct amount of payroll tax  
83. Annual adjustment of payroll tax  
84. Adjustment of payroll tax when employer changes circumstances  
85. Special provision where wages fluctuate  

PART 7--REGISTRATION AND RETURNS
86. Registration  
87. Returns  

PART 8--COLLECTION AND RECOVERY OF TAX

Division 1--Agents and trustees generally

88. Application  
89. Agents and trustees are answerable  
90. Returns by agent or trustee  
91. Liability to pay tax  
92. Indemnity for agent or trustee  

Division 2--Special cases

93. Tax not paid during lifetime  
94. Payment of tax by executors or administrators  
95. Assessment if no probate within 6 months of death  
96. Person in receipt or control of money for absentee  
97. Agent for absentee principal winding-up business  
98. Recovery of tax paid on behalf of another person  
99. Liquidator to give notice  

PART 9--GENERAL
100. Provisions specific to this jurisdiction  
101. Regulations  

PART 10--REPEALS, AMENDMENTS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Division 5--Transitional provisions

117. Transitional provisions  
SCHEDULE 1 
SCHEDULE 3 
ENDNOTES

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 1
Purposes

The purposes of this Act are&#8212;

         (a)     to re-enact and modernise the law relating to payroll tax;
and

         (b)     to harmonise payroll tax law with New South Wales; and

         (c)     to repeal the Pay-roll Tax Act 1971; and

         (d)     to amend the Taxation Administration Act 1997 and other
Acts.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 2
Commencement

     (1)     This Act (except section 108) comes into
operation on 1 July 2007.

     (2)     Section 108 comes into operation on the later of&#8212;

         (a)     1 July 2007;

         (b)     the day on which section 6.1.2 of the Education and Training Reform
Act 2006 comes into operation.

S. 3 amended by No. 17/2019
s. 49(2)(ILA s. 39B(1))     .

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 3
Definitions

     (1)     In this Act&#8212;

S. 3(1) def. of ABN inserted by
No. 83/2009 s. 15.

"ABN "means
the ABN (Australian Business Number) for an entity within the meaning of the
A New Tax System (Australian Business
Number) Act 1999 of the Commonwealth;

"agent" includes&#8212;

         (a)     a person who, in this jurisdiction, for or on behalf of another person
outside this jurisdiction, holds or has the management or control of the
business of that other person; and

         (b)     a person who, by an order of the Commissioner, is declared to be an
agent or the sole agent for any other person for the purposes of this Act and on
whom notice of that order has been served;

"Australia" means the States of the Commonwealth and the
Territories;

S. 3(1) def. of Australian jurisdiction
inserted by No. 83/2009 s. 15.

Australian jurisdiction
means a State or a Territory;

S. 3(1) def. of bushfire relief
regional employer inserted by No. 14/2020
s. 7.

"bushfire relief regional employer" means a regional employer
whose principal place of business is located in a state of disaster
area;

"coastal waters of Victoria" has the same meaning as
coastal waters of the State has in relation to Victoria in the
Coastal Waters (State Powers) Act 1980 of the Commonwealth;

"company" includes all bodies and associations (corporate and
unincorporate) and partnerships;

S. 3(1) def. of corporate collective
investment vehicle or CCIV inserted by No. 18/2023
s. 56.

"corporate collective investment vehicle" or CCIV
has the same meaning as in the Corporations Act;

"corporation" has the same meaning as in section 9 of the
Corporations Act;

"corresponding law" means a law in force in another State or a
Territory relating to the imposition upon employers of a tax on wages paid or
payable by them and the assessment and collection of that tax;

"designated group employer" means a member designated for a
group in accordance with section 80;

"director" of a company includes a member of the governing body
of the company;

S. 3(1) def. of domestic partner
inserted by No. 17/2019 s. 49(1).

"domestic partner" of a person means&#8212;

         (a)     a person who is in a registered domestic relationship with the person;
or

         (b)     a person to whom the person is not married but with whom the person is
living as a couple on a genuine domestic basis (irrespective of
gender);

"employer" means a person who pays or is liable to pay wages
and includes&#8212;

         (a)     the Crown in any of its capacities; and

         (b)     a person taken to be an employer by or under this Act; and

         (c)     a public, local or municipal body or authority constituted under the
law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory unless, being an authority
constituted under the law of the Commonwealth, it is immune from the operation
of this Act;

employment agency contract has the meaning given in section
37;

employment agent has the meaning given in section
37;

exempt wages mean wages that are declared by or under this
Act to be exempt wages;

"FBTA Act" means the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986 of
the Commonwealth;

"financial year" means each year commencing on
1 July;

"fringe benefit" has the same meaning as in the FBTA Act but
does not include&#8212;

         (a)     a tax-exempt body entertainment fringe benefit within the meaning of
that Act; or

         (b)     anything that is prescribed by the regulations under this Act not to
be a fringe benefit for the purposes of this definition;

"group" has the meaning given in section 67;
"GST" has the same meaning as it has in the A New Tax
System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 of the Commonwealth except that it
includes notional GST of the kind for which payments may be made under Part 3 of
the National Taxation Reform (Consequential Provisions) Act 2000 by a
person that is a State entity within the meaning of that Act;

S. 3(1) def. of
instrument
inserted by No. 83/2009
s. 15.

instrument
includes a cheque, bill of exchange, promissory note, money order
or a postal order issued by a post office;

"interstate wages" means wages that are taxable wages within
the meaning of a corresponding law;

"ITAA" means the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 of the
Commonwealth;

"liquidator" means the person who, whether or not appointed as
liquidator, is the person required by law to carry out the winding-up of a
company;

"month" means the month of January, February, March, April,
May, June, July, August, September, October, November and December;

"option" means an option or right, whether actual, prospective
or contingent, of a person to acquire a share or to have a share transferred or
allotted to the person;

"paid", in relation to wages, includes provided, conferred and
assigned and pay and payable have corresponding
meanings;

"payroll tax" means tax imposed by section 6;

"perform", in relation to services, includes render;

S. 3(1) def. of regional employee
inserted by No. 28/2017 s. 68, substituted by
No. 24/2025 s. 26.

regional employee has the meaning given in
section 3B;

S. 3(1) def. of regional employer
inserted by No. 28/2017 s. 68.

regional employer has the meaning given in section
3A;

S. 3(1) def. of regional Victoria
inserted by No. 28/2017 s. 68, amended by
No. 22/2021 s. 21.

"regional Victoria" has the same meaning as it has in section
18(8) of the First Home Owner Grant and Home Buyer Schemes
Act 2000;

S. 3(1) def. of registered business
address inserted by No. 83/2009 s. 15.

registered business address
"means an address for" service of notices under the A
New Tax System (Australian Business Number) Act 1999 of the Commonwealth on an
entity that has an ABN, as shown in the Australian Business Register kept under
that Act;

"return period", in relation to an employer, means a period
relating to which that employer is required to lodge a return under this
Act;

S. 3(1) def. of service provider
inserted by No. 23/2022 s. 27.

"service provider", in relation to an employment agency
contract&#8212;see section 37;

S. 3(1) def. of share
amended by No. 28/2011 s. 33.

"share" means a share in a company and includes a stapled
security;

S. 3(1) def. of spouse
inserted by No. 17/2019 s. 49(1).

"spouse" of a person means a person to whom the person is
married;

S. 3(1) def. of state of disaster
area inserted by No. 14/2020 s. 7.

"state of disaster area" means&#8212;

         (a)     the municipal districts of the following municipal
councils&#8212;

               (i)     Alpine Shire Council;

               (ii)     East Gippsland Shire Council;

               (iii)     Mansfield Shire Council;

               (iv)     Towong Shire Council;

               (v)     Wangaratta Rural City Council;

               (vi)     Wellington Shire Council; and

         (b)     the following alpine resorts within the meaning of the Alpine
Resorts Act 1983&#8212;

               (i)     Falls Creek Alpine Resort;

               (ii)     Mount Buller Alpine Resort;

               (iii)     Mount Hotham Alpine Resort;

               (iv)     Mount Stirling Alpine Resort;

superannuation contribution has the meaning given in section
17(2);

taxable wages has the meaning given in
section 10;

termination payment has the meaning given in section
27;

"Territories" means the Australian Capital Territory (including
the Jervis Bay Territory) and the Northern Territory;

"this jurisdiction" means Victoria and the coastal waters of
Victoria;

"voting share" has the same meaning as in section 9 of the
Corporations Act;

wages has the meaning given in Part 3.
S. 3(2) inserted by No. 17/2019
s. 49(2).

     (2)     For the purposes of the definition of domestic partner
in subsection (1)&#8212;

         (a)     "registered domestic relationship" has the same meaning as
in the Relationships Act 2008; and

         (b)     in determining whether persons who are not in a registered domestic
relationship are domestic partners of each other, all the circumstances of their
relationship are to be taken into account, including any one or more of the
matters referred to in section 35(2) of the Relationships Act 2008 as may
be relevant in a particular case.

S. 3A inserted by No. 28/2017
s. 69.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 3A
Meaning of regional employer 

S. 3A(1) substituted by
No. 17/2019 s. 47(1).

     (1)     A regional employer is an employer who meets the
requirements specified in subsection (2).

     (2)     For the purposes of subsection (1), the specified requirements
are&#8212;

         (a)     at least 85% of the total taxable wages that the employer pays, or are
payable by the employer, to the employer's employees during a month, are paid
or payable to the employer's regional employees; and

         (b)     for a financial year, at least 85% of the total taxable wages that the
employer pays, or are payable by the employer, to the employer's employees,
are paid or payable to the employer's regional employees during that year (the
annual rate reduction threshold).
S. 3A(3) amended by
No. 24/2025 s. 27.

     (3)     For the purposes of determining the annual rate reduction
threshold, it is not necessary for the employer to meet the specified
requirement under subsection (2)(a) in every month during the financial
year.

Note to s. 3A repealed by
No. 17/2019 s. 47(2).

     *     *     *     *     *

S. 3B inserted by No. 24/2025
s. 28.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 3B
Meaning of regional employee

          A person is a regional employee in a month
if&#8212;

         (a)     wages are paid or payable to the person in that month by an employer
for or in relation to services performed by the person in Victoria (whether or
not wages are also paid or payable to that person in that month for services
performed elsewhere); and

         (b)     the services performed by the person in Victoria are performed mainly
in regional Victoria.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 4
Taxation Administration Act 1997

This Act is to be read together with the
Taxation Administration Act 1997 which provides for the administration
and enforcement of this Act and other taxation laws.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 5
Act binds the Crown

     (1)     This Act binds the Crown in right of this
jurisdiction and, so far as the legislative power of the Parliament permits, the
Crown in all its other capacities.

     (2)     Nothing in this Act makes the Crown in any of its capacities liable to
be prosecuted for an offence.

Part
2&#8212;Imposition of payroll tax

Division
1&#8212;Imposition of tax

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 6
Imposition of payroll tax

Payroll tax is imposed on all taxable
wages.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 7
Who is liable for payroll tax?

The employer by whom taxable wages are paid or
payable is liable to pay payroll tax on the wages.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 8
Amount of payroll tax

The amount of payroll tax payable by an
employer is to be ascertained in accordance with Schedules 1 and
2.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 9
When must payroll tax be paid?

     (1)     A person who is liable to pay payroll tax
on taxable wages must pay the tax&#8212;

         (a)     within 7 days after the end of the month in which those wages
were paid or payable, other than the month of June; and

         (b)     within 21 days after the end of the month of June in relation to
taxable wages paid or payable in the month of June.

     (2)     However, if the Commissioner has reason to believe that a person may
leave Australia before any payroll tax becomes payable by the person, the tax is
payable on the day fixed by the Commissioner by notice served on the
person.

Division
2&#8212;Taxable wages

S. 10 substituted by
No. 83/2009 s. 16.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 10
What are taxable wages?

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act,
taxable wages are
wages that are taxable in this jurisdiction.

     (2)     However, exempt wages are not taxable wages.

S. 11 substituted by
No. 83/2009 s. 16.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 11
Wages that are taxable in this jurisdiction

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act, wages are
taxable in this jurisdiction if&#8212;

         (a)     the wages are paid or payable by an employer for or in relation to
services performed by an employee wholly in this jurisdiction; or

         (b)     the wages are paid or payable by an employer for or in relation to
services performed by an employee in 2 or more Australian jurisdictions, or
partly in one or more Australian jurisdictions and partly outside all Australian
jurisdictions, and&#8212;

               (i)     the employee is based in this jurisdiction; or

               (ii)     the employer is based in this jurisdiction (in a case where the
employee is not based in an Australian jurisdiction); or

               (iii)     the wages are paid or payable in this jurisdiction (in a case where
both the employee and the employer are not based in an Australian jurisdiction);
or

               (iv)     the wages are paid or payable for services performed mainly in this
jurisdiction (in a case where both the employee and the employer are not based
in an Australian jurisdiction and the wages are not paid or payable in an
Australian jurisdiction); or

         (c)     the wages are paid or payable by an employer for or in relation to
services performed by an employee wholly outside all Australian jurisdictions
and are paid or payable in this jurisdiction.

Note

Section 66A provides an exemption for wages paid or payable for services
performed wholly in one or more other countries for a continuous period of more
than 6 months.

     (2)     The question of whether wages are taxable in this jurisdiction is to
be determined by reference only to the services performed by the employee in
respect of the employer during the month in which the wages are paid or payable,
subject to this section.

     (3)     Any wages paid or payable by an employer in respect of an employee in
a particular month are taken to be paid or payable for or in relation to the
services performed by the employee in respect of the employer during that
month.

Note

For example, if wages paid in a month are paid to an employee for services
performed over several months, the question of whether the wages are taxable in
this jurisdiction is to be determined by reference only to services performed by
the employee in the month in which the wages are paid.  The services performed
in previous months are disregarded.  (The services performed in previous months
will be relevant to the question of whether wages paid in those previous months
are taxable in this jurisdiction.)

     (4)     If no services are performed by an employee in respect of an employer
during the month in which wages are paid or payable to or in relation to the
employee&#8212;

         (a)     the question of whether the wages are taxable in this jurisdiction is
to be determined by reference only to the services performed by the employee in
respect of the employer during the most recent prior month in which the employee
performed services in respect of the employer; and

         (b)     the wages are taken to be paid or payable for or in relation to the
services performed by the employee in respect of the employer during that most
recent prior month.

     (5)     If no services were performed by an employee in respect of an employer
during the month in which wages are paid or payable to or in relation to the
employee or in any prior month&#8212;

         (a)     the wages are taken to be paid or payable for or in relation to
services performed by the employee in the month in which the wages are paid or
payable; and

         (b)     the services are taken to have been performed at a place or places
where it may be reasonably expected that the services of the employee in respect
of the employer will be performed.

     (6)     All amounts of wages paid or payable in the same month by the same
employer in respect of the same employee are to be aggregated for the purposes
of determining whether they are taxable in this jurisdiction (as if they were
paid or payable for all services performed by the employee in the month in which
the wages are paid or payable, or the most recent prior month, as the case
requires).

Note

For example, if one amount of wages is paid by an employer in a particular
month for services performed in this jurisdiction, and another amount of wages
is paid by the same employer in the same month for services performed by the
same employee in another Australian jurisdiction, the wages paid are to be
aggregated (as if they were paid for all services performed by the employee in
that month).  Accordingly, subsection (1)(b) would be applied for the purpose of
determining whether the wages are taxable in this jurisdiction.

     (7)     If wages are paid in a different month from the month in which they
are payable, the question of whether the wages are taxable in this jurisdiction
is to be determined by reference to the earlier of the relevant
months.

S. 11A inserted by
No. 83/2009 s. 16.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 11A
Jurisdiction in which employee is based

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act, the
jurisdiction in which an employee is based is the jurisdiction in which the
employee's principal place of residence is located.

     (2)     The jurisdiction in which an employee is based is to be determined by
reference to the state of affairs existing during the month in which the
relevant wages are paid or payable.

     (3)     If more than one jurisdiction would qualify as the jurisdiction in
which an employee is based during a month, the jurisdiction in which the
employee is based is to be determined by reference to the state of affairs
existing on the last day of that month.

     (4)     An employee who does not have a principal place of residence is taken,
for the purposes of this Act, to be an employee who is not based in an
Australian jurisdiction.

     (5)     In the case of wages paid or payable to a corporate employee, the
jurisdiction in which the employee is based is to be determined in accordance
with section 11B instead of this section (as if a reference in section 11B to an
employer were a reference to an employee).

     (6)     In this section, a
corporate employee
is a company that is taken to be an employee under section 34 or
39 or a company to whom a payment is made that is taken to be wages payable to
an employee under section 42 or 47.

S. 11B inserted by
No. 83/2009 s. 16.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 11B
Jurisdiction in which employer is based

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act, the
jurisdiction in which an employer is based is&#8212;

         (a)     the jurisdiction in which the employer's registered business address
is located (if the employer has an ABN); or

         (b)     the jurisdiction in which the employer's principal place of business
is located (in any other case).

     (2)     If wages are paid or payable in connection with a business carried on
by an employer under a trust, the employer's registered business address is the
registered business address of the trust or, if the trust does not have an ABN,
the registered business address of the trustee of the trust.

     (3)     If an employer has registered business addresses located in different
jurisdictions at the same point in time, the jurisdiction in which the employer
is based at that point in time is the jurisdiction in which the employer's
principal place of business is located.

     (4)     The jurisdiction in which an employer is based is to be determined by
reference to the state of affairs existing during the month in which the
relevant wages are paid or payable.

     (5)     If more than one jurisdiction would qualify as the jurisdiction in
which an employer is based during a month, the jurisdiction in which the
employer is based is to be determined by reference to the state of affairs
existing on the last day of that month.

     (6)     An employer who has neither a registered business address nor a
principal place of business is taken, for the purposes of this Act, to be an
employer who is not based in an Australian jurisdiction.

S. 11C inserted by
No. 83/2009 s. 16.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 11C
Place and date of payment of wages

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act, wages are
taken to have been paid at a place if, for the purpose of the payment of those
wages&#8212;

         (a)     an instrument is sent or given or an amount is transferred by an
employer to a person or a person's agent at that place; or

         (b)     an instruction is given by an employer for the crediting of an amount
to the account of a person or a person's agent at that place.

     (2)     The wages are taken to have been paid on the date that the instrument
was sent or given, the amount was transferred or the account credited in
accordance with the instruction (as the case requires).

     (3)     Wages are taken to be payable at the place at which they are paid,
subject to this section.

     (4)     Wages that are not paid by the end of the month in which they are
payable are taken to be payable at&#8212;

         (a)     the place where wages were last paid by the employer to the employee;
or

         (b)     if wages have not previously been paid by the employer to the
employee&#8212;the place where the employee last performed services in respect
of the employer before the wages became payable.

     (5)     If wages paid or payable in the same month by the same employer in
respect of the same employee are paid or payable in more than one Australian
jurisdiction, the wages paid or payable in that month are taken to be paid or
payable in the Australian jurisdiction in which the highest proportion of the
wages are paid or payable.

Note

Section 11 requires all wages paid or payable in the same month by the same
employer in respect of the same employee to be aggregated for the purpose of
determining whether the wages are taxable in this jurisdiction.  The above
provision ensures only one Australian jurisdiction can be considered to be the
jurisdiction in which the wages are paid or payable.

Division
3&#8212;Other

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 12
Payroll tax paid under corresponding applied law

     (1)     For the purposes of ascertaining the
payroll tax payable under this Act by an employer who during a return period
pays taxable wages and Commonwealth place wages, there is to be deducted from
the amount of payroll tax payable by the employer under this Act the amount of
payroll tax payable by the employer under the corresponding applied
law.

     (2)     In this section&#8212;

"Commonwealth Act" means the Commonwealth Places (Mirror Taxes)
Act 1998 of the Commonwealth;

"Commonwealth place wages" means wages that would be taxable
wages within the meaning of the corresponding applied law if the corresponding
applied law applied in relation to each place in this jurisdiction that is a
Commonwealth place;

"corresponding applied law" means the provisions of the
Payroll Tax Act 2007 that would apply in relation to each place in this
jurisdiction that is a Commonwealth place, pursuant to section 6(2) of the
Commonwealth Act, if those provisions were excluded provisions
within the meaning of section 6(1) of the Commonwealth Act.

S. 12A inserted by No. 28/2017
s. 70, repealed by No. 17/2019 s. 48.

     *     *     *     *     *

Part
3&#8212;Wages

Division
1&#8212;General concept of wages

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 13
What are wages?

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act,
wages mean wages, remuneration, salary, commission, bonuses or
allowances paid or payable to an employee, including&#8212;

         (a)     an amount paid or payable by way of remuneration to a person holding
an office under the Crown or in the service of the Crown; and

         (b)     an amount paid or payable under any prescribed classes of contracts to
the extent to which that payment is attributable to labour; and

         (c)     an amount paid or payable by a company by way of remuneration to or in
relation to a director of that company; and

         (d)     an amount paid or payable by way of commission to an insurance or
time-payment canvasser or collector; and

         (e)     an amount that is included as or taken to be wages by any other
provision of this Act.

     (2)     For the purposes of this Act, wages, remuneration, salary, commission,
bonuses or allowances are wages&#8212;

         (a)     whether paid or payable at piece work rates or otherwise;
and

         (b)     whether paid or payable in cash or in kind.

S. 13(3) inserted by
No. 83/2009 s. 17.

     (3)     This Act applies in respect of wages referred to in subsections (1)(a)
to (e) that are paid or payable to or in relation to a person who is not an
employee in the same way as it applies to wages paid or payable to an employee
(as if a reference in this Act to an employee included a reference to any such
person).

Division
2&#8212;Fringe benefits

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 14
Wages include fringe benefits

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act,
wages include a fringe benefit.
     (2)     Subsection (1) does not apply to benefits that are exempt benefits for
the purposes of the FBTA Act (other than deposits to the Superannuation
Holding Accounts Special Account within the meaning of the Small Superannuation
Accounts Act 1995 of the Commonwealth).

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 15
Value of wages comprising fringe benefits

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act, the value of
wages comprising a fringe benefit is to be determined in accordance with the
formula&#8212;

where&#8212;

     TV     is the value that would be the taxable value of the benefit as a
fringe benefit for the purposes of the FBTA Act;

     FBT rate     is the rate of fringe benefits tax imposed by the FBTA Act
that applies when the liability to payroll tax under this Act arises.

     (2)     In this Act, a reference to taxable wages that were paid or payable by
an employer during a month is, in relation to taxable wages comprising fringe
benefits&#8212;

         (a)     a reference to the value of the fringe benefits paid or payable by the
employer during the month; or

         (b)     if an election by the employer is in force under section 16, a
reference to an amount calculated in accordance with that section.

     (3)     In this Act, a reference to taxable wages that were paid or payable by
an employer during a year is, in relation to taxable wages comprising fringe
benefits, a reference to an amount calculated by adding together the amounts
under subsection (2)(a) or (b) (or subsection (2)(a) and (b)) as the case
requires, for the months of that year.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 16
Employer election regarding taxable value of fringe benefits

     (1)     An employer who has paid or is liable to
pay fringe benefits tax imposed by the FBTA Act in respect of a period of not
less than 15 months before 30 June in any year may elect to include as the value
of the fringe benefits paid or payable by the employer during the month
concerned&#8212;

         (a)     in a return lodged in relation to each of the first 11 months
occurring after 30 June in that year&#8212;1/12th of the
amount determined in accordance with subsection (2) or that part of
that amount as, in accordance with section 10, comprises taxable wages for
the year of tax (within the meaning of the FBTA Act) ending on 31 March
preceding the commencement of the current financial year; and

         (b)     in the return lodged in relation to the 12th month&#8212;the
amount determined in accordance with subsection (2) or that part of that
amount as, in accordance with section 10, comprises taxable wages for the
year of tax (within the meaning of the FBTA Act) ending on 31 March preceding
that month, less the total of the amounts of fringe benefits included in the
returns for each of the preceding 11 months.

     (2)     The amount determined in accordance with this subsection is to be
determined in accordance with the formula&#8212;

where&#8212;

     AFBA     is the aggregate fringe benefits amount within the meaning of
section 136 of the FBTA Act;

     FBT rate     is the rate of fringe benefits tax imposed by the FBTA Act
that applies when the liability to payroll tax under this Act arises.

     (3)     An election under subsection (1) takes effect when it is notified to
the Commissioner in the form approved by the Commissioner.

     (4)     After an employer has made an election under subsection (1), the
employer must lodge returns containing amounts calculated in accordance with the
election unless the Commissioner approves, by notice in writing given to
the employer, the termination of the election and allows the employer to include
the value referred to in section 15(2)(a).

     (5)     If an employer ceases to be liable to pay payroll tax, the value of
taxable wages comprising fringe benefits to be included in the employer's
final return is (irrespective of whether or not the employer has made an
election under subsection (1)) the value of the fringe benefits paid or
payable by the employer for the period commencing on and including the preceding
1 July until the date on which the employer ceases to be liable to payroll
tax, less the value of the fringe benefits paid or payable by the employer
during that period on which payroll tax has been paid.

Division
3&#8212;Superannuation contributions

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 17
Wages include superannuation contributions

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act,
wages include a superannuation contribution.
     (2)     A superannuation contribution is a contribution paid or
payable by an employer in respect of an employee&#8212;

         (a)     to or as a superannuation fund within the meaning of the
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 of the Commonwealth; or

         (b)     as a superannuation guarantee charge within the meaning of the
Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 of the Commonwealth;
or

         (c)     to or as any other form of superannuation, provident or retirement
fund or scheme including&#8212;

               (i)     the Superannuation Holding Accounts Special Account within the meaning
of the Small Superannuation Accounts Act 1995 of the Commonwealth; and

               (ii)     a retirement savings account within the meaning of the Retirement
Savings Accounts Act 1997 of the Commonwealth; and

               (iii)     a wholly or partly unfunded fund or scheme.

     (3)     Setting aside any money or anything that is worth money as, or as part
of, a superannuation fund, superannuation guarantee charge or any other form of
superannuation, provident or retirement fund or scheme is taken to be paying a
superannuation contribution.

     (4)     Making a superannuation contribution of anything that is worth money
is taken to be paying a superannuation contribution of the amount equal to its
value, and its value is to be worked out in accordance with section 43 as if
that section referred to the contribution instead of to wages.

     (5)     A superannuation, provident or retirement fund or scheme is
unfunded to the extent that money paid or payable by an employer in respect of
an employee covered by the fund or scheme is not paid or payable during the
employee's period of service with the employer.

     (6)     In this section&#8212;

"employee" includes any person to whom, by virtue of a
paragraph of the definition of wages in section 13(1), an amount
paid or payable in the circumstances referred to in that paragraph constitutes
wages.

Division
4&#8212;Shares and options

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 18
Inclusion of grant of shares and options as wages

S. 18(1)
substituted by No. 28/2011 s. 34.

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act, wages include the grant of
a share or an option to an employee by an employer in respect of services
performed by the employee if the share or option is an ESS interest (within the
meaning of section 83A-10 of the ITAA) and is granted to the employee under an
employee share scheme (within the meaning of that section).

Note

A grant of a share or an option to an employee by an employer that is not
an ESS interest will be taxable as a fringe benefit under Division 2 of this
Part.

     (2)     Any such wages are taken, for the purpose of the imposition of payroll
tax, to be paid or payable on the relevant day.

     (3)     For the purposes of this Division, the relevant day is
the day that the employer elects in accordance with this Division to treat as
the day on which the wages are paid or payable.

     (4)     To avoid doubt, the grant of a share or option is valuable
consideration for the purposes of section 46.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 19
Choice of relevant day

     (1)     The employer can elect to treat as the
"relevant day" either the date on which the share or option
is granted to the employee or the vesting date.

S. 19(2) substituted by
No. 28/2011 s. 35(1).

     (2)     A share or option is granted to a person
if&#8212;

         (a)     another person transfers the share or option to that person (other
than, in the case of a share, by issuing the share to that person); or

         (b)     in the case of a share&#8212;another person allots the share to that
person; or

         (c)     in the case of an option&#8212;another person confers the option on,
or otherwise creates the option in, that person; or

         (d)     the person otherwise acquires a legal interest in the share or option
from another person; or

         (e)     the person acquires a beneficial interest in the share or option from
another person.

S. 19(2A) inserted by
No. 28/2011 s. 35(1).

     (2A)     To avoid doubt, if an employee acquires a right to be granted a
share or an option, or some other material benefit, at the election of the
employer, the share or option is not granted until the employer elects to grant
the share or option.

S. 19(3) substituted by
No. 28/2011 s. 35(2).

     (3)     The vesting date in respect of a share is one of the
following dates (whichever happens first)&#8212;

         (a)     the date on which the share vests in the employee (that is, when any
conditions applying to the grant of the share have been met and the employee's
legal or beneficial interest in the share cannot be rescinded);

         (b)     the date at the end of the period of 7 years from the date on
which the share is granted to the employee.

S. 19(4) substituted by
No. 28/2011 s. 35(2).

     (4)     The vesting date in respect of an option is one of the
following dates (whichever happens first)&#8212;

         (a)     the date on which the share to which the option relates is granted to
the employee;

         (b)     the date on which the employee exercises a right under the option to
have the share the subject of the option transferred to, allotted to or vested
in him or her; 

         (c)     the date at the end of the period of 7 years from the date on
which the option is granted to the employee.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 20
Deemed choice of relevant day in special cases

     (1)     If an employer grants a share or an option
to an employee and the value of the grant of the share or option is not included
in the taxable wages of the employer for the financial year in which the share
or option was granted, the employer is taken to have elected to treat the wages
constituted by the grant of that share or option as being paid or payable on the
vesting date.

     (2)     If an employer grants a share or an option to an employee and the
value of the grant of the share or option is nil or, if the employer were to
elect to treat the date of grant as the relevant day, the wages constituted
by the grant would not be liable to payroll tax, the employer is taken to
have elected to treat the wages constituted by the grant of that share or option
as being paid or payable on the date on which the share or option was
granted.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 21
Effect of rescission, cancellation of share or option

     (1)     If the grant of a share or option is
withdrawn, cancelled or exchanged before the vesting date for any valuable
consideration (other than the grant of other shares or options), the following
provisions apply&#8212;

         (a)     the date of withdrawal, cancellation or exchange is taken to be the
vesting date of the share or option;

         (b)     the market value of the share or option, on the vesting date, is taken
to be the amount of the valuable consideration (and, accordingly, that amount is
the amount paid or payable as wages on that date).

     (2)     If an employer includes the value of a grant of a share or option
in the taxable wages of the employer for a financial year and the grant is
rescinded because the conditions attaching to the grant were not met, the
taxable wages of the employer, in the financial year in which the grant is
rescinded, are to be reduced by the value of the grant as previously included in
the taxable wages of the employer.

     (3)     Subsection (2) does not apply just because an employee fails to
exercise an option or to otherwise exercise his or her rights in respect of a
share or option.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 22
Grant of share pursuant to exercise of option

The grant of the share by an employer does not
constitute wages for the purposes of this Act if the employer is required
to grant the share as a consequence of the exercise of an option by a person
and&#8212;

         (a)     the grant of the option to the person constitutes wages for the
purposes of this Act; or

         (b)     the option was granted to the person before 1 July
2007.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 23
Value of shares and options

S. 23(1)
amended by No. 28/2011 s. 36(1).

     (1)     If the grant of a share or option constitutes wages under this
Division, the amount paid or payable as wages is taken, for the purposes of
this Act, to be the value of the share or option (expressed in Australian
currency) on the relevant day, less the consideration (if any) paid or
given by the employee in respect of the share or option (other than
consideration in the form of services performed).

S. 23(2) substituted by
No. 28/2011 s. 36(2).

     (2)     The value of a share or an option is&#8212;

         (a)     the market value; or

         (b)     the amount determined as provided for by the Commonwealth income tax
provisions.

S. 23(3) substituted by
No. 28/2011 s. 36(2).

     (3)     The employer may elect the method by which the value of a share or an
option is determined in any return lodged under this Act.

S. 23(4) substituted by
No. 28/2011 s. 36(2).

     (4)     However, the Commissioner may determine the method by which the value
of a share or option is determined if the grant of the share or option is not
included as wages in a return lodged by an employer as required by this
Act.

S. 23(5) substituted by
No. 28/2011 s. 36(2).

     (5)     In determining the market value of a share or an option, anything that
would prevent or restrict conversion of the share or option to money is to be
disregarded.

S. 23(6) inserted by
No. 28/2011 s. 36(2).

     (6)     The Commonwealth income tax provisions apply with the following
modifications, and any other necessary modifications&#8212;

         (a)     the value of an option is to be determined as if it were a right to
acquire a beneficial interest in a share;

         (b)     a reference to the acquisition of a beneficial interest in a share or
right is to be read as a reference to the grant of a share or an
option.

S. 23(7) inserted by
No. 28/2011 s. 36(2).

     (7)     In this section&#8212;

"Commonwealth income tax provisions" means section 83A-315 of
the ITAA and the regulations made for the purposes of that section.

Note

See Division 83A of the Income Tax Assessment Regulations 1997 of the
Commonwealth for the relevant regulations.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 24
Inclusion of shares and options granted to directors as wages

S. 24(1)
substituted by No. 28/2011 s. 37(1).

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act, wages include the grant of
a share or an option by a company to a director of the company who is not an
employee of the company by way of remuneration for the appointment or services
of the director.

     (2)     For that purpose, the other provisions of this Division apply in
respect of any such grant as if a reference to the employer were a reference to
the company and a reference to the employee were a reference to the director of
the company.

     (3)     In this section, a reference to a director of the company includes a
reference to the following&#8212;

         (a)     a person who, under a contract or other arrangement, is to be
appointed as a director of the company;

         (b)     a former director of the company.

S. 24(4) repealed by
No. 83/2009 s. 18(1), new s. 24(4) inserted by No.
28/2011 s. 37(2).

     (4)     However, if wages referred to in this section are fringe benefits, the
value of the wages is to be determined in accordance with Division 2 of this
Part (and not this Division).

Note to s. 24 inserted by
No. 83/2009 s. 18(2).

Note

Section 13 provides that a reference to an employee in this Act includes a
reference to any person to whom any amount that is treated as wages under this
Act is payable.  See also section 11, which deems the wages to be paid or
payable for services performed.

S. 25 repealed by No. 83/2009
s. 19.

     *     *     *     *     *

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 26
Place where wages are payable

     (1)     The wages constituted by the grant of the
share or option are taken to be paid or payable in this jurisdiction
if the share is a share in a local company or, in the case of an option, an
option to acquire shares in a local company.

     (2)     In any other case, the wages constituted by the grant of the share or
option are taken to be paid or payable outside this jurisdiction.

Note to s. 26(2) substituted by
No. 83/2009 s. 20.

Note

The place where wages are paid or payable is sometimes relevant to
determining whether the wages are liable to payroll tax under this Act.  See
section 11.

     (3)     In this section&#8212;

"local company" means&#8212;

         (a)     a company incorporated or taken to be incorporated under the
Corporations Act that is taken to be registered in this jurisdiction for the
purposes of that Act; or

         (b)     any other body corporate that is incorporated under an Act of this
jurisdiction.

Division
5&#8212;Termination payments

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 27
Definitions

In this Division&#8212;

"employment termination payment" means&#8212;

         (a)     an employment termination payment within the meaning of section 82-130
of the ITAA; or

         (b)     a payment that would be an employment termination payment within the
meaning of section 82-130 of the ITAA but for the fact that it was received
later than 12 months after the termination of a person's employment;
or

         (c)     a transitional termination payment within the meaning of section 82-10
of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 of the
Commonwealth;

"termination payment" means&#8212;

         (a)     a payment made in consequence of the retirement from, or termination
of, any office or employment of an employee, being&#8212;

               (i)     an unused annual leave payment; or

               (ii)     an unused long service leave payment; or

               (iii)     so much of an employment termination payment paid or payable by an
employer, whether or not paid to the employee or to any other person or
body, that would be included in the assessable income of an employee under
Part 2-40 of the ITAA if the whole of the employment termination payment
had been paid to the employee; or

         (b)     an amount paid or payable by a company as a consequence of the
termination of the services or office of a director of the company, whether or
not paid to the director or to any other person or body, that would be an
employment termination payment if that amount had been paid or payable as a
consequence of termination of employment; or

         (c)     an amount paid or payable by a person who is an employer under a
relevant contract (within the meaning of section 32) as a consequence of
the termination of the supply of the services of an employee under the contract,
whether or not paid to the employee or to any other person, if the amount
would be an employment termination payment if that amount had been paid or
payable as a consequence of termination of employment;

"unused annual leave payment" has the same meaning as in
section 83-10 of the ITAA;

"unused long service leave payment" has the same meaning as in
section 83-75 of the ITAA.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 28
Termination payments

For the purposes of this Act,
wages include a termination payment.
Division
6&#8212;Allowances

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 29
Motor vehicle allowances

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act,
"wages", in respect of a financial year, do not include the
exempt component of a motor vehicle allowance paid or payable in respect of that
year.

     (2)     Accordingly, if the total motor vehicle allowance paid or payable to
an employee in respect of a financial year does not exceed the exempt
component, the motor vehicle allowance is not wages for the
purposes of this Act.

     (3)     If the total motor vehicle allowance paid or payable to an employee in
respect of a financial year exceeds the exempt component (if any), only that
amount that exceeds the exempt component of the motor vehicle allowance is
included as wages for the purposes of this Act.
     (4)     The exempt component of a motor vehicle allowance paid
or payable in respect of a financial year is calculated in accordance with the
formula&#8212;

E = K &#215; R

where&#8212;

     E     is the exempt component;

     K     is the number of business kilometres travelled during the
financial year;

     R     is the exempt rate.

     (5)     The number of business kilometres travelled during the financial
year ("K") is to be determined in accordance with the continuous
recording method, or the averaging method, whichever method is selected and used
by the employer in accordance with Part 5 of Schedule 1.

     (6)     The Commissioner, by order in writing, may approve the use, by an
employer or class of employer, of another method of determining the number
of business kilometres travelled during the financial year (including the use of
an estimate).  If so, the number of business kilometres travelled during
the financial year is to be determined in accordance with the method
approved by the Commissioner.

     (7)     For the purposes of this section, the exempt rate for
the financial year concerned is&#8212;

S. 29(7)(a) substituted by No. 66/2016
s. 6(a). 

         (a)     the rate of cents per kilometre determined under subsection 28-25(4)
of the ITAA for the purposes of subsection (1) of that section in the financial
year immediately preceding the financial year in which the allowance is paid or
payable; or

S. 29(7)(b) amended by No. 66/2016
s. 6(b). 

         (b)     if no rate of cents per kilometre referred to in paragraph (a) is
prescribed, the rate prescribed by the regulations under this Act.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 30
Accommodation allowances

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act,
wages do not include an accommodation allowance paid or payable to
an employee in respect of a night's absence from the person's usual place of
residence that does not exceed the exempt rate.

     (2)     If the accommodation allowance paid or payable to an employee in
respect of a night's absence from the person's usual place of residence exceeds
the exempt rate, wages include that allowance only to the extent
that it exceeds the exempt rate.

     (3)     For the purposes of this section, the exempt rate for
the financial year concerned is&#8212;

         (a)     the total reasonable amount for daily travel allowance expenses using
the lowest capital city for the lowest salary band for the financial year
determined by the Commissioner of Taxation of the Commonwealth; or

         (b)     if no determination referred to in paragraph (a) is in force, the
rate prescribed by the regulations.

Division
7&#8212;Contractor provisions

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 31
Definitions

In this Division&#8212;

"contract" includes an agreement, arrangement or undertaking,
whether formal or informal and whether express or implied;

relevant contract has the meaning given in
section 32;

"re-supply" of goods acquired from a person
includes&#8212;

         (a)     a supply to the person of goods in an altered form or condition;
and

         (b)     a supply to the person of goods in which the first-mentioned goods
have been incorporated;

"services" includes results (whether goods or services) of work
performed;

"supply" includes supply by way of sale, exchange, lease, hire
or hire-purchase, and in relation to services includes the providing, granting
or conferring of services.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 32
What is a relevant contract?

     (1)     In this Division, a relevant
contract in relation to a financial year is a contract under which a
person (the designated person) during that financial year, in the
course of a business carried on by the designated person&#8212;

         (a)     supplies to another person services for or in relation to the
performance of work; or

         (b)     has supplied to the designated person the services of persons for or
in relation to the performance of work; or

         (c)     gives out goods to natural persons for work to be performed by those
persons in respect of those goods and for re-supply of the goods to the
designated person or, where the designated person is a member of a group, to
another member of that group.

     (2)     However, a "relevant contract" does not include a contract
of service or a contract under which a person (the designated
person) during a financial year in the course of a business carried on
by the designated person&#8212;

         (a)     is supplied with services for or in relation to the performance of
work that are ancillary to the supply of goods under the contract by the person
by whom the services are supplied or to the use of goods which are the property
of that person; or

         (b)     is supplied with services for or in relation to the performance of
work where&#8212;

               (i)     those services are of a kind not ordinarily required by the designated
person and are performed by a person who ordinarily performs services of that
kind to the public generally; or

               (ii)     those services are of a kind ordinarily required by the designated
person for less than 180 days in a financial year; or

               (iii)     those services are provided for a period that does not exceed 90
days or for periods that, in the aggregate, do not exceed 90 days in that
financial year and are not services&#8212;

     (A)     provided by a person by whom similar services are provided to the
designated person; or

     (B)     for or in relation to the performance of work where any of the persons
who perform the work also perform similar work for the designated
person&#8212;

for periods that, in the aggregate, exceed 90 days in that financial
year; or

               (iv)     those services are supplied under a contract to which subparagraphs
        (i) to (iii) do not apply and the Commissioner is satisfied that those
services are performed by a person who ordinarily performs services of that
kind to the public generally in that financial year; or

S. 32(2)(c) amended by
No. 41/2013 s. 44(1)(b).

         (c)     is supplied by a person (the contractor)
with services for or in relation to the performance of work under a
contract to which paragraphs (a) and (b) do not apply where the work
to which the services relate is performed&#8212;

               (i)     by two or more persons employed by, or who provide services for,
the contractor in the course of a business carried on by the contractor;
or

               (ii)     where the contractor is a partnership of two or more natural
persons, by one or more of the members of the partnership and one or more
persons employed by, or who provide services for, the contractor in the course
of a business carried on by the contractor; or

S. 32(2)(c)(iii) amended by
No. 41/2013 s. 44(1)(a).

               (iii)     where the contractor is a natural person, by the contractor and one
or more persons employed by, or who provide services for, the contractor in the
course of a business carried on by the contractor; or

S. 32(2)(d) amended by
No. 41/2013 s. 44(2)(c).

         (d)     is supplied with&#8212;

S. 32(2)(d)(i) amended by
No. 41/2013 s. 44(2)(a).

               (i)     services solely for or ancillary to the conveyance of goods by means
of a vehicle provided by the person conveying them; or

               (ii)     services solely for or in relation to the procurement of persons
desiring to be insured by the designated person; or

S. 32(2)(d)(iii) amended by
No. 41/2013 s. 44(2)(b).

               (iii)     services for or in relation to the door&#8209;to-door sale of goods
solely for domestic purposes on behalf of the designated person.

S. 32(2A) inserted by
No. 41/2013 s. 44(3).

     (2A)     Subsection (2)(a), (2)(b)(i), (2)(b)(iv) or (2)(d) does not apply to
a contract under which services not referred to in that subsection are supplied
in addition to services referred to in that subsection.

S. 32(2B) inserted by
No. 41/2013 s. 44(3).

     (2B)     Subsection (2)(b)(ii) or (iii) does not apply to&#8212;

         (a)     a contract under which services not referred to in that subsection are
supplied in addition to services referred to in that subsection; or

         (b)     a contract under which services referred to in that subsection are
provided for a period exceeding a period referred to in that
subsection.

S. 32(2C) inserted by
No. 41/2013 s. 44(3).

     (2C)     Subsection (2)(c) does not apply to a contract under which work is
performed in a manner other than a manner referred to in that subsection, in
addition to work performed in a manner referred to in that subsection.

S. 32(2D) inserted by
No. 41/2013 s. 44(3).

     (2D)     Subsection (2) does not apply if the Commissioner determines that the
contract under which the services are supplied was entered into with an
intention either directly or indirectly of avoiding or evading the payment of
tax by any person.

     (3)     For the purposes of this section, an employment agency contract under
which services are supplied by an employment agent, or a service provider is
procured by an employment agent, is not a relevant contract.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 33
Persons taken to be employers

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act, a
person&#8212;

         (a)     who during a financial year, under a relevant contract, supplies
services to another person; or

         (b)     to whom during a financial year, under a relevant contract, the
services of persons are supplied for or in relation to the performance of work;
or

         (c)     who during a financial year, under a relevant contract, gives out
goods to other persons&#8212;

is taken to be an employer in respect of that financial year.

     (2)     If a contract is a relevant contract under both section 32(1)(a) and
        (b)&#8212;

         (a)     the person to whom, under the contract, the services of persons are
supplied for or in relation to the performance of work is taken to be an
employer; and

         (b)     despite subsection (1)(a), the person who under the contract supplies
the services is taken not to be an employer.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 34
Persons taken to be employees

For the purposes of this Act, a person who
during a financial year&#8212;

         (a)     performs work for or in relation to which services are supplied to
another person under a relevant contract; or

         (b)     being a natural person, under a relevant contract, re-supplies goods
to an employer&#8212;

is taken to be an employee in respect of that financial year.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 35
Amounts under relevant contracts taken to be wages

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act, amounts paid
or payable by an employer during a financial year for or in relation to the
performance of work relating to a relevant contract or the re-supply of goods by
an employee under a relevant contract are taken to be wages paid or payable
during that financial year.

     (2)     If an amount referred to in subsection (1) is included in a larger
amount paid or payable by an employer under a relevant contract during a
financial year, that part of the larger amount which is not attributable to the
performance of work relating to the relevant contract or the re&#8209;supply of
goods by an employee under the relevant contract is as determined by the
Commissioner.

     (3)     An amount paid or payable for or in relation to the performance of
work under a relevant contract is taken to include&#8212;

         (a)     any payment made by a person who is taken to be an employer under a
relevant contract in relation to a person who is taken to be an employee under
the relevant contract that would be a superannuation contribution if made in
relation to a person in the capacity of an employee; and

         (b)     the value of any share or option (not otherwise included as wages
under this Act) provided or liable to be provided by a person who is
taken to be an employer under a relevant contract in relation to a person who is
taken to be an employee under the relevant contract that would be included as
wages under Division 4 if provided to a person in the capacity of an
employee.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 36
Liability provisions

If, in respect of a payment for or in relation
to the performance of work that is taken to be wages under this Division,
payroll tax is paid by a person taken under this Division to be an
employer&#8212;

         (a)     no other person is liable to payroll tax in respect of that payment;
and

         (b)     if another person is liable to make a payment for or in relation to
that work, that person is not liable to payroll tax in respect of that payment
unless it or the payment by the first&#8209;mentioned person is made with an
intention either directly or indirectly of avoiding or evading the payment of
tax whether by the first-mentioned person or another person.

Division
8&#8212;Employment agents

S. 36A inserted by
No. 23/2022 s. 28.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 36A
Division not applicable to wages paid to common law employees

This Division does not apply in relation to
wages that are exempt wages under section 66B and clause 19A of
Schedule 2.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 37
Definitions

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act, an
employment agency contract is a contract, whether formal or
informal and whether express or implied, under which a person (an
employment agent) procures the services of another person (a
service provider) for a client of the employment agent.
     (2)     However, a contract is not an employment agency contract for the
purposes of this Act if it is, or results in the creation of, a contract of
employment between the service provider and the client.

     (3)     In this section&#8212;

"contract" includes agreement, arrangement and
undertaking.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 38
Persons taken to be employers

For the purposes of this Act, the employment
agent under an employment agency contract is taken to be an employer.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 39
Persons taken to be employees

For the purposes of this Act, the person who
performs work for or in relation to which services are supplied to the client
under an employment agency contract is taken to be an employee of the employment
agent.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 40
Amounts taken to be wages

     (1)     For the purposes of this Act, the
following are taken to be wages paid or payable by the employment agent under an
employment agency contract&#8212;

         (a)     any amount paid or payable to or in relation to the service provider
in respect of the provision of services in connection with the employment agency
contract;

         (b)     the value of any benefit provided for or in relation to the provision
of services in connection with the employment agency contract that would be a
fringe benefit if provided to a person in the capacity of an employee;

         (c)     any payment made in relation to the service provider that would be a
superannuation contribution if made in relation to a person in the capacity of
an employee.

S. 40(2) amended by No. 40/2016
s. 41.

     (2)     Subsection (1) does not apply to an employment agency contract to the
extent that an amount, benefit or payment referred to in that subsection would
be exempt from payroll tax under Part 4 (other than under Division 4 or 5 of
that Part, section 50 or clause 16 or 16A of Schedule 2) had the service
provider been paid by the client as an employee, if the client has given a
declaration to that effect, in the form approved by the Commissioner, to the
employment agent.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 41
Liability provisions

Subject to section 42, if an employment agent
under an employment agency contract&#8212;

         (a)     by arrangement procures the services of a service provider for a
client of the employment agent; and

         (b)     pays payroll tax in respect of an amount, benefit or payment that is,
under section 40, taken to be wages paid or payable by the employment agent
in respect of the provision of those services in connection with that
contract&#8212;

no other person (including any other person engaged to procure the services
of the service provider for the employment agent's client as part of the
arrangement) is liable to pay payroll tax in respect of wages paid or payable
for the procurement or performance of those services by the service provider for
the client.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 42
Agreement to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax

     (1)     If the effect of an employment agency
contract is to reduce or avoid the liability of any party to the contract to the
assessment, imposition or payment of payroll tax, the Commissioner
may&#8212;

         (a)     disregard the contract; and

         (b)     determine that any party to the contract is taken to be an employer
for the purposes of this Act; and

         (c)     determine that any payment made in respect of the contract is taken to
be wages for the purposes of this Act.

     (2)     If the Commissioner makes a determination under subsection (1), the
Commissioner must serve a notice of the determination on the person taken to be
an employer for the purposes of this Act.

     (3)     The notice must set out the facts on which the Commissioner relies and
the reasons for the determination.

     (4)     This section has effect in relation to agreements, transactions and
arrangements made before, on or after the commencement of this
section.

Division
9&#8212;Other

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 43
Value of wages paid in kind

The value of wages (except fringe benefits and
shares and options) that are paid or payable in kind is the greater
of&#8212;

         (a)     the value agreed or attributed to the wages in, or ascertainable for
the wages from, arrangements between the employer and the employee, whichever is
the greater; and

         (b)     if the regulations prescribe how the value of wages of that type is to
be determined&#8212;the value determined in accordance with the
regulations.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 44
GST excluded from wages

     (1)     If a person is liable to pay GST on the
supply to which wages paid or payable to the person relate, the amount or value
of those wages on which payroll tax is payable is the amount or value of
the wages paid or payable to the person minus the relevant proportion of
the amount of GST payable by the person on the supply to which the wages
relate.

     (2)     Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of the value of wages
comprising a fringe benefit.

     (3)     In this section&#8212;

"consideration" has the same meaning as in the A New Tax
System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 of the Commonwealth;

"relevant proportion", in relation to GST payable on a supply
to which wages relate, means the proportion that the amount or value of the
wages bears to the consideration for the supply to which the wages
relate.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 45
Wages paid by group employers

A reference in this Act to wages paid or
payable by a member of a group includes wages that would be taken to be paid or
payable by a member of a group if the member were the employer of the employee
to whom the wages were paid.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 46
Wages paid by or to third parties

     (1)     If any of the following amounts of money
or other valuable consideration would, if paid or given or to be paid or given
directly by an employer to an employee, be or be included as wages paid or
payable by the employer to the employee for the purposes of this Act, they are
taken to be wages paid or payable by the employer to the
employee&#8212;

         (a)     any money or other valuable consideration paid or given, or to be paid
or given, to an employee, for the employee's services as an employee of an
employer, by a person other than the employer;

         (b)     any money or other valuable consideration paid or given, or to be paid
or given, by an employer, for an employee's services as the employee of the
employer, to a person other than the employee;

         (c)     any money or other valuable consideration paid or given, or to be paid
or given, by a person other than an employer, for an employee's services as an
employee of the employer, to a person other than the employee.

     (2)     If any of the following amounts of money or other valuable
consideration would, if paid or given or to be paid or given directly by a
company to a director of the company, be or be included as wages paid or
payable by the company to the director for the purposes of this Act, they are
taken to be wages paid or payable by the company to the
director&#8212;

         (a)     any money or other valuable consideration paid or given, or to be paid
or given, to a director of a company, by way of remuneration for the
appointment or services of the director to the company, by a person other than
the company;

         (b)     any money or other valuable consideration paid or given, or to be paid
or given, by a company, by way of remuneration for the appointment or services
of the director to the company, to a person other than the director;

         (c)     any money or other valuable consideration paid or given, or to be paid
or given, by any person, by way of remuneration for the appointment or services
of a director to the company, to a person other than the director.

     (3)     In this section, "director" of a company
includes&#8212;

         (a)     a person who, under a contract or other arrangement, is to be
appointed as a director of the company; and

         (b)     a former director of the company.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 47
Agreement etc. to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax

     (1)     If any person enters into any agreement,
transaction or arrangement, whether in writing or otherwise, under which a
natural person performs, for or on behalf of another person, services in respect
of which any payment is made to some other person related or connected to the
natural person performing the services and the effect of the agreement,
transaction or arrangement is to reduce or avoid the liability of any person to
the assessment, imposition or payment of payroll tax, the Commissioner
may&#8212;

         (a)     disregard the agreement, transaction or arrangement; and

         (b)     determine that any party to the agreement, transaction or arrangement
is taken to be an employer for the purposes of this Act; and

         (c)     determine that any payment made in respect of the agreement,
transaction or arrangement is taken to be wages for the purposes of this
Act.

     (2)     If the Commissioner makes a determination under subsection (1), the
Commissioner must serve a notice to that effect on the person taken to be an
employer for the purposes of this Act.

     (3)     The notice must set out the facts on which the Commissioner relies and
the reasons for the determination.

     (4)     This section has effect in relation to agreements, transactions and
arrangements made before, on or after the commencement of this
section.

Part
4&#8212;Exemptions

Division
1&#8212;Non-profit organisations

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 48
Non-profit organisations

S. 48(1) amended
by No. 31/2008 s. 20, substituted by No. 69/2011
s. 3(1).

     (1)     Wages are exempt wages if the Commissioner is satisfied that the wages
are paid or payable&#8212;

         (a)     by any of the following&#8212;

               (i)     a religious institution; or

               (ii)     a public benevolent institution (but not including an instrumentality
of the State); or

               (iii)     a non-profit organisation having as its whole or dominant
purpose a charitable, benevolent, philanthropic or patriotic purpose (but
not including a school, an educational institution, an educational
company or an instrumentality of the State); and

         (b)     to a person engaged exclusively in work of a religious,
charitable, benevolent, philanthropic or patriotic nature for the institution or
non-profit organisation.

S. 48(2) repealed by No. 69/2011
s. 3(1).

     *     *     *     *     *

S. 48(3) amended by No. 69/2011
s. 3(2).

     (3)     For the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(iii), an educational
company is a company&#8212;

         (a)     in which an educational institution has a controlling interest;
and

         (b)     that provides, promotes or supports the educational services of that
institution.

     (4)     For the purposes of subsection (3), an educational institution has a
"controlling interest" in an educational company if&#8212;

         (a)     members of the board of management of the company who are
entitled to exercise a majority in voting power at meetings of the board of
management are accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to
act in accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of the educational
institution; or

         (b)     the educational institution may (whether directly or indirectly)
exercise, control the exercise of, or substantially influence the exercise of,
more than 50% of the voting power attached to voting shares, or any class of
voting shares, issued by the company; or

         (c)     the educational institution has power to appoint more than 50% of the
members of the board of management of the company.

     (5)     In this section&#8212;

"educational institution" means an entity that provides
education above secondary level.

Division
2&#8212;Education and training

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 49
Schools and educational services and training

Wages are exempt wages as provided for in
Division 1 of Part 3 of Schedule 2.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 50
Community Development Employment Project

     (1)     Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or
payable      to an Aboriginal person who is employed under an employment
project.

     (2)     An employment project is an employment project under the
Community Development Employment Project funded by the Department of Employment
and Workplace Relations of the Commonwealth or the Torres Strait Regional
Authority.

Division
3&#8212;Health care service providers

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 51
Health care service providers

     (1)     Subject to subsection (2), wages paid or
payable by a health care service provider are exempt wages.

     (2)     The wages must be paid or payable&#8212;

         (a)     for work of a kind ordinarily performed in connection with the conduct
of a health care service provider; and

         (b)     to a person engaged exclusively in that kind of work.

     (3)     For the purposes of this section, health care service
provider has the meaning given in Division 2 of Part 3 of Schedule
2.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 52
Division not to limit other exemptions

     (1)     Nothing in this Division limits the
application of any other Division of this Part.

     (2)     For example, if a health care service provider is also a non-profit
organisation, the exemption for non-profit organisations referred to in section
48 may still apply.

Pt 4 Div. 4 (Heading and ss 53,
54) amended by No. 69/2011 s. 4, substituted as Pt 4 Div. 4
(Heading and s. 53) by No. 17/2019 s. 50.

Division
4&#8212;Parental leave

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 53
Parental leave

Wages are exempt wages as provided for in
Division 2A of Part 3 of Schedule 2.

Division
5&#8212;Volunteer firefighters and emergency service
volunteers

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 55
Volunteer firefighters

Subject to section 57, wages are exempt wages
if they are paid or payable to an employee in respect of any period when he or
she was taking part in bushfire fighting activities as a volunteer officer or
member of a brigade within the meaning of the Country Fire Authority Act
1958.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 56
Emergency service volunteers

Subject to section 57, wages are exempt wages
if they are paid or payable to an employee in respect of any period when he or
she was engaging in emergency activities within the meaning of
the Emergency Management Act 1986 as a volunteer emergency worker
within the meaning of that Act.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 57
Limitation of exemption

An exemption under this Division does not apply
to wages paid or payable as recreation leave, annual leave, long service leave
or sick leave.

Division
6&#8212;Local government

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 58
Municipal councils

Subject to section 60, wages are exempt wages
if they are paid or payable by&#8212;

         (a)     a municipal council; or

         (b)     a union or partnership of which all the members are municipal
councils.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 59
Local government business entities

     (1)     Subject to section 60, wages are exempt
wages if they are paid or payable&#8212;

         (a)     by a wholly-owned subsidiary (within the meaning of the Corporations
Act) of a municipal council; and

         (b)     to a person for or in connection with an activity that      is conducted
for the council under a written arrangement between the subsidiary and the
council.

     (2)     The written arrangement referred to in subsection (1)(b) must include
a provision for the payment by the subsidiary to the council of an amount
approximately equivalent to the amount of tax that would be payable by the
subsidiary under this Act but for the exemption.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 60
Limitation on local government exemptions

     (1)     An exemption under this Division does not
apply to wages paid or payable for or in connection with&#8212;

         (a)     any of the activities referred to in subsection (2); or

         (b)     the construction of any buildings or works, or the installation of
plant, machinery or equipment for use in any of the activities referred to in
subsection (2).

     (2)     Subsection (1) applies to the following activities&#8212;

         (a)     the supply of electricity or gas;

         (b)     water supply;

         (c)     sewerage;

         (d)     the conduct of&#8212;

               (i)     abattoirs;

               (ii)     public markets;

               (iii)     parking stations;

               (iv)     cemeteries or crematoria;

               (v)     hostels;

               (vi)     an activity prescribed by the regulations;

         (e)     an activity specified in Schedule 2.

Division
7&#8212;Other government and defence

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 61
State Governors

Wages paid or payable by the Governor of a
State are exempt wages.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 62
Defence personnel

Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or
payable to an employee in respect of any period when he or she was on leave from
employment because of being a member of&#8212;

         (a)     the Defence Force of the Commonwealth; or

         (b)     the armed forces of any part of the Commonwealth of Nations.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 63
War Graves Commission

Wages paid or payable by the Commonwealth War
Graves Commission are exempt wages.

Division
8&#8212;Foreign government representatives and international
agencies

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 64
Consular and non-diplomatic representatives

Wages paid or payable to members of his or her
official staff by a consular or other representative of any country in Australia
(other than a diplomatic representative) are exempt wages.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 65
Trade commissioners

Wages paid or payable to members of his or
her official staff by a Trade Commissioner representing any other part of
the Commonwealth of Nations in Australia are exempt wages.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 66
Australian&#8211;American Fulbright Commission

Wages paid or payable by the
Australian&#8211;American Fulbright Commission are exempt wages.

Pt 4 Div. 9 (Heading and s. 66A)
inserted by No. 83/2009 s. 21.

Division
9&#8212;Services outside Australia

S. 66A inserted by No. 83/2009
s. 21.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 66A
Wages paid or payable for or in relation to services performed in other countries

Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or
payable for or in relation to services performed by an employee wholly in
one or more other countries for a continuous period of more than 6 months
beginning on the day on which wages were first paid or payable to that employee
for the services so performed.

Pt 4 Div. 10 (Heading and s. 66B)
inserted by No. 23/2022 s. 29.

Division 10&#8212;Miscellaneous

S. 66B inserted by No. 23/2022
s. 29.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 66B
Employment agents supplying their common law employees

Wages are exempt wages as provided for in
clause 19A of Schedule 2.

Part
5&#8212;Grouping of employers

Division
1&#8212;Interpretation

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 67
Definitions

In this Part&#8212;

"business" includes&#8212;

         (a)     a profession or trade; and

         (b)     any other activity carried on for fee, gain or reward; and

         (c)     the activity of employing one or more persons who perform duties for
or in connection with another business; and

         (d)     the carrying on of a trust (including a dormant trust); and

         (e)     the activity of holding any money or property used for or in
connection with another business&#8212;

whether carried on by 1 person or 2 or more persons together;

"group" means a group constituted under this Part, but does not
include any member of the group in respect of whom a determination under
Division 4 is in force.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 68
Grouping provisions to operate independently

The fact that a person is not a member of a
group constituted under a provision of this Part does not prevent that person
from being a member of a group constituted under another provision of this
Part.

Division
2&#8212;Business groups

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 69
Constitution of groups

A group is constituted by all the
persons or bodies forming a group that is not a part of any larger
group.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 70
Groups of corporations

     (1)     Corporations constitute a group if they
are related bodies corporate within the meaning of the Corporations
Act.

S. 70(2) repealed by No. 31/2008
s. 21(a).

     *     *     *     *     *

Note to s. 70 repealed by No. 31/2008
s. 21(b).

     *     *     *     *     *

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 71
Groups arising from the use of common employees

     (1)     If one or more employees of an employer
perform duties for or in connection with one or more businesses carried on by
the employer and one or more other persons, the employer and each of those other
persons constitute a group.

     (2)     If one or more employees of an employer are employed solely or mainly
to perform duties for or in connection with one or more businesses carried on by
one or more other persons, the employer and each of those other persons
constitute a group.

     (3)     If one or more employees of an employer perform duties for or in
connection with one or more businesses carried on by one or more other persons,
being duties performed in connection with, or in fulfilment of the employer's
obligation under, an agreement, arrangement or undertaking for the provision of
services to any one or more of those other persons in connection with that
business or those businesses, the employer and each of those other persons
constitute a group.

     (4)     Subsection (3) applies to an agreement, arrangement or
undertaking&#8212;

         (a)     whether the agreement, arrangement or undertaking is formal or
informal, express or implied; and

         (b)     whether or not the agreement, arrangement or undertaking provides for
duties to be performed by the employees or specifies the duties to be performed
by them.

Note

Section 79 (Exclusion of persons from groups) allows the Commissioner, for
payroll tax purposes, to exclude persons from a group constituted under this
section in certain circumstances.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 72
Groups of commonly controlled businesses

     (1)     If a person or set of persons has a
controlling interest in each of 2 businesses, the persons who carry on those
businesses constitute a group.

Note

Section 79 (Exclusion of persons from groups) allows the Commissioner, for
payroll tax purposes, to exclude persons from a group constituted under this
section in certain circumstances.

     (2)     For the purposes of this section, a person or set of persons has
a controlling interest in a business if&#8212;

         (a)     in the case of 1 person&#8212;the person is the sole owner (whether or
not as trustee) of the business; or

         (b)     in the case of a set of persons&#8212;the persons are together as
trustees the sole owners of the business; or

         (c)     in the case of a business carried on by a corporation&#8212;

               (i)     the person or each of the set of persons is a director of the
corporation and the person or set of persons is entitled to exercise more than
50% of the voting power at meetings of the directors of the corporation;
or

               (ii)     a director or set of directors of the corporation that is entitled to
exercise more than 50% of the voting power at meetings of the directors of
the corporation is under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act
in accordance with the direction, instructions or wishes of that person
or set of persons; or

         (d)     in the case of a business carried on by a body corporate or
unincorporate&#8212;that person or set of persons constitute more than 50% of
the board of management (by whatever name called) of the body or control
the composition of that board; or

         (e)     in the case of a business carried on by a corporation that has a share
capital&#8212;that person or set of persons can, directly or indirectly,
exercise, control the exercise of, or substantially influence the exercise of,
more than 50% of the voting power attached to the voting shares, or any class of
voting shares, issued by the corporation; or

         (f)     in the case of a business carried on by a partnership&#8212;that
person or set of persons&#8212;

               (i)     own (whether beneficially or not) more than 50% of the capital of the
partnership; or

               (ii)     is entitled (whether beneficially or not) to more than 50% of the
profits of the partnership; or

         (g)     in the case of a business carried on under a trust&#8212;the person or
set of persons (whether or not as a trustee of, or beneficiary under, another
trust) is the beneficiary in respect of more than 50% of the value of the
interests in the first-mentioned trust.

     (3)     If&#8212;

         (a)     2 corporations are related bodies corporate within the meaning of the
Corporations Act; and

         (b)     1 of the corporations has a controlling interest in a
business&#8212;

the other corporation has a controlling interest in the business.

     (4)     If&#8212;

         (a)     a person or set of persons has a controlling interest in a business;
and

         (b)     a person or set of persons who carry on the business has a controlling
interest in another business&#8212;

the person or set of persons referred to in paragraph (a) has a controlling
interest in that other business.

     (5)     If&#8212;

         (a)     a person or set of persons is the beneficiary of a trust in respect of
more than 50% of the value of the interests in the trust; and

         (b)     the trustee of the trust (whether alone or together with another
trustee or trustees) has a controlling interest in the business of another
trust&#8212;

the person or set of persons has a controlling interest in the
business.

     (6)     A person who may benefit from a discretionary trust as a result of the
trustee or another person, or the trustee and another person, exercising or
failing to exercise a power or discretion, is taken, for the purposes of this
Part, to be a beneficiary in respect of more than 50% of the value of the
interests in the trust.

     (7)     If&#8212;

         (a)     a person or set of persons has a controlling interest in the business
of a trust; and

         (b)     the trustee of the trust (whether alone or together with another
trustee or trustees) has a controlling interest in the business of a
corporation&#8212;

the person or set of persons is taken to have a controlling interest in the
business of the corporation.

     (8)     If&#8212;

         (a)     a person or set of persons has a controlling interest in the business
of a trust; and

         (b)     the trustee of the trust (whether alone or together with another
trustee or trustees) has a controlling interest in the business of a
partnership&#8212;

the person or set of persons is taken to have a controlling interest in the
business of the partnership.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 73
Groups arising from tracing of interests in corporations

     (1)     An entity and a corporation form part of a
group if the entity has a controlling interest in the corporation.

Note

Section 79 (Exclusion of persons from groups) allows the Commissioner, for
payroll tax purposes, to exclude persons from a group constituted under this
section in certain circumstances.

     (2)     For the purposes of this section, an entity has a controlling
interest in a corporation if the corporation has share capital
and&#8212;

         (a)     the entity has a direct interest in the corporation and the value of
that direct interest exceeds 50%; or

         (b)     the entity has an indirect interest in the corporation and the value
of that indirect interest exceeds 50%; or

         (c)     the entity has an aggregate interest in the corporation and the value
of the aggregate interest exceeds 50%.

     (3)     Division 3 applies for the purposes of the interpretation of this
section.

Note

Division 3 sets out the manner for determining whether an entity has a
direct interest, indirect interest or aggregate interest in a corporation, and
the value of such an interest.

     (4)     In this section&#8212;

"associated person" means a person who is associated with
another person in accordance with any of the following
provisions&#8212;

         (a)     persons are associated persons if they are related persons;

         (b)     natural persons are associated persons if they are partners in a
partnership;

         (c)     private companies are associated persons if common shareholders have
a majority interest in each private company;

         (d)     trustees are associated persons if any person is a beneficiary common
to the trusts (not including a public unit trust scheme) of which they are
trustees;

         (e)     a private company and a trustee are associated persons if a related
body corporate of the company (within the meaning of the Corporations Act) is a
beneficiary of the trust (not including a public unit trust scheme) of which the
trustee is a trustee;

S. 73(4) def. of domestic
partner substituted by No. 12/2008 s. 73(1)(Sch. 1
item 45.1), amended by No. 4/2009 s. 37(Sch. 1 item 19.1),
repealed by 17/2019 s. 51(1).

     *     *     *     *     *

"entity" means&#8212;

         (a)     a person; or

         (b)     2 or more persons who are associated persons (as defined in this
section);

S. 73(4) def. of private company
amended by Nos 29/2011 s. 3(Sch. 1 item 66.1), 28/2011
s. 39.

"private company" means a company that is not limited by
shares, or whose shares are not quoted on the ASX or any exchange of the World
Federation of Exchanges;

"related person" means a person who is related to another
person in accordance with any of the following provisions&#8212;

         (a)     natural persons are related persons if&#8212;

               (i)     one is the spouse or domestic partner of the other; or

               (ii)     the relationship between them is that of parent and child, brothers,
sisters, or brother and sister;

         (b)     private companies are related persons if they are related bodies
corporate within the meaning of the Corporations Act;

         (c)     a natural person and a private company are related persons if the
natural person is a majority shareholder or director of the company or of
another private company that is a related body corporate of the company within
the meaning of the Corporations Act;

         (d)     a natural person and a trustee are related persons if the natural
person is a beneficiary of the trust (not being a public unit trust scheme)
of which the trustee is a trustee;

         (e)     a private company and a trustee are related persons if the company, or
a majority shareholder or director of the company, is a beneficiary of the trust
(not being a public unit trust scheme) of which the trustee is a
trustee.

S. 73(5) substituted by
No. 12/2008 s. 73(1)(Sch. 1 item 45.2), repealed by 17/2019
s. 51(2).

     *     *     *     *     *

S. 73(5)(a) amended by No. 4/2009
s. 37(Sch. 1 item 19.2(a)).

         (a)     "registered domestic relationship" has the same meaning as
in the Relationships Act 2008; and

S. 73(5)(b) amended by No. 4/2009
s. 37(Sch. 1 item 19.2(b)).

         (b)     in determining whether persons who are not in a registered domestic
relationship are domestic partners of each other, all the circumstances of their
relationship are to be taken into account, including any one or more      of the
matters referred to in section 35(2) of the Relationships Act 2008 as may
be relevant in a particular case.

S. 74 substituted by No. 31/2008
s. 22.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 74
Smaller groups subsumed by larger groups

     (1)     If a person is a member of 2 or more
groups, the members of all the groups together constitute a group.

     (2)     If 2 or more members of a group have together a controlling interest
in a business (within the meaning of section 72), all the members of the group
and the person or persons who carry on the business together constitute a
group.

Note

Section 79 (Exclusion of persons from groups) allows the Commissioner, for
payroll tax purposes, to exclude persons from a group constituted under this
section in certain circumstances.

Division
3&#8212;Business groups&#8212;tracing of
interests in corporations

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 75
Application

This Division applies for the purposes of
section 73 (Groups arising from tracing of interests in
corporations).

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 76
Direct interest

     (1)     An entity has a direct
interest in a corporation if&#8212;

         (a)     in the case of an entity that is a person&#8212;the person can,
directly or indirectly, exercise, control the exercise of, or substantially
influence the exercise of, the voting power attached to any voting shares issued
by the corporation; or

         (b)     in the case of an entity that is 2 or more persons who are associated
persons&#8212;each of the associated persons can, directly or indirectly,
exercise, control the exercise of, or substantially influence the exercise of,
the voting power attached to any voting shares issued by the
corporation.

     (2)     The value of the direct interest of the entity in the corporation
is the proportion (expressed as a percentage) of the voting power of all
voting shares issued by the corporation that&#8212;

         (a)     in the case of an entity that is a person&#8212;the person can
directly or indirectly exercise, control the exercise of, or substantially
influence the exercise of, as referred to in subsection (1); or

         (b)     in the case of an entity that is 2 or more persons who are associated
persons&#8212;the associated persons can, if acting together, directly or
indirectly exercise, control the exercise of, or substantially influence the
exercise of, as referred to in subsection (1).

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 77
Indirect interest

     (1)     An entity has an indirect
interest in a corporation if the corporation is linked to another
corporation (the directly controlled corporation) in which the
entity has a direct interest.

     (2)     A corporation is linked to a directly controlled corporation if the
corporation is part of a chain of corporations&#8212;

         (a)     that starts with the directly controlled corporation; and

         (b)     in which a link in the chain is formed if a corporation has a direct
interest in the next corporation in the chain.

     (3)     The following are examples of how subsections (1) and (2) work (the
examples are cumulative)&#8212;

         (a)     corporation A (a directly controlled corporation) has a direct
interest in corporation B. Corporations A and B form part of a chain of
corporations, and corporation B is linked to corporation A. Accordingly, an
entity that has a direct interest in corporation A also has an indirect interest
in corporation B;

         (b)     corporation B also has a direct interest in corporation C. In this
case, corporations A, B and C form part of a chain of corporations. Both
corporations B and C are linked to corporation A. The entity that has a direct
interest in corporation A has an indirect interest in both corporations B and
C;

         (c)     corporation B also has a direct interest in corporation D. There are
now 2 chains of corporations, one consisting of A, B and C, and one consisting
of A, B and D. Corporations B, C and D are all linked to corporation A and an
entity that has a direct interest in corporation A would have an indirect
interest in corporations B, C and D. An entity that has a direct interest in
corporation B would have an indirect interest in corporations C and D. However,
an entity that has a direct interest in corporation C only would not have an
indirect interest in corporation D, as corporation D is not linked to
corporation C.

     (4)     The value of the indirect interest of an entity in a corporation (an
indirectly controlled corporation) that is linked to a directly
controlled corporation is calculated by multiplying together the
following&#8212;

         (a)     the value of the direct interest of the entity in the directly
controlled corporation;

         (b)     the value of each direct interest that forms a link in the chain of
corporations by which the indirectly controlled corporation is linked to the
directly controlled corporation.

     (5)     The following are examples of how subsection (4) works (the examples
are cumulative)&#8212;

         (a)     an entity has a direct interest (with a value of 80%) in
corporation A. Corporation A has a direct interest (with a value of 70%) in
corporation B. The value of the indirect interest of the entity in corporation B
is 80% &#215; 70% (that is, 56%). Accordingly, in this example the entity
has a controlling interest (within the meaning of section 73 (Groups arising
from tracing of interests in corporations)) in corporation B;

         (b)     corporation B also has a direct interest (with a value of 40%) in
corporation C. The value of the indirect interest of the entity in
corporation C is 80% &#215; 70% &#215; 40% (that is, 22&#183;4%). Accordingly,
in this example the entity does not have a controlling interest in corporation
C.

     (6)     It is possible for an entity to have more than one indirect interest
in a corporation. This may occur if the corporation is linked to more than
one corporation in which the entity has a direct interest, or if the
corporation is linked to only one corporation in which the entity has a
direct interest but is linked through more than one chain of corporations. In
that case, the entity has an aggregate interest in the corporation (see
section 78 (Aggregation of interests)).

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 78
Aggregation of interests

     (1)     An entity has an aggregate
interest in a corporation if&#8212;

         (a)     the entity has a direct interest and one or more indirect interests in
the corporation; or

         (b)     the entity has more than one indirect interest in the
corporation.

     (2)     The value of the aggregate interest of an entity in a corporation is
the sum of the following&#8212;

         (a)     the value of the direct interest (if any) of the entity in the
corporation;

         (b)     the value of each indirect interest of the entity in the
corporation.

     (3)     For example&#8212;

         (a)     an entity has a direct interest (with a value of 40%) in corporation
B;

         (b)     the entity also has a direct interest (with a value of 25%) in
corporation A, which in turn has a direct interest (with a value of 60%) in
corporation B. Accordingly, the entity also has an indirect interest in
corporation B with a value of 15% (that is, 25% &#215; 60%);

         (c)     the value of the entity's aggregate interest in corporation B is the
sum of the direct interest (40%) and the indirect interest (15%), which is
55%;

         (d)     accordingly, in this example, the entity has a controlling interest in
corporation B (within the meaning of section 73 (Groups arising from tracing of
interests in corporations)).

Division
4&#8212;Miscellaneous

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 79
Exclusion of persons from groups

     (1)     The Commissioner may, by order in writing,
determine that a person who would, but for the determination, be a member of a
group is not a member of the group.

     (2)     The Commissioner may only make such a determination if satisfied,
having regard to the nature and degree of ownership and control of
the businesses, the nature of the businesses and any other matters the
Commissioner considers relevant, that a business carried on by the
person, is carried on independently of, and is not connected with the
carrying on of, a business carried on by any other member of that
group.

     (3)     The Commissioner cannot exclude a person from a group if the person is
a body corporate that, by reason of section 50 of the Corporations Act, is
related to another body corporate that is a member of that group.

     (4)     This section extends to a group constituted by reason of section 74
(Smaller groups subsumed by larger groups).

     (5)     A determination can be expressed to take effect on a date that is
earlier than the date of the determination.

     (6)     The Commissioner may by order in writing revoke a determination that
applies in respect of a person if satisfied that the circumstances in which a
determination may be made do not apply to the person.

     (7)     The revocation of a determination can be expressed to take effect on a
date that is earlier than the date of the determination.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 80
Designated group employers

     (1)     The members of a group may, with the
approval of the Commissioner, designate a qualified member of the group to be
the designated group employer for the group for the purposes of this
Act.

     (2)     A member of a group is a qualified member if the
member&#8212;

S. 80(2)(a) amended by No. 40/2016
s. 32(1).

         (a)     has paid during the preceding financial year wages that exceeded
the threshold amount specified in the definition of TA or
threshold amount in clause 1 of Schedule 1 for that
financial year; or

S. 80(2)(b) amended by No. 40/2016
s. 32(2).

         (b)     is likely to pay during the current financial year wages that are
likely to exceed the threshold amount specified in the definition of
TA or threshold amount in clause 1 of
Schedule 1 for the current financial year.

     (3)     If none of the members of a group is a qualified member but the
members together&#8212;

S. 80(3)(a) amended by No. 40/2016
s. 32(1).

         (a)     have paid during the preceding financial year wages that exceeded
the threshold amount specified in the definition of TA or
threshold amount in clause 1 of Schedule 1 for that
financial year; or

S. 80(3)(b) amended by No. 40/2016
s. 32(2).

         (b)     are, in the opinion of the Commissioner, likely to pay during the
current financial year wages that will exceed the threshold amount
specified in the definition of TA or threshold
amount in clause 1 of Schedule 1 for the current financial
year&#8212;

the members may, with the approval of the Commissioner, designate any
member of the group to be the designated group employer for the group for the
purposes of this Act.

     (4)     If the members of a group do not designate a member as the designated
group employer within 7 days after the end of the month in which the group
is established, the Commissioner may (but is not obliged to) designate any
member of the group as the designated group employer.

     (5)     The designated group employer of a group stops being the designated
group employer from and including the earlier of the following
days&#8212;

         (a)     the first day of a return period during which there is a change in the
membership of the group;

         (b)     the first day of a return period during which the members of the group
revoke the designation.

     (6)     The designation of a designated group employer under subsection (1) or
(3) must be by notice in writing.

     (7)     Such a notice must&#8212;

         (a)     be executed by or on behalf of each member of the group; and

         (b)     be served on the Commissioner.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 81
Joint and several liability

     (1)     If a member of a group fails to pay an
amount that the member is required to pay under this Act in respect of any
period, every member of the group is liable jointly and severally to pay that
amount to the Commissioner.

     (2)     If 2 or more persons are jointly or severally liable to pay an amount
under this section, the Commissioner may recover the whole of the amount from
them, or any of them, or any one of them.

     (3)     If, under this section, 2 or more persons are jointly and severally
liable to pay an amount that is payable by any one of them, each person is also
jointly and severally liable to pay&#8212;

         (a)     any amount payable to the Commissioner under this or any other Act in
relation to that amount, including any interest and penalty tax; and

         (b)     any costs and expenses incurred in relation to the recovery of that
amount that the Commissioner is entitled to recover from any such
person.

     (4)     A person who pays an amount in accordance with the liability imposed
by this section has such rights of contribution or indemnity from the other
person or persons as are just.

     (5)     This section applies whether or not the person was an employer during
the relevant period.

Part
6&#8212;Adjustments of tax

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 82
Determination of correct amount of payroll tax

     (1)     For the purposes of this Part, the
correct amount of payroll tax payable by an employer in respect of
a financial year is the amount determined in accordance with Schedule 1 in
respect of that financial year.

     (2)     This Part applies in respect of payroll tax paid or payable whether as
a group employer or as an individual employer.

     (3)     If an employer is liable for payroll tax both as an individual
employer and as a group employer (for different periods in the same
financial year) separate adjustments are to be made under this Part in respect
of any period as a group employer and any period as an individual employer (and
for that purpose separate determinations of the correct amount of payroll tax
payable by the employer are to be made).

     (4)     In this Part&#8212;

"group employer" means an employer who is a member of a
group;

"individual employer" means an employer who is not a member of
a group.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 83
Annual adjustment of payroll tax

     (1)     If the amount of payroll tax paid or
payable by an employer when the employer made the returns relating to a
financial year is greater than the correct amount of payroll tax payable by the
employer in respect of the financial year, the Commissioner (on application by
the employer) is to refund to that employer an amount equal to the
difference.

Note

There is a time limit on these refund applications&#8212;see clause 22 of
Schedule 2.

     (2)     If the amount of payroll tax paid or payable by an employer when the
employer made the returns relating to a financial year is less than the correct
amount of payroll tax payable by the employer in respect of the financial year,
the employer must pay to the Commissioner as payroll tax an amount equal to the
difference.

     (3)     Any amount payable by an employer under this section in respect of a
financial year must be paid within the period during which the employer is
required to lodge a return under this Act in respect of the return period that
is or includes the month of June in that financial year.

     (4)     The amount of any refund payable to an employer in respect of a
financial year under this section is to be reduced by the amount of any other
refund of payroll tax made in respect of that financial year to that employer
(whether under this section or otherwise) before the time of the refund under
this section.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 84
Adjustment of payroll tax when employer changes circumstances

     (1)     If an employer changes their circumstances
during a financial year, the employer must, if the amount of payroll
tax paid or payable by the employer when the employer made returns relating
to the relevant period prior to the change of circumstances is less than the
correct amount of payroll tax payable by the employer in respect of the
financial year, pay to the Commissioner as payroll tax an amount equal to the
difference.

     (2)     A change of circumstances occurs when the
employer&#8212;

         (a)     ceases to pay or be liable to pay taxable wages and interstate wages;
or

         (b)     becomes a group employer (following a period as an individual
employer); or

         (c)     ceases to be a group employer (and becomes an individual
employer).

     (3)     The relevant period prior to a change of circumstances
is the period prior to the change (during the financial year concerned and since
any prior change of circumstances) for which the employer paid or was liable to
pay taxable wages or interstate wages.

     (4)     In calculating for the purposes of this section the correct amount of
payroll tax payable by the employer, it is to be assumed that the wages paid or
payable by the employer during the relevant period are the only wages paid or
payable by the employer during the financial year concerned.

     (5)     Any amount payable by an employer under this section in respect of a
relevant period must be paid within the period during which the employer is
required to lodge a return under this Act relating to that relevant period or
the last return under this Act relating to the relevant period.

     (6)     Any payroll tax paid or payable by an employer under this section is
to be included as payroll tax paid or payable by the employer for the purposes
of the annual adjustment of payroll tax under this Part.

Note

If an employer ceases to be a group employer during a financial year an
adjustment will be made under this section. If later in that financial year the
employer ceases to pay wages there will be a further adjustment under this
section. The first adjustment will adjust payroll tax paid for the period as a
group employer against the correct amount of tax that should have been paid
(based on the assumption that the period as a group employer is the only period
for which the employer paid wages throughout the year). The second adjustment
will adjust payroll tax paid for the period as an individual employer against
the correct amount of tax that should have been paid (based on the assumption
that the period as an individual employer is the only period for which the
employer paid wages throughout the year). Any amount of payroll tax paid under
this section is taken into account for the purposes of the annual adjustment of
payroll tax.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 85
Special provision where wages fluctuate

If a person who did not pay and was not liable
to pay taxable wages or interstate wages for any part of a financial year
satisfies the Commissioner that, by reason of the nature of the person's trade
or business, the taxable wages and interstate wages, if any, paid or payable by
the person fluctuate with different periods of the financial year, the
Commissioner may determine that the person is to be treated for the purposes of
this Part&#8212;

         (a)     if the person has conducted that trade or business in Australia during
the whole of the financial year&#8212;as an employer who pays or is liable to
pay taxable wages throughout the financial year; or

         (b)     if the person has conducted that trade or business in Australia during
part only of the financial year&#8212;as an employer who pays or is liable to
pay taxable wages throughout that last-mentioned part of the financial
year.

Note

The effect of such a determination is that when the correct amount of
payroll tax is calculated (for the purposes of a tax adjustment provided for by
this Part) the employer may receive the benefit of the payroll tax threshold for
the period for which the employer is to be treated as paying wages, and not just
for the period for which the employer actually pays wages.  Without such a
determination, an employer may only receive the benefit of a proportion of the
threshold amount that is equivalent to the proportion of the whole financial
year for which the employer actually pays wages.

Part
7&#8212;Registration and returns

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 86
Registration

     (1)     An employer who is not already registered
must apply for registration as an employer under this Act if&#8212;

S. 86(1)(a) amended by Nos 31/2008
s. 23, 40/2016 s. 33(1)(a).

         (a)     during a month the employer pays or is liable to pay, anywhere,
wages of more than the weekly threshold amount that are wholly or partly
taxable wages; or

S. 86(1)(b) amended by No. 40/2016
s. 33(1)(b).

         (b)     the employer is a member of a group the members of which together
during a month pay or are liable to pay, anywhere, wages of more than
the weekly threshold amount that are wholly or partly taxable
wages.

     (2)     The application for registration is to be made to the Commissioner in
a form and manner approved by the Commissioner within 7 days after the end of
the month concerned.

     (3)     The Commissioner is to register the applicant as an employer under
this Act.

     (4)     The Commissioner may cancel the registration of a person as an
employer if satisfied that the person has ceased to pay or to have a liability
to pay wages as described in subsection (1).

     (5)     If the Commissioner cancels the registration of a person as an
employer in any financial year and that person subsequently pays or is liable to
pay taxable wages during that financial year, the person may, despite the fact
that the person is not required to apply for registration, apply to the
Commissioner (in a form and manner approved by the Commissioner) for
registration as an employer, and the Commissioner is then to register the person
as an employer under this Act.

S. 86(6) inserted by No. 40/2016
s. 33(2).

     (6)     In this section, "weekly threshold amount"
means&#8212;

         (a)     for the financial year commencing on
1 July 2016&#8212;$11 057 per week;

         (b)     for the financial year commencing on
1 July 2017&#8212;$11 538 per week;

S. 86(6)(c) substituted by
Nos 22/2018 s. 20, 17/2019 s. 54(1).

         (c)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2018, 2019 or
2020&#8212;$12 500 per week;

S. 86(6)(d) repealed by
No. 22/2018 s. 20, new s. 86(6)(d) inserted by No. 17/2019
s. 54(1), substituted by Nos 22/2021 s. 44, 18/2023
s. 73.

         (d)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2021, 2022 or
2023&#8212;$13 461 per week;

S. 86(6)(e) inserted by No. 17/2019
s. 54(1), repealed by No. 22/2021 s. 44, new
s. 86(6)(e) inserted by No. 18/2023
s. 73.

         (e)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2024&#8212;$17 307
per week;

S. 86(6)(f) inserted by
No. 18/2023 s. 73.

         (f)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2025 and each
subsequent financial year&#8212;$19 230 per week.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 87
Returns

     (1)     Every employer who is registered or
required to apply for registration as an employer under this Act
must&#8212;

         (a)     within 7 days after the end of each month except June, lodge with the
Commissioner a return relating to that month; and

         (b)     within 21 days after the end of June in each year, lodge with the
Commissioner a return relating to that month and to the adjustment of payroll
tax paid or payable by the employer during the financial year ending on the
close of that month.

     (2)     The designated group employer for a group may, with the approval of
the Commissioner, lodge a joint return for the purposes of this section covering
specified members of the group (including the designated group
employer).

     (3)     If a joint return is lodged and the return would, if lodged by a
single employer, comply with this section, each of the employers covered by the
return is taken to have complied with this section.

Part
8&#8212;Collection and recovery of tax

Division
1&#8212;Agents and trustees generally

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 88
Application

     (1)     This Division applies to an agent of or
trustee for an employer.

     (2)     Nothing in this Division limits or otherwise affects the application
of Part 5 to an agent or trustee, or 2 or more persons one or more of whom is an
agent or trustee.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 89
Agents and trustees are answerable

          An agent or trustee is answerable as the
employer for the doing of all things that are required to be done by or under
this Act in respect of the payment of any wages which are subject to payroll tax
under this Act.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 90
Returns by agent or trustee

     (1)     An agent or trustee must, in respect of
the wages referred to in section 89, make the returns required under Part 7, but
in a representative capacity only, and each return must, except as otherwise
provided by this Act, be separate and distinct from any other.

     (2)     In the case of an executor or administrator, the returns must be the
same as far as practicable as the deceased person, if living, would have been
liable to make.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 91
Liability to pay tax

     (1)     An agent or trustee is personally liable
for tax on the wages referred to in section 89 if&#8212;

         (a)     after the Commissioner has required the agent or trustee to make a
return; or

         (b)     while the tax remains unpaid&#8212;

the agent or trustee, except with the written permission of the
Commissioner, disposes of or parts with any fund or money which comes to the
agent or trustee from or out of which tax could legally be paid.

     (2)     Otherwise than as provided in subsection (1), the agent or trustee is
not personally liable to pay the tax in a representative capacity.

     (3)     The agent or trustee must retain from time to time out of any money
which comes to the agent or trustee in a representative capacity enough to pay
the tax.

     (4)     For the purpose of ensuring the payment of tax, the Commissioner has
the same remedies against attachable property of any kind vested in or under the
control or management or in the possession of the agent or trustee, as the
Commissioner has against the property of any other person in respect of tax, and
in as full and ample a manner.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 92
Indemnity for agent or trustee

     (1)     An agent or trustee is indemnified for all
payments that the agent or trustee makes under this Act or in accordance with
the requirements of the Commissioner.

     (2)     An agent or trustee who pays tax as agent or trustee may recover the
amount paid from the person on whose behalf it was paid, or deduct it from any
money in the agent's or trustee's hands belonging to that person.

Division
2&#8212;Special cases

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 93
Tax not paid during lifetime

     (1)     This section applies if, whether
intentionally or not, a person escapes full payment of tax in his or her
lifetime by reason of not having duly made full, complete and accurate
returns.

     (2)     The Commissioner has the same powers and remedies against the trustees
of the estate of the person in respect of the liability to which the person was
subject as the Commissioner would have had against the person if the person were
still living.

     (3)     The trustees must lodge the returns under this Act that the
Commissioner requires.

     (4)     The trustees are subject to tax to the same extent as the deceased
person would be subject to tax if he or she were still living, but the
Commissioner, in any circumstances the Commissioner considers appropriate, may
remit tax payable by the trustees under this section by any amount.

     (5)     The amount of any tax payable by the trustees is a charge on all the
deceased person's estate in their hands in priority to all other
encumbrances.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 94
Payment of tax by executors or administrators

     (1)     If, at the time of an employer's death, he
or she had not paid the whole of the tax payable up to the date of death, the
Commissioner has the same powers and remedies for the assessment and recovery of
tax from the executors and administrators as the Commissioner would have had
against the employer, if the employer were alive.

     (2)     The executors or administrators must lodge any of the returns referred
to in Part 7 that have not been lodged by the deceased.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 95
Assessment if no probate within 6 months of death

     (1)     If, in respect of the estate of any
deceased employer, probate has not been granted or letters of administration
have not been taken out within 6 months after the death, the Commissioner
may make an assessment under section 8 of the Taxation Administration Act
1997 of the tax liability of the deceased under this Act.

     (2)     The Commissioner must cause notice of the assessment to be published
twice in a daily newspaper circulating in the State or Territory in which the
deceased resided.

     (3)     Any person claiming an interest in the estate of the deceased may,
within 60 days after the first publication of notice of the assessment, lodge an
objection with the Commissioner in accordance with Division 1 of Part 10 of the
Taxation Administration Act 1997.

     (4)     Subject to any amendment of the assessment by the Commissioner or by
the Supreme Court, the assessment so made is conclusive evidence of the
indebtedness of the deceased to the Commissioner.

     (5)     However, if probate of the will or letters of administration of the
estate of the deceased is or are granted to a person after the assessment is
first published, that person may, within 60 days after the date of the
grant, lodge an objection in accordance with Division 1 of Part 10 of the
Taxation Administration Act 1997.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 96
Person in receipt or control of money for absentee

     (1)     This section applies to a person (the
controller) who has the receipt, control or disposal of money
belonging to a person resident out of Australia (the principal) if
the principal is liable to pay tax under this Act.

     (2)     The controller must pay the tax payable by the principal at the time,
or within the period, specified by the Commissioner.

     (3)     A controller who pays tax in accordance with subsection (2) may
recover the amount paid from the principal or deduct it from any money in the
controller's hands belonging to the principal.

     (4)     A controller must from time to time retain out of any money which
comes to the controller on behalf of the principal so much as is sufficient to
pay the tax which is or will become due by the principal.

     (5)     A controller is personally liable for the tax payable by the
controller on behalf of the principal if&#8212;

         (a)     after the tax becomes payable; or

         (b)     after the Commissioner has required the controller to pay the
tax&#8212;

the controller, except with the written permission of the Commissioner,
disposes of or parts with any fund or money then in the controller's possession,
or which comes to the controller from or out of which the tax could legally be
paid.

     (6)     Otherwise than as provided in subsection (5), a controller is not
personally liable to pay the tax payable by the principal.

     (7)     A controller is indemnified for all payments which the controller
makes under this Act or in accordance with the requirements of the
Commissioner.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 97
Agent for absentee principal winding-up business

     (1)     If an agent for an absentee principal has
been required by the principal to wind-up the principal's business, the agent
must notify the Commissioner of the intention to wind-up the business before
taking any steps to wind it up.

Penalty:     5 penalty units.

     (2)     After receiving notice under subsection (1), the Commissioner may
notify the agent in writing of&#8212;

         (a)     the amount (if any) of payroll tax for which the principal is liable;
and

         (b)     the date (at least 21 days after the notice is given) by which the tax
must be paid.

     (3)     An agent who is given notice under subsection (2)
must&#8212;

         (a)     set aside an amount out of the assets of the principal's business that
is sufficient to pay the tax; and

         (b)     pay the tax to the Commissioner by the date specified in the
notice.

Penalty:     5 penalty units.

     (4)     If an agent contravenes this section, the agent is personally liable
for any tax that becomes payable in respect of the principal's
business.

Note to s. 97 inserted by No. 13/2013
s. 57(1).

Note

Section 130A of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 applies to an
offence against subsection (1) or (3).

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 98
Recovery of tax paid on behalf of another person

A person who, under the provisions of this Act,
pays any tax for or on behalf of another person is entitled to recover the
amount so paid from the other person as a debt, together with the costs of
recovery, or to retain or deduct that amount out of any money in the person's
hands belonging or payable to the other person.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 99
Liquidator to give notice

     (1)     Within 14 days after becoming liquidator
of a company that has been an employer registered or required to be registered
under this Act, the liquidator must give the Commissioner notice in writing of
the liquidator's appointment.

     (2)     As soon as practicable after receiving the notice, the Commissioner
must notify the liquidator of the amount that appears to the Commissioner to be
sufficient to provide for any tax which is or will become payable by the
company.

     (3)     The liquidator&#8212;

         (a)     must not without leave of the Commissioner part with any of the assets
of the company until the liquidator has been so notified; and

         (b)     must set aside out of the assets available for the payment of the tax,
assets to the value of the amount so notified, or the whole of the assets so
available if they are of less than that value; and

         (c)     is, to the extent of the value of the assets which the liquidator is
so required to set aside, liable as trustee to pay the tax.

     (4)     A liquidator must not fail&#8212;

         (a)     to comply with this section; or

         (b)     as trustee duly to pay the tax for which the liquidator is liable
under subsection (3).

Penalty:     50 penalty units.

     (5)     If a liquidator commits an offence against subsection (4), the
liquidator is personally liable to pay the tax, to the extent of the value of
the assets of which the liquidator has taken possession and which are, or were
at any time, available to the liquidator for the payment of the tax.

     (6)     If more than one person is appointed as liquidator or required by law
to carry out the winding-up of a company&#8212;

         (a)     the obligations and liabilities attaching to a liquidator under this
section attach to each of those persons; and

         (b)     if any one of those persons has paid the tax due in respect of the
company being wound-up, the others are each liable to pay that person that
person's equal share of the amount of the tax so paid.

     (7)     Despite anything in this section, all costs, charges and expenses
that, in the Commissioner's opinion, have been properly incurred by a liquidator
in the winding-up of a company, including the remuneration of the liquidator,
may be paid out of the assets of the company in priority to any tax payable in
respect of the company.

     (8)     Nothing in this section&#8212;

         (a)     limits the liability of a liquidator under section 91; or

         (b)     affects any of the provisions of the Corporations Act.

Part
9&#8212;General

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 100
Provisions specific to this jurisdiction

Schedule 2, which contains provisions that are
applicable only to this jurisdiction, has effect.

Note

As stated in section 1(b), one of the purposes of this Act is to harmonise
payroll tax law with New South Wales.  However, there are some provisions of
payroll tax law which are specific to this jurisdiction, and these are set out
in Schedule 2.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 101
Regulations

     (1)     The Governor in Council may make
regulations for or with respect to the following&#8212;

         (a)     the manner of making any application to the Commissioner under this
Act;

         (b)     the evidence that the Commissioner may require for the purpose of
determining whether or not&#8212;

               (i)     an employer was an employer for part only of a financial year;
or

               (ii)     a person was a member of a group at any time or during any
period;

         (c)     the signing of returns, applications, notices, statements or forms by
or on behalf of employers and deeming any return, application, notice, statement
or form signed on behalf of an employer to have been signed by the
employer;

         (d)     the authentication of any certificate, notice or other document issued
for the purpose of this Act or any regulation;

         (e)     prescribing any matter which or thing required or permitted by this
Act to be prescribed or necessary or convenient to be prescribed to give effect
to this Act.

     (2)     The regulations&#8212;

         (a)     may differ according to differences in time, place or circumstances;
and

         (b)     may impose penalties not exceeding 25 penalty units for a
contravention of the regulations.

Part
10&#8212;Repeals, amendments and transitional provisions

Pt 10 Divs 1&#8211;4 (Headings and ss
102&#8211;116) repealed by No. 29/2011 s. 3(Sch. 1
item 66.2).

     *     *     *     *     *

Division
5&#8212;Transitional provisions

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SECT 117
Transitional provisions

Schedule 3, which contains transitional
provisions, has effect.

Sch. 1 amended by No. 40/2016
s. 34.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SCHEDULE 1
Schedule 1&#8212;Calculation of payroll tax liability 

Sections 8, 29(5), 80, 82

Part
1&#8212;Interpretation

          1     Definitions

In this Schedule&#8212;

Sch. 1 cl. 1 def. of APT
or annual phase out threshold inserted by No. 18/2023
s. 74(a).

"APT "or annual phase out threshold means, for
the financial year commencing on 1 July 2024 and each subsequent
financial year&#8212;$3 000 000;

Sch. 1 cl. 1 def. of C
inserted by No. 22/2021 s. 53.

C is the number of days in the relevant financial year in
respect of which&#8212;

         (a)     in the case of an employer, the employer paid or was liable to pay
taxable wages or interstate wages (otherwise than as a member of a group);
or

         (b)     in the case of a group of employers, at least one member of the group
paid or was liable to pay (as a member of the group) taxable wages or interstate
wages;

Sch. 1 cl. 1
def. ofCOVID-19 debt
temporary payroll tax surcharge inserted by No. 18/2023
s. 59.

COVID-19 debt temporary payroll tax surcharge means an
additional amount of payroll tax calculated in accordance with this Schedule,
being the amount represented in a formula by the
variable T;

"financial year" means the financial year commencing on 1 July
2007 or on 1 July in any subsequent financial year;

Sch. 1 cl. 1
def. of
FY
inserted by No. 31/2008
s. 24(a).

FY is the number of days in the financial year;

Sch. 1 cl. 1 def. of
GIW inserted by No. 22/2021 s. 53.

GIW represents the total interstate wages paid or payable by
the group concerned during the relevant financial year;

Sch. 1 cl. 1 def. of
GTW inserted by No. 22/2021 s. 53.

GTW represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the
group concerned during the relevant financial year;

Sch. 1 cl. 1 def. of
mental health and wellbeing surcharge inserted by No. 22/2021
s. 53.

"mental health and wellbeing surcharge" means an additional
amount of payroll tax calculated in accordance with this Schedule, being the
amount represented in a formula by the variable S;

Sch. 1 cl. 1 def. of net
deduction inserted by No. 18/2023
s. 74(a).

"net deduction "means the amount of a deduction from payroll
tax calculated in accordance with this Schedule, being the amount represented in
a formula by the variable ND;

Sch. 1 cl. 1 def. of PR
or phase out rate inserted by No. 18/2023
s. 74(a).

"PR" or phase out rate means&#8212;

         (a)     for the financial year commencing on
1 July 2024&#8212;45%;

         (b)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2025 and each
subsequent financial year&#8212;50%;

Sch. 1 cl. 1
def. of
R
amended by Nos 31/2008
s. 25(a), 36/2010 s. 13(1), 40/2014 s. 29(1), 28/2017
s. 71(1), 22/2018 s. 21(1), 17/2019 s. 55(1), 14/2020 s. 8,
22/2021 s. 47, 18/2023 s. 58.

"R" is&#8212;

         (a)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July
2007&#8212;5&#183;05%;

         (b)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2008 or 1 July
2009&#8212;4&#183;95%;

         (c)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2010, 2011, 2012 or
2013&#8212;4&#183;90%;

         (d)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2014, 2015 or
2016&#8212;4&#8729;85%;

         (e)     for the financial year commencing on
1 July 2017&#8212;

               (i)     3&#183;65% in the case of a regional employer; and

               (ii)     4&#183;85% in any other case;

         (f)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2018&#8212;

               (i)     2&#183;425% in the case of a regional employer; and

               (ii)     4&#183;85% in any other case;

         (fa)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July
2019&#8212;

               (i)     1&#183;2125% in the case of a bushfire relief regional employer;
and

               (ii)     2&#183;425% in the case of any other regional employer; and

               (iii)     4&#183;85% in any other case;

         (g)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2020&#8212;

         (iaa)     1&#183;2125% in the case of a bushfire relief regional employer;
and

               (i)     2&#183;02% in the case of any other regional employer; and

               (ii)     4&#183;85% in any other case;

         (h)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2021 and each
subsequent financial year&#8212;

               (i)     1&#183;2125% in the case of a regional employer; and

               (ii)     4&#183;85% in any other case.

"relevant financial year" means the financial year to which the
calculation of the relevant payroll tax relates;

Sch. 1 cl. 1 def. of TA or
threshold amount substituted by No. 40/2016 s. 35, amended by Nos
28/2017 s. 71(2), 17/2019 s. 54(2), 22/2021 s. 45, 18/2023
s 74(b).

"TA" or threshold amount means&#8212;

         (a)     for the financial year commencing on
1 July 2015&#8212;$550 000;

         (b)     for the financial year commencing on
1 July 2016&#8212;$575 000;

         (c)     for the financial year commencing on
1 July 2017&#8212;$625 000;

         (d)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2018, 2019 or
2020&#8212;$650 000;

         (e)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2021, 2022 or
2023&#8212;$700 000;

         (f)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2024&#8212;$900
000;

         (g)     for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2025 and each
subsequent financial year&#8212;$1 000 000.

Sch. 1 cl. 1A inserted by
No. 22/2021 s. 54.

          1A     Determination of surcharge threshold amount for employer or group of
employers

     (1)     For the purposes of this Schedule, the
first surcharge threshold amount or STA1
for an employer or a group of employers is the amount calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

     (2)     For the purposes of this Schedule, the second surcharge
threshold amount or STA2 for an
employer or a group of employers is the amount calculated in accordance with the
following formula&#8212;

Sch. 1 cl. 1B inserted by
No. 18/2023 s. 60.

          1B     Determination of COVID-19 debt temporary payroll tax
surcharge

For the purposes of this Schedule, the amount
of the COVID-19 debt temporary payroll tax surcharge is&#8212;

         (a)     for a financial year commencing on or after 1 July 2023 and
before 1 July 2033&#8212;the amount equal to S; or

         (b)     for a financial year commencing on or after
1 July 2033&#8212;zero.

Part 2&#8212;Employers who are not members
of a group

          2     Application of Part

This Part applies only to an employer who is
not a member of a group.

          3     Definitions

In this Part&#8212;

Sch. 1 cl. 3 def. of C
repealed by No. 22/2021 s. 55.

     *     *     *     *     *

IW represents the total interstate wages paid or payable by
the employer concerned (otherwise than as a member of a group) during the
relevant financial year;

TW represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the
employer concerned (otherwise than as a member of a group) during the relevant
financial year.

Sch. 1 cl. 4 (Heading) amended by
No. 31/2008 s. 27.

Sch. 1 cl. 4 amended by
No. 31/2008 s. 24(b).

          4     Payroll of employer not more than threshold

An employer is not liable to pay payroll tax
for a financial year if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or
payable by the employer (otherwise than as a member of a group) during that year
is not more than the "employer's threshold amount", being the amount
calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

Sch. 1 cl. 5 amended by
Nos 31/2008 s. 24(b), 22/2021 s. 56, 18/2023 s. 61,
substituted by No. 18/2023 s. 75.

          5     Payroll of employer over threshold

     (1)     If the total taxable wages and interstate
wages paid or payable by an employer (otherwise than as a member of a group)
during a financial year is more than the employer's threshold amount, the
employer is liable to pay as payroll tax for that year the amount of dollars
calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where ND is the lesser of the following amounts&#8212;

         (a)     the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

         (b)          the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

where S is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
employer (otherwise than as a member of a group) during the relevant financial
year is not more than the first surcharge threshold amount&#8212;zero;
or

         (b)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
employer (otherwise than as a member of a group) during the relevant financial
year is more than the first surcharge threshold amount, but not more than the
second surcharge threshold amount, the amount calculated in accordance with the
following formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
employer (otherwise than as a member of a group) during the relevant financial
year is more than the second surcharge threshold amount, the amount calculated
in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

     (2)     For the purposes of subclause (1), if the amount calculated in
accordance with the formula in paragraph (a) of the definition of the variable
ND is an amount that is less than zero, the amount is taken to be
zero.

Part 3&#8212;Groups with a designated
group employer

          6     Application of Part

This Part applies only to an employer who is a
member of a group for which there is a designated group employer.

          7     Definitions

In this Part&#8212;

Sch. 1 cl. 7 def. of C
repealed by No. 22/2021 s. 57.

     *     *     *     *     *

Sch. 1 cl. 7 def. of D inserted
by No. 28/2017 s. 72.

D is the deductible amount determined in accordance with
clause 7A;

Sch. 1 cl. 7 defs of
GIW and GTW repealed by No. 22/2021
s. 57.

     *     *     *     *     *

Sch. 1 cl. 7 def. of JTW
inserted by No. 28/2017 s. 72.

"JTW", for clauses 9 and 9A, represents the total taxable wages
paid or payable during the relevant financial year by the employers covered by
the return (as members of a group);

Sch. 1 cl. 7 def. of
Pbrre inserted by No. 22/2021 s. 39(a),
amended by No. 22/2021 s. 48(a).

Pbrre is&#8212;

         (a)     for a financial year commencing on 1 July 2019 or
1 July 2020&#8212;that part of JTW that is attributable to all
bushfire relief regional employers; or

         (b)     for any other financial
year&#8212;zero;

Sch. 1 cl. 7 def. of Pe
inserted by No. 28/2017 s. 72.

Pe is that part of JTW that is attributable to all
employers who are not regional employers;

Sch. 1 cl. 7 def. of Pre
inserted by No. 28/2017 s. 72, substituted by
No. 22/2021 s. 39(b), amended by No. 22/2021
s. 48(b).

Pre is&#8212;

         (a)     for a financial year commencing on 1 July 2019 or
1 July 2020&#8212;that part of JTW that is attributable to all
regional employers, other than bushfire relief regional employers; or

         (b)     for any other financial year&#8212;that
part of JTW that is attributable to all regional employers;

Sch. 1 cl. 7 def. of
Rbrre inserted by No. 22/2021
s. 39(a).

Rbrre     is the percentage specified in the
definition of R that relates to a bushfire relief regional
employer;

Sch. 1 cl. 7 def. of Re
inserted by No. 28/2017 s. 72,
substituted byNos 22/2018 s. 21(2)(a), 22/2021
s. 39(c).

Re is the percentage specified in the definition
of R that applies to an employer who is not a regional
employer;

Sch. 1 cl. 7 def. of Rre
inserted by No. 28/2017 s. 72, substituted by
Nos 22/2018 s. 21(2)(b), 22/2021 s. 39(d).

Rre is the percentage specified in the definition
of R that applies to a regional employer;

TW represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the
employer concerned (as a member of the group) during the relevant financial
year.

Sch. 1 cl. 7A inserted by No. 28/2017
s. 73, substituted by No. 18/2023
s. 76.

          7A     Deductible amount for the purposes of this Part

     (1)     For the purposes of this Part, the
deductible amount is the lesser of the following amounts&#8212;

         (a)     the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

         (b)          the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

     (2)     If the amount calculated in accordance with the formula specified in
subclause (1)(a) is an amount that is less than zero, the amount is taken to be
zero.

Sch. 1 cl. 8 (Heading) amended by
No. 31/2008 s. 27.

Sch. 1 cl. 8 amended by
No. 31/2008 s. 24(b).

          8     Payroll of group not more than threshold

None of the members of a group is liable to pay
payroll tax for the financial year if the total taxable wages and interstate
wages paid or payable by the group during that year is not more than the
"group threshold amount", being the amount calculated in accordance
with the following formula&#8212;

Sch. 1 cl. 9 (Heading) amended by
No. 22/2021 s. 40(1).

Sch. 1 cl. 9 amended by
No. 31/2008 s. 24(b), substituted by No. 28/2017
s. 74.

          9     Payroll of group over threshold where section 87(2) approval in
force&#8212;employers covered by joint return are all of the same
type

Sch. 1
cl. 9(1) substituted by No. 22/2021
s. 40(2).

     (1)     This clause applies if an approval is in force under
section 87(2) for a designated group employer to lodge a joint return and
the members of the group covered by the return are&#8212;

Sch. 1 cl. 9(1)(a) amended by
No. 22/2021 s. 50.

         (a)     for a financial year commencing on 1 July 2019 or
1 July 2020&#8212;

               (i)     all regional employers other than bushfire relief regional employers;
or

               (ii)     all employers who are not regional employers; or     

               (iii)     all bushfire relief regional employers; or

         (b)     for any other financial year&#8212;

               (i)     all regional employers; or

               (ii)     all employers who are not regional employers.

     (2)     If the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the financial year is more than the group threshold amount, payroll
tax is payable as provided by subclauses (3) and (4).

Sch. 1 cl. 9(3) amended by
Nos 22/2021 s. 58(1), 18/2023 s. 62(1).

     (3)     The designated group employer for the group is liable to pay as
payroll tax for the financial year the amount of dollars calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where S is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is not more than the first surcharge
threshold amount&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the first surcharge
threshold amount but not more than the second surcharge threshold amount, the
amount calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the second surcharge
threshold amount, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

Sch. 1 cl. 9(4) amended by
Nos 22/2021 s. 58(2), 18/2023 s. 62(2).

     (4)     Each member of the group who is not covered by the return is
liable to pay as payroll tax for the financial year the amount of dollars
calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where S is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is not more than the first surcharge
threshold amount&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the first surcharge
threshold amount but not more than the second surcharge threshold amount, the
amount calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the second surcharge
threshold amount, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

Sch. 1 cl. 9A (Heading) amended by
No. 22/2021 s. 41(1).

Sch. 1 cl. 9A inserted by No. 28/2017
s. 74.

          9A     Payroll of group over threshold where section 87(2) approval in
force&#8212;employers covered by joint return are not all of the same
type

     (1)     This clause
applies if&#8212;

         (a)     an approval is in force under section 87(2) for a designated group
employer to lodge a joint return; and

Sch. 1 cl. 9A(1)(b) substituted by
No. 22/2021 s. 41(2).

         (b)     the members of the group covered by the return are not all of the same
type of employer.

     (2)     If the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the financial year is more than the group threshold amount, payroll
tax is payable as provided by subclauses (3) and (4).

Sch. 1 cl. 9A(3) amended by
Nos 22/2021 ss 41(3), 59(1) (as amended by No. 52/2021
s. 65), 18/2023 s. 63(1).

     (3)     The designated group employer for the group is liable to pay as
payroll tax for the financial year the amount of dollars calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where S is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is not more than the first surcharge
threshold amount&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the first surcharge
threshold amount but not more than the second surcharge threshold amount, the
amount calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the second surcharge
threshold amount, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

Sch. 1 cl. 9A(4) amended by
Nos 22/2021 s. 59(2), 18/2023 s. 63(2).

     (4)     Each member of the group who is not covered by the return is
liable to pay as payroll tax for the financial year the amount of dollars
calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where S is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is not more than the first surcharge
threshold amount&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the first surcharge
threshold amount but not more than the second surcharge threshold amount, the
amount calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the second surcharge
threshold amount, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

Sch. 1 cl. 9B inserted by No. 28/2017
s. 74.

          9B     Payroll of group over threshold&#8212;where no section 87(2)
approval in force

     (1)     This clause applies if an approval under
section 87(2) is not in force for a designated group employer.

     (2)     If the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by a
group during the financial year is more than the group threshold amount,
payroll tax is payable as provided by subclauses (3) and (4).

Sch. 1 cl. 9B(3) amended by
Nos 22/2021 s. 60(1), 18/2023 s. 64(1).

     (3)     The designated group employer for the group is liable to pay as
payroll tax for the financial year the amount of dollars calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where S is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is not more than the first surcharge
threshold amount&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the first surcharge
threshold amount but not more than the second surcharge threshold amount, the
amount calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the second surcharge
threshold amount, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

Sch. 1 cl. 9B(4) amended by
Nos 22/2021 s. 60(2), 18/2023 s. 64(2).

     (4)     Each member of the group (other than that designated group employer)
is liable to pay as payroll tax for the financial year the amount of dollars
calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where S is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is not more than the first surcharge
threshold amount for that member&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the first surcharge
threshold amount but not more than the second surcharge threshold amount, the
amount calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

         (c)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the second surcharge
threshold amount, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

Part 4&#8212;Groups with no designated
group employer

          10     Application of Part

This Part applies only to an employer who is a
member of a group for which there is no designated group employer.

          11     Definition

In this Part&#8212;

TW represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the
employer concerned (as a member of the group) during the relevant financial
year.

Sch. 1 cl. 12 amended by
Nos 22/2021 s. 61, 18/2023 s. 65.

          12     Calculation of payroll tax

Each member of the group is liable to pay as
payroll tax for the financial year the amount of dollars calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where S is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is not more than the first surcharge
threshold amount&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the first surcharge
threshold amount but not more than the second surcharge threshold amount, the
amount calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable by the
group during the relevant financial year is more than the second surcharge
threshold amount, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

Part 5&#8212;Motor vehicle
allowances

          13     Continuous recording method

If an employer selects the continuous recording
method for the purposes of determining the number of business kilometres
travelled during the financial year, the following details are required to be
recorded by the employer&#8212;

         (a)     the odometer readings at the beginning and end of each business
journey undertaken by the person during a financial year by means of a motor
vehicle provided or maintained by the person;

         (b)     the specific purpose for which each such business journey was
taken;

         (c)     the distance travelled by the person during the financial year in the
course of all such business journeys (which is taken to be the number of
business kilometres travelled during the financial year), calculated on
the basis of the odometer readings referred to in paragraph (a).

          14     Averaging method

     (1)     If an employer selects the averaging
method for the purposes of determining the number of business kilometres
travelled during the financial year, the following details are required to be
recorded by the employer&#8212;

         (a)     the odometer readings at the beginning and end of each business
journey undertaken by the person during the relevant 12-week period by means of
a motor vehicle provided or maintained by the person;

Note

Clause 15 defines the relevant 12-week period.

         (b)     the specific purpose for which each such business journey was
taken;

         (c)     the distance travelled by the person during the relevant 12-week
period in the course of all such business journeys, calculated on the basis of
the odometer readings referred to in paragraph (a);

         (d)          the odometer readings at the beginning and end of the relevant
12-week period for each motor vehicle provided or maintained by the person for
the purpose of undertaking business journeys;

         (e)     the distance travelled by each such vehicle during the relevant
12-week period, calculated on the basis of the odometer readings referred to in
paragraph (d);

         (f)     the distance travelled by the person in the course of business
journeys undertaken by means of each such vehicle during the relevant 12-week
period, calculated as a percentage of the distance travelled by that vehicle
during that period (the relevant percentage);
         (g)     the odometer readings at the beginning and end of the financial year
for each vehicle provided or maintained by the person for the purpose of
undertaking business journeys;

         (h)     the distance travelled by each such vehicle during the financial year,
calculated on the basis of the odometer readings referred to in paragraph
        (g);

               (i)     the distance travelled by the person in the course of business
journeys undertaken by means of each such vehicle during the financial year
(which is taken to be the number of business kilometres travelled during
the financial year), calculated on the basis that the percentage of that
distance that was travelled by the person in the course of business journeys
undertaken by means of each such vehicle during the financial year is the same
as the relevant percentage.

     (2)     For the next succeeding 4 financial years after the first financial
year in which odometer details are recorded in accordance with subclause (1), an
employer is not required to calculate the relevant percentage, or record the
details referred to in subclause (1)(a)&#8211;(f), for the person but is
required to record the other details referred to in that subclause.

     (3)     Accordingly, for the next succeeding 4 financial years after the first
financial year in which odometer details are recorded in accordance with
subclause (1), the number of business kilometres travelled during the financial
year is to be calculated (as referred to in subclause (1)(i)) on the basis of
the relevant percentage calculated for the first financial year.

     (4)     Despite subclauses (2) and (3), an employer is required to calculate
the relevant percentage for a financial year, and record the details referred to
in subclause (1)(a)&#8211;(f), if&#8212;

         (a)     the Commissioner serves a notice on the employer before the
commencement of a financial year during that period directing the employer to
keep the details referred to in subclause (1)(a)&#8211;(f) for that financial
year; or

         (b)     the employer wishes to use the recording method referred to in this
clause for one or more additional motor vehicles used by the person in any
financial year or for any other reason.

     (5)     In a situation referred to in subclause (4), the new record for the
financial year replaces the relevant percentage details previously recorded and
subclauses (2) and (3) apply in relation to the new record for the financial
year as if it were the first financial year in which odometer details were
recorded.

     (6)     An employer who has adopted and employed the method of recording
referred to in subclauses (2) and (3) for a person for 4 successive financial
years must, in the next succeeding financial year, make a fresh recording of all
the details specified in subclause (1) if the employer intends to continue to
use the same method of recording for the person. Subclauses (2) and (3) then
apply in relation to the new record for the financial year as if it were the
first financial year in which odometer details were recorded.

     (7)     If the odometer of a motor vehicle is replaced or recalibrated during
any period for which its readings are relevant for the purposes of this clause,
the odometer readings immediately before and after the replacement or
recalibration are to be recorded.

          15     Meaning of relevant 12-week period

     (1)     In clause 14, relevant 12-week
period means a continuous period of at least 12 weeks, selected by the
employer, throughout which a motor vehicle is provided or maintained by a
person. If the motor vehicle is provided or maintained for less than
12 weeks, the period must be the entire period for which the motor vehicle
is provided or maintained.

     (2)     The period may overlap the start or end of the financial year, so long
as it includes part of the year.

     (3)     If the averaging method is used for 2 or more motor vehicles for the
same financial year, the odometer readings for those motor vehicles must cover
periods that are concurrent.

          16     Replacing one motor vehicle with another motor vehicle

     (1)     For the purposes of using the averaging
method, an employer may nominate one motor vehicle as having replaced another
motor vehicle with effect from a day specified in the nomination.

     (2)     After the nomination takes effect, the replacement motor vehicle is
treated as the original motor vehicle, and the original motor vehicle is treated
as a different motor vehicle. An employer need not repeat for the replacement
vehicle the steps already taken for the original motor vehicle.

     (3)     An employer must record the nomination in writing in the financial
year in which the nomination takes effect.

     (4)     However, the Commissioner may allow an employer to record the
nomination at a later time.

          17     Changing method of recording

     (1)     An employer may change from using the
averaging method to using the continuous recording method with effect from the
beginning of a financial year if the employer complies with clause 13 in respect
of the financial year.

     (2)     An employer may change from using the continuous recording method to
using the averaging method with effect from the beginning of a financial year if
the employer complies with clause 14 in respect of the financial year.

          18     Definition

In this Part&#8212;

"business journey" means&#8212;

         (a)     a journey undertaken in a motor vehicle by a person otherwise than in
the application of the vehicle to a private use, being an application that, if
the person is paid a motor vehicle allowance for that use, results in the
provision of a fringe benefit (within the meaning of the FBTA Act) by the
employer; or

         (b)     a journey undertaken in a motor vehicle by a person in the course of
producing assessable income of the person (within the meaning of the Income Tax
Assessment Act 1936 of the Commonwealth).

Schedule
2&#8212;Victoria specific provisions

Sections 8, 40(2), 49, 51, 60(2)(e), 100

Part
1&#8212;Introduction

          1     Introduction to Schedule

This Schedule sets out provisions that apply
only in this jurisdiction.

Sch. 2 Pt 1A (Heading and
cl. 1AA) inserted by No. 18/2023 s. 57.

Part 1A&#8212;Wages

Sch. 2 cl. 1AA inserted by
No. 18/2023 s. 57.

          1AA     Payments by a corporate collective investment vehicle to its
corporate director

"Wages", as that term is given
meaning in Part 3 of this Act, do not include amounts paid or payable by a
CCIV to its corporate director.

Part 2&#8212;Calculation of monthly
payroll tax

Sch. 2 Pt 2 Div. 1AA (Heading and cl. 1A)
inserted by No. 40/2016 s. 36, amended by Nos 28/2017 s. 75,
17/2019 s. 54(3), 22/2021 s. 46, substituted by No. 22/2021
s. 62.

Division
1AA&#8212;Definitions

Sch. 2 cl. 1A substituted by
No. 22/2021 s. 62.

          1A     Definitions

In this Part&#8212;

Sch. 2 cl. 1A def. of APT
or annual phase out threshold inserted by No. 18/2023
s. 77(a).

APT or annual phase out threshold has the same
meaning as in clause 1 of Schedule 1;

Sch. 2 cl. 1A def. of base
deductible amount or BDA amended by No. 18/2023
s. 77(b).

"base deductible amount" or BDA
means&#8212;

         (a)     for a month in the financial year commencing on
1 July 2016&#8212;$47 916;

         (b)     for a month in the financial year commencing on
1 July 2017&#8212;$52 083;

         (c)     for a month in the financial year commencing on 1 July 2018, 2019 or
2020&#8212;$54 166;

         (d)     for a month in the financial year commencing on 1 July 2021, 2022
or 2023&#8212;$58 333;

         (e)     for a month in the financial year commencing on 1 July
2024&#8212;$75 000;

         (f)     for a month in the financial year commencing on 1 July 2025 and
each subsequent financial year&#8212;$83 333;

Sch. 2 cl. 1A def. of
COVID-19 debt temporary payroll tax surcharge inserted by
No. 18/2023 s. 66.

COVID-19 debt temporary payroll tax surcharge has the same
meaning as in clause 1 of Schedule 1;

"D" is&#8212;

         (a)     in the case of an employer who is not a member of a group, the
deductible amount referred to in clause 5 or 6 (as the case requires);
or

         (b)     in the case of an employer who is a member of a group, the deductible
amount referred to in clause 9 or 10 (as the case requires); 

"EIW" is&#8212;

         (a)     in the case of an employer who is not a member of a group, the
estimated interstate wages payable by the employer in the financial year in
which D will be applied; or

         (b)     in the case of an employer who is a member of a group, the estimated
interstate wages payable by a group in the financial year in which D will be
applied;

"ETW" is&#8212;

         (a)     in the case of an employer who is not a member of a group, the
estimated taxable wages payable by the employer in the financial year in which D
will be applied; or

         (b)     in the case of an employer who is a member of a group for which there
is a designated group employer, the estimated taxable wages payable by the group
in the financial year in which D will be applied;

"mental health and wellbeing surcharge" has the same meaning as
in clause 1 of Schedule 1;

Sch. 2 cl. 1A def. of PR
or phase out rate inserted by No. 18/2023
s. 77(a).

"PR "or phase out rate has the same meaning as in
clause 1 of Schedule 1;

R is the applicable rate of tax referred to in
clause 2.

Sch. 2
cl. 1B inserted by No. 18/2023 s. 67.

          1B     Determination of COVID-19 debt temporary payroll tax
surcharge

For the purposes of this Schedule, the amount
of the COVID-19 debt temporary payroll tax surcharge is&#8212;

         (a)     for a financial year commencing on or after 1 July 2023 and
before 1 July 2033&#8212;the amount equal to S; or

         (b)     for a financial year commencing on or after
1 July 2033&#8212;zero.

Division 1&#8212;Rate of payroll
tax

          2     Rate of payroll tax

The rate of payroll tax in this jurisdiction
is&#8212;

         (a)     for wages paid or payable before 1 July
2008&#8212;5&#183;05%;

Sch. 2 cl. 2(b) amended by
Nos 31/2008 s. 25(b), 36/2010 s. 13(2)(a).

         (b)     for wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2008 and before 1
July 2010&#8212;4&#183;95%;

Sch. 2 cl. 2(c) inserted by
No. 36/2010 s. 13(2)(b), amended by Nos 40/2014
s. 29(2)(a), 18/2023 s. 83.

         (c)     for wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2010 and before
1 July 2014&#8212;4&#183;90%;

Sch. 2 cl. 2(d) inserted by
No. 40/2014 s. 29(2)(b), substituted by No. 28/2017
s. 76.

         (d)     for wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2014 and before
1 July 2017&#8212;4&#183;85%;

Sch. 2 cl. 2(e) inserted by
No. 28/2017 s. 76, amended by No. 22/2018
s. 22(1)(a).

         (e)     for wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2017 and before
1 July 2018&#8212;

               (i)     3&#183;65% in the case of a regional employer; and

Sch. 2 cl. 2(e)(ii) amended by
No. 22/2018 s. 22(1)(b).

               (ii)     4&#183;85% in any other case;

Sch. 2 cl. 2(f) inserted by
No. 22/2018 s. 22(2), amended by Nos 17/2019 s. 55(2)(a)(i),
14/2020 s. 9(a).

         (f)     for wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2018 and before
1 July 2019&#8212;

               (i)     2&#183;425% in the case of a regional employer; and

Sch. 2 cl. 2(f)(ii) amended by
No. 17/2019 s. 55(2)(a)(ii).

               (ii)     4&#183;85% in any other case;

Sch. 2 cl. 2(fa) inserted by
No. 14/2020 s. 9(b).

         (fa)     for wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2019 and before 1
July 2020&#8212;

               (i)     1&#183;2125% in the case of a bushfire relief regional employer;
and

               (ii)     2&#183;425% in the case of any other regional employer; and

               (iii)     4&#183;85% in any other case;

Sch. 2 cl. 2(g) inserted by
No. 17/2019 s. 55(2)(b).

         (g)     for wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2020 and before 1
July 2021&#8212;

Sch. 2 cl. 2(g)(iaa)
inserted by No. 14/2020 s. 9(c).

         (iaa)     1&#183;2125% in the case of a bushfire relief regional employer;
and

Sch. 2 cl. 2(g)(i) amended by No.
14/2020 s. 9(d).

               (i)     2&#183;02% in the case of any other regional employer; and

               (ii)     4&#183;85% in any other case;

Sch. 2 cl. 2(h) inserted by
No. 17/2019 s. 55(2)(b), amended by No. 14/2020
s. 9(e)(f), substituted by No. 22/2021
s. 49.

         (h)     for wages paid or payable on or after
1 July 2021&#8212;

               (i)     1&#183;2125% in the case of a regional employer; and

               (ii)     4&#183;85% in any other case.

Sch. 2 cl. 2(i) inserted by
No. 17/2019 s. 55(2)(b), repealed by No. 22/2021
s. 49.

     *     *     *     *     *

Division 2&#8212;Employers who are
notmembers of a group

          3     Application of Division

This Division applies only to an employer who
is not a member of a group.

          4     Amount of payroll tax to be paid each month

Sch. 2
cl. 4(1) amended by No. 28/2017 s. 78(1), substituted by
No. 22/2021 s. 63(1), amended by No. 18/2023
s. 68.

     (1)     The amount of payroll tax payable by an employer on taxable wages paid
or payable by the employer in a month is the amount of dollars calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

where&#8212;

          S          is the amount specified in subclause (3) or (4), as
the case requires;

          TW     represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the
employer (otherwise than as a member of a group) during the month

     (2)     If D is equal to or more than TW in respect of a month, the employer
is not required to pay payroll tax in respect of that month.

Sch. 2 cl. 4(3) inserted by
No. 22/2021 s. 63(2) (as amended by No. 52/2021
s. 66).

     (3)     For the purposes of subclause (1), if an employer pays or is liable to
pay taxable wages in a month but does not pay and is not liable to pay
interstate wages in that month, S is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total taxable wages paid or payable by the employer (otherwise
than as a member of a group) during that month are not more than
$833 333&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total taxable wages paid or payable by the employer (otherwise
than as a member of a group) during that month are more than $833 333 but
not more than $8 333 333, the amount calculated in accordance with the
following formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total taxable wages paid or payable by the employer (otherwise
than as a member of a group) during that month are more than
$8 333 333, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

Sch. 2 cl. 4(4) inserted by
No. 22/2021 s. 63(2) (as amended by No. 52/2021
s. 66).

     (4)     For the purposes of subclause (1), if an employer pays or is liable to
pay taxable wages and interstate wages in a month,
S is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total ETW and EIW for the employer in the financial year in
which D will be applied is not more than $10 million&#8212;zero;
or

         (b)     if the total ETW and EIW for the employer in the financial year in
which D will be applied is more than $10 million but not more than
$100 million, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total ETW and EIW for the employer in the financial year in
which D will be applied is more than $100 million, the amount calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

          5     Deductible amount for employer who does not pay interstate
wages

Sch. 2 cl. 5(1)
amended by No. 40/2016 s. 37, substituted by No. 18/2023
s. 78.

     (1)     For an employer who pays or is liable to pay taxable wages in a month
but does not pay and is not liable to pay interstate wages in that month, the
deductible amount in respect of that month is the lesser of the
following amounts&#8212;

         (a)     the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

         (b)     the base deductible amount.

Sch. 2 cl. 5(1A) inserted by
No. 18/2023 s. 78.

     (1A)     If the amount calculated in accordance with the formula specified in
subclause (1)(a) is an amount that is less than zero, the amount is taken to be
zero.

     (2)     Subclause (1) applies whether the employer pays or is liable to pay
wages for the whole of the month or only part of the month.

          6     Deductible amount for employer who pays interstate
wages

     (1)     The deductible amount for an
employer who pays or is liable to pay taxable wages and interstate wages in a
month is&#8212;

         (a)     if notice has been given under subclause (2) and no determination
under subclause (5) is in force&#8212;the amount specified in the most recent
notice given under subclause (2); or

         (b)     if a determination is in force under subclause (5)&#8212;the
amount specified in the determination.

     (2)     From time to time, the employer may give a notice to the Commissioner,
containing the information required by the Commissioner, of an amount,
calculated in accordance with subclause (3), that the employer claims to be the
employer's deductible amount for that month and subsequent months.

Sch. 2 cl. 6(3) amended by No. 40/2016
s. 38(a)(b), substituted by Nos 22/2021 s. 64, 18/2023
s. 79.

     (3)     The amount is the lesser of the following amounts&#8212;

         (a)     the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

         (b)     the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

Sch. 2 cl. 6(3A) inserted by
No. 18/2023 s. 79.

     (3A)     If the amount calculated in accordance with the formula specified in
subclause (3)(a) is an amount that is less than zero, the amount is taken to be
zero.

     (4)     The deductible amount claimed cannot be more than the amount referred
to in clause 5(1).

     (5)     At any time, the Commissioner may, by notice in writing to the
employer, determine an amount, not more than the amount referred to in clause
5(1), as the deductible amount for the employer for one or more months specified
in the determination.

     (6)     A determination under subclause (5) may be made on application by the
employer or on the Commissioner's own motion.

     (7)     At any time, the Commissioner, by notice in writing to the employer,
may revoke a determination made under subclause (5).

Division 3&#8212;Groups with a designated
group employer

          7     Application of Division

This Division applies only to an employer who
is a member of a group for which there is a designated group employer.

Sch. 2 cl. 8 (Heading) amended by
No. 22/2021 s. 42(1).

Sch. 2 cl. 8 substituted by No.
28/2017 s. 77.

          8     Monthly payroll tax payable where section 87(2) approval in
force&#8212;employers covered by joint return are all of the same
type

Sch. 2
cl. 8(1) substituted by No. 22/2021
s. 42(2).

     (1)     This clause applies if an approval is in force under
section 87(2) for a designated group employer to lodge a joint return and
the members of the group covered by the return are&#8212;

Sch. 2 cl. 8(1)(a) amended by
No. 22/2021 s. 51.

         (a)     for wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2019 and before
1 July 2021&#8212;

               (i)     all regional employers other than bushfire relief regional employers;
or

               (ii)     all employers who are not regional employers; or     

               (iii)     all bushfire relief regional employers; or

         (b)     for wages paid or payable in any other financial year&#8212;

               (i)     all regional employers; or

               (ii)     all employers who are not regional employers.

Sch. 2 cl. 8(2)
substituted by No. 22/2021 s. 65(1) (as amended by
No. 52/2021 s. 67), amended by No. 18/2023
s. 69(1).

     (2)     The designated group employer must pay an amount (in dollars) of
payroll tax, calculated in accordance with the following formula, on taxable
wages paid or payable in a month by the employers covered by the
return&#8212;

where&#8212;

          JTW     represents the total taxable wages paid or payable during the
month by the employers covered by the return (as members of a group);

          S     is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is not more than $10 million&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is more than $10 million but not more than
$100 million, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is more than $100 million, the amount calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

Sch. 2 cl. 8(3)
substituted by No. 22/2021 s. 65(2), amended by
No. 18/2023 s. 69(2).

     (3)     In addition, each employer who is a member of the group but is not
covered by the return must pay an amount (in dollars) of payroll tax, calculated
in accordance with the following formula, on taxable wages paid or payable by
the employer in a month&#8212;

where&#8212;

          S     is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is not more than $10 million&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is more than $10 million but not more than
$100 million, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is more than $100 million, the amount calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

          TW     represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the
employer concerned (as a member of the group) during the relevant
month.

     (4)     For the purposes of subclause (2), if D is equal to or more than
JTW in respect of a month, the designated group employer is not required to pay
payroll tax in respect of that month.

Sch. 2 cl. 8A (Heading)
amended by No. 22/2021 s. 43(1).

Sch. 2 cl. 8A inserted by No.
28/2017 s. 77.

          8A     Monthly payroll tax payable where section 87(2) approval in
force&#8212;employers covered by joint return are not all of the same
type

     (1)     This clause
applies if&#8212;

         (a)     an approval is in force under section 87(2) for a designated group
employer to lodge a joint return; and

Sch. 2 cl. 8A(1)(b)
substituted by No. 22/2021 s. 43(2).

         (b)     the members of the group covered by the return are not all of the same
type of employer.

Sch. 2 cl. 8A(2)
substituted by No. 22/2021 s. 43(3), amended by
No. 22/2021 s. 52, substituted by No. 22/2021 s. 66(1)
(as amended by No. 52/2021 s. 68), amended by
No. 18/2023 s. 70(1).

     (2)     The designated group employer must pay an
amount (in dollars) of payroll tax, calculated in accordance with the following
formula, on taxable wages paid or payable in a month by the employers covered by
the return&#8212;

where&#8212;

          JTW     represents the total taxable wages paid or payable during the
month by the employers covered by the return (as members of the
group);

     Pbrre     is&#8212;

         (a)     for wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2019 and before
1 July 2021&#8212;that part of JTW that is attributable to all bushfire relief
regional employers; or

         (b)     for wages paid or payable in any other financial
year&#8212;zero;

          Pe          is that part of JTW that is attributable to all
employers who are not regional employers;

          Pre          is&#8212;

         (a)     for wages paid or payable on or after 1 July 2019 and before
1 July 2021&#8212;that part of JTW that is attributable to all regional
employers, other than bushfire relief regional employers; or

         (b)     for wages paid or payable in any other financial year&#8212;that part
of JTW that is attributable to all regional employers;

          Rbrre     is the rate of tax referred to in clause 2
that applies to an employer who is a bushfire relief regional
employer;

          Re     is the rate of tax referred to in clause 2 that
applies to an employer who is not a regional employer;

          Rre          is the rate of tax referred to in clause 2
that applies to a regional employer;

          S     is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is not more than $10 million&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is more than $10 million but not more than
$100 million, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is more than $100 million, the amount calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

Sch. 2 cl. 8A(3)
substituted by No. 22/2021 s. 66(2), amended by No. 18/2023
s. 70(2).

     (3)     In addition, each employer who is a member of the group but is not
covered by the return must pay an amount (in dollars) of payroll tax, calculated
in accordance with the following formula, on taxable wages paid or payable by
the employer in a month&#8212;

where&#8212;

          S     is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is not more than $10 million&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total ETW and EIW for the employer in the financial year in
which D will be applied is more than $10 million but not more than
$100 million, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total ETW and EIW for the employer in the financial year in
which D will be applied is more than $100 million, the amount
calculated in accordance with the following formula&#8212;

;

          TW     represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the
employer concerned (as a member of the group) during the relevant
month.

     (4)     For the purposes of subclause (2), if D is equal to or more than
JTW in respect of a month, the designated group employer is not required to pay
payroll tax in respect of that month.

Sch. 2 cl. 8B inserted by No.
28/2017 s. 77.

          8B     Monthly payroll tax payable where no section 87(2) approval in
force

     (1)     This clause applies if an approval under
section 87(2) is not in force for a designated group employer.

Sch. 2 cl. 8B(2)
substituted by No. 22/2021 s. 67(1), amended by
No. 18/2023 s. 71(1).

     (2)     The designated group employer must pay an amount (in dollars) of
payroll tax, calculated in accordance with the following formula, on taxable
wages paid or payable in a month&#8212;

where S is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is not more than $10 million&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is more than $10 million but not more than
$100 million, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is more than $100 million, the amount calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

Sch. 2 cl. 8B(3)
substituted by No. 22/2021 s. 67(2), amended by
No. 18/2023 s. 71(2).

     (3)     In addition, each employer who is a member of the group must pay an
amount (in dollars) of payroll tax, calculated in accordance with the following
formula, on taxable wages paid or payable by the employer in a
month&#8212;

where&#8212;

          S     is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is not more than $10 million&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is more than $10 million but not more than
$100 million, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is more than $100 million, the amount calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

          TW     represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the
employer concerned (as a member of the group) during the relevant
month.

     (4)     For the purposes of subclause (2), if D is equal to or more than
TW in respect of a month, the designated group employer is not required to pay
payroll tax in respect of that month.

          9     Deductible amount for groups that do not pay interstate
wages

Sch. 2 cl. 9(1)
amended by No. 40/2016 s. 39, substituted byNo. 18/2023
s. 80.

     (1)     For a group in which one or more members pay or are liable to
pay taxable wages in a month but no members pay or are liable to pay interstate
wages in that month, the deductible amount in respect of that
month is the lesser of the following amounts&#8212;

         (a)     the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

         (b)     the base deductible amount.

Sch. 2 cl. 9(1A) inserted by
No. 18/2023 s. 80.

     (1A)     If the amount calculated in accordance with the formula specified in
subclause (1)(a) is an amount that is less than zero, the amount is taken to be
zero.

     (2)     Subclause (1) applies whether group members pay or are liable to pay
wages for the whole of the month or only part of the month.

          10     Deductible amount for groups that pay interstate wages

     (1)     The deductible amount for a
group in which one or more members pay or are liable to pay taxable wages or
interstate wages in a month is&#8212;

         (a)     if notice has been given under subclause (2) and no determination
under subclause (5) is in force&#8212;the amount specified in the most recent
notice given under subclause (2); or

         (b)     if a determination is in force under subclause (5)&#8212;the
amount specified in the determination.

     (2)     From time to time, the designated group employer may give a
notice to the Commissioner, containing the information required by the
Commissioner, of an amount, calculated in accordance with subclause (3), that
the employer claims to be the group's deductible amount for that month and
subsequent months.

Sch. 2 cl. 10(3) amended by No. 40/2016
s. 40(a)(b), substituted by Nos 22/2021 s. 67A, 18/2023
s. 81.

     (3)     The amount is the lesser of the following amounts&#8212;

         (a)     the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

         (b)     the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

Sch. 2 cl. 10(3A) inserted by
No. 18/2023 s. 81.

     (3A)     If the amount calculated in accordance with the formula specified in
subclause (3)(a) is an amount that is less than zero, the amount is taken to be
zero.

     (4)     The deductible amount claimed cannot be more than the amount referred
to in clause 9(1).

     (5)     At any time, the Commissioner may, by notice in writing to the
designated group employer, determine an amount, not more than the amount
referred to in clause 9(1), as the deductible amount for the group for one or
more months specified in the determination.

     (6)     A determination under subclause (5) may be made on application by the
designated group employer or on the Commissioner's own motion.

     (7)     At any time, the Commissioner, by notice in writing to the designated
group employer, may revoke a determination made under subclause (5).

Division 4&#8212;Groups with no designated
group employer

          11     Application of Division

This Division applies only to an employer who
is a member of a group for which there is no designated group
employer.

Sch. 2 cl. 12 amended by No.
28/2017 s. 78(2), substituted by No. 22/2021 s. 68,
amended by No. 18/2023 s. 72.

          12     Amount of payroll tax to be paid each month

The amount of payroll tax payable by each
member of the group on taxable wages paid or payable by the member in a month is
the amount of dollars calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

where&#8212;

          S     is&#8212;

         (a)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is not more than $10 million&#8212;zero; or

         (b)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is more than $10 million but not more than
$100 million, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula&#8212;

; or

         (c)     if the total ETW and EIW for the group in the financial year in which
D will be applied is more than $100 million, the amount calculated in
accordance with the following formula&#8212;

          TW     represents the total taxable wages paid or payable by the
employer concerned (as a member of the group) during the relevant
month.

Part
3&#8212;Exemptions

Division 1&#8212;Education and
training

          13     Definitions

In this Division&#8212;

Sch. 2 cl. 13 def. of approved training
scheme inserted by No. 40/2016 s. 42(a).

"approved training scheme "has the same meaning as in section
5.5.1 of the Education and Training Reform Act 2006; 

Sch. 2 cl. 13 def. of Commission
amended by No. 26/2007 s. 108(1)(a), repealed by No. 67/2015
s. 4(a).

     *     *     *     *     *

Sch. 2 cl. 13 def. of declared
school inserted by No. 22/2024 s. 15.

"declared school" means a school declared under clause
14(3);

Sch. 2 cl. 13 def. of
new entrant amended by No.
26/2007 s. 108(1)(b), substituted by No. 67/2015
s. 4(b).

new entrant has the meaning given by
clause 13A;

Sch. 2 cl. 13 def. of
re-employed apprentice or
trainee inserted by No. 40/2016 s. 42(a).

re-employed apprentice or trainee has the meaning given by
clause 16A(2);

Sch. 2 cl. 13 def. of
school substituted by No.
26/2007 s. 108(1)(c).

"school" means a school that is&#8212;

         (a)     a non-Government school within the meaning of the Education and
Training Reform Act 2006 that is registered under that Act; and

         (b)     carried on by a person for no profit or gain to the person or the
individual members of the person;

Sch. 2 cl. 13 def. of
school council amended by
Nos 26/2007 s. 108(1)(d), 40/2016 s. 42(b).

"school council "has the same meaning as in the Education
and Training Reform Act 2006;

Sch. 2 cl. 13 def. of training
contract inserted by No. 40/2016 s. 42(a).

"training contract "has the same meaning as in section 1.1.3(1)
of the Education and Training Reform Act 2006.

Sch. 2. cl. 13A inserted by No.
67/2015, s. 5 (as amended by No. 40/2016
s. 49).

          13A     Meaning of new
entrant

     (1)     A new entrant is an apprentice or trainee employed by an
organisation that is declared to be an approved group training organisation
under clause 13B who enters into a training contract with that organisation
within the period of time specified in subclause (2).

     (2)     The period of time is&#8212;

         (a)     for an apprentice or trainee who has not previously entered into a
training contract with that organisation&#8212;

               (i)     if the apprentice or trainee is a full-time employee of the
organisation, 3 months after the day on which the apprentice or trainee
commenced employment with the organisation; or

               (ii)     if the apprentice or trainee is a part-time employee of the
organisation, 12 months after the day on which the apprentice or trainee
commenced employment with the organisation; and

         (b)     for an apprentice or trainee who has previously entered into a
training contract with that organisation within a period of time specified in
paragraph (a), 3 months after the day on which the training contract
that the apprentice or trainee most recently entered into with the organisation
expired.

          Sch. 2 cl. 13B inserted by No. 67/2016
s. 5 (as amended by No. 40/2016 s. 49).

          13B     Treasurer may declare approved group training
organisations

          Sch. 2
cl. 13B(1) amended by No. 67/2017 s. 26.

     (1)     The Treasurer, by notice published in the Government Gazette, may
declare an organisation to be an approved group training organisation for the
purposes of this Division.

     (2)     The Treasurer must consult the Minister administering Part 5.5 of
the Education and Training Reform Act 2006 before making a declaration
under subclause (1).

          14     Schools and school councils

          Sch. 2
cl. 14(1) amended by No. 18/2023
s. 82(1).

     (1)     Wages paid or payable by a school to a person in relation to the
provision of education within that school are exempt wages if the school is
declared in accordance with this clause.

     (2)     Wages paid or payable by a school council to a person in relation to
the provision of education are exempt wages.

          Sch. 2 cl. 14(3) inserted by
No. 18/2023 s. 82(2).

     (3)     The Minister for Education, with the written consent of the Treasurer
and having regard to the matters specified in subclause (4), may declare a
school for the purposes of this Division by notice published in the Government
Gazette.

          Sch. 2 cl. 14(4) inserted by
No. 18/2023 s. 82(2).

     (4)     For the purposes of subclause (3), the matters are the
following&#8212;

         (a)     the fees and charges imposed by the school in relation to the
provision of education within that school;

         (b)     any other financial contributions received by the school;

         (c)     any other matter that the Minister considers appropriate.

          Sch. 2 cl. 14(5) inserted by
No. 18/2023 s. 82(2).

     (5)     The Minister for Education, with the written consent of the Treasurer,
may withdraw a declaration by further notice published in the Government
Gazette.

Sch. 2 cl. 15 amended by
No. 22/2024 s. 16.

          15     Persons providing educational services

Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or
payable for an educational service that is provided by a person in connection
with the curriculum of a declared school (otherwise than for the purpose of
profit or gain to the person or the individual members of the person).

Sch. 2 cl. 15A inserted by
No. 22/2024 s. 17.

          15A     Variation to exemption for non-profit organisations 

     (1)     Despite section 48(1)(a)(i), wages are not
exempt wages if&#8212;

         (a)     the wages are paid or payable by a religious institution that
is&#8212;

               (i)     a school; or

               (ii)     a non-profit organisation that provides an educational service in
connection with the curriculum of a school; and

         (b)     the school is not a declared school.

     (2)     Despite section 48(1)(a)(iii), wages are not exempt wages
if&#8212;

         (a)     the wages are paid or payable by a non&#8209;profit organisation that
provides an educational service in connection with the curriculum of a school;
and

         (b)     the school is not a declared school.

Sch. 2 cl. 16 amended by No. 26/2007
s. 108(2)(3), substituted by No. 67/2015 s. 6 (as amended by No.
40/2016 s. 50), amended by No. 66/2016
s. 7.

          16     Approved training schemes

Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or
payable to a new entrant who is employed in accordance with the requirements of
an approved training scheme.

          Sch. 2 cl. 16A inserted by No. 40/2016
s. 43.

          16A     Wages paid to person who continues training under approved training
scheme

     (1)     Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or
payable to a re-employed apprentice or trainee.

     (2)     A re-employed apprentice or trainee is a
person&#8212;

         (a)     who is employed by an employer (the current
employer) as an apprentice or trainee under a training contract in
accordance with the requirements of an approved training scheme; and

         (b)     who commenced employment with the current employer as an apprentice or
trainee under a training contract on or after 1 July 2016;
and

         (c)     who was previously employed by another employer (the previous
employer) as an apprentice or trainee under a training contract in
accordance with the requirements of&#8212;

               (i)     the approved training scheme referred to in paragraph (a);
or

               (ii)     an approved training scheme that has been superseded by the
training scheme referred to in paragraph (a); and 

         (d)     whose employment with the previous employer ceased before the person
had completed the requirements of the approved training scheme referred to
in paragraph (c)(i) or (ii).

     (3)     Despite subsection (1), wages paid or payable to a re-employed
apprentice or trainee are not exempt wages if the current employer and the
previous employer are members of a group.

Division 2&#8212;Health care service
providers

          17     What is a health care service provider?

     (1)     For the purposes of Division 3 of Part 4
of this Act, a "health care service provider" is&#8212;

         (a)     an ambulance service;

Sch. 2 cl. 17(1)(b) substituted by No.
79/2008 s. 20(1). 

         (b)     a registered community health centre;

         (c)     a denominational hospital;

         (d)     a multi-purpose service;

         (e)     a non-profit hospital;

         (f)     a public health service;

         (g)     a public hospital;

Sch. 2 cl. 17(1)(h) amended by
Nos 26/2014 s. 455(Sch. item 22), 39/2022
s. 852.

         (h)     the Victorian Institute of Forensic Mental Health established by
section 610 of the Mental Health and Wellbeing Act 2022.

     (2)     In this clause&#8212;

"ambulance service" means an ambulance service created under
section 23 of the Ambulance Services Act 1986;

Sch. 2 cl. 17(2) def. of
community health centre repealed by No. 79/2008 s. 20(2)(a).

     *     *     *     *     *

"denominational hospital" means a hospital listed in Schedule 2
to the Health Services Act 1988;

"multi-purpose service" means&#8212;

         (a)     a body referred to in section 115V(2) of the Health Services
Act 1988; or

         (b)     a body declared under Part 4A of that Act to be a multi-purpose
service;

"non-profit hospital" means a hospital carried on by a body
corporate, society or association (otherwise than for the purpose of profit or
gain to the individual members of the body corporate, society or
association);

"public health service" means a public health service listed in
Schedule 5 to the Health Services Act 1988;

Sch. 2 cl. 17(2) def. of
public hospital amended by
No. 79/2008 s. 20(2)(b). 

"public hospital" means a hospital listed in Schedule 1 to the
Health Services Act 1988;

Sch. 2 cl. 17(2) def. of registered
community health centre inserted by No. 79/2008 s. 20(2)(c).

"registered community health centre" means a community health
centre registered under Division 6 of Part 3 of the Health Services Act
1988.

Sch. 2 Pt 3 Div. 2A (Heading and cls
17A&#8211;17C) inserted by No. 17/2019 s. 52.

Division 2A&#8212;Parental
leave

Sch. 2 cl. 17A inserted by No. 17/2019
s. 52.

          17A     Meaning of primary
caregiver and secondary caregiver

     (1)     For the purposes of this Division&#8212;

         (a)     the "primary caregiver" for a child is&#8212;

               (i)     in the case of a child yet to be born, the person who is pregnant with
the child; or

               (ii)     otherwise, the parent of the child who has the principal role of
providing care and attention to the child; and

         (b)     the secondary caregiver for a child is a spouse, or
domestic partner, of a primary caregiver for the child.

     (2)     For the purposes of this Division there can only be one primary
caregiver for a child at any one time.

Sch. 2 cl. 17B inserted by No. 17/2019
s. 52.

          17B     Parental leave

     (1)     Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or
payable to an employee in respect of leave for the employee's role as primary
caregiver or secondary caregiver for a child (other than sick leave, recreation
leave, annual leave or any similar leave).

     (2)     It is immaterial whether the leave is taken before or after the child
is born or, in the case of adoption, before or after the child is
adopted.

     (3)     The exemption is limited to wages paid or payable in respect of a
maximum of 14 weeks leave in relation to any one child.

     (4)     In subclause (3)&#8212;

         (a)     a reference to 14 weeks leave includes a reference to an equivalent
period of leave at a reduced rate of pay; and

         (b)     a reference to wages paid or payable in respect of a period of leave
is a reference to the total wages that would normally have been paid or payable
for that period of leave.

Example

For a part-time employee, the exemption may apply to wages paid or payable
for leave that extends to 28 weeks at half of the part-time rate of pay
that would normally apply to the employee.

     (5)     The exemption does not apply to any part of wages paid or payable in
respect of leave for the employee's role as primary caregiver or secondary
caregiver that comprises a fringe benefit.

Sch. 2 cl. 17C inserted by No. 17/2019
s. 52.

          17C     Administrative requirements for exemption

     (1)     An employer wishing to claim an exemption
under this Division for an employee in respect of leave for the employee's role
as a primary caregiver must obtain and keep a statutory declaration by the
employee stating&#8212;

         (a)     that the employee is a primary caregiver for a child; and

         (b)     that the employee&#8212;

               (i)     is pregnant with the child; or

               (ii)     was pregnant with the child and the date of birth of the child;
or

               (iii)     is the parent of the child who has the principal role of providing
care and attention to the child.

     (2)     An employer wishing to claim an exemption under this Division for an
employee in respect of leave for the employee's role as a secondary caregiver
must obtain and keep a statutory declaration by the employee
stating&#8212;

         (a)     that the employee is a secondary caregiver for a child; and

         (b)     that the employee is a spouse, or domestic partner, of the person who
is the primary caregiver for the child.  

Note

Section 55 of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 requires these
records to be kept for at least 5 years unless the Commissioner of State Revenue
authorises earlier destruction.

Division 3&#8212;Local
government

          18     Limitation on local government exemptions

For the purposes of section 60(2)(e), the
following activities are specified&#8212;

         (a)     quarrying;

         (b)     conduct of ice works;

         (c)     cement pipe manufacture;

         (d)     operation of port and harbour facilities;

         (e)     provision of public transport facilities.

Division 4&#8212;Other
exemptions

          19     Specialized agencies

     (1)     Wages paid or payable by a specialized
agency are exempt wages.

     (2)     A specialized agency has the same meaning as in section
1 of the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized
Agencies, which was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on the
21 November 1947.

Sch. 2 cl. 19A inserted by
No. 23/2022 s. 30.

          19A     Employment agents supplying their common law
employees

     (1)     Wages are exempt wages if&#8212;

         (a)     they are paid or payable for services that were performed under an
employment agency contract by a service provider for a client of an employment
agent; and

         (b)     the service provider performed the services as an employee of the
employment agent; and

         (c)     the wages would be exempt wages under Part 4 (other than
section 50 or Division 4 or 5 of that Part), or Part 3 of
this Schedule (other than clause 16 or 16A), had the service provider
performed the services as an employee of the client; and

         (d)     the client has given a declaration to the effect of
paragraph (c), in the form approved by the Commissioner, to the employment
agent.

     (2)     Wages are also exempt wages if&#8212;

         (a)     they are paid or payable for services that were performed in the
prescribed circumstances by a prescribed person or a person who is member of a
class that is prescribed; and

         (b)     the wages would be exempt wages under Part 4 (other than
section 50 or Division 4 or 5 of that Part), or Part 3 of
this Schedule (other than clause 16 or 16A), had the person referred to in
paragraph (a) performed the services as an employee of the person for whom
they were performed; and

         (c)     the person for whom the services are performed has given a declaration
to the effect of paragraph (b), in the form approved by the Commissioner,
to a prescribed entity or an entity that is of a class that is
prescribed.

     (3)     A reference in this clause to an employee does not include a reference
to a person who is an employee only because the person is taken to be an
employee by Division 8 of Part 3 or any other provision of this
Act.

Sch. 2 cl. 19B inserted by
No. 50/2024 s. 43.

          19B     GP medical businesses

     (1)     GP medical business wages paid or payable
by a relevant person during a period are exempt wages to the extent that the GP
medical business wages are paid or payable for or in relation to the performance
of fully&#8209;funded items of GP work. 

     (2)     For the purposes of subsection (1), the amount of GP medical business
wages paid or payable by the relevant person during a period that are exempt
wages is determined by the following formula&#8212;

where&#8212; 

          E     is the amount of exempt wages for the period;

          A          is the total amount of GP medical business wages paid or payable
by the relevant person during the period for or in relation to the performance
of GP work;

          B          is the total amount paid to the relevant person, or to any other
person associated with the GP medical business, during the period for
fully&#8209;funded items of GP work (excluding amounts paid for consumable
items);

          C          is the total amount paid to the relevant person, or to any other
person associated with the GP medical business, during the period for items of
GP work (excluding amounts paid for consumable items).

     (3)     In this clause&#8212;

"bulk-billed" has the same meaning as in clause 7.1.1 of Part 7
of Schedule 1 to the Health Insurance (General Medical Services Table)
Regulations 2021 of the Commonwealth;

"fully-funded", in relation to an item of GP work,
means that the amount paid or payable for the item of GP work to a
relevant person, or to any other person associated with a GP medical business,
is no more than the total of&#8212;

         (a)          any medicare benefit paid or payable in respect of the item of GP
work; and

         (b)     any amount that has been claimed or may be claimed, in addition to a
medicare benefit referred to in paragraph (a), as an incentive for a patient of
the GP medical business being bulk-billed; and

         (c)     the reasonable cost of any consumable item used to administer a
vaccination as part of the item of GP work; and

         (d)     any amount paid or payable in respect of the item of GP work for the
purposes of, or in connection with, treatment under Part V of the Veterans'
Entitlements Act 1986 of the Commonwealth; and

         (e)     any amount paid or payable in respect of the item of GP work as
compensation under the Transport Accident Act 1986, the Workplace
Injury Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2013 or the Accident
Compensation Act 1985;

"GP medical business" means a business in the course of which
the services of either of the following are supplied other than at a
hospital&#8212;

         (a)     one or more relevant GPs;

         (b)     one or more relevant prescribed medical practitioners;

"GP medical business wages" means amounts paid or payable by a
person for or in relation to the performance of work relating
to&#8212;

         (a)     a GP medical business; or 

         (b)     a contract under which a person carries on a GP medical
business;

"GP work" means&#8212;

         (a)     work by a relevant GP; or 

         (b)     work by a relevant prescribed medical practitioner that is of a kind
ordinarily performed by a relevant GP;

"medicare benefit" has the same meaning as in section 3(1) of
the Health Insurance Act 1973 of the Commonwealth;

"prescribed medical practitioner" has the same meaning as in
clause 7.1.1 of Part 7 of Schedule 1 to the Health Insurance (General Medical
Services Table) Regulations 2021 of the Commonwealth;

"relevant GP" means&#8212;

         (a)     a medical practitioner registered under the Health Practitioner
Regulation National Law in the specialty of general practice; or

         (b)     a medical practitioner specified in clause 1.1.3 of the Health
Insurance (General Medical Services Table) Regulations 2021 of the
Commonwealth;

"relevant person" means a person carrying on a GP medical
business;

"relevant prescribed medical practitioner" means a prescribed
medical practitioner who predominantly performs work of a kind ordinarily
performed by a relevant GP.

Sch. 2 Pt 4 (Heading) amended by
No. 50/2024 s. 44.

Part 4&#8212;Returns, reassessments
and refunds

          20     Further returns

The Commissioner may, by notice in writing,
call upon any employer or person to lodge, within the time specified in the
notice, a return or further or fuller return as the Commissioner requires,
whether on the person's own behalf or as an agent or trustee.

          21     Notification of change in circumstances

An employer must give the Commissioner written
notice within 14 days&#8212;

         (a)     after any change in the employer's&#8212;

               (i)     name; or

               (ii)     trading name; or

               (iii)     location of head office; or

               (iv)     postal address; or

               (v)     members, if the employer is a partnership; or

         (b)     after the employer ceases to&#8212;

               (i)     pay wages as referred to in section 86(1)(a); or

               (ii)     be a member of a group referred to in section 86(1)(b); or

         (c)     after the employer becomes a member of a group referred to in section
86(1)(b).

Penalty:     20 penalty units.

Note to
Sch. 2 cl. 21 inserted by No.
13/2013 s. 57(2). 

Note

Section 130A of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 applies to an
offence against this clause.

Sch. 2 cl. 21A inserted by
No. 50/2024 s. 45.

          21A     Reassessment of payroll tax liability&#8212;underpayment of
wages

The Commissioner may make a reassessment of an
employer's payroll tax liability in respect of a financial year, being a
reassessment more than 5 years after the initial assessment for that financial
year, if the Commissioner is satisfied that there was an underpayment of wages
by the employer in respect of that financial year.

Note

Section 9(3)(c) of the Taxation Administration Act 1997 allows a
reassessment to be made more than 5 years after the initial assessment if this
is authorised by a taxation law.

          22     Time limit for refund applications

An application for a refund due under section
83 must be made before the end of the financial year next following the
financial year in respect of which the refund is due.

Part 5&#8212;General

          23     Disregarding cents

If, for the purposes of this Act, it is
necessary&#8212;

         (a)     to calculate the proportion that one amount bears to another amount;
or

         (b)     to calculate an amount in accordance with a formula&#8212;

and, but for this clause, one or more of those amounts or an amount
included in the formula would be amounts of dollars and cents&#8212;the cents
are to be disregarded.

Sch. 2 cl. 24 inserted by
No. 14/2020 s. 10.

          24     Emergency tax relief

The amendments made to this Act by Part 4 of
the State Taxation Acts Amendment (Relief Measures) Act 2020 are
legislated emergency tax relief for the purposes of Part 9A of the
Taxation Administration Act 1997.

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- SCHEDULE 3
Schedule 3&#8212;Transitional provisions 

Section 117

          1     Definition

In this Schedule&#8212;

"old Act" means the Pay-roll Tax Act 1971 as in force
immediately before its repeal.

Note

The Pay-roll Tax Act 1971 is repealed by section 102 of this Act,
which comes into operation on 1 July 2007.

          2     Savings and transitional regulations

     (1)     The regulations may contain provisions of
a savings and transitional nature consequent on the enactment of this
Act.

     (2)     Any such provision may, if the regulations so provide, take effect
from the date of assent to the Act concerned or a later date.

     (3)     To the extent to which any such provision takes effect from a date
that is earlier than the date of its publication in the Gazette, the provision
does not operate so as&#8212;

         (a)     to affect, in a manner prejudicial to any person (other than the State
or an authority of the State), the rights of that person existing before the
date of its publication; or

         (b)     to impose liabilities on any person (other than the State or an
authority of the State) in respect of anything done or omitted to be done before
the date of its publication.

          3     Application of Interpretation of Legislation
Act 1984

Except where the contrary intention appears,
this Schedule does not affect or take away from the Interpretation of
Legislation Act 1984.

          4     Continuation of old Act and regulations

If a provision of the old Act continues to
apply by force of this Schedule, the following provisions also continue to apply
in relation to that provision&#8212;

         (a)     any other provision of the old Act necessary to give effect to that
continued provision;

         (b)     any regulation made under the old Act for the purposes of that
continued provision.

          5     Application of this Act and old Act

     (1)     This Act applies to payroll tax on taxable
wages that are paid or payable on or after 1 July 2007.

     (2)     Despite its repeal, the old Act continues to apply to payroll tax on
taxable wages (within the meaning of the old Act) paid or payable before
1 July 2007.

     (3)     The following enactments, as in force immediately before 1 July 2007,
continue to apply on and after that day in respect of any matter to which the
old Act continues to apply on and after that day&#8212;

         (a)     Taxation Administration Act 1997 and regulations made under
that Act;

         (b)     Taxation (Reciprocal Powers) Act 1987;

         (c)     Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 1998 and
regulations and rules made under that Act.

          6     Fringe benefits

     (1)     An election by an employer under section
13A(2) of the old Act that was in force immediately before 1 July 2007 remains
in force on and after that day for the purposes of this Act as if it were an
election made by the employer under section 16(1) of this Act.

     (2)     If an employer is a prescribed sporting club, a reference in section
16(1) to the amount determined in accordance with subsection (2) in relation to
that employer is taken to be a reference to the sum of the type 1 aggregate
fringe benefits amount and the type 2 aggregate fringe benefits amount (within
the meaning of the FBTA Act) in relation to that employer.

     (3)     In this clause&#8212;

"competitive sporting activity" includes the playing of a
sport, but does not include&#8212;

         (a)     the umpiring or refereeing of a sporting activity; or

         (b)     the administration of a sporting activity; or

         (c)     the non-competitive practice of a sport;

"prescribed sporting club" means&#8212;

         (a)     a prescribed sporting club referred to in the Schedule to the Pay-roll
Tax (Prescribed Sporting Club) Regulations 2001 as in force immediately before
1 July 2007 (other than the body referred to in item 1 in that Schedule);
or

         (b)     North Melbourne Kangaroos Limited A.C.N. 065 251 489; or

         (c)     a body prescribed by the regulations, being an association, club or
other body&#8212;

               (i)     an object of which is to participate in, facilitate or promote a
sporting activity; and

               (ii)     that employs persons who play for the body in a competitive sporting
activity; and

               (iii)     that pays more than 50% of its total wages in a financial year to
persons referred to in subparagraph (ii) in respect of services performed by
those players being the playing of a sport.

     (4)     Subclauses (2) and (3) and this subclause are repealed on 1
July 2008.

          7     Superannuation contributions relating to pre-1 July 1997
service

     (1)     Despite anything in section 11 or 17,
wages do not include a superannuation contribution paid or payable
in respect of services performed by an employee before 1 July 1997.

     (2)     A superannuation contribution that is alleged by an employer to be
paid in respect of services performed by an employee before 1 July 1997
must be evidenced to the satisfaction of the Commissioner in the employer's
records for payroll tax purposes.

     (3)     In particular, the employer's records must show the manner of
calculation of the contribution and any actuarial basis for it.

     (4)     For the purposes of subclause (3) and of any assessment of payroll tax
to which that subclause is material, the certificate of a fellow or accredited
member of the Institute of Actuaries of Australia to the effect that the
actuarial basis on which an amount is calculated is justified is evidence and,
in the absence of evidence to the contrary, proof of that fact.

     (5)     If records are not kept as required by this clause, the Commissioner
is entitled to assume that a payment of money by an employer as a superannuation
contribution on or after 1 July 1997 is an amount payable in respect of services
performed by an employee on or after that day.

          8     Superannuation contributions not readily related to particular
employees

For the purposes of an assessment of payroll
tax, the Commissioner may determine&#8212;

         (a)     whether, and the extent to which, any monetary or non-monetary
contribution paid or payable by an employer to a superannuation, provident or
retirement fund or scheme that is not identified by the employer as paid or
payable in respect of a particular employee (and whether or not purporting to be
so paid or payable on any actuarial basis) is to be regarded as a superannuation
contribution paid or payable in respect of a particular employee;

         (b)     the portion of any monetary or non-monetary contribution paid by an
employer as a superannuation contribution to a wholly or partly unfunded fund or
scheme, being money paid in respect of an employee (or that is to be
regarded under paragraph (a) to have been so paid) who performed services to the
employer on or after, as well as before, 1 July 1997, that is to be regarded as
having been paid in respect of services performed before that date.

          9     Employment agents

A declaration under section 5(3) of the old Act
that was in force immediately before 1 July 2007 remains in force on and after
that day for the purposes of this Act as if it were a declaration made under
section 40(2) of this Act.

          10     Exemption continues for certain schools

For the purposes of Division 1 of Part 3 of
Schedule 2, a "school" includes&#8212;

         (a)     a school or college that&#8212;

               (i)     is carried on by a body corporate, society or association for no
profit or gain to the individual members of the body corporate, society or
association and is not carried on by or on behalf of the State; and

               (ii)     provides education at or below the secondary level of education and
to students, the majority of whom are aged under 19 years of age; and     

               (iii)     was in existence as such a college before 27 May 1997; and

         (b)     a school or college within the meaning of section 10(1)(da) of the
Pay-roll Tax Act 1971 as in force immediately before the
commencement of section 19(a) of the State Taxation Legislation (Further
Amendment) Act 2002.

Sch. 3 cl. 11 amended by No. 26/2007
s. 108(4) (ILA s. 39B(1)).

          11     Approved training schemes

     (1)     A notice in force under section
10(1)(k)(ii) of the old Act immediately before 1 July 2007 remains in force on
and after that day for the purposes of clause 16 of Schedule 2 to this Act as if
it were a notice published under clause 16(2) of that Schedule.

Sch. 3 cl. 11(2) inserted by No.
26/2007 s. 108(4).

     (2)     A notice in force under clause 16(2) of Schedule 2 immediately before
the commencement of section 108 of this Act remains in force on and after
that commencement as if it had been made under that clause as amended by that
section 108.

          12     Exemption continues for public hospitals

For the purposes of Division 2 of Part 3 of
Schedule 2, a "public hospital     " includes a public hospital within
the meaning of section 10(1)(bc) of the Pay-roll Tax Act 1971 as in force
immediately before the commencement of section 14(1) of the State
Taxation Legislation (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2006.

          13     Registration of employers

An employer who was registered under section 12
of the old Act immediately before 1 July 2007 is taken, on and after that day,
to be registered under section 86 of this Act.

          14     Designated group employers

A member of a group who was the nominated or
appointed member for the group under section 9A(4) of the old Act
immediately before 1 July 2007 is taken, on and after that day, to be the
designated group employer for the group as if the member had been designated
under section 80 of this Act.

Sch. 3 cl. 15 inserted by
No. 31/2008 s. 26.

          15     State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2008

Schedule 1, as amended by section 24 of the
State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2008, applies to the financial year
commencing on 1 July 2007 and any subsequent financial year.

Sch. 3 cl. 16 inserted by
No. 83/2009 s. 22.

          16     Application of amendments

     (1)     The amendments made to this Act by the
State Taxation Acts Further Amendment Act 2009 apply in respect of
taxable wages that are paid or payable on or after 1 July 2009.

     (2)     The amendments made to this Act by the State Taxation Acts Further
Amendment Act 2009 are to be applied for the purpose of determining the
correct amount of payroll tax (within the meaning of section 82) payable by an
employer in respect of the financial year commencing on 1 July 2009
(including in respect of expired months).

     (3)     However, section 9 continues to apply in respect of an expired month
as if the amendments made to this Act by the State Taxation Acts Further
Amendment Act 2009 had not been made.

     (4)     In this clause, an
expired month is
a month occurring after June 2009 that ended before the date on which the
State Taxation Acts Further Amendment Act 2009 received the Royal
Assent.

Sch. 3 cl. 17 inserted by
No. 28/2011 s. 38.

          17     State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2011

     (1)     Anything done or omitted to be done by an
employer in connection with the assessment and payment of payroll tax, in
respect of a month occurring after June 2009 and before July 2011, that would
have been validly done or omitted to be done had the amendments made to this Act
by the State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2011 been in force, is taken to
have been validly done or omitted.

Note

This provision validates a decision by an employer to treat the grant of a
share or an option to an employee that is not an ESS interest as a fringe
benefit under Division 2 of Part 3 of this Act and to determine the value of
those fringe benefits in accordance with those provisions, rather than by
reference to Division 4 of Part 3 of this Act.

     (2)     Division 4 of Part 3 of this Act continues to apply in respect of a
share or an option granted before 1 July 2011 that constituted wages under
old section 18, whether or not the grant of the share or option would
constitute wages under new section 18, if the relevant day in relation to the
grant of the share or option is not a day occurring before 1 July
2011.

Example

A share granted before 1 July 2011 that is not an ESS interest
continues to be treated as wages under Division 4 of Part 3 of this Act if the
vesting date for the share did not occur before 1 July 2011 and the
employer did not elect to treat the date of the grant as the relevant
day.

     (3)     The assessment amendments apply in respect of any such share or
option.

     (4)     Accordingly, the vesting date and the value of the share or option are
to be determined in accordance with the assessment amendments.

     (5)     This clause does not apply in respect of a share or an option granted
before 1 July 2011 if the liability for payroll tax in respect of the grant
is determined in accordance with Division 2 of Part 3 (as permitted by
subclause (1)).

     (6)     In this clause&#8212;

"assessment amendments" means the amendments made by the
State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2011;

new section 18 means section 18 as amended by the State
Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2011;

old section 18 means section 18 as in force immediately
before 1 July 2011;

"relevant day" has the same meaning as it has in section
18(3).

Sch. 3 cl. 18 inserted by
No. 41/2013 s. 45.

          18     State Tax Laws Amendment (Budget and Other Measures)
Act 2013

     (1)     Section 32, as amended by section 44 of
the State Tax Laws Amendment (Budget and Other Measures) Act 2013,
applies in respect of work performed on or after 1 July 2013 irrespective of
when amounts are paid or become payable in respect of the work.

     (2)     Section 32 as in force immediately before the commencement of section
44 of the State Tax Laws Amendment (Budget and Other Measures) Act 2013
continues to apply in respect of work performed before 1 July 2013 irrespective
of when amounts are paid or become payable in respect of the work.

Sch. 3 cl. 19 inserted by No. 67/2015
s. 7.

          19     State Taxation Acts Further Amendment Act 2015

     (1)     A notice to which clause 11 of this
Schedule applies that is in force immediately before the commencement day is
taken, on that day, to be a notice under clause 13B of
Schedule 2.

     (2)     A notice under clause 16(2) of Schedule 2 that is in force immediately
before the commencement day is taken, on that day, to be a notice under clause
13B of that Schedule.

     (3)     A person who was a new entrant within the meaning of
clause 13 of Schedule 2 as in force immediately before the commencement day and
whose wages were exempt wages under clause 16 of Schedule 2 as in
force immediately before that day is taken, on that day, to be a new
entrant within the meaning of clause 13A of Schedule 2.

     (4)     In this clause&#8212;

commencement day means the day on which Part 3 of the
State Taxation Acts Further Amendment Act 2015 comes into
operation.

Sch. 3 cl. 20 inserted by No. 17/2019
s. 53.

          20     State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2019

     (1)     The exemption under Division 2A of
Part 3 of Schedule 2 does not apply to wages paid to an employee on or
after 1 July 2019 in respect of any period of leave taken by the
employee before that date.

     (2)          The exemption under Division 4 of Part 4 continues to apply despite
its repeal to wages paid to an employee on or after 1 July 2019 in
respect of any period of leave taken by the employee before that date.

Sch. 3 cl. 21 inserted by
No. 22/2021 s. 69.

          21     State Taxation and Mental Health Acts Amendment
Act 2021&#8212;determination of mental health and wellbeing surcharge
between 1 January 2022 and 30 June 2022

     (1)     For the purposes of calculating the mental
health and wellbeing surcharge in relation to the 6-month period beginning on
1 January 2022 and ending on 30 June 2022, Schedules 1
and 2 apply as if&#8212;

         (a)     a reference to a financial year were a reference to that 6-month
period; and 

         (b)     a reference to $10 million were a reference to $5 million;
and 

         (c)     a reference to $100 million were a reference to
$50 million.

     (2)     In this clause&#8212;

mental health and wellbeing surcharge has the meaning given
by clause 1 of Schedule 1.

&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- NOTES

Version
No. 040

No. 26 of 2007Version incorporating amendments as at1 July 2025 

&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;&#205;

Version No. 040 
Payroll Tax Act 2007 
No. 26 of 2007Version incorporating amendments as at1 July 2025 

PAYROLL TAX ACT 2007
- NOTES Endnotes

Endnotes

     1     General information

See www.legislation.vic.gov.au for Victorian Bills, Acts and current
Versions of legislation and up-to-date legislative information.

     Minister's second
reading speech&#8212;

     Legislative Assembly: 23 May 2007

     Legislative Council: 7 June 2007

     The long title for the Bill for this Act was "A Bill for an Act to
re-enact and modernise the law relating to payroll tax, to harmonise payroll tax
law with New South Wales, to repeal the Pay-roll Tax Act 1971, to amend
the Taxation Administration Act 1997 and other Acts and for other
purposes."

The Payroll Tax Act 2007 was assented to on 26 June 2007 and came
into operation as follows:

Sections 1&#8211;107, 109&#8211;117 and Schedules 1&#8211;3 on 1 July 2007:
section 2(1); section 108 on 1 July 2007: section 2(2)(b).

INTERPRETATION OF LEGISLATION ACT 1984
(ILA)

Style changes

Section 54A of the ILA authorises the making of the style changes set out
in Schedule 1 to that Act.

References to ILA s. 39B

Sidenotes which cite ILA s. 39B refer to section 39B of the ILA which
provides that where an undivided section or clause of a Schedule is amended by
the insertion of one or more subsections or subclauses, the original section or
clause becomes subsection or subclause (1) and is amended by the insertion of
the expression "(1)" at the beginning of the original section or
clause.

Interpretation

As from 1 January 2001, amendments to section 36 of the ILA have the
following effects:

&#8226;     Headings

All headings included in an Act which is passed on or after 1 January 2001
form part of that Act.  Any heading inserted in an Act which was passed before 1
January 2001, by an Act passed on or after 1 January 2001, forms part of that
Act.  This includes headings to Parts, Divisions or Subdivisions in a Schedule;
sections; clauses; items; tables; columns; examples; diagrams; notes or forms. 
See section 36(1A)(2A).

&#8226;     Examples, diagrams or notes

All examples, diagrams or notes included in an Act which is passed on or
after 1 January 2001 form part of that Act.  Any examples, diagrams or notes
inserted in an Act which was passed before 1 January 2001, by an Act passed on
or after 1 January 2001, form part of that Act.  See section 36(3A).

&#8226;     Punctuation

All punctuation included in an Act which is passed on or after 1 January
2001 forms part of that Act.  Any punctuation inserted in an Act which was
passed before 1 January 2001, by an Act passed on or after 1 January 2001, forms
part of that Act.  See section 36(3B).

&#8226;     Provision numbers

All provision numbers included in an Act form part of that Act, whether
inserted in the Act before, on or after 1 January 2001.  Provision numbers
include section numbers, subsection numbers, paragraphs and subparagraphs.  See
section 36(3C).

&#8226;     Location of "legislative items"

A "legislative item" is a penalty, an example or a note.  As from 13
October 2004, a legislative item relating to a provision of an Act is taken to
be at the foot of that provision even if it is preceded or followed by another
legislative item that relates to that provision.  For example, if a penalty at
the foot of a provision is followed by a note, both of these legislative items
will be regarded as being at the foot of that provision.  See section
36B.

&#8226;     Other material

Any explanatory memorandum, table of provisions, endnotes, index and other
material printed after the Endnotes does not form part of an Act.  See
section 36(3)(3D)(3E).

     2     Table of Amendments

This publication incorporates amendments made to
the Payroll Tax Act 2007 by Acts and subordinate
instruments.

&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;

Payroll Tax Act 2007,
No. 26/2007

      
      

Assent Date:

26.6.07

Commencement Date:

S. 108 on 1.7.07: s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

Relationships Act 2008, No. 12/2008

      
      

Assent Date:

15.4.08

Commencement Date:

S. 73(1)(Sch. 1 item 45) on 1.12.08:
s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2008,
No. 31/2008

      
      

Assent Date:

17.6.08

Commencement Date:

Ss 24&#8211;27 on 18.6.08: s. 2(1); ss 20&#8211;23 on
1.7.08: s. 2(3)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

Health Services Legislation Amendment Act 2008, No.
79/2008

      
      

Assent Date:

11.12.08

Commencement Date:

S. 20 on 31.3.09: Government Gazette 19.2.09 p.
328

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

Relationships Amendment (Caring Relationships) Act 2009,
No. 4/2009

      
      

Assent Date:

10.2.09

Commencement Date:

S. 37(Sch. 1 item 19) on 1.12.09:
s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Further Amendment Act 2009,
No. 83/2009

      
      

Assent Date:

8.12.09

Commencement Date:

Ss 15&#8211;22 on 1.7.09: s. 2(5)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2010,
No. 36/2010

      
      

Assent Date:

15.6.10

Commencement Date:

S. 13 on 1.7.10: s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2011,
No. 28/2011

      
      

Assent Date:

21.6.11

Commencement Date:

Ss 33&#8211;39 on 1.7.11: s. 2(3)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

Statute Law Revision Act 2011,
No. 29/2011

      
      

Assent Date:

21.6.11

Commencement Date:

S. 3(Sch. 1 item 66) on 22.6.11:
s. 2(1)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Further Amendment Act 2011, No.
69/2011

      
      

Assent Date:

29.11.11

Commencement Date:

Ss 3, 4 on 1.7.12: s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

Statute Law Amendment (Directors' Liability) Act 2013,
No. 13/2013

      
      

Assent Date:

13.3.13

Commencement Date:

S. 57 on 14.3.13: s. 2

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Tax Laws Amendment (Budget and Other Measures) Act
2013, No. 41/2013

      
      

Assent Date:

28.6.13

Commencement Date:

Ss 44, 45 on 1.7.13: s. 2(4)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

Mental Health Act 2014,
No. 26/2014

      
      

Assent Date:

8.4.14

Commencement Date:

S. 455(Sch. item 22) on 1.7.14:
s. 2(1)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

Building a Better Victoria (State Tax and Other
Legislation Amendment) Act 2014, No. 40/2014

      
      

Assent Date:

17.6.14

Commencement Date:

S. 29 on 18.6.14: s. 2(1)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Further Amendment Act 2015, No.
67/2015 (as amended by No. 40/2016)

      
      

Assent Date:

1.12.15

Commencement Date:

Ss 4&#8211;7 on 1.7.16: s. 2(5)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation and Other Acts Amendment Act 2016, No.
40/2016

      
      

Assent Date:

28.6.16

Commencement Date:

Ss 32&#8211;43 on 1.7.16: s. 2(5)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Further Amendment Act 2016, No.
66/2016 

      
      

Assent Date:

15.11.16

Commencement Date:

S. 6 on 1.7.16: s. 2(3); s. 7 on 16.11.16:
s. 2(1)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2017, No.
28/2017

      
      

Assent Date:

27.6.17

Commencement Date:

Ss 68&#8211;78 on 28.6.17: s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Further Amendment Act 2017, No.
67/2017

      
      

Assent Date:

19.12.17

Commencement Date:

S. 26 on 1.7.18: s. 2(3)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2018,
No. 22/2018

      
      

Assent Date:

13.6.18

Commencement Date:

Ss 20&#8211;22 on 1.7.18: s. 2(3)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2019, No.
17/2019

      
      

Assent Date:

18.6.19

Commencement Date:

Ss 47&#8211;55 on 1.7.19: s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Amendment (Relief Measures) Act 2020,
No. 14/2020

      
      

Assent Date:

28.4.20

Commencement Date:

Ss 7&#8211;10 on 29.4.20: s. 2

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation and Mental Health Acts Amendment
Act 2021, No. 22/2021 (as amended by
No. 52/2021)

      
      

Assent Date:

16.6.21

Commencement Date:

Ss 39&#8211;43 on 1.7.19: s. 2(2); ss 21, 44&#8211;52 on
1.7.21: s. 2(1); ss 53&#8211;69 on 1.1.22: s. 2(3)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation and Treasury Legislation Amendment
Act 2022, No. 23/2022

      
      

Assent Date:

15.6.22

Commencement Date:

Ss 27&#8211;30 on 16.6.22:
s. 2(1)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

Mental Health and Wellbeing
Act 2022, No. 39/2022

      
      

Assent Date:

6.9.22

Commencement Date:

S. 852 on 1.9.23: s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2023, No.
18/2023

      
      

Assent Date:

27.6.23

Commencement Date:

S. 58 on 1.7.22: s. 2(2); ss 56, 57, 83 on
28.6.23: s. 2(3); ss 59&#8211;72 on 1.7.23: s. 2(4); ss
73&#8211;82 on 1.7.24: s. 2(5)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Amendment Act 2024,
No. 22/2024

      
      

Assent Date:

4.6.24

Commencement Date:

Ss 15&#8211;17 on 1.7.24: s. 2(4)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Further Amendment Act 2024,
No. 50/2024

      
      

Assent Date:

3.12.24

Commencement Date:

Ss 44, 45 on 4.12.24: s. 2(1); s. 43 on
1.7.25: s. 2(3)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

State Taxation Acts Amendment Act 2025,
No. 24/2025

      
      

Assent Date:

24.6.25

Commencement Date:

Ss 26&#8211;28 on 1.7.25: s. 2(2)

Current State:

This information relates only to the provision/s amending
the Payroll Tax Act 2007

&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;&#8211;

     3     Explanatory details

No entries at date of publication.
