NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA

                            PAYROLL TAX ACT 2009

                         AS IN FORCE AT 1 JULY 2025

                             Table of provisions

Part 1      Preliminary matters

1     Short title      1

2     Commencement     1

3     Definitions      1

4     Relationship with Taxation Administration Act 2007 5

5     Act binds Crown  6

Part 2      Imposition of payroll tax

Division 1  Imposition of tax

6     Imposition of payroll tax   6

7     Who is liable for payroll tax     6

8     Amount of payroll tax  6

9     When payroll tax must be paid     6

Division 2  Taxable wages

10    What are taxable wages 6

11    Wages that are taxable in this jurisdiction  7

11A   Jurisdiction in which employee is based      9

11B   Jurisdiction in which employer is based      10

11C   Place and date of payment of wages     10

Division 3  Other matters

12    Payroll tax paid under corresponding applied law   11

Part 3      Wages

Division 1  General concept of wages

13    What are wages   11

Division 2  Fringe benefits

14    Wages include fringe benefits     12

15    Value of wages comprising fringe benefits    12

16    Employer election regarding taxable value of fringe benefits  13

Division 3  Superannuation contributions

17    Wages include superannuation contributions   14

Division 4  Shares and options

18    Inclusion of grant of shares and options as wages  15

19    Choice of relevant day 16

20    Deemed choice of relevant day in special cases     17

21    Effect of rescission or cancellation of share or option 17

22    Grant of share pursuant to exercise of option      18

23    Value of shares and options 18

24    Inclusion of shares and options granted to directors as wages 19

26    Place where wages are payable     20

Division 5  Termination payments

27    Definitions      20

28    Termination payments   21

Division 6  Allowances

29    Motor vehicle allowances    22

30    Accommodation allowances    23

Division 7  Contractor provisions

31    Definitions      23

32    What is a relevant contract 24

33    Persons taken to be employers     26

34    Persons taken to be employees     26

35    Amounts under relevant contracts taken to be wages 27

36    Liability provisions   27

Division 8  Employment agents

37    Definitions      28

38    Persons taken to be employers     28

39    Persons taken to be employees     28

40    Amounts taken to be wages   28

41    Liability provisions   29

42    Agreement to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax   29

Division 9  Other matters

43    Value of wages paid in kind 30

44    GST excluded from wages     30

45    Wages paid by group employers     30

46    Wages paid by or to third parties 30

47    Agreement etc. to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax    32

Part 4      Exemptions

Division 1  Non-profit entities

48    Definitions      32

48A   Meaning of non-profit entity      34

48B   Meaning of trade, industry or commerce entity      35

48C   Non-profit entities – exempt wages     35

48D   Determining purpose of entity     36

48E   Commissioner may override exclusion    36

Division 2  Education and training

49    Schools and educational services and training      37

50    Community Development Employment Project     37

Division 3  Health care service providers

51    Health care service providers     37

52    Division not to limit other exemptions 37

Division 4  Maternity and adoption leave

53    Maternity and adoption leave      38

54    Administrative requirements for exemption    39

Division 5  Volunteer firefighters and emergency service volunteers

55    Volunteer firefighters 39

56    Emergency service volunteers      39

57    Limitation of exemption     40

Division 6  Local government

58    Local governing bodies 40

59    Local government business entities     40

60    Limitation on local government exemptions    40

Division 7  Other government and defence

61    State Governors  41

62    Defence personnel      41

63    War Graves Commission  41

Division 8  Foreign government representatives and international agencies

64    Consular and non-diplomatic representatives  41

65    Trade Commissioners    41

66    Australian-American Fulbright Commission     41

Division 9  Services outside Australia

66A   Wages paid or payable for or in relation to services performed in
         other countries     41

Part 5      Grouping of employers

Division 1  Interpretation

67    Definitions      42

68    Grouping provisions to operate independently 42

Division 2  Business groups

69    Constitution of groups 42

70    Groups of corporations 42

71    Groups arising from the use of common employees    43

72    Groups of commonly controlled businesses     43

73    Groups arising from tracing of interests in corporations      46

74    Smaller groups subsumed by larger groups     48

Division 3  Business groups tracing of interests in corporations

75    Application      48

76    Direct interest  48

77    Indirect interest      49

78    Aggregation of interests    50

Division 4  Miscellaneous

79    Exclusion of persons from groups  51

80    Designated group employers  52

81    Joint and several liability 53

Part 6      Adjustments of tax

82    Determination of correct amount of payroll tax     53

83    Annual adjustment of payroll tax  54

84    Adjustment of payroll tax when employer changes circumstances 54

85    Special provision where wages fluctuate      56

Part 7      Registration and returns

86    Registration     56

87    Returns    57

Part 8      Collection and recovery of tax

Division 1  Agents and trustees generally

88    Application      58

89    Agents and trustees are answerable     58

90    Returns by agent or trustee 58

91    Liability to pay tax   58

92    Indemnity for agent or trustee    59

Division 2  Special cases

93    Tax not paid during lifetime      59

94    Payment of tax by executors or administrators      59

95    Assessment if no probate within 6 months of death  59

96    Person in receipt or control of money for absentee 59

97    Agent for absentee principal winding-up business   59

98    Recovery of tax paid on behalf of another person   59

99    Liquidator to give notice   59

Part 9      General

100   Provisions specific to this jurisdiction     60

101   Regulations      60

Part 10     Repeals and transitional provisions for Payroll Tax Act 2009

102   Repeals    60

103   Definitions      60

104   Application of this Act and old Act    61

105   General saving   61

106   Employer election      61

107   Pre-1 July 2009 taxable wages that included superannuation
         contributions 61

108   Superannuation contributions relating to pre-1 July 1999 service
         62

109   Designated group employer   62

110   Approval relating to motor vehicle allowance 62

111   Registration of employers   62

112   Delegation, authorisation and appointment    63

Part 11     Transitional matters for amendment Acts

Division 1  Payroll Tax Amendment Act 2010

113   Application      63

Division 2  Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2011

114   Assessment and payment of payroll tax in relation to employee shares
         and options   64

115   Determination of vesting date and value of employee shares and
         options  64

Division 3  Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2015

116   Definition 65

117   Contractor provisions – wages paid or payable before 1 July 2015
         65

118   Non-profit entities – wages paid or payable before 1 July 2015
         65

Division 4  Transitional matters for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2018

119   Transitional matters for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2018
         65

Division 5  Transitional matters for Payroll Tax Amendment Act 2025

120   Application of amendments   66

Division 6  Transitional matters for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2025

121   Application of amendments   66

Schedule 1  Calculation of payroll tax liability

Schedule 2  Territory specific provisions

Schedule 3  Repealed Acts

ENDNOTES

                       northern territory of australia

                            ____________________

                         As in force at 1 July 2025
                            ____________________

                            PAYROLL TAX ACT 2009

        AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF PAYROLL TAX, AND FOR
                              RELATED PURPOSES

Part 1      Preliminary matters

1     Short title

         This Act may be cited as the Payroll Tax Act 2009.

2     Commencement

         This Act commences on 1 July 2009.

3     Definitions

         In this Act:

         ABN means the ABN (Australian Business Number) for an entity within
         the meaning of A New Tax System (Australian  Business  Number)  Act
         1999 (Cth).

         agent includes:

         (a)      a person who, in this jurisdiction, for or  on  behalf  of
             another person outside this jurisdiction,  holds  or  has  the
             management or control of the business of  that  other  person;
             and

         (b)      a person who, by an order of the Commissioner, is declared
             to be an agent or the sole agent for any other person for this
             Act and on whom notice of that order has been served.

         aggregate interest, see section 78.

         Australia means the States of the Commonwealth and the Territories.

         Australian jurisdiction means a State or Territory.

         business, for Part 5, see section 67.

         category 1 to 3 purpose, for Part 4, Division 1, see section 48.

         coastal waters, of the  Territory,  means  coastal  waters  of  the
         Territory  as  defined  in  section  3(1)  of  the  Coastal  Waters
         (Northern Territory Powers) Act 1980 (Cth).

         company  includes  all  bodies  and  associations  (corporate   and
         unincorporate) and partnerships.

         contract, for Part 3, Division 7, see section 31.

         corporation means a corporation as  defined  in  section 9  of  the
         Corporations Act 2001.

         correct amount of payroll tax, for Part 6, see section 82(1).

         corresponding payroll tax law means a law of the  Commonwealth,  or
         of a State or another Territory,  relating  to  the  imposition  on
         employers of a tax  on  wages  paid  or  payable  by  them  or  the
         assessment and collection of that tax.

         designated group employer means a member designated for a group  in
         accordance with section 80.

         direct interest, by an entity in a corporation, see section 76.

         director of a company includes a member of the  governing  body  of
         the company.

         educational company, for Part 4, Division 1, see section 48.

         educational institution, for Part 4, Division 1, see section 48.

         employer means a person who pays or is liable  to  pay  wages,  and
         includes:

         (a)      the Crown in any of its capacities; and

         (b)      anyone taken to be an employer by or under this Act; and

         (c)      a local governing body; and

         (d)      a public  authority  constituted  under  the  law  of  the
             Commonwealth or of a  State  or  Territory  unless,  being  an
             authority constituted under the law of the Commonwealth, it is
             immune from the operation of this Act.

         employment agency contract, see section 37.

         employment agent, see section 37.

         employment  termination  payment,  for  Part  3,  Division  5,  see
         section 27.

         entity, for Part 4, Division 1, see section 48.

         exempt wages mean wages that are declared by or under this  Act  to
         be exempt wages.

         Note

         Wages are declared to be exempt wages in  various  provisions.  For
         example, see sections 50, 51, 53, 55, 56, 58, 59 and 61 to  66  and
         Schedule 2, Part 4, Division 1.

         FBTA Act means the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986 (Cth).

         financial year means each year commencing on 1 July.

         fringe benefit means a fringe benefit as defined in  the  FBTA  Act
         but does not include:

         (a)      a tax-exempt body entertainment fringe benefit within  the
             meaning of that Act; or

         (b)      anything that is prescribed by  regulation  not  to  be  a
             fringe benefit for this definition.

         granted, for a share or option, see section 19(2).

         group, see section 67.

         group employer, see section 82(4).

         GST means GST as defined in A New Tax System  (Goods  and  Services
         Tax) Act 1999 (Cth).

         indirect interest, by an entity in a corporation, see section 77.

         individual employer, see section 82(4).

         industrial association, for Part 4, Division 1, see section 48.

         instrument includes:

         (a)      a cheque, bill of exchange and promissory note; and

         (b)      a money order, or a postal order, issued by a post office.

         interstate wages means wages that  are  taxable  wages  within  the
         meaning of a corresponding payroll tax law.

         ITAA means the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth).

         liquidator means the  person  who,  whether  or  not  appointed  as
         liquidator, is required by law to carry out  the  winding-up  of  a
         company.

         local governing body means:

         (a)      a council  constituted,  or  local  government  subsidiary
             formed, under the Local Government Act 2019; or

         (b)      a body declared under section 19 of the  Local  Government
             Grants Commission Act 1986 to be a local governing body; or

         (c)      a body prescribed by regulation.

         month means the month of  January,  February,  March,  April,  May,
         June, July, August, September, October, November or December.

         non-profit entity, see section 48A.

         option means an option or right,  whether  actual,  prospective  or
         contingent, of a person to acquire a  share  or  to  have  a  share
         transferred or allotted to the person.

         paid, in  relation  to  wages,  includes  provided,  conferred  and
         assigned and pay and payable have corresponding meanings.

         payroll tax means tax imposed by section 6.

         perform, in relation to services, includes render.

         political party, for Part 4, Division 1, see section 48.

         professional association, for Part 4, Division 1, see section 48.

         registered business address means an address for service of notices
         under A New Tax System (Australian Business Number) Act 1999  (Cth)
         on an entity that has an ABN, as shown in the  Australian  Business
         Register kept under that Act.

         relevant contract, for Part 3, Division 7, see section 32.

         relevant day, for Part 3, Division 4, see section 18(3).

         re-supply, for Part 3, Division 7, see section 31.

         return period, in relation to an employer,  means  a  month,  or  a
         financial year, relating to which the employer is required to lodge
         a return under section 87(1).

         service provider, see section 37(1).

         services, for Part 3, Division 7, see section 31.

         share means a share in a company and includes a stapled security.

         superannuation contribution, see section 17(2).

         supply, for Part 3, Division 7, see section 31.

         taxable in this jurisdiction, see section 11.

         taxable wages, see section 10.

         termination payment, for Part 3, Division 5, see section 27.

         Territories  means  the  Territory  and  the   Australian   Capital
         Territory (including the Jervis Bay Territory).

         this jurisdiction means the Territory and  coastal  waters  of  the
         Territory.

         trade, industry or commerce entity, for Part  4,  Division  1,  see
         section 48B.

         unused  annual  leave  payment,  for  Part  3,  Division   5,   see
         section 27.

         unused long service leave payment, for  Part  3,  Division  5,  see
         section 27.

         vesting date, see section 19(3) and (4).

         voting share, see section 9 of the Corporations Act 2001.

         wages means wages as defined in Part 3.

         Note

         Wages are defined in various provisions in Part 3. For example, see
         sections 13, 14, 17, 18, 24, 28, 29, 30 and 66A.

4     Relationship with Taxation Administration Act 2007

         The relationship between this Act and the  Taxation  Administration
         Act 2007 (the TAA) is stated in section 5 of the TAA.

         Note

         Section 5 of the TAA provides that this Act (which  is  a  taxation
         law as defined in the TAA) must be read together with the TAA as  a
         single Act. Accordingly, Part 5 of the TAA imposes a  liability  to
         pay interest and penalty tax for a failure to pay payroll tax under
         this Act.

5     Act binds Crown

         This Act binds the Crown in right of  the  Territory  and,  to  the
         extent the legislative power of the Legislative  Assembly  permits,
         the Crown in all its other capacities.

Part 2      Imposition of payroll tax

Division 1  Imposition of tax

6     Imposition of payroll tax

         Payroll tax is imposed on all taxable wages.

7     Who is liable for payroll tax

         The employer by whom taxable wages are paid or payable is liable to
         pay payroll tax on the wages.

8     Amount of payroll tax

         The amount  of  payroll  tax  payable  by  an  employer  is  to  be
         determined in accordance with Schedules 1 and 2.

9     When payroll tax must be paid

      (1)   A person who is liable to pay payroll tax on taxable wages  must
         pay the tax within 21 days after the end  of  the  month  in  which
         those wages were paid or payable.

      (2)   However, if the Commissioner has reason to believe a person  may
         leave Australia before any  payroll  tax  becomes  payable  by  the
         person, the tax is payable on the day fixed by the Commissioner  by
         notice served on the person.

Division 2  Taxable wages

10    What are taxable wages

      (1)   For this Act, taxable wages are wages that are taxable  in  this
         jurisdiction.

      (2)   However, exempt wages are not taxable wages.

11    Wages that are taxable in this jurisdiction

      (1)   For this Act, wages are taxable in this jurisdiction if:

         (a)      the wages are paid or payable by an  employer  for  or  in
             relation to services performed by an employee wholly  in  this
             jurisdiction; or

         (b)      the wages are paid or payable by an  employer  for  or  in
             relation to services performed by an employee  in  2  or  more
             Australian jurisdictions, or partly in one or more  Australian
             jurisdictions and partly outside all Australian jurisdictions,
             and:

             (i) the employee is based in this jurisdiction; or

             (ii)      the employer is based in  this  jurisdiction  (in  a
                  case where the employee is  not  based  in  an  Australian
                  jurisdiction); or

             (iii)     the wages are paid or payable in  this  jurisdiction
                  (in a case where both the employee and  the  employer  are
                  not based in an Australian jurisdiction); or

             (iv)      the wages are paid or payable for services performed
                  mainly in this jurisdiction (in  a  case  where  both  the
                  employee and the employer are not based in  an  Australian
                  jurisdiction and the wages are not paid or payable  in  an
                  Australian jurisdiction); or

         (c)      the wages are paid or payable by an  employer  for  or  in
             relation to services performed by an employee  wholly  outside
             all Australian jurisdictions and are paid or payable  in  this
             jurisdiction.

         Note for subsection (1)(c)

         Section 66A provides an exemption for wages  paid  or  payable  for
         services performed wholly in one or  more  other  countries  for  a
         continuous period of more than 6 months.

      (2)   The question of whether wages are taxable in  this  jurisdiction
         is to be determined by reference only to the services performed  by
         the employee in respect of the employer during the month  in  which
         the wages are paid or payable, subject to this section.

      (3)   Any wages paid or payable  by  an  employer  in  respect  of  an
         employee in a particular month are taken to be paid or payable  for
         or in relation to the services performed by the employee in respect
         of the employer during that month.

         Example for subsections (2) and (3)

         Wages paid to an employee in June 2010 by an employer include wages
         for services performed by the employee wholly in this  jurisdiction
         in that month and a bonus for services performed  by  the  employee
         during the financial year ending at the end  of  June  2010,  which
         were services partly performed in this jurisdiction and  partly  in
         other Australian jurisdictions. The question of whether  the  wages
         paid in June 2010  are  taxable  in  this  jurisdiction  is  to  be
         determined by reference only to services performed  in  that  month
         and services performed in the previous  months  of  that  financial
         year must be disregarded. As a result, the wages paid in June  2010
         are taxable in this jurisdiction because of subsection (1)(a).

         The services performed in the previous  months  of  that  financial
         year will be relevant to the question of whether wages paid in each
         of those months are taxable in this jurisdiction, which  will  need
         to be determined having regard to subsection (1)(a) and (b).

      (4)   If no services are performed by an employee  in  respect  of  an
         employer during the month in which the wages are paid or payable to
         or in relation to the employee:

         (a)      the question of whether the  wages  are  taxable  in  this
             jurisdiction is to be determined  by  reference  only  to  the
             services performed by the employee in respect of the  employer
             during the most recent  prior  month  in  which  the  employee
             performed services in respect of the employer; and

         (b)      the wages are taken to  be  paid  or  payable  for  or  in
             relation to the services performed by the employee in  respect
             of the employer during that most recent prior month.

      (5)   If no services were performed by an employee in  respect  of  an
         employer during the month in which wages are paid or payable to  or
         in relation to the employee or in any prior month:

         (a)      the wages are taken to  be  paid  or  payable  for  or  in
             relation to services performed by the employee in the month in
             which the wages are paid or payable; and

         (b)      the services are taken to have been performed at  a  place
             or places  where  it  may  be  reasonably  expected  that  the
             services of the employee in respect of the  employer  will  be
             performed.

      (6)   All amounts of wages paid or payable in the same  month  by  the
         same employer in respect of the same employee are to be  aggregated
         for the purposes of determining whether they are  taxable  in  this
         jurisdiction (as if they were paid  or  payable  for  all  services
         performed by the employee in the month in which the wages are  paid
         or payable, or the most recent prior month, as the case requires).

         Example for subsection (6)

         If one amount of wages is paid by an employer in a particular month
         for services performed in this jurisdiction, and another amount  of
         wages is paid by the same employer in the same month  for  services
         performed by the same employee in another Australian  jurisdiction,
         the wages paid are to be aggregated (as if they were paid  for  all
         services performed by the employee  in  that  month).  Accordingly,
         subsection (1)(b) would be applied for the purpose  of  determining
         whether the wages are taxable in this jurisdiction.

      (7)   If wages are paid in a different month from the month  in  which
         they are payable, the question of whether the wages are taxable  in
         this jurisdiction is to be determined by reference to  the  earlier
         of the relevant months.

11A   Jurisdiction in which employee is based

      (1)   For this Act, the jurisdiction in which an employee is based  is
         the  jurisdiction  in  which  the  employee’s  principal  place  of
         residence is located.

      (2)   The jurisdiction  in  which  an  employee  is  based  is  to  be
         determined by reference to the state of affairs existing during the
         month in which the relevant wages are paid or payable.

      (3)   If more than one jurisdiction would qualify as the  jurisdiction
         in which an employee is based during a month, the  jurisdiction  in
         which the employee is based is to be determined by reference to the
         state of affairs existing on the last day of that month.

      (4)   An employee who does not have a principal place of residence  is
         taken, for the purposes of this Act, to be an employee who  is  not
         based in an Australian jurisdiction.

      (5)   In the case of wages paid or payable to  a  corporate  employee,
         the jurisdiction in which the employee is based is to be determined
         in accordance with section 11B instead of this  section  (as  if  a
         reference in section 11B to an employer  were  a  reference  to  an
         employee).

      (6)   In this section:

         corporate employee means:

         (a)      a company that is taken to be an employee under section 34
             or 39; or

         (b)      a company to whom a payment is made that is  taken  to  be
             wages payable to an employee under section 42 or 47.

11B   Jurisdiction in which employer is based

      (1)   For this Act, the jurisdiction in which  an  employer  is  based
         is:

         (a)       the  jurisdiction  in  which  the  employer’s  registered
             business address is located (if the employer has an ABN); or

         (b)      the jurisdiction in which the employer’s  principal  place
             of business is located (in any other case).

      (2)   If wages are paid or  payable  in  connection  with  a  business
         carried on by an employer under a trust, the employer’s  registered
         business address is the registered business address  of  the  trust
         or, if the trust does not have  an  ABN,  the  registered  business
         address of the trustee of the trust.

      (3)   If an employer has  registered  business  addresses  located  in
         different jurisdictions at the same point in time, the jurisdiction
         in which the employer is  based  at  that  point  in  time  is  the
         jurisdiction in which the employer’s principal place of business is
         located.

      (4)   The jurisdiction  in  which  an  employer  is  based  is  to  be
         determined by reference to the state of affairs existing during the
         month in which the relevant wages are paid or payable.

      (5)   If more than one jurisdiction would qualify as the  jurisdiction
         in which an employer is based during a month, the  jurisdiction  in
         which the employer is based is to be determined by reference to the
         state of affairs existing on the last day of that month.

      (6)   An employer who has neither a registered business address nor  a
         principal place of business is taken, for the purposes of this Act,
         to be an employer who is not based in an Australian jurisdiction.

11C   Place and date of payment of wages

      (1)   For this Act, wages are taken to have been paid at a  place  if,
         for the purpose of the payment of those wages:

         (a)      an instrument is sent or given or an amount is transferred
             by an employer to a person or a person’s agent at that  place;
             or

         (b)      an instruction is given by an employer for  the  crediting
             of an amount to the account of a person or a person’s agent at
             that place.

      (2)   The wages are taken to have been  paid  on  the  date  that  the
         instrument was sent or given, the amount  was  transferred  or  the
         account credited in accordance with the instruction  (as  the  case
         requires).

      (3)   Wages are taken to be payable at the place  at  which  they  are
         paid, subject to this section.

      (4)   Wages that are not paid by the end of the month  in  which  they
         are payable are taken to be payable at:

         (a)      the place where wages were last paid by  the  employer  to
             the employee; or

         (b)      if wages have not previously been paid by the employer  to
             the employee – the place where  the  employee  last  performed
             services in respect of the employer before  the  wages  became
             payable.

      (5)   If wages paid or payable in the same month by the same  employer
         in respect of the same employee are paid or payable  in  more  than
         one Australian jurisdiction, the wages  paid  or  payable  in  that
         month  are  taken  to  be  paid  or  payable  in   the   Australian
         jurisdiction in which the highest proportion of the wages are  paid
         or payable.

         Note for subsection (5)

         Section 11(6) requires all wages paid or payable in the same  month
         by the same  employer  in  respect  of  the  same  employee  to  be
         aggregated for the purpose of determining  whether  the  wages  are
         taxable in this jurisdiction.  This  subsection  ensures  only  one
         Australian jurisdiction can be considered to be the jurisdiction in
         which the wages are paid or payable.

Division 3  Other matters

12    Payroll tax paid under corresponding applied law

         Note

         This section is contained in some corresponding payroll  tax  laws.
         It does not apply in the Territory because the Commonwealth  Places
         (Mirror Taxes) Act 1998 (Cth) does not apply to the Territory  (see
         Schedule 1 to that Act).

Part 3      Wages

Division 1  General concept of wages

13    What are wages

       (1)    For  this  Act,  wages  mean  wages,   remuneration,   salary,
         commission, bonuses or allowances paid or payable to  an  employee,
         including:

         (a)      an amount paid or payable by  way  of  remuneration  to  a
             person holding an office under the Crown or in the service  of
             the Crown; and

         (b)      an amount paid or payable  under  any  class  of  contract
             prescribed by regulation to the extent to which  that  payment
             is attributable to labour; and

         (c)      an  amount  paid  or  payable  by  a  company  by  way  of
             remuneration to or in relation to a director of that  company;
             and

         (d)      an amount paid or payable  by  way  of  commission  to  an
             insurance or time-payment canvasser or collector; and

         (e)      an amount that is included as or taken to be wages by  any
             other provision of this Act.

      (2)   For this Act, wages, remuneration, salary,  commission,  bonuses
         or allowances are wages:

         (a)      whether paid or payable at piece work rates or  otherwise;
             and

         (b)      whether paid or payable in cash or in kind.

      (3)   This Act applies in respect of  wages  mentioned  in  subsection
         (1)(a) to (e) that are paid or payable  to  or  in  relation  to  a
         person who is not an employee in the same  way  as  it  applies  to
         wages paid or payable to an employee (as if a reference in this Act
         to an employee included a reference to any such person).

Division 2  Fringe benefits

14    Wages include fringe benefits

      (1)   For this Act, wages include a fringe benefit.

      (2)   Subsection (1) does  not  apply  to  benefits  that  are  exempt
         benefits  for  the  FBTA  Act   (other   than   deposits   to   the
         Superannuation Holding Accounts Special Account within the  meaning
         of the Small Superannuation Accounts Act 1995 (Cth)).

15    Value of wages comprising fringe benefits

      (1)   For this Act, the value of wages comprising a fringe benefit  is
         to be determined in accordance with the formula:

         [pic]

         where:

         TV is the value that would be the taxable value of the benefit as a
         fringe benefit for the FBTA Act.

         FBT rate is the rate of fringe benefits tax imposed by the FBTA Act
         that applies when the liability  to  payroll  tax  under  this  Act
         arises.

      (2)   In this Act, a reference to taxable  wages  that  were  paid  or
         payable by an employer during a month is, in  relation  to  taxable
         wages comprising fringe benefits:

         (a)      a reference to the value of the fringe  benefits  paid  or
             payable by the employer during the month; or

         (b)      if an election by the employer is in force  under  section
             16, a reference to an amount  calculated  in  accordance  with
             that section.

      (3)   In this Act, a reference to taxable  wages  that  were  paid  or
         payable by an employer during a year is,  in  relation  to  taxable
         wages  comprising  fringe  benefits,  a  reference  to  an   amount
         calculated by adding together the amounts  under  subsection (2)(a)
         or (b), or subsection (2)(a) and (b), as the case requires, for the
         months of that year.

16    Employer election regarding taxable value of fringe benefits

      (1)   An employer who has paid or is liable  to  pay  fringe  benefits
         tax imposed by the FBTA Act in respect of a period of not less than
         15 months before 30 June in any year may elect to  include  as  the
         value of the fringe benefits paid or payable by the employer during
         the month concerned:

         (a)      in a return lodged in relation to each  of  the  first  11
             months occurring after 30 June in that year –  1/12th  of  the
             amount determined in accordance with subsection  (2)  or  that
             part  of  that  amount  as,  in  accordance  with  section 10,
             comprises taxable wages  for  the  year  of  tax  (within  the
             meaning of the FBTA Act)  ending  on  31 March  preceding  the
             commencement of the current financial year; and

         (b)      in the return lodged in relation to the 12th month  –  the
             amount determined in accordance with subsection  (2)  or  that
             part  of  that  amount  as,  in  accordance  with  section 10,
             comprises taxable wages  for  the  year  of  tax  (within  the
             meaning of the FBTA Act) ending on  31  March  preceding  that
             month, less the  total  of  the  amounts  of  fringe  benefits
             included in the returns for each of the preceding 11 months.

      (2)   The amount determined in accordance with this subsection  is  to
         be determined in accordance with the formula:

         [pic]

         where:

         AFBA is the aggregate fringe benefits amount within the meaning  of
         section 136 of the FBTA Act.

         FBT rate is the rate of fringe benefits tax imposed by the FBTA Act
         that applies when the liability  to  payroll  tax  under  this  Act
         arises.

      (3)   An election  under  subsection  (1)  takes  effect  when  it  is
         notified  to  the  Commissioner  in  the  form  approved   by   the
         Commissioner.

      (4)   After an employer has made an  election  under  subsection  (1),
         the employer must lodge returns containing  amounts  calculated  in
         accordance with the election unless the Commissioner  approves,  by
         notice in writing given to the employer,  the  termination  of  the
         election and allows the employer to include the value mentioned  in
         section 15(2)(a).

      (5)   If an employer ceases to be  liable  to  pay  payroll  tax,  the
         value of taxable wages comprising fringe benefits to be included in
         the employer's final return is (irrespective of whether or not  the
         employer has made an election under subsection (1))  the  value  of
         the fringe benefits paid or payable by the employer for the  period
         commencing on and including the preceding 1 July until the date  on
         which the employer ceases to be liable to  payroll  tax,  less  the
         value of the fringe benefits paid or payable by the employer during
         that period on which payroll tax has been paid.

Division 3  Superannuation contributions

17    Wages include superannuation contributions

      (1)   For this Act, wages include a superannuation contribution.

      (2)   A superannuation contribution is a contribution paid or  payable
         by an employer in respect of an employee:

         (a)      to or as a superannuation fund within the meaning  of  the
             Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (Cth); or

         (b)      as a superannuation guarantee charge within the meaning of
             the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration)  Act 1992 (Cth);
             or

         (c)      to or as any other form of  superannuation,  provident  or
             retirement fund or scheme including:

             (i) the Superannuation Holding Accounts Special Account within
                  the meaning of the Small Superannuation Accounts Act  1995
                  (Cth); and

             (ii)      a retirement savings account within the  meaning  of
                  the Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997 (Cth); and

             (iii)     a wholly or partly unfunded fund or scheme.

      (3)   Setting aside any money or anything that is worth money  as,  or
         as part of, a superannuation fund, superannuation guarantee  charge
         or any other form of superannuation, provident or  retirement  fund
         or scheme is taken to be paying a superannuation contribution.

      (4)   Making a superannuation contribution of anything that  is  worth
         money is taken to be paying a superannuation  contribution  of  the
         amount equal to its value, and its value is to  be  worked  out  in
         accordance with section 43 as  if  that  section  referred  to  the
         contribution instead of to wages.

      (5)   A superannuation, provident or  retirement  fund  or  scheme  is
         unfunded to the extent that money paid or payable by an employer in
         respect of an employee covered by the fund or scheme is not paid or
         payable during the employee's period of service with the employer.

      (6)   In this section:

         employee includes any person to whom, by virtue of a  paragraph  of
         the definition wages in section 13(1), an amount paid or payable in
         the circumstances mentioned in the paragraph constitutes wages.

Division 4  Shares and options

18    Inclusion of grant of shares and options as wages

      (1)   For this Act, wages include the grant of a share  or  an  option
         to an employee by an employer in respect of services  performed  by
         the employee if the share or option:

         (a)      is an ESS interest (within the meaning of  section  83A-10
             of the ITAA); and

         (b)      is granted to the employee under an employee share  scheme
             (within the meaning of that section).

         Note for subsection (1)

         A grant of a share or an option to an employee by an employer  that
         is not an ESS interest will be taxable as a  fringe  benefit  under
         Division 2 of this Part.

      (2)   Any such wages are taken, for the imposition of payroll tax,  to
         be paid or payable on the relevant day.

      (3)   For this Division, the relevant day  is  the  day  the  employer
         elects in accordance with this Division to  treat  as  the  day  on
         which the wages are paid or payable.

      (4)   To avoid doubt, the grant of  a  share  or  option  is  valuable
         consideration for section 46.

19    Choice of relevant day

      (1)   The employer can elect to treat as the relevant day  either  the
         date on which the share or option is granted to the employee or the
         vesting date.

      (2)   A share or option is granted to a person if:

         (a)      another person transfers  the  share  or  option  to  that
             person (other than, in the case of a  share,  by  issuing  the
             share to that person); or

         (b)      for a share – another person  allots  the  share  to  that
             person; or

         (c)      for an option – another person confers the option  on,  or
             otherwise creates the option in, that person; or

         (d)      the person otherwise acquires  a  legal  interest  in  the
             share or option from another person; or

         (e)      the person acquires a beneficial interest in the share  or
             option from another person.

      (2A)  To avoid doubt, if an employee acquires a right to be granted  a
         share or an option, or some other material benefit, at the election
         of the employer, the share or  option  is  not  granted  until  the
         employer elects to grant the share or option.

      (3)   The vesting date in respect of a share is one of  the  following
         dates (whichever happens first):

         (a)      the date on which the share vests in  the  employee  (that
             is, when any conditions applying to the  grant  of  the  share
             have been met and the employee's legal or beneficial  interest
             in the share cannot be rescinded);

         (b)      the date at the end of the period of 7 years from the date
             on which the share is granted to the employee.

      (4)   The vesting  date  in  respect  of  an  option  is  one  of  the
         following dates (whichever happens first):

         (a)      the date on which the share to which the option relates is
             granted to the employee;

         (b)      the date on which the employee exercises a right under the
             option to have the share the subject of the option transferred
             to, allotted to or vested in the employee;

         (c)      the date at the end of the period of 7 years from the date
             on which the option is granted to the employee.

20    Deemed choice of relevant day in special cases

      (1)   If an employer grants a share or option to an employee  and  the
         value of the grant of the share or option is not  included  in  the
         taxable wages of the employer for the financial year in  which  the
         share or option was granted, the employer is taken to have  elected
         to treat the wages constituted by the grant of that share or option
         as being paid or payable on the vesting date.

      (2)   If an employer grants a share or option to an employee  and  the
         value of the grant of the  share  or  option  is  nil  or,  if  the
         employer were to elect to treat the date of grant as  the  relevant
         day, the wages constituted by the grant  would  not  be  liable  to
         payroll tax, the employer is taken to have  elected  to  treat  the
         wages constituted by the grant of that share  or  option  as  being
         paid or payable on the date  on  which  the  share  or  option  was
         granted.

21    Effect of rescission or cancellation of share or option

      (1)   If the grant of a share or option  is  withdrawn,  cancelled  or
         exchanged before the vesting date for  any  valuable  consideration
         (other than the grant of other shares or  options),  the  following
         provisions apply:

         (a)      the date of withdrawal, cancellation or exchange is  taken
             to be the vesting date of the share or option;

         (b)      the market value of the share or option,  on  the  vesting
             date, is taken to be the amount of the valuable  consideration
             (and, accordingly, that amount is the amount paid  or  payable
             as wages on that date).

      (2)   If an employer includes the value of  a  grant  of  a  share  or
         option in the taxable wages of the employer for  a  financial  year
         and the grant is rescinded because the conditions attaching to  the
         grant were not met, the taxable  wages  of  the  employer,  in  the
         financial year in which the grant is rescinded, are to  be  reduced
         by the value of the grant as previously  included  in  the  taxable
         wages of the employer.

      (3)   Subsection (2) does not apply just because an employee fails  to
         exercise an option or to otherwise exercise his or  her  rights  in
         respect of a share or option.

22    Grant of share pursuant to exercise of option

         The grant of the share by an employer does not constitute wages for
         this Act if the employer is  required  to  grant  the  share  as  a
         consequence of the exercise of an option by a person and:

         (a)      the grant of the option to the  person  constitutes  wages
             for this Act; or

         (b)      the option was granted to the person before 1 July 1999.

23    Value of shares and options

      (1)   If the grant of a share or option constitutes wages  under  this
         Division, the amount paid or payable as wages is  taken,  for  this
         Act, to  be  the  value  of  the  share  or  option  (expressed  in
         Australian currency) on the relevant day,  less  the  consideration
         (if any) paid or given by the employee in respect of the  share  or
         option  (other  than  consideration  in  the   form   of   services
         performed).

      (2)   The value of a share or an option is:

         (a)      the market value; or

         (b)      the amount determined as provided for by the  Commonwealth
             income tax provisions.

      (3)   The employer may elect the method by which the value of a  share
         or an option is determined in any return lodged under this Act.

      (4)   However, the Commissioner may determine the method by which  the
         value of a share or an option is determined if  the  grant  of  the
         share or option is not included as wages in a return lodged  by  an
         employer as required by this Act.

      (5)   In determining the market value of a share or  option,  anything
         that would prevent or restrict conversion of the share or option to
         money is to be disregarded.

      (6)   The Commonwealth income tax provisions apply with the  following
         modifications, and any other necessary modifications:

         (a)      the value of an option is to be determined as if it were a
             right to acquire a beneficial interest in a share;

         (b)      a reference to the acquisition of a beneficial interest in
             a share or right is to be read as a reference to the grant  of
             a share or an option.

      (7)   In this section:

         Commonwealth income tax provisions means  section  83A-315  of  the
         ITAA and the regulations made for that section.

         Note for definition Commonwealth income tax provisions

         See Division 83A of the  Income  Tax  Assessment  Regulations  1997
         (Cth) for the relevant regulations.

24    Inclusion of shares and options granted to directors as wages

      (1)   For this Act, wages include the grant of a share  or  an  option
         by a company to a director of the company who is not an employee of
         the company by way of remuneration for the appointment or  services
         of the director.

      (2)   For that purpose, the other provisions of  this  Division  apply
         in respect of any such grant as if a reference to the employer were
         a reference to the company and a reference to the employee  were  a
         reference to the director of the company.

      (3)   In this section, a  reference  to  a  director  of  the  company
         includes a reference to the following:

         (a)      a person who, under a contract or other arrangement, is to
             be appointed as a director of the company;

         (b)      a former director of the company.

      (4)   However, if  wages  referred  to  in  this  section  are  fringe
         benefits, the value of the wages is to be determined in  accordance
         with Division 2 of this Part (and not this Division).

         Note for section 24

         Section 13 provides that a reference to an  employee  in  this  Act
         includes a reference to any person  to  whom  any  amount  that  is
         treated as wages under this  Act  is  paid  or  payable.  See  also
         section 11, under which the wages are taken to be paid  or  payable
         for services performed.

26    Place where wages are payable

      (1)   The wages constituted by the grant of the share  or  option  are
         taken to be paid or payable in this jurisdiction if the share is  a
         share in a local company or, in the case of an option, an option to
         acquire shares in a local company.

      (2)   In any other case, the wages constituted by  the  grant  of  the
         share or option are taken  to  be  paid  or  payable  outside  this
         jurisdiction.

         Note for subsection (2)

         The place where wages are paid or payable is sometimes relevant  to
         determining whether the wages are taxable in this jurisdiction. See
         section 11.

      (3)   In this section:

         local company means:

         (a)      a company incorporated or taken to be  incorporated  under
             the Corporations Act 2001 that is taken to  be  registered  in
             this jurisdiction for that Act; or

         (b)      any other body corporate that is incorporated under an Act
             of this jurisdiction.

Division 5  Termination payments

27    Definitions

         In this Division:

         employment termination payment means:

         (a)      an employment termination payment within  the  meaning  of
             section 82-130 of the ITAA; or

         (b)      a payment that would be an employment termination  payment
             within the meaning of section 82-130 of the ITAA but  for  the
             fact that it was  received  later  than  12 months  after  the
             termination of a person's employment; or

         (c)      a transitional termination payment within the  meaning  of
             section 82-10 of  the  Income  Tax  (Transitional  Provisions)
             Act 1997 (Cth).

         termination payment means:

         (a)      a payment made in consequence of the retirement  from,  or
             termination of, any  office  or  employment  of  an  employee,
             being:

             (i) an unused annual leave payment; or

             (ii)      an unused long service leave payment; or

             (iii)     so much of an employment termination payment paid or
                  payable by  an  employer,  whether  or  not  paid  to  the
                  employee or to any other person or  body,  that  would  be
                  included in the assessable income  of  an  employee  under
                  Part 2-40 of the ITAA  if  the  whole  of  the  employment
                  termination payment had been paid to the employee; or

         (b)      an amount paid or payable by a company as a consequence of
             the termination of the services or office of a director of the
             company, whether or not paid to the director or to  any  other
             person or  body,  that  would  be  an  employment  termination
             payment  if  that  amount  had  been  paid  or  payable  as  a
             consequence of termination of employment; or

         (c)      an amount paid or payable by a person who is  an  employer
             under a relevant contract (within the meaning  of  section 32)
             as a consequence of the  termination  of  the  supply  of  the
             services of an employee under the  contract,  whether  or  not
             paid to the employee or to any other  person,  if  the  amount
             would be an employment termination payment if that amount  had
             been paid or  payable  as  a  consequence  of  termination  of
             employment.

         unused annual leave payment has the same meaning as in  section 83-
         10 of the ITAA.

         unused long service leave  payment  has  the  same  meaning  as  in
         section 83-75 of the ITAA.

28    Termination payments

         For this Act, wages include a termination payment.

Division 6  Allowances

29    Motor vehicle allowances

      (1)   For this Act, wages, in respect of  a  financial  year,  do  not
         include the exempt component of a motor vehicle allowance  paid  or
         payable in respect of that year.

      (2)   Accordingly, if  the  total  motor  vehicle  allowance  paid  or
         payable to an employee in respect of  a  financial  year  does  not
         exceed the exempt component, the motor  vehicle  allowance  is  not
         wages for this Act.

      (3)   If the total motor vehicle  allowance  paid  or  payable  to  an
         employee  in  respect  of  a  financial  year  exceeds  the  exempt
         component (if  any),  only  the  amount  that  exceeds  the  exempt
         component of the motor vehicle allowance is included as  wages  for
         this Act.

      (4)   The exempt component  of  a  motor  vehicle  allowance  paid  or
         payable in respect of a financial year is calculated in  accordance
         with the formula:

         E = K ( R

         where:

         E  is the exempt component.

         K  is the  number  of  business  kilometres  travelled  during  the
         financial year.

         R  is the exempt rate.

       (5)    The  number  of  business  kilometres  travelled  during   the
         financial year (K) is to  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the
         continuous recording method, or  the  averaging  method,  whichever
         method is selected and used by  the  employer  in  accordance  with
         Schedule 1, Part 5.

      (6)   The Commissioner, by order in writing, may approve the  use,  by
         an employer or class of employer, of another method of  determining
         the number of business kilometres travelled  during  the  financial
         year (including the use of an estimate).   If  so,  the  number  of
         business kilometres travelled during the financial year  is  to  be
         determined  in  accordance  with  the  method   approved   by   the
         Commissioner.

      (7)   For this  section,  the  exempt  rate  for  the  financial  year
         concerned is:

         (a)       the  rate  of  cents  per  kilometre   determined   under
             section 28-25(4) of  the  ITAA  for  subsection  (1)  of  that
             section  in  the  financial  year  immediately  preceding  the
             financial year in which the allowance is paid or payable; or

         (b)      if no rate of cents per kilometre mentioned  in  paragraph
             (a) is determined, the rate  prescribed  by  regulation  under
             this Act.

30    Accommodation allowances

      (1)   For this Act, wages do not include  an  accommodation  allowance
         paid or payable to an employee in respect of a night's absence from
         the person's usual place of residence  that  does  not  exceed  the
         exempt rate.

      (2)   If the accommodation allowance paid or payable  to  an  employee
         in respect of a night's absence from the person's  usual  place  of
         residence exceeds the exempt rate,  wages  include  that  allowance
         only to the extent it exceeds the exempt rate.

      (3)   For this  section,  the  exempt  rate  for  the  financial  year
         concerned is:

         (a)      the total reasonable amount  for  daily  travel  allowance
             expenses using the lowest capital city for the  lowest  salary
             band for the financial year determined by the Commissioner  of
             Taxation of the Commonwealth; or

         (b)      if no  determination  mentioned  in  paragraph (a)  is  in
             force, the rate prescribed by regulation.

Division 7  Contractor provisions

31    Definitions

         In this Division:

         contract  includes  an  agreement,  arrangement  and   undertaking,
         whether formal or informal and whether express or implied.

         relevant contract, see section 32.

         re-supply of goods acquired from a person includes:

         (a)      a supply to the person of goods  in  an  altered  form  or
             condition; and

         (b)      a supply to the  person  of  goods  in  which  the  first-
             mentioned goods have been incorporated.

         services includes results  (whether  goods  or  services)  of  work
         performed.

         supply includes supply by way of sale, exchange,  lease,  hire  and
         hire-purchase, and in relation to services includes the  providing,
         granting and conferring of services.

32    What is a relevant contract

      (1)    In  this  Division,  a  relevant  contract  in  relation  to  a
         financial year is a contract under which a person  (the  designated
         person) during that financial year, in the  course  of  a  business
         carried on by the designated person:

         (a)      supplies to another person services for or in relation  to
             the performance of work; or

         (b)      has supplied to the  designated  person  the  services  of
             persons for or in relation to the performance of work; or

         (c)      gives out goods to individuals for work to be performed by
             those persons in respect of those goods and for  re-supply  of
             the goods to the designated person or,  where  the  designated
             person is a member of a  group,  to  another  member  of  that
             group.

      (2)   However, a relevant contract does  not  include  a  contract  of
         service or a contract under which a person (the designated  person)
         during a financial year in the course of a business carried  on  by
         the designated person:

         (a)      is supplied with  services  for  or  in  relation  to  the
             performance of work that are ancillary to the supply of  goods
             under the contract by the person  by  whom  the  services  are
             supplied or to the use of goods which are the property of that
             person; or

         (b)      is supplied with  services  for  or  in  relation  to  the
             performance of work where:

             (i) those services are of a kind not  ordinarily  required  by
                  the designated person and are performed by  a  person  who
                  ordinarily performs services of that kind  to  the  public
                  generally; or

             (ii)      those services are of a kind ordinarily required  by
                  the  designated  person  for  less  than  180  days  in  a
                  financial year; or

             (iii)     those services are provided for a period  that  does
                  not exceed 90 days or for periods that, in the  aggregate,
                  do not exceed 90 days in that financial year and  are  not
                  services:

                  (A)  provided by a person by  whom  similar  services  are
                      provided to the designated person; or

                  (B)  for or in relation to the performance of  work  where
                      any of the persons who perform the work also  perform
                      similar work for the designated person;

                 for periods that, in the aggregate, exceed 90 days in that
                  financial year; or

             (iv)      those services are  supplied  under  a  contract  to
                  which subparagraphs (i) to (iii)  do  not  apply  and  the
                  Commissioner is satisfied those services are performed  by
                  a person who ordinarily performs services of that kind  to
                  the public generally in that financial year; or

         (c)      is supplied by a person (the contractor) with services for
             or in relation to the performance of work under a contract  to
             which paragraphs (a) and (b) do not apply where  the  work  to
             which the services relate is performed:

             (i) by 2 or more persons employed by, or who provide  services
                  for, the contractor in the course of a business carried on
                  by the contractor; or

             (ii)      where the contractor is a partnership of 2  or  more
                  individuals,  by  1  or  more  of  the  members   of   the
                  partnership and 1 or more  persons  employed  by,  or  who
                  provide services for, the contractor in the  course  of  a
                  business carried on by the contractor; or

             (iii)     where  the  contractor  is  an  individual,  by  the
                  contractor and 1 or  more  persons  employed  by,  or  who
                  provide services for, the contractor in the  course  of  a
                  business carried on by the contractor; or

         (d)      is supplied with services solely for or ancillary  to  the
             conveyance of goods by means of  a  vehicle  provided  by  the
             person conveying them.

      (2A)  Subsection (2)(a), (b) or (d) does not apply to  a  contract  if
         the services supplied under the contract include services that  are
         not mentioned in that paragraph.

      (2B)  Subsection (2) does not apply  if  the  Commissioner  determines
         the contract under which the services are supplied was entered into
         with an intention either directly  or  indirectly  of  avoiding  or
         evading the payment of tax by any person.

      (3)   For this section, an  employment  agency  contract  under  which
         services are supplied by an employment agent, or a service provider
         is procured by an employment agent, is not a relevant contract.

33    Persons taken to be employers

      (1)   For this Act, a person:

         (a)      who during a financial year, under  a  relevant  contract,
             supplies services to another person; or

         (b)       to  whom  during  a  financial  year,  under  a  relevant
             contract, the services of  persons  are  supplied  for  or  in
             relation to the performance of work; or

         (c)      who during a financial year, under  a  relevant  contract,
             gives out goods to other persons;

         is taken to be an employer in respect of that financial year.

      (2)   If  a  contract  is  a  relevant  contract  under  both  section
         32(1)(a) and (b):

         (a)      the person to whom, under the contract,  the  services  of
             persons are supplied for or in relation to the performance  of
             work is taken to be an employer, and

         (b)      despite  subsection  (1)(a),  the  person  who  under  the
             contract supplies the services is taken not to be an employer.

34    Persons taken to be employees

         For this Act, a person who during a financial year:

         (a)      performs work for or in relation  to  which  services  are
             supplied to another person under a relevant contract; or

         (b)      being  an  individual,  under  a  relevant  contract,  re-
             supplies goods to an employer;

         is taken to be an employee in respect of that financial year.

35    Amounts under relevant contracts taken to be wages

      (1)   For this Act, amounts paid or payable by an  employer  during  a
         financial year for or  in  relation  to  the  performance  of  work
         relating to a relevant contract or the re-supply  of  goods  by  an
         employee under a relevant contract are taken to be  wages  paid  or
         payable during that financial year.

      (2)   If an amount mentioned  in  subsection  (1)  is  included  in  a
         larger amount paid or payable  by  an  employer  under  a  relevant
         contract during a financial year, that part of  the  larger  amount
         which is not attributable to the performance of  work  relating  to
         the relevant contract or the re-supply  of  goods  by  an  employee
         under the relevant contract is as determined by the Commissioner.

      (3)   An amount paid or payable for or in relation to the  performance
         of work under a relevant contract is taken to include:

         (a)      any payment made by  a  person  who  is  taken  to  be  an
             employer under a relevant contract in relation to a person who
             is taken to be an employee under the  relevant  contract  that
             would be a superannuation contribution if made in relation  to
             a person in the capacity of an employee; and

         (b)      the value of any share or option (not  otherwise  included
             as wages under this Act) provided or liable to be provided  by
             a person who is taken to  be  an  employer  under  a  relevant
             contract in relation to  a  person  who  is  taken  to  be  an
             employee under the relevant contract that would be included as
             wages under Division 4 if provided to a person in the capacity
             of an employee.

36    Liability provisions

         If, in respect of a payment for or in relation to  the  performance
         of work that is taken to be wages under this Division, payroll  tax
         is paid by a person taken under this Division to be an employer:

         (a)      no other person is liable to payroll  tax  in  respect  of
             that payment; and

         (b)      if another person is liable to make a payment  for  or  in
             relation to that work, that person is not  liable  to  payroll
             tax in respect of that payment unless it or the payment by the
             first-mentioned  person  is  made  with  an  intention  either
             directly or indirectly of avoiding or evading the  payment  of
             tax whether by the first-mentioned person or another person.

Division 8  Employment agents

37    Definitions

      (1)   For this Act, an  employment  agency  contract  is  a  contract,
         whether formal or informal and whether express  or  implied,  under
         which a person (an  employment  agent)  procures  the  services  of
         another person (a service provider) for a client of the  employment
         agent.

      (2)   However, a contract is not an  employment  agency  contract  for
         this Act if it is, or results in the creation  of,  a  contract  of
         employment between the service provider and the client.

      (3)   In this section:

         contract includes agreement, arrangement and undertaking.

38    Persons taken to be employers

         For this Act, the  employment  agent  under  an  employment  agency
         contract is taken to be an employer.

39    Persons taken to be employees

         For this Act, the person who performs work for or  in  relation  to
         which services are supplied  to  the  client  under  an  employment
         agency contract is taken to be an employee of the employment agent.

40    Amounts taken to be wages

      (1)   For this Act, the following  are  taken  to  be  wages  paid  or
         payable  by  the  employment  agent  under  an  employment   agency
         contract:

         (a)      any amount paid or  payable  to  or  in  relation  to  the
             service provider in respect of the provision  of  services  in
             connection with the employment agency contract;

         (b)      the value of any benefit provided for or  in  relation  to
             the provision of services in connection  with  the  employment
             agency contract that would be a fringe benefit if provided  to
             a person in the capacity of an employee;

         (c)      any payment made in relation to the service provider  that
             would be a superannuation contribution if made in relation  to
             a person in the capacity of an employee.

      (2)   Subsection (1) does not apply to an employment  agency  contract
         to the extent an amount,  benefit  or  payment  mentioned  in  that
         subsection would be exempt from payroll tax  under  Part  4  (other
         than under Division 4 or 5 of that Part  or  section  50)  had  the
         service provider been paid by the client as  an  employee,  if  the
         client has given a declaration to that effect, in the form approved
         by the Commissioner, to the employment agent.

41    Liability provisions

         Subject to section 42, if an employment agent under  an  employment
         agency contract:

         (a)       by  arrangement,  procures  the  services  of  a  service
             provider for a client of the employment agent; and

         (b)      pays payroll tax in  respect  of  an  amount,  benefit  or
             payment that is, under section 40, taken to be wages  paid  or
             payable by the employment agent in respect of the provision of
             those services in connection with that contract;

         no other person (including any other person engaged to procure  the
         services of the service provider for the employment agent's  client
         as part of the arrangement) is liable to pay payroll tax in respect
         of wages paid or payable for  the  procurement  or  performance  of
         those services by the service provider for the client.

42    Agreement to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax

      (1)   If the effect of an employment agency contract is to  reduce  or
         avoid the liability of any party to the contract to the assessment,
         imposition or payment of payroll tax, the Commissioner may:

         (a)      disregard the contract; and

         (b)      determine that any party to the contract is taken to be an
             employer for this Act; and

         (c)      determine that any payment made in respect of the contract
             is taken to be wages for this Act.

      (2)   If the Commissioner makes a determination under subsection  (1),
         the Commissioner must serve a notice of the  determination  on  the
         person taken to be an employer for this Act.

      (3)   The notice must set out the  facts  on  which  the  Commissioner
         relies and the reasons for the determination.

      (4)   This section has effect in relation to agreements,  transactions
         and arrangements made before, on or after the commencement of  this
         section.

Division 9  Other matters

43    Value of wages paid in kind

         The value of wages (except fringe benefits and shares and  options)
         that are paid or payable in kind is the greater of:

         (a)      the value  agreed  or  attributed  to  the  wages  in,  or
             ascertainable for the wages  from,  arrangements  between  the
             employer and the employee, whichever is the greater; and

         (b)      if the regulations prescribe how the  value  of  wages  of
             that type is to  be  determined  –  the  value  determined  in
             accordance with the regulations.

44    GST excluded from wages

      (1)   If a person is liable to pay GST on the supply  to  which  wages
         paid or payable to the person relate, the amount or value of  those
         wages on which payroll tax is payable is the amount or value of the
         wages paid or payable to the person minus the  relevant  proportion
         of the amount of GST payable by the person on the supply  to  which
         the wages relate.

      (2)   Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of the value  of  wages
         comprising a fringe benefit.

      (3)   In this section:

         consideration has the same meaning as in A New  Tax  System  (Goods
         and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth).

         relevant proportion, in relation to GST  payable  on  a  supply  to
         which wages relate, means the proportion that the amount  or  value
         of the wages bears to the consideration for the supply to which the
         wages relate.

45    Wages paid by group employers

         A reference in this Act to wages paid or payable by a member  of  a
         group includes wages that would be taken to be paid or payable by a
         member of a group if the member were the employer of  the  employee
         to whom the wages were paid.

46    Wages paid by or to third parties

      (1)   If any of the following  amounts  of  money  or  other  valuable
         consideration would, if paid or  given  or  to  be  paid  or  given
         directly by an employer to an employee, be or be included as  wages
         paid or payable by the employer to the employee for this Act,  they
         are taken to be wages paid  or  payable  by  the  employer  to  the
         employee:

         (a)      any money or other valuable consideration paid  or  given,
             or to be paid or given, to an  employee,  for  the  employee's
             services as an employee of an employer, by a person other than
             the employer;

         (b)      any money or other valuable consideration paid  or  given,
             or to be paid or given, by  an  employer,  for  an  employee's
             services as the employee of the employer, to  a  person  other
             than the employee;

         (c)      any money or other valuable consideration paid  or  given,
             or to be paid or given, by a person other  than  an  employer,
             for an employee's services as an employee of the employer,  to
             a person other than the employee.

      (2)   If any of the following  amounts  of  money  or  other  valuable
         consideration would, if paid or  given  or  to  be  paid  or  given
         directly by a company to a  director  of  the  company,  be  or  be
         included as wages paid or payable by the company  to  the  director
         for this Act, they are taken to be wages paid  or  payable  by  the
         company to the director:

         (a)      any money or other valuable consideration paid  or  given,
             or to be paid or given, to a director of a company, by way  of
             remuneration for the appointment or services of  the  director
             to the company, by a person other than the company;

         (b)      any money or other valuable consideration paid  or  given,
             or to be paid or given, by a company, by way  of  remuneration
             for the  appointment  or  services  of  the  director  to  the
             company, to a person other than the director;

         (c)      any money or other valuable consideration paid  or  given,
             or to be paid or given, by any person, by way of  remuneration
             for the appointment or services of a director to the  company,
             to a person other than the director.

      (3)   In this section:

         director of a company includes:

         (a)      a person who, under a contract or other arrangement, is to
             be appointed as a director of the company; and

         (b)      a former director of the company.

47    Agreement etc. to reduce or avoid liability to payroll tax

      (1)    If  any  person  enters  into  any  agreement,  transaction  or
         arrangement, whether  in  writing  or  otherwise,  under  which  an
         individual performs, for or on behalf of another  person,  services
         in respect of which any  payment  is  made  to  some  other  person
         related or connected to the individual performing the services  and
         the effect of the  agreement,  transaction  or  arrangement  is  to
         reduce or avoid the liability of  any  person  to  the  assessment,
         imposition or payment of payroll tax, the Commissioner may:

         (a)      disregard the agreement, transaction or arrangement; and

         (b)      determine that any party to the agreement, transaction  or
             arrangement is taken to be an employer for this Act; and

         (c)       determine  that  any  payment  made  in  respect  of  the
             agreement, transaction or arrangement is taken to be wages for
             this Act.

      (2)   If the Commissioner makes a determination under subsection  (1),
         the Commissioner must serve a notice to that effect on  the  person
         taken to be an employer for this Act.

      (3)   The notice must set out the  facts  on  which  the  Commissioner
         relies and the reasons for the determination.

      (4)   This section has effect in relation to agreements,  transactions
         and arrangements made before, on or after the commencement of  this
         section.

Part 4      Exemptions

Division 1  Non-profit entities

48    Definitions

      (1)   In this Division:

         category 1 to 3 purpose  means  a  charitable  purpose  that  falls
         within the first 3 categories (being relief of poverty, advancement
         of education  and  advancement  of  religion)  identified  by  Lord
         Macnaghten in Commissioners for Special Purposes of  Income  Tax  v
         Pemsel [1891] AC 531 as developed by the common  law  of  Australia
         from time to time.

         educational company means a company:

         (a)      in which an  educational  institution  has  a  controlling
             interest; and

         (b)       that  provides,  promotes  or  supports  the  educational
             services of that institution.

         educational institution means an  entity  that  provides  education
         above secondary level.

         entity includes a person, and a body, association  or  organisation
         (whether corporate or unincorporated).

         industrial association means any of the following:

         (a)       an  association  of  employees,  or  an  association   of
             employers, registered as an organisation, or recognised, under
             the Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Act 2009 (Cth);

         (b)      an association of employees registered or recognised as  a
             trade union (however described) under the law of  a  State  or
             Territory;

         (c)      an association of employers registered  or  recognised  as
             such  (however  described)  under  the  law  of  a  State   or
             Territory;

         (d)      an association of employees  the  predominant  purpose  of
             which is  the  protection  and  promotion  of  the  employees'
             interests in matters concerning their employment.

         non-profit entity, see section 48A.

         political party means an entity that has as one of its purposes the
         promotion of the  election  to  the  Legislative  Assembly  or  the
         Parliament of the Commonwealth or of a State or another  Territory,
         of a candidate or candidates endorsed by it  or  by  an  entity  of
         which it forms part.

         professional association means an entity that has  as  one  of  its
         purposes the promotion of the  interests  of  its  members  in  any
         profession.

         trade, industry or commerce entity, see section 48B.

       (2)    For  the  definition  educational  company,   an   educational
         institution has a controlling interest in a company if:

         (a)      members of the board of management of the company who  are
             entitled to exercise more than 50%  of  the  voting  power  at
             meetings of the board of management are accustomed or under an
             obligation, whether formal or informal, to act  in  accordance
             with the directions, instructions or wishes of the educational
             institution; or

         (b)      the  educational  institution  may  (whether  directly  or
             indirectly)   exercise,   control   the   exercise   of,    or
             substantially influence the exercise of, more than 50% of  the
             voting power attached to voting shares, or any class of voting
             shares, issued by the company; or

         (c)      the educational institution  has  power  to  appoint  more
             than 50% of the members of the  board  of  management  of  the
             company.

48A   Meaning of non-profit entity

      (1)   Each of the following is a non-profit entity:

         (a)      a religious institution;

         (b)      a public benevolent institution;

         (c)      a non-profit organisation:

             (i) the sole or predominant purpose of which is a religious,
                  charitable, benevolent, philanthropic or patriotic
                  purpose; and

             (ii)      that is not an excluded entity.

      (2)   However, an instrumentality of  the  Territory  is  not  a  non-
         profit entity.

      (3)   An entity is an excluded entity if it is one of the following:

         (a)      a school;

         (b)      an educational institution;

         (c)      an educational company;

         (d)      a political party;

         (e)      an industrial association;

         (f)      a professional association;

         (g)      a trade, industry or commerce entity.

         Note for subsection (3)

         Wages paid by a school or college may be exempt wages under section
         49 and Schedule 2, clause 16.

      (4)   However, an entity is not an excluded entity if a  determination
         under section 48E is in force in relation to the entity.

48B   Meaning of trade, industry or commerce entity

      (1)   An entity is a trade, industry or commerce entity if:

         (a)      a purpose of the entity is to promote trade,  industry  or
             commerce (whether generally or in respect  of  any  particular
             kind of trade, industry or commerce); and

         (b)      the entity is not an entity mentioned in section 48A(3)(a)
             to (f).

      (2)   However, an entity is not a trade, industry or  commerce  entity
         if:

         (a)      the entity's sole or predominant purpose is a  category  1
             to 3 purpose; or

         (b)      the entity has 2 or more purposes that:

             (i) are each category 1 to 3 purposes; and

             (ii)       together  constitute   the   entity's   predominant
                  purpose.

48C   Non-profit entities – exempt wages

      (1)   Wages are exempt wages if the  Commissioner  is  satisfied  that
         the wages:

         (a)      are paid or payable by a non-profit entity that carries on
             charitable activities; and

         (b)      are paid or payable to a person who is engaged exclusively
             in work of a kind ordinarily performed in connection with  the
             carrying on of charitable activities by the entity.

      (2)   A non-profit entity carries  on  charitable  activities  if  the
         entity directly  carries  out  work  that  is  predominantly  of  a
         religious,  charitable,  benevolent,  philanthropic  or   patriotic
         nature.

      (3)   For subsection (2), giving money to another entity that  carries
         out work of the kind mentioned  in  subsection  (2)  does  not,  by
         itself, constitute carrying on a charitable activity.

48D   Determining purpose of entity

         For this Division, the purpose or purposes of an entity are  to  be
         determined  having  regard  to  all  the   relevant   circumstances
         including the entity's stated objects (if any) and its activities.

48E   Commissioner may override exclusion

      (1)   The Commissioner may, by order in  writing,  determine  that  an
         entity that would, but for the determination, be an excluded entity
         under section 48A(3)(f) or (g) is not an excluded entity.

      (2)   The Commissioner may do so only if satisfied there  are  special
         reasons that justify the  entity  being  treated  as  a  non-profit
         entity for the purposes of this Division.

      (3)   In deciding whether to make a  determination,  the  Commissioner
         may have regard to the following:

         (a)      the significance of the excluding feature of the entity in
             relation to the purposes of the entity considered as a whole;

         (b)      the extent to which the entity's purposes are  category  1
             to 3 purposes or are otherwise beneficial to the community;

         (c)      the extent to which the  entity's  purposes  are,  or  are
             intended to be, beneficial to a particular  class  of  persons
             (whether or  not  members  of  the  entity)  rather  than  the
             community generally;

         (d)      any other factors the Commissioner considers relevant.

      (4)   A determination may be expressed to take effect on a  date  that
         is:

         (a)      earlier than the date of the determination; but

         (b)      not earlier than 1 July 2015.

       (5)    The  Commissioner  may,  by  order  in   writing,   revoke   a
         determination  if  the  Commissioner  ceases  to  be  satisfied  as
         mentioned in subsection (2).

      (6)   A revocation of a determination may be expressed to take  effect
         on a date that is earlier than the date of the revocation.

      (7)   In this section:

         excluding feature of an entity, means a purpose, object or activity
         of the entity that  would,  but  for  a  determination  under  this
         section, cause it to be an excluded entity.

Division 2  Education and training

49    Schools and educational services and training

         Wages are exempt wages as provided  for  in  Schedule  2,  Part  4,
         Division 1.

50    Community Development Employment Project

      (1)   Wages are exempt wages  if  they  are  paid  or  payable  to  an
         Aboriginal person who is employed under an employment project.

      (2)   An  employment  project  is  an  employment  project  under  the
         Community Development Employment Project funded by  the  Department
         of Employment and Workplace Relations of the  Commonwealth  or  the
         Torres Strait Regional Authority.

Division 3  Health care service providers

51    Health care service providers

      (1)   Subject to subsection (2), wages paid or  payable  by  a  health
         care service provider are exempt wages.

      (2)   The wages must be paid or payable:

         (a)      for work of a kind ordinarily performed in connection with
             the conduct of a health care service provider; and

         (b)      to a person engaged exclusively in that kind of work.

      (3)   For this section, health care service provider has  the  meaning
         given in Schedule 2, Part 4, Division 2.

52    Division not to limit other exemptions

      (1)   Nothing in this Division limits the  application  of  any  other
         Division of this Part.

      (2)   For example, if a health care service provider is  also  a  non-
         profit entity, Part 4 Division 1 may still apply.

Division 4  Maternity and adoption leave

53    Maternity and adoption leave

      (1)   Wages are exempt wages  if  they  are  paid  or  payable  to  an
         employee in respect of:

         (a)      maternity leave, being leave given to a female employee in
             connection with her pregnancy or the birth of her child (other
             than sick leave, recreation leave, annual leave or any similar
             leave); or

         (b)      adoption leave,  being  leave  given  to  an  employee  in
             connection with the adoption of a child by the employee (other
             than sick leave, recreation leave, annual leave or any similar
             leave).

         Note for subsection (1)

         Clause 20 of Schedule  2  provides  for  a  similar  exemption  for
         paternity leave given to a male employee.  That  exemption  is  not
         included in some corresponding payroll tax laws.

      (2)   It is immaterial whether the leave is taken during or after  the
         pregnancy or before or after the adoption.

      (3)   The exemption is limited to wages paid or payable in respect  of
         a  maximum  of  14 weeks  maternity  leave  in   respect   of   any
         one pregnancy  and  14 weeks  adoption  leave  in  respect  of  any
         one adoption.

      (4)   In subsection (3):

         (a)      a reference to  14  weeks  maternity  leave  or  14  weeks
             adoption leave includes a reference to an equivalent period of
             leave at a reduced rate of pay; and

         (b)      a reference to wages paid  or  payable  in  respect  of  a
             period of leave is a reference to the total wages  that  would
             normally have been paid or payable for that period of leave.

         Example for subsection (4)

         For a part-time employee, the exemption may apply to wages paid  or
         payable for maternity leave or adoption leave that  extends  to  28
         weeks at half of the part-time rate  of  pay  that  would  normally
         apply to the employee.

      (5)   The exemption does not apply  to  any  part  of  wages  paid  or
         payable in respect of maternity or adoption  leave  that  comprises
         fringe benefits.

54    Administrative requirements for exemption

      (1)   An employer wishing to claim an exemption under  section  53  in
         respect  of  maternity  leave  must  obtain  and  keep  a   medical
         certificate  in  respect  of,  or  statutory  declaration  by,  the
         employee:

         (a)      stating that the employee is or was pregnant; or

         (b)      stating that the employee has given birth and the date  of
             birth.

      (2)   An employer wishing to claim an exemption under  section  53  in
         respect  of  adoption  leave  must  obtain  and  keep  a  statutory
         declaration by the employee stating:

         (a)      that a child  has  been  placed  in  the  custody  of  the
             employee pending the making of an adoption order; or

         (b)      that an adoption order has  been  made  or  recognised  in
             favour of the employee.

         Note

         Section 79 of the Taxation Administration Act 2007  requires  these
         records to be kept for at least  5 years  unless  the  Commissioner
         authorises earlier destruction.

Division 5  Volunteer firefighters and emergency service volunteers

55    Volunteer firefighters

         Subject to section 57, wages are exempt wages if they are  paid  or
         payable to an employee in respect of any period when  the  employee
         was taking part in bushfire fighting activities:

         (a)      as a volunteer member as defined in section  3(1)  of  the
             Fire and Emergency Act 1996; or

         (b)      as a member of a volunteer  bushfire  brigade  established
             under section 54 of the Bushfires Management Act 2016; or

         (c)      as authorised by a fire control  officer  or  fire  warden
             under the Bushfires Management Act 2016.

56    Emergency service volunteers

         Subject to section 57, wages are exempt wages if they are  paid  or
         payable to an employee in respect of any period when the employee:

         (a)      was engaging  in  activities  as  a  volunteer  member  as
             defined in section 8 of the Emergency Management Act 1996; or

         (b)      attends an incident as defined in section 3(1) of the Fire
             and Emergency Act 1996 as a volunteer member under that Act.

57    Limitation of exemption

         An exemption under this Division does not apply to  wages  paid  or
         payable as recreation leave, annual leave, long  service  leave  or
         sick leave.

Division 6  Local government

58    Local governing bodies

         Subject to section 60, wages are exempt wages if they are  paid  or
         payable by:

         (a)      a local governing body; or

         (b)      a union or partnership of which all the members are  local
             governing bodies.

59    Local government business entities

      (1)   Subject to section 60, wages are exempt wages if they  are  paid
         or payable:

         (a)      by a wholly-owned subsidiary (within the  meaning  of  the
             Corporations Act 2001) of a local governing body; and

         (b)      to a person for or in connection with an activity that  is
             conducted  for  the  local  governing  body  under  a  written
             arrangement between the subsidiary  and  the  local  governing
             body.

      (2)   The written  arrangement  mentioned  in  subsection (1)(b)  must
         include a provision for the payment by the subsidiary to the  local
         governing body of an amount approximately equivalent to the  amount
         of tax that would be payable by the subsidiary under this  Act  but
         for the exemption.

60    Limitation on local government exemptions

         An exemption under this Division does not apply to  wages  paid  or
         payable for or in connection with:

         (a)      activities prescribed by regulation; or

         (b)      the  construction  of  any  buildings  or  works,  or  the
             installation of plant, machinery or equipment for use  in  any
             of the activities.

Division 7  Other government and defence

61    State Governors

         Wages paid or payable by the Governor of a State are exempt wages.

62    Defence personnel

         Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or payable to  an  employee
         in respect of any period  when  the  employee  was  on  leave  from
         employment because of being a member of:

         (a)      the Australian Defence Force; or

         (b)      the armed forces  of  any  part  of  the  Commonwealth  of
             Nations.

63    War Graves Commission

         Wages paid or payable by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission are
         exempt wages.

Division 8  Foreign government representatives and international agencies

64    Consular and non-diplomatic representatives

         Wages paid or payable to members of his or her official staff by  a
         consular or other representative of any country in Australia (other
         than a diplomatic representative) are exempt wages.

65    Trade Commissioners

         Wages paid or payable to members of his or her official staff by  a
         Trade Commissioner representing any other part of the  Commonwealth
         of Nations in Australia are exempt wages.

66    Australian-American Fulbright Commission

         Wages  paid  or  payable  by  the   Australian-American   Fulbright
         Commission are exempt wages.

Division 9  Services outside Australia

66A   Wages paid or payable for or in relation to services performed in
         other countries

         Wages are exempt wages if they  are  paid  or  payable  for  or  in
         relation to services performed by an employee wholly in one or more
         other countries for a continuous  period  of  more  than  6  months
         beginning on the day on which wages were first paid or  payable  to
         that employee for the services so performed.

Part 5      Grouping of employers

Division 1  Interpretation

67    Definitions

         In this Part:

         business includes:

         (a)      a profession or trade; and

         (b)      any other activity carried on for fee, gain or reward; and

         (c)      the activity of employing 1 or more  persons  who  perform
             duties for or in connection with another business; and

         (d)      the carrying on of a trust (including  a  dormant  trust);
             and

         (e)      the activity of holding any money or property used for  or
             in connection with another business;

         whether carried on by 1 person or 2 or more persons together.

         group means a group constituted  under  this  Part,  but  does  not
         include any member of the group in respect of whom a  determination
         under Division 4 is in force.

68    Grouping provisions to operate independently

         The fact that a person is not a member of a group constituted under
         a provision of this Part does not prevent the person from  being  a
         member of a group constituted under another provision of this Part.

Division 2  Business groups

69    Constitution of groups

         A group is constituted by all the persons or bodies forming a group
         that is not a part of any larger group.

70    Groups of corporations

         Corporations  constitute  a  group  if  they  are  related   bodies
         corporate within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001.

71    Groups arising from the use of common employees

      (1)   If 1 or more employees of an employer perform duties for  or  in
         connection with 1 or more businesses carried on by the employer and
         1 or more other persons, the  employer  and  each  of  those  other
         persons constitute a group.

      (2)   If 1 or more employees of an employer  are  employed  solely  or
         mainly to perform duties for  or  in  connection  with  1  or  more
         businesses carried on by 1 or more other persons, the employer  and
         each of those other persons constitute a group.

      (3)   If 1 or more employees of an employer perform duties for  or  in
         connection with 1 or more businesses carried on by 1 or more  other
         persons,  being  duties  performed  in  connection  with,   or   in
         fulfilment  of  the  employer's  obligation  under,  an  agreement,
         arrangement or undertaking for the provision of services to  any  1
         or more of those other persons in connection with that business  or
         those businesses, the employer and  each  of  those  other  persons
         constitute a group.

       (4)    Subsection  (3)  applies  to  an  agreement,  arrangement   or
         undertaking:

         (a)      whether  the  agreement,  arrangement  or  undertaking  is
             formal or informal, express or implied; and

         (b)      whether or not the agreement, arrangement  or  undertaking
             provides for duties  to  be  performed  by  the  employees  or
             specifies the duties to be performed by them.

         Note

         Section 79 allows the Commissioner, for payroll  tax  purposes,  to
         exclude persons from a group  constituted  under  this  section  in
         certain circumstances.

72    Groups of commonly controlled businesses

      (1)   If a person or set of persons  has  a  controlling  interest  in
         each of 2 businesses, the persons who  carry  on  those  businesses
         constitute a group.

         Note for subsection (1)

         Section 79 allows the Commissioner, for payroll  tax  purposes,  to
         exclude persons from a group  constituted  under  this  section  in
         certain circumstances.

      (2)   For this section, a person or set of persons has  a  controlling
         interest in a business if:

         (a)      in the case of 1 person – the person  is  the  sole  owner
             (whether or not as trustee) of the business; or

         (b)      in the case of a set of persons – the persons are together
             as trustees the sole owners of the business; or

         (c)      in the case of a business carried on by a corporation:

             (i) the person or each of the set of persons is a director  of
                  the corporation and  the  person  or  set  of  persons  is
                  entitled to exercise more than 50% of the voting power  at
                  meetings of the directors of the corporation; or

             (ii)      a director or set of directors  of  the  corporation
                  that is entitled to exercise more than 50% of  the  voting
                  power at meetings of the directors of the  corporation  is
                  under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
                  accordance with the direction, instructions or  wishes  of
                  that person or set of persons; or

         (d)      in the case of a business carried on by a  body  corporate
             or unincorporated – that person or set of  persons  constitute
             more than 50% of the board of  management  (by  whatever  name
             called) of the body or control the composition of that  board;
             or

         (e)      in the case of a business carried on by a corporation that
             has a share capital – that  person  or  set  of  persons  can,
             directly or indirectly, exercise, control the exercise of,  or
             substantially influence the exercise of, more than 50% of  the
             voting power attached to the voting shares, or  any  class  of
             voting shares, issued by the corporation; or

         (f)      in the case of a business carried on by  a  partnership  –
             that person or set of persons:

             (i) own (whether beneficially or not) more  than  50%  of  the
                  capital of the partnership; or

             (ii)      is entitled (whether beneficially or  not)  to  more
                  than 50% of the profits of the partnership; or

         (g)      in the case of a business carried on under a trust  –  the
             person or set of persons (whether or not as a trustee  of,  or
             beneficiary  under,  another  trust)  is  the  beneficiary  in
             respect of more than 50% of the value of the interests in  the
             first-mentioned trust.

      (3)   If:

         (a)      2 corporations are related  bodies  corporate  within  the
             meaning of the Corporations Act 2001; and

         (b)      1 of the corporations has  a  controlling  interest  in  a
             business;

         the other corporation has a controlling interest in the business.

      (4)   If:

         (a)      a person or set of persons has a controlling interest in a
             business; and

         (b)      a person or set of persons who carry on the business has a
             controlling interest in another business;

         the person or set of persons  mentioned  in  paragraph  (a)  has  a
         controlling interest in the other business.

      (5)   If:

         (a)      a person or set of persons is the beneficiary of  a  trust
             in respect of more than 50% of the value of the  interests  in
             the trust; and

         (b)      the trustee of the trust (whether alone or  together  with
             another trustee or trustees) has a controlling interest in the
             business of another trust;

         the person or set of persons has  a  controlling  interest  in  the
         business.

      (6)   A person who may benefit from a discretionary trust as a  result
         of the trustee or  another  person,  or  the  trustee  and  another
         person, exercising or failing to exercise a power or discretion, is
         taken, for this Part, to be a beneficiary in respect of  more  than
         50% of the value of the interests in the trust.

      (7)   If:

         (a)      a person or set of persons has a controlling  interest  in
             the business of a trust; and

         (b)      the trustee of the trust (whether alone or  together  with
             another trustee or trustees) has a controlling interest in the
             business of a corporation;

         the person or set  of  persons  is  taken  to  have  a  controlling
         interest in the business of the corporation.

      (8)   If:

         (a)      a person or set of persons has a controlling  interest  in
             the business of a trust; and

         (b)      the trustee of the trust (whether alone or  together  with
             another trustee or trustees) has a controlling interest in the
             business of a partnership;

         the person or set  of  persons  is  taken  to  have  a  controlling
         interest in the business of the partnership.

73    Groups arising from tracing of interests in corporations

      (1)   An entity and a corporation form part of a group if  the  entity
         has a controlling interest in the corporation.

         Note for subsection (1)

         Section 79 allows the Commissioner, for payroll  tax  purposes,  to
         exclude persons from a group  constituted  under  this  section  in
         certain circumstances.

      (2)   For this section, an entity has  a  controlling  interest  in  a
         corporation if the corporation has share capital and:

         (a)      the entity has a direct interest in  the  corporation  and
             the value of that direct interest exceeds 50%; or

         (b)      the entity has an indirect interest in the corporation and
             the value of that indirect interest exceeds 50%; or

         (c)      the entity has an aggregate interest  in  the  corporation
             and the value of the aggregate interest exceeds 50%.

      (3)   Division 3 applies for the interpretation of this section.

         Note for subsection (3)

         Division 3 sets out the manner for determining  whether  an  entity
         has a direct interest, indirect interest or aggregate interest in a
         corporation, and the value of such an interest.

      (4)   In this section:

         associated person means a person who  is  associated  with  another
         person in accordance with any of the following provisions:

         (a)       persons  are  associated  persons  if  they  are  related
             persons;

         (b)      individuals are associated persons if they are partners in
             a partnership;

         (c)       private  companies  are  associated  persons  if   common
             shareholders have a majority interest in each private company;

         (d)      trustees  are  associated  persons  if  any  person  is  a
             beneficiary common to the trusts (other  than  a  public  unit
             trust scheme) of which they are trustees;

         (e)      a private company and a trustee are associated persons  if
             a related body corporate of the company (within the meaning of
             the Corporations Act 2001)  is  a  beneficiary  of  the  trust
             (other than a public unit trust scheme) of which  the  trustee
             is a trustee.

         entity means:

         (a)      a person; or

         (b)      2 or more persons who are associated persons  (as  defined
             in this section).

         private company means a company that is not limited by  shares,  or
         whose shares are not quoted on the Australian  Securities  Exchange
         or any exchange of the World Federation of Exchanges.

         related person means a person who is related to another  person  in
         accordance with any of the following provisions:

         (a)      individuals are related persons if:

             (i) one is the spouse or de facto partner of the other; or

             (ii)      the relationship between them is that of parent  and
                  child, brothers, sisters, or brother and sister;

         (b)      private companies are related persons if they are  related
             bodies  corporate  within  the  meaning  of  the  Corporations
             Act 2001;

         (c)      an individual and a private company are related persons if
             the individual is a majority shareholder or  director  of  the
             company or of another private company that is a  related  body
             corporate  of  the  company  within   the   meaning   of   the
             Corporations Act 2001;

         (d)      an individual and a trustee are  related  persons  if  the
             individual is a beneficiary of the trust (not being  a  public
             unit trust scheme) of which the trustee is a trustee;

         (e)      a private company and a trustee are related persons if the
             company, or a majority shareholder or director of the company,
             is a beneficiary of the trust (not being a public  unit  trust
             scheme) of which the trustee is a trustee.

74    Smaller groups subsumed by larger groups

      (1)   If a person is a member of 2 or more groups, the members of  all
         the groups together constitute a group.

      (2)   If 2 or more members of a  group  have  together  a  controlling
         interest in a business (within the meaning of section 72), all  the
         members of the group and the person or persons  who  carry  on  the
         business together constitute a group.

         Note

         Section 79 allows the Commissioner, for payroll  tax  purposes,  to
         exclude persons from a group  constituted  under  this  section  in
         certain circumstances.

Division 3  Business groups tracing of interests in corporations

75    Application

         This Division applies for section 73.

76    Direct interest

      (1)   An entity has a direct interest in a corporation if:

         (a)      in the case of an entity that is a  person  –  the  person
             can, directly or indirectly, exercise,  control  the  exercise
             of, or substantially influence the  exercise  of,  the  voting
             power attached to any voting shares issued by the corporation;
             or

         (b)      in the case of an entity that is 2 or more persons who are
             associated persons –  each  of  the  associated  persons  can,
             directly or indirectly, exercise, control the exercise of,  or
             substantially influence the  exercise  of,  the  voting  power
             attached to any voting shares issued by the corporation.

      (2)    The  value  of  the  direct  interest  of  the  entity  in  the
         corporation is the proportion (expressed as a  percentage)  of  the
         voting power of all voting shares issued by the corporation that:

         (a)      in the case of an entity that is a person – the person can
             directly or indirectly exercise, control the exercise  of,  or
             substantially influence  the  exercise  of,  as  mentioned  in
             subsection (1); or

         (b)      in the case of an entity that is 2 or more persons who are
             associated persons – the associated  persons  can,  if  acting
             together,  directly  or  indirectly  exercise,   control   the
             exercise of, or substantially influence the  exercise  of,  as
             mentioned in subsection (1).

77    Indirect interest

      (1)   An entity has an indirect  interest  in  a  corporation  if  the
         corporation  is  linked  to  another  corporation   (the   directly
         controlled corporation) in which the entity has a direct interest.

      (2)   A corporation is linked to a directly controlled corporation  if
         the corporation is part of a chain of corporations:

         (a)      that starts with the directly controlled corporation; and

         (b)      in which a link in the chain is formed  if  a  corporation
             has a direct interest in the next corporation in the chain.

      (3)   The following are examples of how subsections (1) and  (2)  work
         (the examples are cumulative):

         (a)      corporation A (a directly controlled  corporation)  has  a
             direct interest in corporation B. Corporations A  and  B  form
             part of a chain of corporations, and corporation B  is  linked
             to corporation A. Accordingly, an entity  that  has  a  direct
             interest in corporation A also has  an  indirect  interest  in
             corporation B;

         (b)      corporation B also has a direct interest in corporation C.
             In this case, corporations A, B and C form part of a chain  of
             corporations.  Both  corporations  B  and  C  are  linked   to
             corporation A. The  entity  that  has  a  direct  interest  in
             corporation A has an indirect interest in both corporations  B
             and C;

         (c)      corporation B also has a direct interest in corporation D.
             There are now 2 chains of corporations, one consisting of A, B
             and C, and one consisting of A, B and D. Corporations B, C and
             D are all linked to corporation A and an  entity  that  has  a
             direct interest  in  corporation  A  would  have  an  indirect
             interest in corporations B, C and D.  An  entity  that  has  a
             direct interest  in  corporation  B  would  have  an  indirect
             interest in corporations C and D. However, an entity that  has
             a direct interest in corporation C  only  would  not  have  an
             indirect interest in corporation D, as corporation  D  is  not
             linked to corporation C.

       (4)    The  value  of  the  indirect  interest  of  an  entity  in  a
         corporation (an indirectly controlled corporation) that  is  linked
         to a directly controlled corporation is calculated  by  multiplying
         together the following:

         (a)      the value of the direct interest  of  the  entity  in  the
             directly controlled corporation;

         (b)      the value of each direct interest that forms a link in the
             chain of  corporations  by  which  the  indirectly  controlled
             corporation is linked to the directly controlled corporation.

      (5)   The following are examples of  how  subsection  (4)  works  (the
         examples are cumulative):

         (a)      an entity has a direct interest (with a value of  80%)  in
             corporation A. Corporation A has a  direct  interest  (with  a
             value of 70%) in corporation B.  The  value  of  the  indirect
             interest of the entity in corporation B is 80% × 70% (that is,
             56%).  Accordingly,  in  this  example  the   entity   has   a
             controlling interest (within the meaning  of  section  73)  in
             corporation B;

         (b)      corporation B also has a direct interest (with a value  of
             40%) in corporation C. The value of the indirect  interest  of
             the entity in corporation C is 80%  ×  70%  ×  40%  (that  is,
             22(4%). Accordingly, in this example the entity does not  have
             a controlling interest in corporation C.

      (6)   It is possible for an  entity  to  have  more  than  1  indirect
         interest in a corporation. This may occur  if  the  corporation  is
         linked to more than 1 corporation in which the entity has a  direct
         interest, or if the corporation is linked to only 1 corporation  in
         which the entity has a direct interest but is linked  through  more
         than 1 chain of corporations. In  that  case,  the  entity  has  an
         aggregate interest in the corporation (see section 78).

78    Aggregation of interests

      (1)   An entity has an aggregate interest in a corporation if:

         (a)      the entity has a direct interest and 1  or  more  indirect
             interests in the corporation; or

         (b)      the entity has  more  than  1  indirect  interest  in  the
             corporation.

      (2)    The  value  of  the  aggregate  interest  of  an  entity  in  a
         corporation is the sum of the following:

         (a)      the value of the direct interest (if any) of the entity in
             the corporation;

         (b)      the value of each indirect interest of the entity  in  the
             corporation.

      (3)   For example:

         (a)      an entity has a direct interest (with a value of  40%)  in
             corporation B; and

         (b)      the entity also has a direct interest  (with  a  value  of
             25%) in corporation A, which in turn  has  a  direct  interest
             (with a value of  60%)  in  corporation  B.  Accordingly,  the
             entity also has an indirect interest in corporation B  with  a
             value of 15% (that is, 25% × 60%); and

         (c)       the  value  of  the  entity's   aggregate   interest   in
             corporation B is the sum of the direct interest (40%) and  the
             indirect interest (15%), which is 55%; and

         (d)      accordingly, in this example, the entity has a controlling
             interest in corporation B (within the meaning of section 73).

Division 4  Miscellaneous

79    Exclusion of persons from groups

      (1)   The Commissioner may, by order  in  writing,  determine  that  a
         person who would, but for the determination, be a member of a group
         is not a member of the group.

       (2)    The  Commissioner  may  only  make  such  a  determination  if
         satisfied, having regard to the nature and degree of ownership  and
         control of the businesses, the nature of  the  businesses  and  any
         other matters the Commissioner considers relevant, that a  business
         carried on by the person, is carried on independently  of,  and  is
         not connected with the carrying on of, a business carried on by any
         other member of that group.

      (3)   The Commissioner cannot exclude a person from  a  group  if  the
         person is a body corporate that, by reason of  section  50  of  the
         Corporations Act 2001, is related to another body corporate that is
         a member of that group.

      (4)   This section  extends  to  a  group  constituted  by  reason  of
         section 74.

      (5)   A determination can be expressed to take effect on a  date  that
         is:

         (a)      earlier than the date of the determination; but

         (b)      not earlier than 1 July 2008.

       (6)    The  Commissioner  may,  by  order  in   writing,   revoke   a
         determination that applies in respect of a person if satisfied  the
         circumstances in which a determination may be made do not apply  to
         the person.

      (7)   The revocation of a  determination  can  be  expressed  to  take
         effect  on  a  date  that  is  earlier  than  the   date   of   the
         determination.

80    Designated group employers

       (1)    The  members  of  a  group  may,  with  the  approval  of  the
         Commissioner, designate a qualified member of the group to  be  the
         designated group employer for the group for this Act.

      (2)   A member of a group is a qualified member if the member:

         (a)      has paid during the preceding financial  year  wages  that
             exceeded $2 500 000; or

         (b)      is likely to pay during the current financial  year  wages
             that are likely to exceed that amount.

      (3)   If none of the members of a group is a qualified member but  the
         members together:

         (a)      have paid during the preceding financial year  wages  that
             exceeded $2 500 000; or

         (b)      are, in the opinion of the  Commissioner,  likely  to  pay
             during the current financial year wages that will exceed  that
             amount;

         the members may, with the approval of the  Commissioner,  designate
         any member of the group to be the designated group employer for the
         group for this Act.

      (4)   If the members of a group do  not  designate  a  member  as  the
         designated group employer within 7 days after the end of the  month
         in which the group is established, the Commissioner may (but is not
         obliged to) designate any member of the  group  as  the  designated
         group employer.

      (5)   The designated  group  employer  of  a  group  stops  being  the
         designated group employer from and including  the  earlier  of  the
         following days:

         (a)      the first day of a return period during which there  is  a
             change in the membership of the group;

         (b)      the first day of a return period during which the  members
             of the group revoke the designation.

       (6)    The  designation  of  a  designated   group   employer   under
         subsection (1) or (3) must be by notice in writing.

      (7)   The notice must:

         (a)      be executed by or on behalf of each member of  the  group;
             and

         (b)      be served on the Commissioner.

81    Joint and several liability

      (1)   If a member of a group fails to pay an amount  that  the  member
         is required to pay under this Act in respect of any  period,  every
         member of the group is liable jointly and  severally  to  pay  that
         amount to the Commissioner.

      (2)   If 2 or more persons are jointly or severally liable to  pay  an
         amount under this section, the Commissioner may recover  the  whole
         of the amount from them, or any of them, or any one of them.

      (3)   If, under this section,  2  or  more  persons  are  jointly  and
         severally liable to pay an amount that is payable  by  any  one  of
         them, each person is also jointly and severally liable to pay:

         (a)      any amount payable to the Commissioner under this  or  any
             other Act in relation to that amount, including  any  interest
             and penalty tax; and

         (b)      any  costs  and  expenses  incurred  in  relation  to  the
             recovery of that amount that the Commissioner is  entitled  to
             recover from any such person.

      (4)   A person who pays an amount in  accordance  with  the  liability
         imposed  by  this  section  has  such  rights  of  contribution  or
         indemnity from the other person or persons as are just.

      (5)   This section applies whether or not the person was  an  employer
         during the relevant period.

Part 6      Adjustments of tax

82    Determination of correct amount of payroll tax

      (1)   For this Part, the correct amount of payroll tax payable  by  an
         employer in respect of a financial year is the amount determined in
         accordance with Schedule 1, or clause 14 of Schedule 2, as the case
         requires, in respect of that financial year.

      (2)   This Part applies in respect of  payroll  tax  paid  or  payable
         whether as a group employer or as an individual employer.

      (3)   If an employer is liable for payroll tax both as  an  individual
         employer and as a group employer (for different periods in the same
         financial year) separate adjustments are  to  be  made  under  this
         Part, or clause 15 of Schedule 2, as the case requires, in  respect
         of any period as a group employer and any period as  an  individual
         employer (and for  that  purpose  separate  determinations  of  the
         correct amount of payroll tax payable by the  employer  are  to  be
         made).

      (4)   In this Part:

         group employer means an employer who is a member of a group.

         individual employer means an employer who is  not  a  member  of  a
         group.

83    Annual adjustment of payroll tax

      (1)   If the amount of payroll tax paid  or  payable  by  an  employer
         (other than a group employer) when the employer  made  the  returns
         relating to a financial year is greater than the correct amount  of
         payroll tax payable by the employer in  respect  of  the  financial
         year, the Commissioner (on  application  by  the  employer)  is  to
         refund to that employer an amount equal to the difference.

      (2)   If the amount of payroll tax paid  or  payable  by  an  employer
         (other than a group employer) when the employer  made  the  returns
         relating to a financial year is less than  the  correct  amount  of
         payroll tax payable by the employer in  respect  of  the  financial
         year, the employer must pay to the Commissioner as payroll  tax  an
         amount equal to the difference.

      (3)   Any  amount  payable  by  an  employer  under  this  section  or
         clause 15 of Schedule 2 in respect of a financial year must be paid
         within the period during which the employer is required to lodge  a
         return under this Act in respect of the return period  that  is  or
         includes the month of June in that financial year.

      (4)   The amount of any refund payable to an employer in respect of  a
         financial year under this section or clause 15 of Schedule 2 is  to
         be reduced by the amount of any other refund of payroll tax made in
         respect of that financial year to that employer (whether under this
         section or otherwise) before the time  of  the  refund  under  this
         section.

         Note

         Clause 15 of Schedule 2 applies to group employers.

84    Adjustment of payroll tax when employer changes circumstances

      (1)   If an employer changes the  employer's  circumstances  during  a
         financial year, the employer must, if the  amount  of  payroll  tax
         paid or payable by the employer  when  the  employer  made  returns
         relating  to  the  relevant  period  prior   to   the   change   of
         circumstances is less  than  the  correct  amount  of  payroll  tax
         payable by the employer in respect of the financial  year,  pay  to
         the Commissioner as payroll tax an amount equal to the difference.

      (2)   A change of circumstances occurs when the employer:

         (a)      ceases to pay or  be  liable  to  pay  taxable  wages  and
             interstate wages; or

         (b)      becomes  a  group  employer  (following  a  period  as  an
             individual employer); or

         (c)      ceases to be a group employer (and becomes  an  individual
             employer).

      (3)   The relevant period prior to a change of  circumstances  is  the
         period prior to the change (during the financial year concerned and
         since any prior change of circumstances)  for  which  the  employer
         paid or was liable to pay taxable wages or interstate wages.

      (4)   In calculating for this section the correct  amount  of  payroll
         tax payable by the employer, it is to be  assumed  that  the  wages
         paid or payable by the employer during the relevant period are  the
         only wages paid or payable by the  employer  during  the  financial
         year concerned.

      (5)   Any amount payable by an employer under this section in  respect
         of a relevant period must be paid within the  period  during  which
         the employer is required to lodge a return under this Act  relating
         to that relevant period or the last return under this Act  relating
         to the relevant period.

      (6)   Any payroll tax paid  or  payable  by  an  employer  under  this
         section is to be included as payroll tax paid  or  payable  by  the
         employer for the annual adjustment of payroll tax under this Part.

         Note

         If an employer ceases to be a group  employer  during  a  financial
         year an adjustment will be made under this  section.  If  later  in
         that financial year the employer ceases to pay wages there will  be
         a further adjustment under this section. The first adjustment  will
         adjust payroll tax paid for the period as a group employer  against
         the correct amount of tax that should have been paid (based on  the
         assumption that the period as a group employer is the  only  period
         for which the employer paid wages throughout the year). The  second
         adjustment will adjust payroll  tax  paid  for  the  period  as  an
         individual employer against the correct amount of tax  that  should
         have been paid (based on the  assumption  that  the  period  as  an
         individual employer is the only period for which the employer  paid
         wages throughout the year). Any amount of payroll  tax  paid  under
         this section is taken into account for  the  annual  adjustment  of
         payroll tax.

85    Special provision where wages fluctuate

         If a person who did not pay and was not liable to pay taxable wages
         or interstate wages for any part of a financial year satisfies  the
         Commissioner that, by reason of the nature of the person's trade or
         business, the taxable wages and interstate wages, if any,  paid  or
         payable by the person  fluctuate  with  different  periods  of  the
         financial year, the Commissioner may determine that the  person  is
         to be treated for this Part:

         (a)      if the person has conducted  that  trade  or  business  in
             Australia during the whole of  the  financial  year  –  as  an
             employer who pays or is liable to pay taxable wages throughout
             the financial year; or

         (b)      if the person has conducted  that  trade  or  business  in
             Australia during part only of  the  financial  year  –  as  an
             employer who pays or is liable to pay taxable wages throughout
             that part of the financial year.

         Note

         The effect of such a determination is that when the correct  amount
         of payroll tax is calculated (for a tax adjustment provided for  by
         this Part) the employer may receive the benefit of the payroll  tax
         threshold for the period for which the employer is to be treated as
         paying wages, and not just for the period for  which  the  employer
         actually pays wages. Without such a determination, an employer  may
         only receive the benefit of a proportion of  the  threshold  amount
         that is equivalent to the proportion of the  whole  financial  year
         for which the employer actually pays wages.

Part 7      Registration and returns

86    Registration

      (1)   An employer  who  is  not  already  registered  must  apply  for
         registration as an employer under this Act if:

         (a)      during a month the employer pays  or  is  liable  to  pay,
             anywhere, wages of more than the weekly threshold  amount  per
             week that are wholly or partly taxable wages; or

         (b)      the employer is a member of a group the members  of  which
             together during a month pay or are liable  to  pay,  anywhere,
             wages of more than the weekly threshold amount per  week  that
             are wholly or partly taxable wages.

      (1A)  For subsection (1), the weekly threshold amount is to be  worked
         out using the following formula (disregarding any amount in cents):

         [pic]

         where:

         N is the number of days in the financial year.

         TA is the threshold amount for the financial  year  as  defined  in
         Schedule 1, clause 1.

       (2)    The  application  for  registration  is  to  be  made  to  the
         Commissioner in a form and  manner  approved  by  the  Commissioner
         within 21 days after the end of the month concerned.

      (3)   The Commissioner is to register the  applicant  as  an  employer
         under this Act.

      (4)   The Commissioner may cancel the registration of a person  as  an
         employer if satisfied that the person has ceased to pay or to  have
         a liability to pay wages as described in subsection (1).

      (5)   If the Commissioner cancels the registration of a person  as  an
         employer in any financial year and the person subsequently pays  or
         is liable to pay taxable  wages  during  the  financial  year,  the
         person may, despite the fact the person is not  required  to  apply
         for registration, apply to the Commissioner (in a form  and  manner
         approved by the Commissioner) for registration as an employer,  and
         the Commissioner is then to register  the  person  as  an  employer
         under this Act.

87    Returns

      (1)   Every employer who  is  registered  or  required  to  apply  for
         registration as an employer under this Act must:

         (a)      within 21 days after the end of each month (except June) –
             lodge with the Commissioner a return relating to  that  month;
             and

         (b)      within 21 days after the end of June in each year –  lodge
             with the Commissioner a return relating to that month  and  to
             the adjustment of payroll tax paid or payable by the  employer
             during the financial year ending on the close of that month.

      (2)   The  designated  group  employer  for  a  group  may,  with  the
         approval of the Commissioner, lodge a joint return for this section
         covering specified members of the group (including  the  designated
         group employer).

      (3)   If a joint return is lodged and the return would, if  lodged  by
         a single employer, comply with this section, each of the  employers
         covered by the return is taken to have complied with this section.

Part 8      Collection and recovery of tax

Division 1  Agents and trustees generally

88    Application

      (1)   This Division applies  to  an  agent  of,  or  trustee  for,  an
         employer.

      (2)   Nothing  in  this  Division  limits  or  otherwise  affects  the
         application of Part 5 to an agent or trustee, or 2 or more  persons
         1 or more of whom is an agent or trustee.

89    Agents and trustees are answerable

         An agent or trustee is answerable as the employer for the doing  of
         all things that are required to be done by or  under  this  Act  in
         respect of the payment of any wages which are  subject  to  payroll
         tax under this Act.

90    Returns by agent or trustee

      (1)   An agent or trustee must, in respect of the wages  mentioned  in
         section 89, make the returns  required  under  Part  7,  but  in  a
         representative capacity only,  and  each  return  must,  except  as
         otherwise provided by this Act, be separate and distinct  from  any
         other.

      (2)   In the case of an executor or administrator,  the  returns  must
         be the same as far  as  practicable  as  the  deceased  person,  if
         living, would have been liable to make.

91    Liability to pay tax

      (1)   An agent or trustee is personally liable for tax  on  the  wages
         mentioned in section 89 if:

         (a)      after the Commissioner has required the agent  or  trustee
             to make a return; or

         (b)      while the tax remains unpaid;

         the agent or trustee, except with the  written  permission  of  the
         Commissioner, disposes of or parts with any  fund  or  money  which
         comes to the agent or trustee  from  or  out  of  which  tax  could
         legally be paid.

      (2)   Otherwise than as provided  in  subsection  (1),  the  agent  or
         trustee is not personally liable to pay the tax in a representative
         capacity.

      (3)   The agent or trustee must retain from time to time  out  of  any
         money which comes to the  agent  or  trustee  in  a  representative
         capacity enough to pay the tax.

      (4)   For ensuring the payment of tax, the Commissioner has  the  same
         remedies against attachable property of any kind vested in or under
         the control or management or in the  possession  of  the  agent  or
         trustee, as the Commissioner has against the property of any  other
         person in respect of tax, and in as full and ample a manner.

92    Indemnity for agent or trustee

      (1)   An agent or trustee is indemnified for  all  payments  that  the
         agent or trustee makes under this Act or  in  accordance  with  the
         requirements of the Commissioner.

      (2)   An agent or trustee  who  pays  tax  as  agent  or  trustee  may
         recover the amount paid from the person  on  whose  behalf  it  was
         paid, or deduct it from any money in the agent's or trustee's hands
         belonging to that person.

Division 2  Special cases

         Note

         In some corresponding payroll tax laws, this Division provides  for
         special cases in sections 93 to  99  which  do  not  apply  in  the
         Territory.

93    Tax not paid during lifetime

94    Payment of tax by executors or administrators

95    Assessment if no probate within 6 months of death

96    Person in receipt or control of money for absentee

97    Agent for absentee principal winding-up business

98    Recovery of tax paid on behalf of another person

99    Liquidator to give notice

Part 9      General

100   Provisions specific to this jurisdiction

         Schedule 2, which contains provisions that are applicable  only  to
         this jurisdiction, has effect.

101   Regulations

      (1)   The Administrator may make regulations under this Act.

      (2)   The regulations may provide for the following:

         (a)      the manner of making any application to  the  Commissioner
             under this Act;

         (b)      the evidence the Commissioner may require for  determining
             whether or not:

             (i) an employer was an employer for part only of  a  financial
                  year; or

             (ii)      a person was a member of a  group  at  any  time  or
                  during any period;

         (c)      the signing of returns, applications, notices,  statements
             or forms by or on behalf of employers and deeming any  return,
             application, notice, statement or form signed on behalf of  an
             employer to have been signed by the employer;

         (d)      the authentication of any  certificate,  notice  or  other
             document issued for this Act or any regulation.

Part 10     Repeals and transitional provisions for Payroll Tax Act 2009

102   Repeals

         The Acts specified in Schedule 3 are repealed.

103   Definitions

         In this Part:

         commencement means the commencement of this Act.

         old Act means the Pay-roll Tax Act 1978.

         old regulations means the Pay-roll Tax Regulations 1978.

         pre-existing, for a thing done under the old Act, means  the  thing
         as in force under the old Act immediately before the commencement.

104   Application of this Act and old Act

      (1)   This Act applies to payroll tax on taxable wages that  are  paid
         or payable on or after 1 July 2009.

      (2)   Despite its repeal, the old Act continues to  apply  to  payroll
         tax on taxable wages (within the meaning of the old  Act)  paid  or
         payable before 1 July 2009.

105   General saving

         Any act, matter or thing that had effect under or for  a  provision
         of the old Act, or a provision of another Act repealed by this Act,
         immediately before the repeal of the provision  continues  to  have
         effect under or  for  the  corresponding  provision  of  this  Act,
         subject to any other provision of  this  Part  or  the  regulations
         under this Part.

106   Employer election

         An election made by an employer under regulation  27K  of  the  old
         regulations that was in force immediately before  1  July  2009  is
         taken, on and after that day, to be an election under section 16(1)
         of this Act.

107   Pre-1 July 2009 taxable wages that included superannuation
         contributions

      (1)   This section applies if:

         (a)      because of clause 3 of Schedule  1  of  the  old  Act,  an
             employer's taxable wages for a  financial  year  that  started
             before 1 July 2009 (a pre-1 July 2009 financial year) included
             an amount of superannuation contribution; and

         (b)      the employer did not  actually  make  that  superannuation
             contribution until on or after 1 July 2009.

      (2)   The employer may deduct that amount from the employer's  taxable
         wages for a subsequent return period in which  that  superannuation
         contribution is actually made.

      (3)   A superannuation contribution that is alleged by an employer  to
         be included in the employer's taxable wages for a pre-1  July  2009
         financial year  must  be  evidenced  to  the  satisfaction  of  the
         Commissioner in the employer’s records for payroll tax purposes.

108   Superannuation contributions relating to pre-1 July 1999 service

      (1)   Despite anything in section 11 or 17, wages  do  not  include  a
         superannuation contribution paid or payable in respect of  services
         performed by an employee before 1 July 1999.

      (2)   A superannuation contribution that is alleged by an employer  to
         be paid in respect of services  performed  by  an  employee  before
         1 July 1999  must  be  evidenced  to  the   satisfaction   of   the
         Commissioner in the employer’s records for payroll tax purposes.

      (3)   In particular, the employer’s records must show  the  manner  of
         calculation of the contribution and any actuarial basis for it.

      (4)   For subsection (3), and any assessment of payroll tax  to  which
         that subsection  is  material,  the  certificate  of  a  fellow  or
         accredited member of the Institute of Actuaries of Australia to the
         effect that the actuarial basis on which an amount is calculated is
         justified is evidence and,  in  the  absence  of  evidence  to  the
         contrary, proof of that fact.

      (5)   If records are  not  kept  as  required  by  this  section,  the
         Commissioner is entitled to assume that a payment of  money  by  an
         employer as a superannuation contribution on or after 1  July  1999
         is an amount  payable  in  respect  of  services  performed  by  an
         employee on or after that day.

109   Designated group employer

         The designation of an employer as a designated group employer  that
         had effect immediately  before  1  July  2009  has  effect  as  the
         designation of a designated group employer under this Act.

110   Approval relating to motor vehicle allowance

         An approval given by the Commissioner under section  3E(6)  of  the
         old Act that was in force immediately before 1 July 2009 is  taken,
         on and after that day, to be an approval given under section  29(6)
         of this Act.

111   Registration of employers

         An employer who was registered under section  12  of  the  old  Act
         immediately before 1 July 2009 is taken, on and after that day,  to
         be registered under section 86 of this Act.

112   Delegation, authorisation and appointment

       (1)    This  section  applies  to  a  delegation,  authorisation   or
         appointment (each of which is a relevant instrument) made under the
         Taxation Administration Act  2007  and  was  in  force  immediately
         before 1 July 2009 in relation to the old Act or old regulations.

      (2)   A relevant instrument has effect after that date if  it  relates
         to a provision of the old Act or old regulations that continues  to
         have effect after that date because of this Part.

      (3)   If a relevant instrument relates to a provision of the  old  Act
         or old regulations for which there is a corresponding provision  of
         this Act, the relevant instrument has effect after that date as  it
         were made in relation to the corresponding provision of this Act.

Part 11     Transitional matters for amendment Acts

Division 1  Payroll Tax Amendment Act 2010

113   Application

      (1)   Subject to subsections (2) and (3), the amendments made to  this
         Act by the Payroll Tax Amendment  Act  2010  apply  in  respect  of
         taxable wages that are paid or payable on or after 1 July 2009.

      (2)   The amendments made to this Act by  the  Payroll  Tax  Amendment
         Act 2010 are to be applied  for  the  purpose  of  determining  the
         correct amount of payroll tax (within the meaning  of  section  82)
         payable by an employer in respect of the financial year  commencing
         on 1 July 2009 (including in respect of expired months).

      (3)   Section 9 continues to apply in respect of an expired  month  as
         if the amendments made to this Act by  the  Payroll  Tax  Amendment
         Act 2010 had not been made.

      (4)   In this section:

         expired month means a month occurring after  June 2009  that  ended
         before or on the day on which the  Administrator's  assent  to  the
         Payroll Tax Amendment Act 2010 is declared.

Division 2  Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2011

114   Assessment and payment of payroll tax in relation to employee shares
         and options

         Anything done or omitted to be done by an  employer  in  connection
         with the assessment and payment of payroll tax,  in  respect  of  a
         month occurring after June 2009 and before July  2011,  that  would
         have been validly done or omitted to be  done  had  the  amendments
         made to this Act by the Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2011 been
         in force, is taken to have been validly done or omitted.

         Note for section 114

         This provision validates a decision by an  employer  to  treat  the
         grant of a share or an option to an employee that  is  not  an  ESS
         interest as a fringe  benefit  under  Part 3,  Division  2  and  to
         determine the value of those fringe  benefits  in  accordance  with
         those provisions, rather than by reference to Part 3, Division 4.

115   Determination of vesting date and value of employee shares and
         options

      (1)   Part 3, Division 4 continues to apply in relation to a share  or
         an option granted before 1 July 2011 that constituted  wages  under
         old section 18, whether or not the grant of  the  share  or  option
         would constitute wages under new section 18, if the relevant day in
         relation to the grant of the share or option is not a day occurring
         before 1 July 2011.

         Example for subsection (1)

         A share granted before 1 July 2011 that  is  not  an  ESS  interest
         continues to be treated as wages under Part 3, Division  4  if  the
         vesting date for the share did not occur before 1 July 2011 and the
         employer did not elect to treat  the  date  of  the  grant  as  the
         relevant day.

      (2)   The assessment amendments apply in respect of any such share  or
         option.

      (3)   Accordingly, the vesting date and the  value  of  the  share  or
         option are to be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  assessment
         amendments.

      (4)   This section does not apply in respect of a share or  an  option
         granted before 1 July 2011 if the  liability  for  payroll  tax  in
         respect of the grant is  determined  in  accordance  with  Part  3,
         Division 2 (as permitted by section 114).

      (5)   In this section:

         assessment amendments means the amendments made by  Part 3  of  the
         Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2011.

         new  section  18  means  section  18  as  amended  by  the  Revenue
         Legislation Amendment Act 2011.

         old section 18 means section 18  as  in  force  immediately  before
         1 July 2011.

         relevant day, see section 18(3).

Division 3  Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2015

116   Definition

         In this Division:

         2015 Act means the Revenue  and  Other  Legislation  Amendment  Act
         2015.

117   Contractor provisions – wages paid or payable before 1 July 2015

      (1)   Section 32, as amended by section 15 of the 2015 Act,  does  not
         apply in relation to wages paid or payable before 1 July 2015.

      (2)   Section 32, as in force before 1 July 2015, continues  to  apply
         in relation to wages paid or payable  before  1  July  2015  as  if
         section 15 of the 2015 Act had not commenced.

118   Non-profit entities – wages paid or payable before 1 July 2015

      (1)   Part 4, Division 1, as amended by section 17  of  the  2015 Act,
         does not  apply  in  relation  to  wages  paid  or  payable  before
         1 July 2015.

      (2)   Part 4, Division 1, as in force before 1  July  2015,  continues
         to apply in relation to wages paid or payable before 1 July 2015 as
         if section 17 of the 2015 Act had not commenced.

Division 4  Transitional matters for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2018

119   Transitional matters for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2018

      (1)   The amendments made to  this  Act  by  the  Revenue  Legislation
         Amendment Act 2018 apply to:

         (a)      wages paid on or after 1 May 2018,  except  wages  payable
             before that date; and

         (b)      wages payable on or after 1 May 2018.

      (2)   This Act, as in force immediately before  1 May 2018,  continues
         to apply to wages paid or payable before 1 May 2018.

Division 5  Transitional matters for Payroll Tax Amendment Act 2025

120   Application of amendments

      (1)   This Act as amended  by  the  Payroll  Tax  Amendment  Act  2025
         applies in relation to:

         (a)      wages paid on or after 1 July 2025, except  wages  payable
             before that date; and

         (b)      wages payable on or after 1 July 2025.

      (2)   This Act as in force immediately before 1  July  2025  continues
         to apply in relation to wages paid or payable before 1 July 2025.

Division 6  Transitional matters for Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2025

121   Application of amendments

      (1)   Section 48C, as amended by Part 3  of  the  Revenue  Legislation
         Amendment Act 2025 (the amending Act), applies in relation to:

         (a)      wages paid by non-profit entities on or after 1 July 2025,
             except wages payable before that date; and

         (b)      wages payable by non-profit entities on or  after  1  July
             2025.

      (2)   Section 48C, as in force immediately before the commencement  of
         the amending Act, continues to apply in relation to wages  paid  or
         payable by non-profit entities before 1 July 2025.

Schedule 1  Calculation of payroll tax liability

                                                    sections 8, 29(5) and 82

Part 1      Interpretation

1     Definitions

         In this Schedule:

         ETA or employer's threshold amount, see clause 4.

         financial year means the financial year commencing  on  1 July 2009
         or on 1 July in any subsequent financial year.

         FY means the number of days in the financial year.

         GTA or group threshold amount, see clause 8.

         R means 5.5%.

         relevant financial year means  the  financial  year  to  which  the
         calculation of the relevant payroll tax relates.

         TA or threshold amount means $2 500 000.

Part 2      Employers who are not members of group

2     Application of Part

         This Part applies only to an employer who is  not  a  member  of  a
         group.

3     Definitions

         In this Part:

         AD or annual deduction means the following:

         (a)      if the amount worked out in accordance  with  the  formula
             set out in paragraph (b) is zero or a negative amount – zero;

         (b)      otherwise – the amount worked out in accordance  with  the
             following formula:

         [pic]

         C means the number of  days  in  the  relevant  financial  year  in
         respect of which the employer paid or was  liable  to  pay  taxable
         wages or interstate wages (otherwise than as a member of a group).

         IW means the total interstate wages paid or payable by the employer
         concerned (otherwise than as  a  member  of  a  group)  during  the
         relevant financial year.

         TW means the total taxable wages paid or payable  by  the  employer
         concerned (otherwise than as  a  member  of  a  group)  during  the
         relevant financial year.

4     Payroll of employer not more than threshold

         An employer is not liable to pay payroll tax for a  financial  year
         if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable  by
         the employer (otherwise than as a member of a  group)  during  that
         year is not more than the employer's threshold  amount,  being  the
         amount calculated in accordance with the following formula:

         [pic]

5     Payroll of employer over threshold

         If the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid or payable  by
         an employer (otherwise than as  a  member  of  a  group)  during  a
         financial year is more than the employer's  threshold  amount,  the
         employer is liable to pay as payroll tax for that year  the  amount
         of dollars calculated in accordance with the following formula:

         [pic]

Part 3      Groups with designated group employer

6     Application of Part

         This Part applies only to an employer who is a member  of  a  group
         for which there is a designated group employer.

7     Definitions

         In this Part:

         AD or annual deduction means the following:

         (a)      if the amount worked out in accordance  with  the  formula
             set out in paragraph (b) is zero or a negative amount – zero;

         (b)      otherwise – the amount worked out in accordance  with  the
             following formula:

         [pic]

         C means the number of  days  in  the  relevant  financial  year  in
         respect of which at least 1 member of the group paid or was  liable
         to pay (as a member of  the  group)  taxable  wages  or  interstate
         wages.

         GIW means the total interstate wages paid or payable by  the  group
         concerned during the relevant financial year.

         GTW means the total taxable wages paid  or  payable  by  the  group
         concerned during the relevant financial year.

         TW means the total taxable wages paid or payable  by  the  employer
         concerned (as a member of the group) during the relevant  financial
         year.

8     Payroll of group not more than threshold

         None of the members of a group is liable to pay payroll tax for the
         financial year if the total taxable wages and interstate wages paid
         or payable by the group during that year is not more than the group
         threshold amount, being the amount calculated  in  accordance  with
         the following formula:

         [pic]

9     Payroll of group over threshold

      (1)   This clause applies to a group if:

         (a)      there is a designated group employer of the group; and

         (b)      the total taxable  wages  and  interstate  wages  paid  or
             payable by the group during the financial year  is  more  than
             the group threshold amount; and

         (c)       the  Commissioner,  by  writing,  allows  the  group   to
             calculate payroll tax under this clause.

         Note for subclause (1)

         Clause 14 of Schedule 2 applies to the group  if  subclause  (1)(a)
         and (b) of this clause apply, but subclause (1)(c) of  this  clause
         does not apply, to the group.

      (2)   The designated group employer for the group is liable to pay  as
         payroll tax for the financial year the amount of dollars calculated
         in accordance with the following formula:

         [pic]

      (3)   Each member of the  group  (other  than  that  designated  group
         employer) is liable to pay as payroll tax for  the  financial  year
         the amount of dollars calculated in accordance with  the  following
         formula:

         [pic]

Part 4      Groups with no designated group employer

10    Application of Part

         This Part applies only to an employer who is a member  of  a  group
         for which there is no designated group employer.

11    Definition

         In this Part:

         TW means the total taxable wages paid or payable  by  the  employer
         concerned (as a member of the group) during the relevant  financial
         year.

12    Calculation of payroll tax

         Each member of the group is liable to pay as payroll  tax  for  the
         financial year the amount of dollars calculated in accordance  with
         the following formula:

         [pic]

Part 5      Motor vehicle allowances

13    Continuous recording method

         If  an  employer  selects  the  continuous  recording  method   for
         determining the number of business kilometres  travelled  during  a
         financial year, the following details are required to  be  recorded
         by the employer:

         (a)      the odometer readings at the beginning  and  end  of  each
             business journey undertaken by the person during the financial
             year by means of a motor vehicle provided or maintained by the
             person;

         (b)      the specific purpose for which each such business  journey
             was taken;

         (c)      the distance travelled by the person during the  financial
             year in the course of all such  business  journeys  (which  is
             taken to be the number of business kilometres travelled during
             the financial year), calculated on the basis of  the  odometer
             readings mentioned in paragraph (a).

14    Averaging method

      (1)   If an employer selects the averaging method for determining  the
         number of business kilometres travelled during  a  financial  year,
         the following details are required to be recorded by the employer:

         (a)      the odometer readings at the beginning  and  end  of  each
             business journey undertaken by the person during the  relevant
             12-week period  by  means  of  a  motor  vehicle  provided  or
             maintained by the person;

         Note for paragraph (a)

         Clause 15 defines the relevant 12-week period.

         (b)      the specific purpose for which each such business  journey
             was taken;

         (c)      the distance travelled by the person during  the  relevant
             12-week period in the course of all  such  business  journeys,
             calculated on the basis of the odometer readings mentioned  in
             paragraph (a);

         (d)      the odometer readings at the  beginning  and  end  of  the
             relevant 12-week period for each  motor  vehicle  provided  or
             maintained by the person for undertaking business journeys;

         (e)      the distance travelled by each  such  vehicle  during  the
             relevant 12-week  period,  calculated  on  the  basis  of  the
             odometer readings mentioned in paragraph (d);

         (f)      the distance travelled by the  person  in  the  course  of
             business journeys undertaken by means  of  each  such  vehicle
             during the relevant 12-week period, calculated as a percentage
             of the distance travelled by that vehicle during  that  period
             (the relevant percentage);

         (g)      the odometer readings at the  beginning  and  end  of  the
             financial year for each vehicle provided or maintained by  the
             person for undertaking business journeys;

         (h)      the distance travelled by each  such  vehicle  during  the
             financial year,  calculated  on  the  basis  of  the  odometer
             readings mentioned in paragraph (g);

         (i)      the distance travelled by the  person  in  the  course  of
             business journeys undertaken by means  of  each  such  vehicle
             during the financial year (which is taken to be the number  of
             business kilometres  travelled  during  the  financial  year),
             calculated on the basis that the percentage of  that  distance
             that was travelled by the person in  the  course  of  business
             journeys undertaken by means of each such vehicle  during  the
             financial year is the same as the relevant percentage.

      (2)   For the next  succeeding  4  financial  years  after  the  first
         financial year in which odometer details are recorded in accordance
         with subclause (1), an employer is not required  to  calculate  the
         relevant percentage, or record the details mentioned  in  subclause
         (1)(a) to (f), for the person but is required to record  the  other
         details mentioned in that subclause.

      (3)   Accordingly, for the next succeeding  4  financial  years  after
         the first financial year in which odometer details are recorded  in
         accordance with subclause (1), the number  of  business  kilometres
         travelled during  the  financial  year  is  to  be  calculated  (as
         mentioned in  subclause  (1)(i))  on  the  basis  of  the  relevant
         percentage calculated for the first financial year.

      (4)   Despite subclauses (2) and  (3),  an  employer  is  required  to
         calculate the relevant percentage for a financial year, and  record
         the details mentioned in subclause (1)(a) to (f), if:

         (a)      the Commissioner serves a notice on  the  employer  before
             the commencement  of  a  financial  year  during  that  period
             directing the  employer  to  keep  the  details  mentioned  in
             subclause (1)(a) to (f) for that financial year; or

         (b)      the employer wishes to use the recording method  mentioned
             in this clause for 1 or more additional motor vehicles used by
             the person in any financial year or for any other reason.

      (5)   In a situation mentioned in subclause (4), the  new  record  for
         the  financial  year  replaces  the  relevant  percentage   details
         previously recorded and subclauses (2) and (3) apply in relation to
         the new record for the financial year  as  if  it  were  the  first
         financial year in which odometer details were recorded.

      (6)    An  employer  who  has  adopted  and  employed  the  method  of
         recording mentioned in subclauses (2) and  (3)  for  a  person  for
         4 successive financial years must, in the next succeeding financial
         year, make a fresh  recording  of  all  the  details  specified  in
         subclause (1) if the employer intends to continue to use  the  same
         method of recording for the person. Subclauses  (2)  and  (3)  then
         apply in relation to the new record for the financial year as if it
         were the first  financial  year  in  which  odometer  details  were
         recorded.

      (7)   If the odometer of a motor vehicle is replaced  or  recalibrated
         during any period for which its  readings  are  relevant  for  this
         clause, the odometer readings  immediately  before  and  after  the
         replacement or recalibration are to be recorded.

15    Meaning of relevant 12-week period

      (1)   In clause 14, relevant 12-week period means a continuous  period
         of at least 12 weeks, selected by the employer, throughout which  a
         motor vehicle is provided or maintained by a person. If  the  motor
         vehicle is provided or  maintained  for  less  than  12 weeks,  the
         period must be the entire period for which  the  motor  vehicle  is
         provided or maintained.

      (2)   The period may overlap the start or end of the  financial  year,
         so long as it includes part of the year.

      (3)   If the averaging method is used for 2  or  more  motor  vehicles
         for the same financial year, the odometer readings for those  motor
         vehicles must cover periods that are concurrent.

16    Replacing 1 motor vehicle with another motor vehicle

      (1)   For using the averaging  method,  an  employer  may  nominate  a
         motor vehicle as having replaced another motor vehicle with  effect
         from a day specified in the nomination.

      (2)    After  the  nomination  takes  effect,  the  replacement  motor
         vehicle is treated as the original motor vehicle, and the  original
         motor vehicle is treated as a different motor vehicle. An  employer
         need not repeat for the replacement vehicle the steps already taken
         for the original motor vehicle.

      (3)   An employer  must  record  the  nomination  in  writing  in  the
         financial year in which the nomination takes effect.

      (4)   However, the Commissioner may allow an employer  to  record  the
         nomination at a later time.

17    Changing method of recording

      (1)   An employer may change from using the averaging method to  using
         the continuous recording method with effect from the beginning of a
         financial year if the employer complies with clause 13  in  respect
         of the financial year.

      (2)   An employer may  change  from  using  the  continuous  recording
         method to using the averaging method with effect from the beginning
         of a financial year if the  employer  complies  with  clause 14  in
         respect of the financial year.

18    Definition

         In this Part:

         business journey means:

         (a)      a journey undertaken  in  a  motor  vehicle  by  a  person
             otherwise than in the application of the vehicle to a  private
             use, being an application that, if the person is paid a  motor
             vehicle allowance for that use, results in the provision of  a
             fringe benefit (within the meaning of the  FBTA  Act)  by  the
             employer; or

         (b)      a journey undertaken in a motor vehicle by a person in the
             course of producing assessable income of  the  person  (within
             the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth)).

Schedule 2  Territory specific provisions

                                                          sections 8 and 100

Part 1      Introduction to Schedule

1     Application of Schedule

         This  Schedule  sets  out  provisions  that  apply  only  in   this
         jurisdiction.

2     Definitions

         In this Schedule:

         baseline count, see clause 20A.

         financial year means the financial year commencing  on  1 July 2009
         or on 1 July in any subsequent financial year.

         group threshold amount, see clause 8 of Schedule 1.

         resident employee, see clause 20A.

Part 2      Calculation of monthly payroll tax

Division 1  Rate of payroll tax

3     Rate of payroll tax

         The rate of payroll tax in this jurisdiction is 5.5%.

Division 2  Employers who are not members of a group

4     Application of Division

         This Division applies only to an employer who is not a member of  a
         group.

5     Amount of payroll tax to be paid each month

      (1)   The amount of payroll tax payable  by  an  employer  on  taxable
         wages paid or payable by the employer in a month is the  amount  of
         dollars calculated in accordance with the following formula:

         [pic]

         where:

         TW is the total taxable wages  paid  or  payable  by  the  employer
         (otherwise than as a member of a group) during the month.

         D is the deductible amount mentioned in clause 6 or 7 (as the  case
         requires).

         R is the rate of payroll tax mentioned in clause 3.

      (2)   If D is equal to or more than TW in  respect  of  a  month,  the
         employer is not required to pay payroll  tax  in  respect  of  that
         month.

6     Deductible amount for employer who does not pay interstate wages

      (1)   For an employer who pays or is liable to pay taxable wages in  a
         month but does not pay and is not liable to pay interstate wages in
         that month, the deductible amount in respect of that  month  is  an
         amount not exceeding the amount in dollars calculated in accordance
         with the following formula, as determined in a manner  approved  by
         the Commissioner:

         TA
         12

         where:

         TA is the threshold amount for the financial  year  as  defined  in
         Schedule 1, clause 1.

      (2)   Subclause (1) applies whether the employer pays or is liable  to
         pay wages for the whole of the month or only part of the month.

7     Deductible amount for employer who pays interstate wages

      (1)   The deductible amount for an employer who pays or is  liable  to
         pay taxable wages and interstate wages in  a  month  is  an  amount
         determined in a manner approved by the Commissioner.

      (2)   The deductible amount claimed cannot be  more  than  the  amount
         mentioned in clause 6(1).

Division 3  Groups with designated group employer

8     Application of Division

         This Division applies only to an employer who  is  a  member  of  a
         group of which there is a designated group employer.

9     Amount of payroll tax to be paid each month

      (1)   If  an  approval  is  in  force  under  section  87(2)  for  the
         designated group employer to lodge a joint return:

         (a)      the amount of payroll tax payable by the designated  group
             employer on taxable wages paid or payable in a  month  by  the
             employers covered by the  return  is  the  amount  of  dollars
             calculated in accordance with the following formula:

             [pic]

             where:

            JTW is the total taxable wages paid or payable during the  month
             by the employers  covered  by  the  return  (as members  of  a
             group).

            D is the deductible amount mentioned in clause 10 or 11 (as  the
             case requires).

             R is the rate of tax mentioned in clause 3; and

         (b)      the amount of payroll tax payable by each employer who  is
             a member of the group but is not  covered  by  the  return  on
             taxable wages paid or payable by the employer in  a  month  is
             the amount  of  dollars  calculated  in  accordance  with  the
             following formula:

             [pic]

             where:

            TW is the total taxable wages paid or payable  by  the  employer
             concerned (as a member  of  the  group)  during  the  relevant
             month.

            R is the rate of tax mentioned in clause 3.

      (2)   If an approval under section 87(2)  is  not  in  force  for  the
         designated group employer:

         (a)      the amount of payroll tax payable by the designated  group
             employer on taxable wages paid or payable  by  the  designated
             group employer in a month is the amount of dollars  calculated
             in accordance with the following formula:

             [pic]

             where:

            TW is the total taxable wages paid or payable by the  designated
             group employer (as a member of a group) during the month.

            D is the deductible amount mentioned in clause 10 or 11 (as  the
             case requires).

            R is the rate of tax mentioned in clause 3; and

         (b)      the amount of payroll tax payable by each employer who  is
             a member of the group on taxable wages paid or payable by  the
             employer in a month is the amount  of  dollars  calculated  in
             accordance with the following formula:

             [pic]

             where:

            TW is the total taxable wages paid or payable  by  the  employer
             concerned (as a member  of  the  group)  during  the  relevant
             month.

            R is the rate of tax mentioned in clause 3.

      (3)   For subclauses (1)(a) and (2)(a), if D is equal to or more  than
         JTW or TW in respect  of  a  month  (as  the  case  requires),  the
         designated group employer is not required to  pay  payroll  tax  in
         respect of that month.

10    Deductible amount for groups that do not pay interstate wages

      (1)   For a group in which 1 or more members pay or are liable to  pay
         taxable wages in a month but no members pay or are  liable  to  pay
         interstate wages in that month, the deductible amount in respect of
         that month is  an  amount  not  exceeding  the  amount  in  dollars
         calculated in accordance with the following formula, as  determined
         in a manner approved by the Commissioner:

         TA
         12

         where:

         TA is the threshold amount for the financial  year  as  defined  in
         Schedule 1, clause 1.

      (2)   Subclause (1) applies whether group members pay  or  are  liable
         to pay wages for the whole of the month or only part of the month.

11    Deductible amount for groups that pay interstate wages

      (1)   The deductible amount for a group in which  1  or  more  members
         pay or are liable to pay taxable wages or  interstate  wages  in  a
         month  is  an  amount  determined  in  a  manner  approved  by  the
         Commissioner.

      (2)   The deductible amount claimed cannot be  more  than  the  amount
         mentioned in clause 10(1).

Division 4  Groups with no designated group employer

12    Application of Division

         This Division applies only to an employer who  is  a  member  of  a
         group of which there is no designated group employer.

13    Amount of payroll tax to be paid each month

         The amount of payroll tax payable by each member of  the  group  on
         taxable wages paid or payable by the  member  in  a  month  is  the
         amount of dollars  calculated  in  accordance  with  the  following
         formula:

         where:

         TW is the total taxable wages  paid  or  payable  by  the  employer
         concerned (as a member of the group) during the relevant month.

         R is the rate of tax mentioned in clause 3.

Part 3      Payroll tax for financial year

14    Payroll tax for financial year for group  that  has  designated  group
         employer

      (1)   This clause applies to a group if:

         (a)      there is a designated group employer of the group; and

         (b)      the total taxable  wages  and  interstate  wages  paid  or
             payable by the group during the financial year  is  more  than
             the group threshold amount; and

         (c)      clause 9 of Schedule 1 does not apply to the group.

      (2)   The designated group employer of the group is liable to  pay  as
         payroll tax for the financial year the amount of dollars calculated
         in accordance with the following formula:

         [pic]

      (3)   In this clause:

         AD or annual deduction means the following:

         (a)      if the amount worked out in accordance  with  the  formula
             set out in paragraph (b) is zero or a negative amount – zero;

         (b)      otherwise – the amount worked out in accordance  with  the
             following formula:

         [pic]

         GIW is the total interstate wages paid or payable by the members of
         the group during the relevant financial year.

         GTA, see Schedule 1, clause 8.

         GTW is the total taxable wages paid or payable by  the  members  of
         the group during the relevant financial year.

         R is 5.5%.

         Note for clause 14

         For the calculation of the payroll tax payable for a financial year
         by an employer who is a member of a group  of  which  there  is  no
         designated group employer, see clause 12 of Schedule 1.

15    Adjustment of payroll tax for group

      (1)   If an amount of  payroll  tax  paid  for  a  financial  year  in
         respect of a group is greater than the correct  amount  of  payroll
         tax payable in respect of the financial year  for  the  group,  the
         Commissioner (on application by a member of the group) is to refund
         the amount equal to the difference to the designated group employer
         of the group or, if  the  Commissioner  considers  it  appropriate,
         another member of the group.

      (2)   If an amount of  payroll  tax  paid  for  a  financial  year  in
         respect of a group is less than the correct amount of  payroll  tax
         payable in respect  of  the  financial  year  for  the  group,  the
         designated group employer of the  group  or,  if  the  Commissioner
         considers it appropriate, another member of the group, must pay the
         Commissioner as payroll tax an amount equal to the difference.

Part 4      Exemptions

Division 1  Education and training

16    Schools and colleges

         Wages are exempt wages if they are paid or payable by a  school  or
         college (other than a technical  school  or  a  technical  college)
         that:

         (a)      provides  education  at  or  below,  but  not  above,  the
             secondary level of education; and

         (b)      is carried on by a body corporate, society or  association
             otherwise than for the  purpose  of  profit  or  gain  to  the
             individual  members  of  the  body   corporate,   society   or
             association and is not carried on  by  or  on  behalf  of  the
             Territory.

17    Apprentices and trainees

      (1)   Wages are exempt wages  if  they  are  paid  or  payable  to  an
         employee who is an apprentice or trainee.

      (2)   Despite subsection (1), wages paid or payable to  a  trainee  by
         an employer  are  not  exempt  wages  if,  immediately  before  the
         commencement of the trainee's traineeship with  the  employer,  the
         trainee had been employed by the employer for a  continuous  period
         of:

         (a)      for a full-time employee – 3 months or more; or

         (b)      for a part-time or casual employee – 12 months or more.

      (3)   In this clause:

         apprentice, see section 5 of the Training  and  Skills  Development
         Act 2016.

         trainee, see section 6  of  the  Training  and  Skills  Development
         Act 2016.

Division 2  Health care service providers

19    What is a health care service provider

         For Part 4, Division 3 of this Act, a health care service  provider
         is:

         (a)      a public hospital; or

         (b)      a hospital that is carried on by a society or  association
             otherwise than for  the  profit  or  gain  to  the  individual
             members of the society or association.

Division 3  Paternity leave

20    Paternity leave

      (1)   Wages are exempt wages  if  they  are  paid  or  payable  to  an
         employee in respect of leave (paternity leave):

         (a)      given to a male employee in connection with:

             (i) the pregnancy of a female carrying his unborn child; or

             (ii)      the birth of his child; and

         (b)      that is not sick leave, recreation leave, annual leave  or
             any similar leave.

      (2)   For subclause (1), it is immaterial whether the leave  is  taken
         during or after the pregnancy.

      (3)   The exemption is limited to wages paid or payable in respect  of
         a maximum of 14 weeks paternity  leave  given  to  an  employee  in
         respect of any one pregnancy.

      (4)   In subclause (3):

         (a)      a  reference  to  14  weeks  paternity  leave  includes  a
             reference to an equivalent period of leave at a  reduced  rate
             of pay; and

         (b)      a reference to wages paid  or  payable  in  respect  of  a
             period of leave is a reference to the total wages  that  would
             normally have been paid or payable for that period of leave.

         Example for subclause (4)

         For a part-time employee, the exemption may apply to wages paid  or
         payable for paternity leave that extends to 28 weeks at half of the
         part-time rate of pay that would normally apply to the employee.

      (5)   The exemption does not apply  to  any  part  of  wages  paid  or
         payable  in  respect  of  paternity  leave  that  comprises  fringe
         benefits.

      (6)   An  employer  wishing  to  claim  an  exemption  in  respect  of
         paternity leave given  to  an  employee  must  obtain  and  keep  a
         statutory declaration by the employee stating that:

         (a)      a female is or was pregnant  with  the  employee's  unborn
             child; or

         (b)      the employee's child has been born and  the  date  of  the
             birth.

         Note for subclause (6)

         Section 79 of the Taxation Administration Act 2007  requires  these
         records to be kept for at least  5 years  unless  the  Commissioner
         authorises earlier destruction.

Division 4  Hiring resident employees

20A   Definitions

         In this Division:

         baseline count, in respect of an employer, means the  total  number
         of resident employees employed by the employer on 30 April 2018.

         resident employee  means  an  employee  whose  principal  place  of
         residence is in the Territory.

20B   Relocating or replacing employees with resident employees on or  after
         1 May 2018

      (1)   Wages are exempt wages if:

         (a)      the wages are paid or payable to a resident employee; and

         (b)      the resident employee was an employee of the  employer  on
             30 April 2018; and

         (c)       the  resident  employee  formerly  resided  outside   the
             Territory but relocated to a principal place of  residence  in
             the Territory on or after 1 May 2018 and before 1 July 2021.

         Example for subclause (1)

         A fly-in fly-out employee relocates to the Territory on 1 September
         2018. The employer can  claim  the  exemption,  regardless  of  the
         baseline count.

      (2)   Wages are exempt wages if:

         (a)      the wages are paid or payable to a resident employee; and

         (b)      the resident employee was hired on or after 1 May 2018 and
             before 1 July 2021; and

         (c)      the resident  employee  was  hired  to  replace  a  former
             employee whose principal place of residence  was  outside  the
             Territory; and

         (d)      the former employee was an employee  of  the  employer  on
             30 April 2018; and

         (e)      the replacement  occurred  within  6 months  of  when  the
             former employee ceased to be an employee.

         Example for subclause (2)

         A fly-in fly-out employee, hired before 1 May 2018,  ceases  to  be
         employed. The position is filled within 6 months by a new  employee
         who lives in the Territory. The employer can  claim  an  exemption,
         regardless of the baseline count.

20C   Hiring new resident employees on or after 1 May 2018

      (1)   Wages are exempt wages if:

         (a)      the wages are paid or payable to a resident employee; and

         (b)      the resident employee was hired on or after 1 May 2018 and
             before 1 July 2021.

      (2)   The number of resident employees for which the  exemption  under
         subclause (1) is available in a month is limited to the  number  of
         resident employees, calculated on the last day of the  month,  that
         exceeds the  baseline  count,  less  the  number  of  any  resident
         employees mentioned in clause 20B.

         Example for clause 20C

         An employer had 50 resident employees on 30  April  2018  (baseline
         count). None of the resident employees were of the  kind  mentioned
         in clause 20B. In May 2018, 3 resident employees resigned and  were
         replaced by 4  more  resident  employees.  Under  this  clause  the
         exemption is only available for 1 of those 4 resident employees.

20D   Other conditions

      (1)   The  exemptions  under  this  Division  are  available  only  in
         respect of wages paid or payable during the 2-year period beginning
         on the date the resident employee's wages first became eligible for
         the exemption.

         Example for subclause (1)

         If a resident employee is hired on 1 September 2018 and  the  wages
         are eligible for the exemption, the  exemption  is  available  only
         until 31 August 2020.

      (2)   The exemptions under this Division apply in relation to:

         (a)      a full-time employee; and

         (b)      a part-time employee; and

         (c)      a person taken to be an employee under Part 3,  Division 7
             of this Act.

      (3)   The exemptions under this Division do not apply in relation to:

         (a)      a casual employee; or

         (b)      a person taken to be an employee under Part 3,  Division 8
             of this Act.

20E   Record keeping

         An employer wishing to claim an exemption under this Division  must
         obtain and keep sufficient records to satisfy the requirements  for
         the claim.

         Note for clause 20E

         Section 79 of the Taxation Administration Act 2007  requires  these
         records to be kept for at least  5 years  unless  the  Commissioner
         authorises earlier destruction.

20F   Power to vary or refuse

      (1)   The Commissioner  may  make  an  order  under  subclause (2)  if
         satisfied that:

         (a)      despite the appearance of an increase  in  the  number  of
             resident employees  after  30 April  2018,  in  substance,  no
             material change in that number occurred; or

         (b)      the claim, the baseline  count  or  other  information  on
             which a claim is made is not based on an  accurate  reflection
             of  the  employer's  situation  or  the  circumstance  of  the
             employer's employees; or

         (c)      the claim is not justified by any material benefit to  the
             employment of resident employees; or

         (d)      the structure of the employer's business has significantly
             changed since 30 April 2018.

      (2)   The Commissioner may, by order:

         (a)      vary or refuse, in whole or  in  part,  a  claim  for  the
             exemption; or

         (b)      vary the baseline  count  for  an  employer,  or  allocate
             baseline counts among employers.

20G   Guidelines

      (1)   The Commissioner may issue written guidelines  about  exemptions
         and other matters under this Division.

      (2)   A guideline may be of general or specific application.

      (3)   A claim for an exemption is taken to be a  valid  claim  to  the
         extent that it complies with the guidelines  in  force  under  this
         clause.

      (4)   A guideline does not affect:

         (a)      the exercise by the Commissioner of  a  power  under  this
             Act; or

         (b)      the right of a person to have the Commissioner exercise  a
             power under this Act.

Part 5      Government bodies – special provisions

21    Application of Act to  Government  Business  Divisions  and  statutory
         corporations

      (1)   A Government Business Division is taken to be  an  employer  for
         this Act.

      (2)   A Government Business Division or statutory corporation  (rather
         than the Commissioner for Public Employment) will be  regarded  for
         this Act as the employer of all employees assigned to work in it.

      (3)   If a Government Business Division is  not  a  corporation,  this
         Act applies to it as if it were a corporation.

      (4)   In this clause:

         Government Business Division means an Agency or a part of an Agency
         that:

         (a)      is a Government Business Division as  defined  in  section
             3(1) of the Financial Management Act 1995; and

         (b)      is not excluded by regulation from the operation  of  this
             clause.

Schedule 3  Repealed Acts

                                                                 section 102

|Pay-roll Tax Ordinance 1978                   |Act No. 47 of 1978 |
|Pay-roll Tax Act 1979                         |Act No. 71 of 1979 |
|Pay-roll Tax Act (No. 2) 1979                 |Act No. 125 of 1979|
|Pay-roll Tax Act 1980                         |Act No. 46 of 1980 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 1980               |Act No. 14 of 1981 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 1981               |Act No. 80 of 1981 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 1982               |Act No. 88 of 1982 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 1985               |Act No. 14 of 1985 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act (No. 2) 1985       |Act No. 29 of 1985 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 1986               |Act No. 62 of 1986 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 1987               |Act No. 3 of 1987  |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 1988               |Act No. 41 of 1988 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 1991               |Act No. 22 of 1991 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 1992               |Act No. 50 of 1992 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 1993               |Act No. 58 of 1993 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 1994               |Act No. 40 of 1994 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 1999               |Act No. 29 of 1999 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 2000               |Act No. 34 of 2000 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 2001               |Act No. 49 of 2001 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 2002               |Act No. 43 of 2002 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act (No. 2) 2002       |Act No. 52 of 2002 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act (No. 3) 2002       |Act No. 74 of 2002 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 2003               |Act No. 36 of 2003 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 2004               |Act No. 39 of 2004 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 2005               |Act No. 27 of 2005 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment Act 2007               |Act No. 26 of 2007 |
|Pay-roll Tax Amendment (Harmonisation) Act    |Act No. 22 of 2008 |
|2008                                          |                   |

                                  ENDNOTES

1     KEY
                            Key to abbreviations

amd = amended                     od = order
app = appendix                    om = omitted
bl = by-law                       pt = Part
ch = Chapter                            r = regulation/rule
cl = clause                       rem = remainder
div = Division                          renum = renumbered
exp = expires/expired                   rep = repealed
f = forms                         s = section
Gaz = Gazette                           sch = Schedule
hdg = heading                           sdiv = Subdivision
ins = inserted                          SL = Subordinate Legislation
lt = long title                         sub = substituted
nc = not commenced

2     LIST OF LEGISLATION

|Payroll Tax Act 2009 (Act No. 18, 2009)                           |
|Assent date          |25 June 2009                                |
|Commenced            |1 July 2009 (s 2)                           |
|Payroll Tax Amendment Act 2010 (Act No. 1, 2010)                  |
|Assent date          |17 March 2010                               |
|Commenced            |1 July 2009 (s 2)                           |
|Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2011 (Act No. 21, 2011)         |
|Assent date          |24 June 2011                                |
|Commenced            |pt 2: 3 May 2011; rem: 1 July 2011 (s 2)    |
|Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2012 (Act No. 20, 2012)         |
|Assent date          |30 June 2012                                |
|Commenced            |1 July 2012 (s 2)                           |
|Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2013 (Act No. 20, 2013)         |
|Assent date          |18 June 2013                                |
|Commenced            |1 July 2013 (s 2)                           |
|Emergency Management Act 2013 (Act No. 27, 2013)                  |
|Assent date          |8 November 2013                             |
|Commenced            |27 November 2013 (Gaz S63, 27 November 2013)|
|Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2015 (Act No. 18,     |
|2015)                                                             |
|Assent date          |23 June 2015                                |
|Commenced            |pt 2 and pt 5, divs 1 to 4: 28 April 2015;  |
|                     |pts 3 and 4, pt 5, divs 5 to 8 and pt 6: 1  |
|                     |July 2015; rem: 23 June 2015 (s 2)          |
|Bushfires Management Act 2016 (Act No. 14, 2016)                  |
|Assent date          |7 June 2016                                 |
|Commenced            |1 November 2016 (Gaz S111, 27 October 2016) |
|Revenue and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2017 (Act No. 13,     |
|2017)                                                             |
|Assent date          |27 June 2017                                |
|Commenced            |1 July 2017 (s 2)                           |
|Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2018 (Act No. 14, 2018)         |
|Assent date          |28 June 2018                                |
|Commenced            |pts 3, 4 and 6 (except ss 34 and 36(3)): 1  |
|                     |May 2018; pt 2, divs 1 and 2, pt 5, ss 34   |
|                     |and 36(3) and pt 7: 1 July 2018; pt 2, div 3|
|                     |and pt 8: 1 July 2019 (s 2)                 |
|Treasury and Finance Legislation Amendment Act 2020 (Act No. 28,  |
|2020)                                                             |
|Assent date          |15 December 2020                            |
|Commenced            |pts 2 and 3: 1 July 2020 (s 2(2)); pt 4: 1  |
|                     |December 2020 (s 2(3)); rem: 16 December    |
|                     |2020 (s 2(1))                               |
|Local Government Act 2019 (Act No. 39, 2019)                      |
|Assent date          |13 December 2019                            |
|Commenced            |pt 8.6: 1 July 2022; rem: 1 July 2021 (Gaz  |
|                     |S27, 30 June 2021)                          |
|Amending Legislation                                              |
|Statute Law Revision Act 2020 (Act No. 26, 2020)                  |
|Assent date              |19 November 2020                       |
|Commenced                |20 November 2020 (s 2)                 |
|Local Government Amendment Act 2021 (Act No. 15, 2021)            |
|Assent date              |25 May 2021                            |
|Commenced                |26 May 2021 (s 2)                      |
|Pay-roll Amendment Act 2025 (Act No. 1, 2025)                     |
|Assent date          |18 February 2025                            |
|Commenced            |1 July 2025 (s 2)                           |
|Revenue Legislation Amendment Act 2025 (Act No. 17, 2025)         |
|Assent date          |26 June 2025                                |
|Commenced            |1 July 2025 (s 2 and s 2 Payroll Tax        |
|                     |Amendment Act 2025 (Act No. 1, 2025))       |

3     GENERAL AMENDMENTS

           General amendments of a formal nature (which are not referred to
           in the table of amendments to this  reprint)  are  made  by  the
           Interpretation Legislation Amendment Act 2018 (Act No. 22, 2018)
           to: ss 1, 3, 4, 54, 55, 56, 103 and 112 and sch 2.

4     LIST OF AMENDMENTS

s 3   amd No. 1, 2010, s 4; No. 21, 2011, s 14; No. 18, 2015, s 14; No.  39,
           2019, s 370
ss 10 – 11  sub No. 1, 2010, s 5
ss 11A – 11C     ins No. 1, 2010, s 5
s 13  amd No. 1, 2010, s 6
s 18  amd No. 21, 2011, s 15
s 19  amd No. 21, 2011, s 16
s 23  amd No. 21, 2011, s 17
s 24  amd No. 1, 2010, s 7; No. 21, 2011, s 18
s 25  rep No. 1, 2010, s 8
s 26  amd No. 1, 2010, s 9
s 29  amd No. 13, 2017, s 8
s 32  amd No. 18, 2015, s 15
s 40  amd No. 18, 2015, s 16
pt 4
div 1 hdg   sub No. 18, 2015, s 17
s 48  sub No. 18, 2015, s 17
ss 48A – 48B     ins No. 18, 2015, s 17
s 48C ins No. 18, 2015, s 17
      amd No. 17, 2025, s 11
ss 48D – 48E     ins No. 18, 2015, s 17
s 52  amd No. 18, 2015, s 18
s 53  amd No. 20, 2012, s 4
s 55  amd No. 14, 2016, s 120
s 56  amd No. 27, 2013, s 128
pt 4
div 9 hdg   ins No. 1, 2010, s 10
s 66A ins No. 1, 2010, s 10
s 80  amd No. 21, 2011, s 19; No. 1, 2025, s 4
s 86  amd No. 21, 2011, s 20
pt 10 hdg   amd No. 21, 2011, s 21
pt 11 hdg   exp No. 18, 2009, s 116
      ins No. 1, 2010, s 11
      sub No. 18, 2015, s 19
pt 11
div 1 hdg   ins No. 18, 2015, s 19
s 113 exp No. 18, 2009, s 116
      ins No. 1, 2010, s 11
pt 12 hdg   ins No. 21, 2011, s 22
      rep No. 18, 2015, s 20
pt 11
div 2 hdg   ins No. 18, 2015, s 20
ss 114 – 115     exp No. 18, 2009, s 116
      ins No. 21, 2011, s 22
pt 11
div 3 hdg   ins No. 18, 2015, s 21
s 116 exp No. 18, 2009, s 116
      ins No. 18, 2015, s 21
ss 117 – 118     ins No. 18, 2015, s 21
pt 11
div 4 hdg   ins No. 14, 2018, s 23
s 119 ins No. 14, 2018, s 23
pt 11
div 5 hdg   ins No. 1, 2025, s 5
s 120 ins No. 1, 2025, s 5
pt 11
div 6 hdg   ins No. 17, 2025, s 12
s 121 ins No. 17, 2025, s 12
sch 1 amd No. 21, 2011, s 23; No. 20, 2013, s 14; No. 1, 2025, s 6
sch 2 amd No. 21, 2011, s 24; No. 20, 2012, s 5; No. 20,  2013,  s  15;  No.
           18, 2015, s 22; No. 14, 2018, s 24; No. 28, 2020, s  4;  No.  1,
           2025, s 7

-----------------------
[pic]
