TRUSTEE ACT 1925
 
 
- As at 28 September 2020
 
- Act 14 of 1925
 
 
 
 
 

TABLE OF PROVISIONS
 

TABLE OF PROVISIONS

PART 1A - PRELIMINARY
1. Name of Act and commencement

2. (Repealed)

3. Repeals

4. Notes

PART 1 - INTERPRETATION
5. Definitions

PART 2 - TRUSTEES
Division 1 - Appointment, retirement, disclaimer, and ceasing to be executor
6. New trustee

7. Additional trustee

8. Retirement

9. Vesting

10. Renunciation of probate

11. Ceasing to be executor

12. Registration

13. Protection of purchasers

Division 2 - Powers and duties
14. Powers of investment

14A. Duties of trustee in respect of power of investment

14B. Law and equity preserved

14C. Matters to which trustee is to have regard when exercising power of
investment

14D. Powers of trustee in relation to securities

14DA. Power to purchase dwelling-house as residence for beneficiary

14DB. Guidelines for trustees

14E. Advisory committee

14F. Investment in securities under Reserve Bank RITS system

15, 16. (Repealed)

17. Accepting a short title

18. Ratio of loan to value

19. Loss on mortgages

20. Release of part of the security

21. Arrangement with company

21A. Building societies and credit unions--transfers of engagements and
amalgamations

22. New shares in a company

23. Calls on shares

24. Accrued interest on debentures or stock sold or purchased

25. Continued holding

26. Powers incident to sale

27. Duration of trust or power to sell

27A. (Repealed)

27B. Postponement of sale

27C. Purchaser under a trust for sale

28. Deferred payment on sale of land

29. Sale or purchase under Conveyancing Act 1919

30. Depreciatory conditions

31. Sale of part of land

32. Sale exchange and partition

32A. Power to purchase equity of redemption in lieu of foreclosure

33. Sale after right of redemption barred

34. Release of equity of redemption in discharge of mortgage debt

35. Surrender of onerous lease

36. Leasing

37. Renewal of renewable leasehold

38. Raising money

39. Protection of purchasers or mortgagees

39A. Application of income by trustee-mortgagee in possession

39B. Validation of certain payments by trustee-mortgagee in possession

40. Powers

41. Insurance

42. Application of insurance money

42A. Maintenance for adult beneficiaries

43. Maintenance for infant beneficiaries and accumulation--instruments that
came into operation on or after 1 March 1926

43A. Maintenance for infant beneficiaries and accumulation--instruments that
came into operation before 1 March 1926

44. Advancement

45. Protective trusts

45A. Equitable life tenant--conditions on entry into possession

46. Appropriation

47. Payment to the NSW Trustee or a trustee company

48. Receipts

49. Compounding

50. Deposit for safe custody

51. Audit

52. Valuation

53. Employment of agents

54. Banks, building societies and credit unions

54A. Banker may recognise certain signatures and endorsements

55. Foreign property

56. Undivided interests

57. Two or more trustees

58. Powers of attorney

59. Implied indemnity

60. Distribution after notice

61. Distribution where estate comprises leaseholds, and in certain other cases

61A. Personal liability of legal representative or trustee

62. Notice

63. Advice

Division 3 - Delegation
64. Execution of trust

65. Consent to exercise of trust or power

66. Persons dealing with delegate

67. Power of attorney

68. Registration

Division 4 - Statute of limitations
69. (Repealed)

PART 3 - POWERS OF THE COURT
Division 1 - New trustees and vesting orders
70. New trustees

71. Vesting orders

72. Contingent rights of unborn persons

73. (Repealed)

74. Minor or insane mortgagee

75. Deceased mortgagee

76. Sale or mortgage of land

77. Specific performance, and other matters

78. Effect of vesting order

79. Appointment of person to convey

80. Trustees of charities

Division 2 - Dealings and improvements
81. Advantageous dealings

82. Improvements and repairs

82A. Improvement and repairs without the approval of the Court

83. (Repealed)

84. Sale of minor's property

Division 3 - Relief and indemnity
85. Excusable breaches of trust

86. Indemnity for breach of trust

Division 3A - Power of Court to vary trusts
86A. Court order to approve arrangement

86B. Court order to benefit person subject to application

86C. Court may direct notice of application to certain persons

Division 4 - Miscellaneous powers
87. Division of chattels

88. Order in absence of a trustee

89. Proceedings under Mental Health Act 1958

90. Court may take into account investment strategy in action for breach of
trust

90A. Power of Court to set off gains and losses arising from investment

Division 5 - Applications and orders
91. Defendants

92. Persons entitled to apply

93. Costs

94. (Repealed)

PART 4 - PAYMENT INTO COURT
95. Trustees

96. Person liable to minor or person of unsound mind

97. Life assurance companies

98. Money or securities

99. Trustee

PART 5 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
100. Escheat

100A. Limitation of liability of beneficiaries in respect of trustees

101. Property vested in the NSW Trustee

102. Account by fiduciary

103. Indemnity

104. Rules of Court

104A. Regulations

105, 106. (Repealed)

107. Savings and transitional provisions

SCHEDULE 1
SCHEDULE 2

 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- LONG TITLE
 
 
An Act to amend and consolidate the law relating to trustees and trust
property; to amend in certain respects the law relating to executors and
administrators; to amend the Wills, Probate and Administration Act 1898 and
certain other Acts; and for purposes connected therewith.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 1
Name of Act and commencement
 
 
1 Name of Act and commencement
     (1) This Act may be cited as the Trustee Act 1925.
     (2) This Act shall commence and come into operation on the first day
     of March, one thousand nine hundred and twenty-six.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 3
Repeals
 
 
3 Repeals
     (1) The Acts mentioned in the Schedule to this Act are to the extent
     therein expressed hereby repealed.
     (2) All rules of court made under the authority of any Act hereby
     repealed and being in force at the commencement of this Act shall so
     far as applicable be deemed to have been made under the authority of
     this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 4
Notes
 
 
4 Notes
Notes in the text of this Act do not form part of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 5
Definitions
 
 
5 Definitions
In the interpretation of this Act, unless the context or subject-matter
otherwise indicates or requires--

"Administrator" means administrator within the meaning of the Probate and
Administration Act 1898 and includes the NSW Trustee acting as collector of an
estate under an order to collect.

"Contingent right", as applied to land, includes a contingent or executory
interest, a possibility coupled with an interest, whether the object of the
gift or limitation of the interest or possibility is or is not ascertained,
also a right of entry, whether immediate or future, and whether vested or
contingent.

"Convey" and
"conveyance", applied to any person, include the execution or doing by that
person of every necessary or suitable assurance act and thing for conveying,
assigning, appointing, surrendering, or otherwise transferring or disposing of
property.

"Court" means the Supreme Court.

"Executor" means the executor to whom probate has been granted and includes an
executor by right of representation.

"Government securities" include Government stocks, funds, bonds, debentures and
Treasury bills.

"Incapable person" means a person not a minor who is incapable through mental
infirmity, arising from disease or age, of managing his or her affairs, but who
is not an insane person.

"Insane person" means a person who has been found or declared, whether by
inquisition or under any Lunacy Act in force at the time, to be insane or of
unsound mind and incapable of managing himself or herself or his or her
affairs.

"Instrument" includes deed will and Act of Parliament.

"Joint tenant" includes joint owner.

"Land" includes tenements and hereditaments, corporeal and incorporeal, and
every estate and interest therein, whether vested or contingent, freehold or
leasehold, and whether at law or in equity, in severalty or otherwise.

"Legal representative" means executor or administrator.

"Minor" means a person under the age of eighteen years.

"Mortgage" includes and relates to every estate and interest regarded in equity
as merely a security for money.

"Mortgagee" includes any person from time to time deriving title to the
mortgage under the original mortgagee.

"Mortgagor" includes any person from time to time deriving title to the equity
of redemption under the original mortgagor, or entitled to redeem a mortgage,
according to the person's estate interest or right in the mortgaged property.

"NSW Trustee" means the NSW Trustee and Guardian constituted under the NSW
Trustee and Guardian Act 2009.

"Order" includes judgment.

"Pay into court" and
"payment into court" in relation to stocks and securities, include the deposit
or transfer of the same in or into court.

"Possessed" extends to receipt of income of, and to any vested estate less than
a life estate, legal or equitable, in possession or in expectancy, in any
property.

"Property" includes real and personal property, and any estate or interest in
any property, real or personal, and any debt, and any thing in action, and any
claim or demand, and any other right or interest, whether in possession or not.

"Purchaser" includes a lessee or mortgagee, or other person who for valuable
consideration takes or deals for any property; and
"purchase" has a meaning corresponding with that of purchaser; but
"sale" means only a sale properly so-called.

"Regulation" means regulation made under this Act.

"Right" includes estate and interest.

"Security" includes stocks, funds, shares.

"Stock" includes paid-up shares; and, so far as relates to vesting orders made
by the Court under this Act, includes any fund annuity or security transferable
in books kept by any corporation company or society, or by instrument of
transfer, either alone or accompanied by other formalities, and any share or
interest therein.

"Transfer" in relation to stock includes the performance and execution of every
deed, power of attorney, act, and thing on the part of the transferor to effect
and complete the title in the transferee.

"Trust" does not include the duties incident to an estate conveyed by way of
mortgage; but, with this exception, includes implied and constructive trusts,
and cases where the trustee has a beneficial interest in the trust property,
and the duties incident to the office of legal representative of a deceased
person.

"Trustee" has a meaning corresponding with that of trust; and includes legal
representative and the NSW Trustee and a trustee company.

"Trustee company" means an incorporated company authorised by Act of Parliament
of this State to act as trustee in New South Wales.

"Trustee for sale" means a trustee in whom a trust for sale or a power of sale
of property is vested.

"Will" includes codicil.
     Note : The Interpretation Act 1987 contains definitions and other
     provisions that affect the interpretation and application of this
     Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 6
New trustee
 
 
6 New trustee
     (1) A new trustee may by registered deed be appointed in place of a
     trustee, either original or substituted, and whether appointed by the
     Court or otherwise.
     (2) A new trustee may be so appointed in any of the following cases,
     namely--
          (a) where a trustee is dead,
          (b) where a trustee remains out of New South Wales for more
          than one year without having properly delegated the
          execution of the trust,
          (c) where a trustee remains out of New South Wales for more
          than two years,
          (d) where a trustee desires to be discharged from all or
          any of the trusts or powers reposed in or conferred on the
          trustee,
          (e) where a trustee refuses or is unfit to act in such
          trusts or powers, or is incapable of acting therein, or is
          a minor,
          (f) where a trustee is removed under a power contained in
          the instrument creating the trust,
          (g) where a trustee being a corporation is dissolved.
     Provided that a new trustee may not be appointed on the sole ground
     that a trustee remains out of New South Wales for more than two years
     if such trustee has delegated the execution of the trust pursuant to
     the Trustee and Wills (Emergency Provisions) Act 1940 and such
     delegation remains in force.
     (3) The person to be appointed a trustee may be the person, or one of
     the persons, by whom or with whose consent the appointment is or may
     be made.
     (4) The appointment may be made by the following persons, namely--
          (a) by the person or persons nominated for the purpose of
          appointing new trustees by the instrument, if any, creating
          the trust, or
          (b) if there is no such person, or no such person able and
          willing to act, then by the surviving or continuing
          trustees or trustee for the time being, or by the legal
          representative of the last surviving or continuing trustee.
     (5) The appointment may be made for the whole or any part of the
     trust property, and on the appointment--
          (a) two or more trustees may be appointed concurrently,
          (b) the number of trustees may be increased, but not beyond
          four,
          (c) a separate set of trustees may be appointed for any
          distinct part of the trust property, that is to say, for
          any part for the time being held on trusts distinct from
          those relating to any other part or parts, notwithstanding
          that no new trustees or trustee are or is to be appointed
          for other parts, provided that the number of trustees in
          any separate set shall not exceed four,
          (d) any existing trustee may be appointed or remain one of
          the separate set of trustees,
          (e) if only one trustee was originally appointed, then one
          separate trustee may be appointed for the distinct part,
          (f) it shall not be obligatory to appoint more than one new
          trustee where only one trustee was originally appointed, or
          to fill up the original number of trustees where more than
          two trustees were originally appointed.
     (6) By the appointment a trustee in place of whom the new trustee is
     appointed shall be discharged from the trust, provided that, except
     where only one trustee was originally appointed, a trustee shall not
     be so discharged unless there will be left after the discharge at
     least two trustees, or the NSW Trustee, or a trustee company, to
     perform the trust.
     (7) Any conveyance or thing requisite for vesting the trust property,
     or any part thereof, jointly in the persons who are the trustees,
     shall be executed or done.
     (8) Every new trustee appointed under this section, as well before as
     after all the trust property becomes by law or by conveyance or
     otherwise vested in the new trustee, shall have the same powers
     authorities and discretions, and may in all respects act as if the
     new trustee had been originally appointed a trustee by the
     instrument, if any, creating the trust.
     (9) The provisions of this section relative to a trustee who is dead
     include the case of a person nominated trustee in a will but dying
     before the testator.
     (10) The provisions of this section relative to a person nominated
     for the purpose of appointing new trustees apply, whether the
     appointment is to be made in a case specified in this section or in a
     case specified in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, but
     where a new trustee is appointed under this section in a case
     specified in that instrument, the appointment shall be subject to the
     terms applicable to an appointment in that case under the provisions
     of that instrument.
     (11) The provisions of this section relative to a continuing trustee
     include a refusing or retiring trustee, if willing to act in the
     execution of the provisions of this section, provided that--
          (a) where there is in fact a continuing trustee, nothing in
          this section shall authorise a refusing or retiring trustee
          to act apart from the continuing trustee,
          (b) if a refusing or retiring trustee does not act in the
          execution of the provisions of this section, the fact that
          the refusing or retiring trustee was willing to act shall
          not affect the validity of an appointment made by any other
          person.
     (12) Nothing in this section shall give power to appoint any person
     as an executor or administrator.
     (13) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (12), this section
     applies only if and as far as a contrary intention is not expressed
     in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and shall have effect
     subject to the terms of that instrument and to the provisions therein
     contained.
     (14) This section applies to trusts created either before or after
     the commencement of this Act, and extends to the appointment of a new
     trustee where the case for the appointment arose before the
     commencement of this Act.
     (15) An appointment of a new trustee made before the commencement of
     this Act, under a power conferred by statute or by the instrument, if
     any, creating the trust, shall not be deemed to be invalid for the
     reason only that on the appointment the number of the trustees was
     increased or decreased, unless the increase or decrease was expressly
     forbidden by statute or by that instrument, but nothing in this
     subsection shall be deemed to invalidate any appointment of a new
     trustee made before the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 7
Additional trustee
 
 
7 Additional trustee
     (1) A new trustee may by registered deed be appointed in addition to
     any existing trustee or trustees.
     (2) A new trustee may be so appointed in any of the following cases,
     namely--
          (a) where a sole trustee other than the NSW Trustee or a
          trustee company is or has been originally appointed to act
          in a trust, or
          (b) where, in the case of any trust, there are not more
          than three trustees, either original or substituted, and
          whether appointed by the Court or otherwise, and none of
          the trustees is the NSW Trustee or a trustee company.
     (3) The person to be appointed a trustee may be the person, or one of
     the persons, by whom or with whose consent the appointment is or may
     be made.
     (4) The appointment may be made by the following persons, namely--
          (a) by the person or persons nominated for the purpose of
          appointing new trustees by the instrument, if any, creating
          the trust, or
          (b) if there is no such person, or no such person able and
          willing to act, then by the trustee or trustees for the
          time being.
     (5) The appointment may be made for the whole or any part of the
     trust property, and on the appointment--
          (a) two or more trustees may be appointed concurrently,
          (b) the number of trustees shall not be increased beyond
          four.
     (6) Except as provided by the instrument, if any, creating the trust,
     or by any statutory enactment to the contrary, it shall not be
     obligatory to appoint any additional trustee.
     (7) Subsections (7), (8), (10), (12), (13), and (14) of section 6
     shall apply to the appointment of an additional trustee.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 8
Retirement
 
 
8 Retirement
     (1) A trustee may by registered deed retire from the trust without
     any new trustee being appointed in the trustee's place.
     (2) A trustee may not so retire, unless the trustee's co-trustees and
     such other person, if any, as is empowered to appoint trustees,
     consent by the same or other registered deed to the retirement, and
     there will be left after the retirement at least two continuing
     trustees, or the NSW Trustee, or a trustee company, to perform the
     trust.
     (3) Two or more trustees may retire concurrently.
     (4) By the retirement the trustee shall be discharged from the trust,
     provided that, if in order to vest any part of the trust property in
     the continuing trustees alone, it is necessary that it should be duly
     transferred, the retiring trustee shall not be discharged in respect
     of that part until it is duly transferred.
     (5) At any time after the registration of the deed or deeds of
     consent and retirement the continuing trustees shall have the same
     powers authorities and discretions, and may in all respects act as if
     the retiring trustee were wholly discharged from the trust.
     (6) Any conveyance or thing required for vesting the trust property
     in the continuing trustees alone shall be executed or done.
     (7) Nothing in this section shall authorise any retirement from the
     office of an executor or administrator.
     (8) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (9) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 9
Vesting
 
 
9 Vesting
     (1) Where a new trustee is appointed, the execution and registration
     of the deed of appointment shall without any conveyance, except as
     otherwise provided in this section, vest in the persons who become
     and are the trustees for performing the trust, as joint tenants and
     for the purposes of the trust, the trust property for which the new
     trustee is appointed.
     (2) Where a trustee retires, the execution and registration of the
     deed or deeds of consent and retirement shall without any conveyance,
     except as otherwise provided in this section, vest in the continuing
     trustees alone as joint tenants and for the purposes of the trust,
     all the trust property which is jointly vested in the continuing
     trustees and the retiring trustee.
     (3) In the case of land subject to the provisions of the Real
     Property Act 1900, the property shall not vest until either--
          (a) the appropriate transfer is executed and registered, so
          that the property is duly transferred, or
          (b) an entry of the vesting is made by the Registrar-
          General.
     Any such entry shall have the same effect as if the property were
     duly transferred.
     (3A) In the case of any property subject to the provisions of the
     Closer Settlement Acts, the Crown Land Management Act 2016, the
     Mining Act 1992 or the Offshore Minerals Act 1999, or any other Act
     relating to Crown lands, the property shall not vest until either--
          (a) the appropriate transfer is executed and registered so
          that the property is duly transferred, or
          (b) an entry of the vesting is made in the appropriate
          register kept under the provisions of the Act to which such
          property is subject.
     Any such entry shall have the same effect as if the property were
     duly transferred.
     (4) In the following cases the property shall not vest until the
     appropriate transfer is executed and registered so that the property
     is duly transferred, that is to say, in the case of--
          (a) any property comprised in a mortgage for securing money
          subject to the trust, where the property is not either land
          subject to the provisions of the Real Property Act 1900 or
          land conveyed on trust for securing debentures or debenture
          stock,
          (c) any property a conveyance of which is required to be
          registered by or under any Act, whether of this State or
          otherwise, other than the Acts mentioned in subsections (3)
          and (3A).
     (5) In the case of any property that is only transferable in books
     kept by a corporation company or other body, or in manner directed by
     or under any Act, whether of this State or otherwise, the property
     shall not vest until it is duly transferred.
     (6) In the case of land held under a lease which contains any
     covenant condition or agreement against assignment or disposing of
     the land without licence or consent, the land shall not vest until it
     is duly transferred, unless--
          (a) before the execution of the deed of appointment, or the
          deed or deeds of consent and retirement, as the case may
          be, the requisite licence or consent to the assignment or
          disposition has been obtained, or
          (b) by virtue of any statute or rule of law the vesting
          would not operate as a breach of covenant or give rise to a
          forfeiture.
     In this subsection
     "lease" includes an underlease and an agreement for a lease or
     underlease.
     (7) If any property does not vest under this section until transfer
     or registration, the execution and registration of the deed of
     appointment, or of the deed or deeds of consent and retirement, as
     the case may be, shall nevertheless vest the right to call for a
     transfer of the property, and to sue for or recover the property.
     (8) This section extends to an appointment by deed, or a retirement
     by deed, under the provisions of the instrument, if any, creating the
     trust.
     (9) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 10
Renunciation of probate
 
 
10 Renunciation of probate
     (1) If a person who is appointed by will both executor and trustee
     thereof renounces probate, or after being duly cited fails to apply
     for probate, the renunciation or failure shall be deemed to be a
     disclaimer of the trust contained in the will.
     (2) Where a person is, by a will, appointed both executor and trustee
     thereof but probate of the will or administration with the will
     annexed is, by or under this or any other Act, granted or transferred
     to the NSW Trustee or a trustee company in the place of that person
     or in addition to that person, then the NSW Trustee or trustee
     company shall, without further appointment, be deemed to be appointed
     trustee or one of the trustees of the will, as the case may require.
     (3) This section applies only to a renunciation failure grant or
     transfer after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 11
Ceasing to be executor
 
 
11 Ceasing to be executor
     (1) If any property is vested in any person as executor of a will
     under which the person is the trustee of the property or is
     beneficially entitled thereto, such person may, at any time after all
     the executorial duties with respect to the property have been duly
     performed, declare by registered instrument in writing that he or she
     has ceased to hold the property as executor and that he or she holds
     the same as trustee or as beneficiary, as the case may be.
     (2) Where a declaration is so made, the property shall, except as
     otherwise provided in this section, be deemed to be held in
     accordance with the declaration.
     (3) In the case of land subject to the provisions of the Real
     Property Act 1900 --
          (a) where a declaration is so made that the executor holds
          as trustee, the property shall not be deemed to be so held
          until the Registrar-General enters a caveat forbidding the
          registration of any instrument not in accordance with the
          trusts and provisions declared and contained in the will so
          far as concerns the land affected by the declaration,
          (b) where a declaration is so made that the executor holds
          as beneficiary, the property shall not be deemed to be so
          held until the Registrar-General withdraws any inconsistent
          caveat.
     (4) This section applies to wills made either before or after the
     commencement of this Act, and whether the executorial duties have
     been performed before or after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 12
Registration
 
 
12 Registration
     (1) Any instrument by which a new trustee is appointed, or by which a
     trustee retires or disclaims, or by which an executor declares that
     the executor holds as trustee or as beneficiary, as the case may be,
     may be registered in the office of the Registrar-General in the
     manner and on payment of the fees prescribed by regulation under the
     Conveyancing Act 1919.
     (2) This section extends to an appointment or retirement, whether
     under this Part or under the provisions of the instrument creating
     the trust or otherwise, and to a consent to an appointment or
     retirement.
     (3) This section applies whether the trust does or does not relate to
     land subject to the provisions of the Real Property Act 1900.
     (4) In the case of land subject to the provisions of the Real
     Property Act 1900, where an appointment or retirement or an
     instrument by which an executor declares that the executor holds as
     trustee or as beneficiary, as the case may be, is registered, the
     Registrar-General is hereby authorised and directed to make an entry
     of the vesting of the trust property or to enter vary and withdraw
     caveats as may be proper in the circumstances--
     Provided that the Registrar-General shall not be bound so to do until
     a written request is made to the Registrar-General by the persons in
     whom the property is to be vested, such evidence is given as the
     Registrar-General may reasonably require, and such notice, if any, is
     given to any other person as the Registrar-General may direct.
     (5) Nothing in this section shall prevent an appointment retirement
     disclaimer or other instrument from being registered under any law
     now in force.
     (6) This section applies to instruments executed either before or
     after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 13
Protection of purchasers
 
 
13 Protection of purchasers
     (1) A statement contained in any registered deed by which a new
     trustee is appointed, to the effect that a trustee has remained out
     of New South Wales for more than one year without having properly
     delegated the execution of the trust, or has remained out of New
     South Wales for more than two years, or refuses or is unfit to act,
     or is incapable of acting, shall, in favour of a subsequent purchaser
     in good faith, be conclusive evidence of the matter so stated upon
     any question as to the validity of the appointment and of any vesting
     consequent thereon.
     (2) A statement contained in any registered instrument by which an
     executor declares that the executor holds any property as trustee or
     as beneficiary, as the case may be, to the effect that all
     executorial duties with respect to the property have been duly
     performed, shall in favour of a subsequent purchaser in good faith be
     conclusive evidence of the matter so stated upon any question as to
     the capacity in which the property was held.
     (3) The protection afforded by this section shall extend to the
     Registrar-General Crown Solicitor or other person registering or
     certifying title.
     (4) This section applies to deeds executed either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 14
Powers of investment
 
 
14 Powers of investment
A trustee may, unless expressly forbidden by the instrument (if any) creating
the trust--
     (a) invest trust funds in any form of investment, and
     (b) at any time vary any investment.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 14A
Duties of trustee in respect of power of investment
 
 
14A Duties of trustee in respect of power of investment
     (1) This section has effect subject to the instrument (if any)
     creating the trust.
     (2) A trustee must, in exercising a power of investment--
          (a) if the trustee's profession, business or employment is
          or includes acting as a trustee or investing money on
          behalf of other persons, exercise the care, diligence and
          skill that a prudent person engaged in that profession,
          business or employment would exercise in managing the
          affairs of other persons, or
          (b) if the trustee is not engaged in such a profession,
          business or employment, exercise the care, diligence and
          skill that a prudent person would exercise in managing the
          affairs of other persons.
          Note : Some Acts deem investments under the Acts to be
          investments that satisfy the prudent person test. See, for
          example, section 6.3 of the Government Sector Finance Act
          2018.
     (3) A trustee must exercise a power of investment in accordance with
     any provision of the instrument (if any) creating the trust that is
     binding on the trustee and requires the obtaining of any consent or
     approval with respect to trust investments.
     (4) A trustee must, at least once in each year, review the
     performance (individually and as a whole) of trust investments.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 14B
Law and equity preserved
 
 
14B Law and equity preserved
     (1) Any rules and principles of law or equity that impose a duty on a
     trustee exercising a power of investment continue to apply except to
     the extent that they are inconsistent with this or any other Act or
     the instrument (if any) creating the trust.
     (2) Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), a duty imposed
     by any rules and principles of law or equity includes the following--
          (a) a duty to exercise the powers of a trustee in the best
          interests of all present and future beneficiaries of the
          trust,
          (b) a duty to invest trust funds in investments that are
          not speculative or hazardous,
          (c) a duty to act impartially towards beneficiaries and
          between different classes of beneficiaries,
          (d) a duty to take advice.
     (3) Any rules and principles of law or equity that relate to a
     provision in an instrument creating a trust that purports to exempt,
     limit the liability of, or indemnify a trustee in respect of a breach
     of trust, continue to apply.
     (4) If a trustee is under a duty to take advice, the reasonable costs
     of obtaining the advice are payable out of trust funds.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 14C
Matters to which trustee is to have regard when exercising power of investment
 
 
14C Matters to which trustee is to have regard when exercising power of
investment
     (1) Without limiting the matters that a trustee may take into account
     when exercising a power of investment, a trustee must, so far as they
     are appropriate to the circumstances of the trust, if any, have
     regard to the following matters--
          (a) the purposes of the trust and the needs and
          circumstances of the beneficiaries,
          (b) the desirability of diversifying trust investments,
          (c) the nature of, and the risk associated with, existing
          trust investments and other trust property,
          (d) the need to maintain the real value of the capital or
          income of the trust,
          (e) the risk of capital or income loss or depreciation,
          (f) the potential for capital appreciation,
          (g) the likely income return and the timing of income
          return,
          (h) the length of the term of the proposed investment,
          (i) the probable duration of the trust,
          (j) the liquidity and marketability of the proposed
          investment during, and on the determination of, the term of
          the proposed investment,
          (k) the aggregate value of the trust estate,
          (l) the effect of the proposed investment in relation to
          the tax liability of the trust,
          (m) the likelihood of inflation affecting the value of the
          proposed investment or other trust property,
          (n) the costs (including commissions, fees, charges and
          duties payable) of making the proposed investment,
          (o) the results of a review of existing trust investments
          in accordance with section 14A (4).
     (2) A trustee may, having regard to the size and nature of the trust,
     do either or both of the following--
          (a) obtain and consider independent and impartial advice
          reasonably required for the investment of trust funds or
          the management of the investment from a person whom the
          trustee reasonably believes to be competent to give the
          advice,
          (b) pay out of trust funds the reasonable costs of
          obtaining the advice.
     (3) A trustee is to comply with this section unless expressly
     forbidden by the instrument (if any) creating the trust.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 14D
Powers of trustee in relation to securities
 
 
14D Powers of trustee in relation to securities
     (1) If securities of a body corporate are subject to a trust, the
     trustee may concur in any scheme or arrangement--
          (a) for or arising out of the reconstruction, reduction of
          capital or liquidation of, or the issue of shares by, the
          body corporate, or
          (b) for the sale of all or any part of the property and
          undertaking of the body corporate to another body
          corporate, or
          (c) for the acquisition of securities of the body
          corporate, or of control of the body corporate, by another
          body corporate, or
          (d) for the amalgamation of the body corporate with another
          body corporate, or
          (e) for the release, modification or variation of rights,
          privileges or liabilities attached to the securities, or
          any of them,
     in the same manner as if the trustee were beneficially entitled to
     the securities.
     (2) The trustee may accept instead of, or in exchange for, the
     securities subject to the trust securities of any denomination or
     description of another body corporate party to the scheme or
     arrangement.
     (3) If a conditional or preferential right to subscribe for
     securities in a body corporate is offered to a trustee in respect of
     a holding in that body corporate or another body corporate, the
     trustee may, as to all or any of the securities--
          (a) exercise the right and apply capital money subject to
          the trust in payment of the consideration, or
          (b) assign to any person, including a beneficiary under the
          trust, the benefit of the right, or the title to the right,
          for the best consideration that can be reasonably obtained,
          or
          (c) renounce the right.
     (4) A trustee accepting or subscribing for securities under this
     section is, for the purposes of any provision of this Division,
     exercising a power of investment.
     (5) A trustee may retain securities accepted or subscribed for under
     this section for any period for which the trustee could properly have
     retained the original securities.
     (6) The consideration for an assignment made under subsection (3) (b)
     is to be held as capital of the trust.
     (7) This section applies in relation to securities acquired before or
     after the commencement of the Trustee Amendment (Discretionary
     Investments) Act 1997, subject to the instrument (if any) creating
     the trust.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 14DA
Power to purchase dwelling-house as residence for beneficiary
 
 
14DA Power to purchase dwelling-house as residence for beneficiary
     (1) Without limiting section 14C and subject to the instrument (if
     any) creating the trust, a trustee may--
          (a) purchase a dwelling-house for a beneficiary to use as a
          residence, or
          (b) enter into any other agreement or arrangement to secure
          for a beneficiary a right to use a dwelling-house as a
          residence.
     (2) Despite the terms of the instrument (if any) creating the trust,
     a trustee may, if to do so would not unfairly prejudice the interests
     of other beneficiaries, retain as part of the trust property a
     dwelling-house for a beneficiary to use as a residence.
     (3) A dwelling-house purchased, retained or otherwise secured for use
     by the beneficiary as a residence may be made available to the
     beneficiary for that purpose on such terms and conditions consistent
     with the trust and the extent of the beneficiary's interest as the
     trustee thinks fit.
     (4) The trustee may retain a dwelling-house or any interest or rights
     in respect of a dwelling-house acquired under this section after the
     use of the dwelling-house by the beneficiary has ceased.
     (5) In this section,
     "dwelling-house" includes--
          (a) any building or part of a building designed, or
          converted or capable of being converted, for use as a
          residence, and
          (b) any amenities or facilities for use in association with
          the use of a dwelling-house.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 14DB
Guidelines for trustees
 
 
14DB Guidelines for trustees
     (1) The regulations may make provision for or with respect to
     guidelines for the investment by trustees of trust funds.
     (2) A trustee does not comply with section 14A merely by complying
     with any regulations made for the purposes of this section.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 14E
Advisory committee
 
 
14E Advisory committee
     (1) In this section,
     "Committee" means the committee constituted by subsection (2).
     (2) There is constituted by this subsection a committee consisting
     of--
          (a) the NSW Trustee, and
          (b) a master of the Court nominated by the Chief Justice of
          the Court and appointed by the Attorney General, and
          (c) an officer of the Treasury nominated by the Secretary
          of the Treasury and appointed by the Attorney General, and
          (d) 2 persons appointed by the Attorney General who, in the
          opinion of the Attorney General, have experience relevant
          to the function of the Committee.
     (3) The function of the Committee is to advise the Attorney General
     on matters relating to the investment of trust funds.
     (4) The Attorney General shall not be bound by the advice of the
     Committee.
     (5) The Committee may regulate its own procedure.
     (6) The Committee may seek the advice of such persons as it sees fit
     on matters related to the function of the Committee.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 14F
Investment in securities under Reserve Bank RITS system
 
 
14F Investment in securities under Reserve Bank RITS system
     (1) A chose in action arising under the RITS system and which
     entitles its holder to a security of a particular description (the
     "underlying security") is, for the purposes of this Act and the trust
     instrument creating a trust, taken to be the same in all respects as
     the underlying security.
     (2) Accordingly, the holding or acquisition by a trustee of such a
     chose in action is to be regarded as an investment by the trustee in
     the underlying security.
     (3) It does not matter that the right conferred by the chose in
     action is a right in respect of securities of a particular
     description and not in respect of particular securities.
     (4) This section applies to a trust created before or after the
     commencement of this section but applies only to the extent that the
     trust instrument creating the trust does not expressly forbid its
     application.
     (5) In this section--

     "the RITS system" means the Reserve Bank Information and Transfer
     System operated by the Reserve Bank of Australia, as operating from
     time to time.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 17
Accepting a short title
 
 
17 Accepting a short title
     (1) A trustee shall not be chargeable with breach of trust upon the
     ground only that in effecting the purchase of or in lending money
     upon the security of any property the trustee has accepted a shorter
     title than the title which a purchaser is, in the absence of a
     special condition, entitled to require, if in the opinion of the
     Court the title accepted be such as a person acting with prudence and
     caution would have accepted.
     (2) This section extends to transfers of existing securities as well
     as to new securities.
     (3) This section applies to investments made either before or after
     the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 18
Ratio of loan to value
 
 
18 Ratio of loan to value
     (1) A trustee lending money on the security of any property on which
     the trustee can lawfully lend shall not be chargeable with breach of
     trust by reason only of the proportion borne by the amount of the
     loan to the value of the property at the time when the loan was made,
     provided that the loan was made in accordance with this section.
     (2) In making the loan the trustee must have acted upon a report as
     to the value of the property made by a qualified valuer, instructed
     and employed by the trustee independently of any owner of the
     property.
     (3) The amount of the loan must not exceed--
          (a) two-thirds of the value of the property as stated in
          the report, or
          (b) 95 per cent of the value of the property as stated in
          the report if--
               (i) the repayment of the loan is insured under a
               contract of insurance issued by a prescribed
               insurer, and
               (ii) the mortgagee is the assignee of the benefit
               of that contract of insurance.
     (4) The loan must have been made under the advice of the valuer
     expressed in the report.
     (5) This section extends to transfers of existing securities as well
     as to new securities.
     (6) This section applies to investments made either before or after
     the commencement of this Act.
     (7) In this section--

     "prescribed insurer" means an insurer or an insurer of a class
     prescribed by the regulations.

     "qualified valuer" means (subject to the regulations) a person who--
          (a) has membership of the Australian Valuers Institute
          (other than associate or student membership), or
          (b) has membership of the Australian Property Institute
          (other than student or provisional membership), acquired in
          connection with his or her occupation as a valuer, or
          (c) has membership of the Royal Institution of Chartered
          Surveyors as a chartered valuer, or
          (d) is of a class prescribed by the regulations.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 19
Loss on mortgages
 
 
19 Loss on mortgages
     (1) Where a trustee improperly advances trust money on a mortgage
     security which would at the time of investment be a proper investment
     in all respects for a smaller sum than is actually advanced, then the
     trustee is only liable to make good the sum advanced in excess of the
     smaller sum with interest.
     (2) This section extends to transfers of existing mortgages as well
     as to new mortgages.
     (3) This section applies to investments made either before or after
     the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 20
Release of part of the security
 
 
20 Release of part of the security
     (1) Where any property is held by a trustee by way of security and
     the trustee has power under this Act or otherwise to invest on
     mortgage and to vary investments, the trustee--
          (a) may release part of the property from the mortgage,
          whether any part of the mortgage debt is repaid or not,
          provided that the unreleased part of the property would, at
          the time, be a proper investment in all respects for the
          amount remaining unpaid,
          (b) may, on a sale by the mortgagor or part of the
          mortgaged property and on the receipt by the trustee of the
          whole of the purchase money thereof after deduction of the
          expenses of the sale, release such part from the mortgage.
     (2) A subsequent purchaser of the released part of the property, or
     the Registrar-General Crown Solicitor or other person registering or
     certifying title, shall not be concerned to inquire whether the
     release was authorised by this section.
     (3) This section applies to securities created either before or after
     the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 21
Arrangement with company
 
 
21 Arrangement with company
     (1) Where any security of a company is held by a trustee, and the
     trustee can lawfully hold or retain the same, the trustee may, in
     like manner as if the trustee were beneficially entitled to the
     security, concur in any scheme or arrangement--
          (a) for the reconstruction of the company, or
          (b) for the amalgamation of the company with any other
          company, or
          (c) for the sale of all or any part of the property and
          undertaking of the company to any other company, or
          (d) for the release modification or variation of any rights
          privileges or liabilities attached to the security.
     (1A) Where any security of a company is held by a trustee, and the
     trustee can lawfully hold or retain the security, the trustee may, in
     like manner as if the trustee were beneficially entitled to the
     security, accept and carry out any proposal made in writing by or on
     behalf of another company for the purchase by that other company of
     any securities in the first-mentioned company in consideration of the
     allotment of securities in that other company whether with or without
     any other consideration in any case where--
          (a) the proposal is conditional upon the holders of a
          proportion (not being less than 75 per cent) in value of
          such of the securities in the first-mentioned company as
          have not already been acquired by that other company
          agreeing to deal with those securities in accordance with
          the proposal, and
          (b) a sufficient number of the holders of the securities in
          question (including the trustees) agree in writing to deal
          with the shares in accordance with the proposal.
     (2) In lieu of or exchange for the security the trustee may accept
     any security of any denomination or description of--
          (a) in the case of a scheme or arrangement referred to in
          subsection (1)--the reconstructed, new or purchasing
          company, or
          (b) in the case of a proposal referred to in subsection
          (1A)--the company that purchased the security.
     (3) The trustee shall not be responsible for any loss occasioned by
     any act or thing so done in good faith, and may hold and retain any
     security so accepted in like manner as the trustee could have done if
     the same had been an investment authorised by the instrument, if any,
     creating the trust or by law.
     (4) The powers conferred by this section shall be exercisable subject
     to the consent of any person whose consent to a change of investment
     is required by the instrument, if any, creating the trust or by law.
     (5) Anything done by a trustee before the commencement of this Act
     which would have been authorised by this section (subsection (1A)
     excepted) if then in force shall be deemed to have been and is hereby
     authorised by this Act.
     (6) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (7) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 21A
Building societies and credit unions--transfers of engagements and
amalgamations
 
 
21A Building societies and credit unions--transfers of engagements and
amalgamations
     (1) Where a trustee has invested trust funds in a building society or
     credit union and may lawfully retain the investment, the trustee may,
     as if the trustee were beneficially entitled to the investment,
     concur in--
          (a) a transfer of engagements of the building society or
          credit union to another building society or credit union,
          or
          (b) a merger of the building society or credit union under
          the Financial Institutions (New South Wales) Code.
     (2) Where the instrument creating a trust requires the consent of any
     person before an investment of the trust funds may be changed, the
     powers conferred by subsection (1) may not be exercised without the
     consent of that person.
     (3) This section applies only if, and as far as, a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     has effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (4) This section applies to trusts created before or after the
     commencement of Schedule 1 to the Trustee (Investment Powers)
     Amendment Act 1982.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 22
New shares in a company
 
 
22 New shares in a company
     (1) Where a preferential right to subscribe for a security in a
     company is offered to a trustee in respect of any holding in the
     company, the trustee may--
          (a) exercise the right and apply capital money subject to
          the trust in payment of the consideration, or
          (b) renounce the right, or
          (c) assign the benefit of the right for the best
          consideration that can reasonably be obtained to any
          person, including a beneficiary under the trust.
     (2) Where a trustee assigns the benefit of the right the
     consideration received by the trustee for the assignment shall be
     held as capital money of the trust.
     (2A) In any case in which the preferential right in subsection (1)
     referred to is offered to the trustee, the trustee may in any case in
     which the shares the subject-matter of the right are subject to a
     special or reserve liability, whether under the provisions of section
     254N of the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth or otherwise,
     in the event of the winding-up of the company exercise the right and
     hold the said shares as if they were part of the trustee's original
     holding in the company.
     (3) The trustee shall not be responsible for any loss occasioned by
     any act or thing so done in good faith.
     (4) The powers conferred by this section shall be exercisable subject
     to the consent of any person whose consent to a change of investment
     is required by law or by the instrument, if any, creating the trust.
     (5) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (6) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 23
Calls on shares
 
 
23 Calls on shares
     (1) A trustee may apply capital money subject to a trust in payment
     of the calls on any shares subject to the trust.
     (2) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (3) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 24
Accrued interest on debentures or stock sold or purchased
 
 
24 Accrued interest on debentures or stock sold or purchased
     (1) Where any payment received by a trustee in respect of a sale of
     debentures or inscribed stock bearing interest at a fixed rate shall
     be or include payment for the right to receive any interest accrued
     from the debentures or stock at the time of the sale, though the
     interest may not then be due, the amount of the accrued interest
     shall for the purposes of the trust be deemed to have been received
     as interest in respect of the period during which the interest so
     accrued.
     (2) Where any payment made by a trustee in respect of a purchase of
     any debentures or inscribed stock bearing interest at a fixed rate
     shall be or include payment for the right to receive any interest
     accrued from the debentures or stock at the time of the purchase,
     though the interest may not then be due, the amount of the accrued
     interest when received shall for the purposes of the trust be deemed
     to have been received as purchase money repaid.
     (4) Anything done by a trustee before the commencement of this Act
     which would have been authorised by this section if then in force
     shall be deemed to have been and is hereby authorised by this Act.
     (5) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (6) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 25
Continued holding
 
 
25 Continued holding
     (1) A trustee shall not be liable for breach of trust by reason only
     of the trustee's continuing to hold an investment which has ceased to
     be an investment authorised by the instrument, if any, creating the
     trust or by law.
     (2) This section applies to investments made either before or after
     the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 26
Powers incident to sale
 
 
26 Powers incident to sale
     (1) A trustee for sale may--
          (a) sell all or any part of the trust property,
          (b) sever and sell fixtures apart from the balance of the
          property,
          (c) grant and sell any easement right or privilege of any
          kind over or in relation to the property,
          (d) do anything that a mortgagee may do under subsection
          (1) of section 110 of the Conveyancing Act 1919 to the like
          extent as if the powers conferred by that subsection on a
          mortgagee in relation to the mortgaged property or any part
          thereof were in terms conferred by this subsection on the
          trustee in relation to the trust property or any part
          thereof,
          (e) join with any other person in doing anything under any
          of the preceding paragraphs of this subsection,
          (f) pay or apply capital money subject to the trust for any
          of the purposes mentioned in this subsection.
     (2) The sale may be subject to any such conditions respecting title
     or evidence of title or other matter as the trustee thinks fit, and
     may be--
          (a) either subject to prior charges or not,
          (b) either together or in lots, in subdivision or
          otherwise,
          (c) by public auction or by private contract.
     (3) The trustee may vary any contract for sale, buy in at any
     auction, rescind any contract for sale and re-sell, without being
     answerable for any loss.
     (4) If the trustee joins with any other person in selling, the
     purchase money shall be apportioned in or before the contract of
     sale, and a separate receipt shall be given by the trustee for the
     apportioned share.
     (4A) A contravention of subsection (4) shall not invalidate or be
     deemed to have invalidated any instrument intended to affect or
     evidence the title to any land.
     (5) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument creating the trust or power, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (6) This section applies to trusts or powers created either before or
     after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 27
Duration of trust or power to sell
 
 
27 Duration of trust or power to sell
     (1) Where the instrument creating a trust or power to sell property
     does not expressly limit the duration of the trust or power, the
     trustee may, if so requested in writing by any beneficiary, sell the
     property under the authority conferred by this section and shall be
     deemed to be a trustee for sale accordingly, notwithstanding any
     lapse of time or that all the beneficiaries are absolutely entitled
     to the property in fee simple or full ownership in possession and are
     free of any incapacity, but in all other respects the authority
     conferred by this section shall be subject to any restrictions to
     which the power or trust created by the instrument is subject.
     (2) Nothing in this section shall affect any trust or power to sell
     which is for the time being in existence under the instrument
     creating the trust or power.
     (3) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument creating the trust or power and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (4) This section applies to trusts or powers created either before or
     after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 27B
Postponement of sale
 
 
27B Postponement of sale
     (1) A power to postpone sale shall be implied in every trust for
     sale, unless a contrary intention appears.
     (2) Where there is a power to postpone sale, then (subject to any
     express direction to the contrary in the instrument, if any, creating
     the trust for sale) the trustee for sale shall not be liable in any
     way for postponing the sale, in the exercise of the trustee's
     discretion, for any indefinite period; nor shall a purchaser be
     concerned in any case with any directions respecting the postponement
     of sale.
     (3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) apply to trusts created
     either before or after the commencement of this Act.
     (4) Where a disposition or settlement coming into operation after the
     commencement of the Trustee (Amendment) Act 1929 contains a trust
     either to retain or sell any property, the same shall be construed as
     a trust to sell the property with power to postpone the sale.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 27C
Purchaser under a trust for sale
 
 
27C Purchaser under a trust for sale
     (1) A trust for sale shall, so far as regards the safety and
     protection of any purchaser, be deemed to subsist notwithstanding any
     lapse of time until the property is conveyed to or under the
     direction of the persons interested in the proceeds of sale, and in
     the case of land until the conveyance is duly registered.
     (2) Nothing in this section shall prevent any court from making an
     order restraining a sale.
     (3) This section applies to trusts created and to the execution
     thereof either before or after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 28
Deferred payment on sale of land
 
 
28 Deferred payment on sale of land
     (1) A trustee for sale may sell land on terms of deferred payment or
     otherwise.
     (2) The terms of deferred payment may provide either for the purchase
     money being paid by instalments, or for the unpaid purchase money
     being secured by mortgage.
     (3) If the purchase money is to be paid by instalments, the terms
     upon which the land is sold shall, in addition to such other
     provisions as the trustee may deem proper, include provisions for
     giving effect to the following--
          (a) that part of the purchase money shall be paid on the
          execution of the contract of sale,
          (b) that the balance of the purchase money shall be payable
          in instalments, the first not later than three years from
          the date of the contract of sale and the others at
          intervals of not more than a year beginning from the date
          on which the first instalment is payable, and shall bear
          interest payable half-yearly or oftener on the amount from
          time to time unpaid. No instalment which is made payable
          during the first three years from the date of the contract
          of sale shall be of an amount less than five per centum of
          the purchase money, and all instalments which are made
          payable after the third year from the date of the contract
          of sale shall be equal in amount,
          (c) that the whole of the purchase money and interest shall
          be payable within a period not exceeding ten years from the
          date of the contract of sale,
          (d) that if any instalment or interest or part thereof is
          in arrear and unpaid for six months or for such less period
          as may be specified, the whole of the purchase money shall
          become due and payable.
     (4) If the unpaid purchase money is to be secured by mortgage, the
     terms upon which the land is sold shall, in addition to such other
     provisions as the trustee may deem proper, include provisions for
     giving effect to the following--
          (a) that part of the purchase money shall be paid on the
          execution of the contract of sale,
          (b) that the unpaid purchase money shall be secured by a
          registered mortgage of the land sold, with or without the
          security of any other property, and shall bear interest
          payable half-yearly or oftener on the amount from time to
          time unpaid,
          (c) that the mortgage shall contain covenants by the
          mortgagor to pay the principal money secured and the
          interest thereon, to maintain and protect the property, and
          to keep all buildings, if any, thereon insured against loss
          or damage by fire to the full insurable value thereof,
          (d) that notwithstanding section 106 of the Conveyancing
          Act 1919 the mortgagor shall not have power to make any
          lease of the property, unless the trustee consents in
          writing.
     (5) Whether the purchase money is to be paid by instalments or the
     unpaid purchase money is to be secured by mortgage, the trustee shall
     not be deemed to be lending money within the meaning of section 18 so
     as to be bound to act in accordance with the provisions of that
     section, and shall not be liable for any loss which may be incurred
     by reason only of the security being insufficient at the date of the
     mortgage.
     (6) The part of the purchase money to be paid on the execution of the
     contract of sale shall not be less than the sum which a person acting
     with prudence would, if the land were the person's own, have accepted
     in the circumstances in order to sell the land to the best advantage.
     (7) The trustee shall not be bound to require payment of any greater
     part of the purchase money before letting the purchaser into
     possession, or before conveying the land and taking a mortgage back,
     than a person acting with prudence would, if the land were the
     person's own, have considered as sufficient, provided that the
     trustee shall not convey the land and take a mortgage back until at
     least one-tenth part of the purchase money has been paid.
     (8) Notwithstanding that the purchase money is to be paid by
     instalments, the trustee may at any time after one-tenth of the
     purchase money has been paid convey the land and take a mortgage back
     in any case where a person acting with prudence would, if the land
     were the person's own, have been willing in the circumstances so to
     do, and in any such case the mortgage shall be in accordance with
     paragraphs (b) (c) and (d) of subsection (4), and the provisions of
     subsection (5) shall apply.
     (9) Any mortgage under this section may be for any period not
     exceeding ten years from the date of the contract of sale.
     (10) The trustee may, on such terms, if any, as the trustee deems
     proper, by writing waive or vary any right arising from failure to
     comply with any term of the contract of sale or of any mortgage under
     this section within the proper time.
     (11) Where the sale is made under the order of the Court, the
     provisions of this section shall apply, unless the Court shall
     otherwise direct.
     (12) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (13) This section applies to trusts created either before or after
     the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 29
Sale or purchase under Conveyancing Act 1919
 
 
29 Sale or purchase under Conveyancing Act 1919
     (1) A trustee who is either a vendor or a purchaser may sell or buy
     without excluding the application of subsection (2) of section 53 of
     the Conveyancing Act 1919.
     (2) This section shall be deemed to have applied as from the
     commencement of that Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 30
Depreciatory conditions
 
 
30 Depreciatory conditions
     (1) Where a trustee sells subject to any condition which may have
     been unnecessarily depreciatory--
          (a) the purchaser shall not be at liberty to make any
          objection to the title on that ground,
          (b) the sale shall not be impeached by any beneficiary upon
          that ground, unless it also appears that the consideration
          for the sale was thereby rendered inadequate,
          (c) the sale shall not, after the execution of the
          conveyance, be impeached as against the purchaser upon that
          ground, unless it appears that the purchaser was acting in
          collusion with the trustee at the time when the contract
          for sale was made.
     (2) This section applies to sales made either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 31
Sale of part of land
 
 
31 Sale of part of land
     (1) A trust or power to sell or dispose of land includes a trust or
     power to sell or dispose of part thereof, whether the division is
     horizontal, vertical, or otherwise.
     (2) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust or
     power, and shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument
     and to the provisions therein contained.
     (3) This section applies to trusts or powers created either before or
     after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 32
Sale exchange and partition
 
 
32 Sale exchange and partition
     (1) Where a trustee is authorised by the instrument, if any, creating
     the trust or by law to dispose of land by way of sale exchange or
     partition, the trustee may so dispose--
          (a) of the land with or without an exception or reservation
          of all or any of the mines and minerals therein, or
          (b) of any mines and minerals.
     (2) The disposition may be with or without a grant or reservation of
     powers of working, wayleaves, or rights of way, rights of water and
     drainage, and other powers, easements, rights, and privileges for or
     incident to or connected with mining purposes, in relation to the
     land or any part thereof, or any other land.
     (3) The exchange or partition may be made subject to and in
     consideration of the reservation of an undivided share in mines or
     minerals.
     (4) The exchange or partition may be made upon terms of giving or
     receiving any money for equality of exchange or partition.
     (5) For the purpose of completing the disposition the trustee may
     convey or otherwise dispose of the land either by way of revocation
     and appointment of the use or otherwise as may be necessary.
     (6) This section extends to any other person authorised to dispose of
     land by way of sale exchange or partition.
     (7) This section applies to trusts or powers created either before or
     after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 32A
Power to purchase equity of redemption in lieu of foreclosure
 
 
32A Power to purchase equity of redemption in lieu of foreclosure
A trustee unless expressly forbidden by the instrument, if any, creating the
trust, may, in lieu of proceeding to foreclosure, purchase the equity of
redemption of land in New South Wales the subject of a mortgage held by the
trustee under which default has been made where the moneys expended in such
purchase are subject to the same trusts as the mortgage debt: Provided that in
no case shall the moneys paid by way of consideration for such purchase exceed
five per cent of the amount due under the mortgage.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 33
Sale after right of redemption barred
 
 
33 Sale after right of redemption barred
     (1) Where any property is vested in a trustee by way of security, and
     the property becomes discharged from the right of redemption, the
     trustee shall hold the property on trust for sale, with power to
     postpone the sale for such a period as the trustee may think proper.
     (2) The net proceeds of sale, after payment of costs and expenses,
     shall be applied in like manner as the mortgage debt, if received,
     would have been applicable, and the income of the property until sale
     shall be applied in like manner as the interest, if received, would
     have been applicable.
     (3) This section shall not affect any rule of law relating to the
     apportionment of capital and income between tenant for life and
     remainderman.
     (4) This section shall not affect the right of any person to require
     that, instead of a sale, the property shall be conveyed to the person
     or in accordance with the person's directions.
     (5) This section applies whether the property is discharged from the
     right of redemption by virtue of the statutes of limitation or of an
     order for foreclosure or purchase of the equity of redemption or
     otherwise.
     (6) This section extends to securities by way of mortgage of land
     under the Real Property Act 1900 and in relation thereto an order for
     foreclosure includes an order for foreclosure under that Act.
     (7) This section applies whether the property has become or becomes
     discharged from the right of redemption before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 34
Release of equity of redemption in discharge of mortgage debt
 
 
34 Release of equity of redemption in discharge of mortgage debt
     (1) Where an equity of redemption is vested in a trustee and the
     mortgaged property is not of greater value than the amount of the
     mortgage debt, the trustee may release the equity of redemption to
     the mortgagee in discharge of the mortgage debt or part thereof.
     (2) The trustee shall not be chargeable with breach of trust nor
     shall the release be impeached by any beneficiary upon the ground
     only that the mortgaged property was of greater value than the amount
     of the mortgage debt or of the part thereof discharged, provided that
     the trustee has acted bona fide and on the advice of a person whom
     the trustee reasonably believed to be a competent valuer instructed
     and employed independently of the mortgagee, whether the valuer
     carried on business in the locality where the property is situate or
     elsewhere.
     (3) A subsequent purchaser or the Registrar-General Crown Solicitor
     or other person registering or certifying title shall not be
     concerned to inquire whether the release was authorised by this
     section.
     (4) This section applies whether the equity of redemption vested in
     the trustee before or after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 35
Surrender of onerous lease
 
 
35 Surrender of onerous lease
     (1) Where a leasehold is vested in a trustee and the property is
     subject to onerous covenants of such a nature that it would not be in
     the interests of the beneficiaries to retain the property, the
     trustee may surrender or concur in surrendering the lease.
     (2) The trustee shall not be chargeable with breach of trust nor
     shall the surrender be impeached by any beneficiary upon the ground
     only that the covenants were not of such a nature, provided that the
     trustee has acted bona fide and on the advice of a person whom the
     trustee reasonably believed to be a competent valuer instructed and
     employed independently of the lessor, whether the valuer carried on
     business in the locality where the property is situate or elsewhere.
     (3) A subsequent purchaser or the Registrar-General Crown Solicitor
     or other person registering or certifying title shall not be
     concerned to inquire whether the surrender was authorised by this
     section.
     (4) This section applies whether the leasehold vested in the trustee
     before or after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 36
Leasing
 
 
36 Leasing
     (1) A trustee may make a lease of land in possession in any of the
     following cases, that is to say--
          (a) where the trustee holds the land with power to manage
          the same, or upon trust for sale with an express power to
          postpone the sale, the lease may be for any term not
          exceeding five years,
          (b) where the trustee holds the land without power to
          manage the same, or upon trust for sale without an express
          power to postpone the sale, the lease may be for any term
          not exceeding three years.
     (2) A trustee shall not be deemed to hold land with power to manage
     the same within the meaning of this section by reason only of the
     fact that it is proper to postpone sale in order to sell to the best
     advantage and in the meantime to manage the land.
     (3) Any lease which a trustee is authorised to make under this
     section or under the instrument, if any, creating the trust or power
     may--
          (a) provide for a rent increasing at such times as may be
          specified in the lease,
          (b) give an option of renewal, provided that the duration
          of the lease and any such renewal shall not in the
          aggregate exceed the term for which the trustee is
          authorised to make the lease.
     (4) If the land is the subject of a settlement within the meaning of
     Part 4 of the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act 1898 and there is
     any other person authorised by the settlement or by that Act to
     demise the land or any part thereof, this section shall not apply
     unless that person in writing authorises the trustee to make the
     lease.
     (5) Subsections (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), and (10) of section 106 of
     the Conveyancing Act 1919 shall apply to any lease under this
     section--
     Provided that if the land includes premises licensed under the Liquor
     Act 2007 a bonus or fine may be taken in respect of the lease, and
     the trustee shall apportion the same over the period of the lease as
     if it were rent, but no person paying any such bonus or fine shall be
     concerned to see that any such apportionment is made.
     (6) This section shall not apply to a bare trustee for persons all of
     whom are entitled in possession and are free of any incapacity.
     (7) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust or
     power, and shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument
     and to the provisions therein contained.
     (8) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 37
Renewal of renewable leasehold
 
 
37 Renewal of renewable leasehold
     (1) Where a leasehold for lives or for years is vested in a trustee
     and the lease is renewable from time to time, either under any
     covenant or contract, or by custom or usual practice, the trustee may
     obtain from time to time the renewal on the accustomed and reasonable
     terms.
     (2) If required in writing by any person having any beneficial
     interest present future or contingent in the leasehold, the trustee
     shall use his or her best endeavours to obtain from time to time the
     renewal on such terms.
     (3) The trustee may from time to time make or concur in making a
     surrender of the lease for the time being subsisting, and may do all
     such other acts as are requisite for the renewal.
     (4) If by the terms of the instrument, if any, creating the trust the
     person in possession for the person's life or other limited interest
     is entitled to enjoy the same without any obligation to renew or to
     contribute to the expense of renewal, this section shall not apply
     unless the consent in writing of that person is obtained to the
     renewal.
     (5) The trustee may pay or apply capital money subject to the trust
     for the purpose of obtaining the renewal.
     (6) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (7) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 38
Raising money
 
 
38 Raising money
     (1) Where a trustee is authorised by the instrument, if any, creating
     the trust or by law to pay or apply capital money for any purpose or
     in any manner, the trustee shall have and shall be deemed always to
     have had power to raise the money required by sale, conversion,
     calling in, or mortgage of all or any part of the trust property for
     the time being in possession held upon the same trusts as the capital
     money.
     (1A) Where a trustee holds land in respect of which moneys are due
     and payable for rates or taxes or in respect of which the trustee is
     under a statutory obligation to expend moneys and the trustee has no
     moneys subject to the same trusts as such land wherewith to pay such
     rates or taxes or discharge such statutory obligation the trustee
     shall have and shall be deemed always to have had power to raise the
     money required to make such payment or discharge such obligation by
     sale or mortgage of the whole or part of such land or by sale,
     conversion, calling in, or mortgage of all or any part of the trust
     property for the time being in possession held upon the same trusts
     as such land.
     (2) This section shall not apply to a trustee of property held for
     charitable purposes.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 39
Protection of purchasers or mortgagees
 
 
39 Protection of purchasers or mortgagees
No purchaser or mortgagee, paying or advancing money on a sale or mortgage
purporting to be made under any trust or power vested in a trustee, shall be
concerned to see that the money is wanted, or that no more than is wanted is
raised, or to see to the application thereof.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 39A
Application of income by trustee-mortgagee in possession
 
 
39A Application of income by trustee-mortgagee in possession
     (1) In any case in which a trustee is entitled whether severally or
     as a co-mortgagee to a debt secured by a mortgage of land in trust as
     to the whole or part of such debt for persons by way of succession,
     and such trustee is at the commencement of the Conveyancing, Trustee
     and Probate (Amendment) Act 1938 or at any time after such
     commencement becomes mortgagee in possession of the mortgaged land,
     the trustee shall apply the net income of the mortgaged land received
     by the trustee after such commencement or after the trustee becomes
     mortgagee in possession, as the case may be, as follows, namely--
          (a) in discharge of all rents, taxes, rates and outgoings
          affecting the mortgaged land,
          (b) in payment of the premiums on any insurances properly
          payable under the mortgage instrument or under the
          Conveyancing Act 1919 and the cost of executing necessary
          repairs,
          (c) in keeping down all annual sums or other payments and
          the interest on all principal sums having priority to the
          mortgagee in right whereof the trustee is in possession.
     Subject to the rights of the mortgagor such trustee shall hold the
     residue of the income so received by the trustee upon the trusts to
     which such mortgage debt is subject.
     (2) The rents, taxes, charges, outgoings, premiums, costs, annual
     sums, payments and interest so to be discharged, kept down and paid
     shall be those accruing due--
          (a) after the commencement of the Conveyancing, Trustee and
          Probate (Amendment) Act 1938, where the trustee is in
          possession of the mortgaged land at such commencement,
          (b) after the date of possession by the trustee, where the
          entry into possession is after the commencement of the
          Conveyancing, Trustee and Probate (Amendment) Act 1938 --
     Provided that if at the commencement of the Conveyancing, Trustee and
     Probate (Amendment) Act 1938 or on the date of possession by the
     trustee, as the case may be, any rents, taxes, rates, outgoings,
     annual sums, payments, interest or premiums mentioned in paragraphs
     (a), (b), or (c) of subsection (1) were or are due and unpaid, and
     such of those rents, taxes, rates, outgoings, annual sums, payments
     and premiums as are periodical payments, were payable wholly or in
     part in respect of any period subsequent to such commencement or to
     such date of possession, as the case may be, then such lastmentioned
     rents, taxes, rates, outgoings, annual sums, payments and premiums
     shall, for the purpose of this section, be considered as accruing
     from day to day and shall be apportionable in respect of time
     accordingly.
     (3) On the recovery of the moneys secured by the mortgage whether in
     whole or in part, and whether by repayment or on realisation of the
     security or otherwise, such part of the income applied by the trustee
     in the payments specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of
     subsection (1) as would otherwise have been payable as interest to
     the person entitled to the interest of the mortgage debts shall as
     between the persons respectively entitled to the income and corpus of
     the mortgage debt be deemed to be arrears of interest and the amount
     received by the trustee shall be apportioned accordingly.
     (4) Notwithstanding anything in this section contained, the trustee
     may, if in the administration of the trust the trustee deems it
     necessary so to do, apply income of the mortgaged property received
     by the trustee after the commencement of the Conveyancing, Trustee
     and Probate (Amendment) Act 1938 in payment of any rents, taxes,
     rates, outgoings, premiums, costs, annual sums, payments and interest
     affecting the mortgaged land other than those specified in subsection
     (2) but the person entitled to the interest on the mortgage debt
     shall be entitled to recoupment out of the capital of the mortgage
     debt of all payments made by the trustee under the authority
     conferred by this subsection.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 39B
Validation of certain payments by trustee-mortgagee in possession
 
 
39B Validation of certain payments by trustee-mortgagee in possession
In any case in which, prior to the commencement of the Conveyancing, Trustee
and Probate (Amendment) Act 1938, a trustee was entitled either severally or as
a co-mortgagee to a debt secured by a mortgage of land in trust as to the whole
or part of such debt for persons by way of succession and the trustee, having
entered into possession of the mortgaged property, has, before such
commencement, applied or shall, after such commencement apply bona fide the net
income of the mortgaged property received by the trustee before such
commencement in payment of any rents, rates, taxes, insurance premiums,
outgoings or annual sums on the mortgaged property or of the interest on prior
incumbrances on the mortgaged property, or in executing necessary repairs
thereto, then--
     (a) the trustee shall not be liable for breach of trust by reason of
     the trustee's having so applied the income of the mortgaged property
     and shall not be liable personally to make any recoupment in respect
     of any income so applied by the trustee before or after such
     commencement, and
     (b) the person entitled to the income of the mortgage debt--
          (i) shall not be entitled to any recoupment out of the
          capital of the mortgage debt of any moneys payable to the
          person as interest and so applied by the trustee prior to
          the twenty-sixth day of May, one thousand nine hundred and
          thirty-three, except such part of such moneys as were
          applied by the trustee in payment of any rents, rates,
          taxes, insurance premiums, outgoings or annual sums accrued
          due prior to the trustee's possession, but such moneys,
          except such lastmentioned part (if any), shall as between
          the persons respectively entitled to the income and capital
          of the mortgage debt be deemed to be arrears of interest
          and the amount of moneys secured by the mortgage recovered
          by the trustee whether by repayment or on realisation of
          the security or otherwise shall be apportioned accordingly,
          (ii) shall be entitled to recoupment out of the capital of
          the mortgage debt of any moneys payable to the person as
          interest and so applied by the trustee after the twenty-
          fifth day of May, one thousand nine hundred and thirty-
          three.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 40
Powers
 
 
40 Powers
     (1) Where trust property consists of or includes any share or
     interest in property or the proceeds of the sale of property not
     vested in the trustee, or any other thing in action, the trustee on
     the same falling into possession, or becoming payable or
     transferable--
          (a) may agree upon or ascertain the amount or value thereof
          or any part thereof in such manner as the trustee may think
          fit,
          (b) may accept in or towards satisfaction thereof, at the
          market or current value, or upon any valuation or estimate
          of value which the trustee shall think fit, any securities
          authorised by the instrument, if any, creating the trust or
          by law for the investment of money subject to the trust,
          (c) may allow any deductions for duties costs charges and
          expenses which the trustee may think proper or reasonable,
          and
          (d) may execute any release in respect of the premises, so
          as effectually to discharge all accountable parties from
          all liability in respect of any matters coming within the
          scope of such release.
     The trustee shall not be responsible for any loss occasioned by any
     act or thing so done by the trustee in good faith.
     (2) Unless and until required in writing so to do by some person
     beneficially interested under the trust or by the guardian of that
     person's person or estate, and unless also due provision is made to
     the trustee's satisfaction for payment of the costs of any
     proceedings required to be taken, the trustee shall not be under any
     obligation--
          (a) to apply for any stop or other like order upon any
          securities or other property out of or on which such share
          or interest or other thing in action is derived payable or
          charged, or
          (b) to take any proceedings on account of any act default
          or neglect on the part of the persons in whom the
          securities or other property or any of them or any part
          thereof are for the time being or had at any time been
          vested.
     (3) The trustee may if he or she thinks fit refer any of the matters
     mentioned in subsection (2) to the person beneficially entitled or to
     the guardian of that person's person or estate.
     (4) The trustee shall not be chargeable with breach of trust by
     reason of any omission in any of the matters mentioned in subsection
     (2), except when required and upon due provision made as therein
     mentioned.
     (5) Nothing in this section shall relieve a trustee of the obligation
     to get in and obtain payment or transfer of any such share or
     interest or other thing in action on the same falling into
     possession.
     (6) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (7) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 41
Insurance
 
 
41 Insurance
     (1) A trustee may insure against loss or damage, whether by fire or
     otherwise, any insurable property, and against any risk or liability
     against which it would be prudent for a person to insure if the
     person were acting on the person's own behalf.
     (2) The insurance may be for any amount, provided that, together with
     the amount of any insurance already on foot, the total shall not
     exceed the insurable value or liability.
     (3) The premiums may be paid by the trustee out of the income of the
     property concerned or out of the income of any other property subject
     to the same trusts, without obtaining the consent of any person who
     may be entitled wholly or partly to the income.
     (4) This section applies if and as far as a contrary intention is not
     expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and shall
     have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (5) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 42
Application of insurance money
 
 
42 Application of insurance money
     (1) Where a policy of insurance against the loss or damage of any
     property subject to a trust, whether by fire or otherwise, has been
     kept up under any trust in that behalf, or under any power statutory
     or otherwise, or in performance of any obligation statutory or
     otherwise, the money receivable by a trustee under the policy shall
     be capital money for the purposes of the trust.
     (2) If the money is receivable in respect of property held upon trust
     for sale, the same shall be held upon the trusts and subject to the
     powers and provisions applicable to money arising by a sale under the
     trust.
     (3) In any other case the money shall be held upon trusts
     corresponding as nearly as may be with the trusts affecting the
     property in respect of which it was payable.
     (4) The money or any part thereof may also be applied by the trustee
     or, if in court, under the direction of the Court, in rebuilding,
     reinstating, replacing, or repairing the property lost or damaged.
     (5) Any such application by the trustees shall be subject to the
     consent of any person whose consent is required by the instrument, if
     any, creating the trust to the investment of money subject to the
     trust.
     (6) Nothing in this section shall prejudice or affect the right of
     any person to require the money or any part thereof to be applied in
     rebuilding, reinstating or repairing the property lost or damaged.
     (7) Nothing in this section shall prejudice or affect the rights of
     any mortgagee lessor or lessee, whether under any statute or
     otherwise.
     (8) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (9) This section applies to trusts and to policies created or
     effected either before or after the commencement of this Act, but
     only to money received after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 42A
Maintenance for adult beneficiaries
 
 
42A Maintenance for adult beneficiaries
     (1) If property is held in trust for an adult beneficiary for any
     kind of interest, whether vested or contingent or absolute or liable
     to be divested, the trustee may pay the beneficiary, or otherwise
     apply the whole or any part of the income of the property for or
     towards the maintenance, education or benefit of the beneficiary.
     (2) This section--
          (a) applies only if and to the extent a contrary intention
          is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the
          trust, and
          (b) has effect subject to the terms and provisions of the
          instrument.
     (3) This section extends to trusts created before the commencement of
     this section.
     (4) In this section--

     "adult beneficiary" means a beneficiary who is not an infant.
     Note : Sections 43 and 43A make provision for the payment or
     application of trust income for or towards the maintenance or
     education of infant beneficiaries based on when the instrument
     creating the trust came into operation.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 43
Maintenance for infant beneficiaries and accumulation--instruments that came
into operation on or after 1 March 1926
 
 
43 Maintenance for infant beneficiaries and accumulation--instruments that came
into operation on or after 1 March 1926
     (1) Where any property is held in trust for a person who is for the
     time being an infant for any interest whatsoever, whether vested or
     contingent, and whether absolute or liable to be divested, the
     trustee may at the trustee's sole discretion pay to the parent or
     guardian, if any, of the infant, or to the person with whom the
     infant is for the time being residing, or otherwise apply to the
     whole or any part of the income of the property, for or towards the
     maintenance education or benefit of the infant.
     (1A) The power conferred by subsection (1) extends to the payment,
     after the commencement of the Minors (Property and Contracts) Act
     1970, of income to an infant who has reached the age of eighteen
     years, but this subsection does not limit the generality of
     subsection (1).
     (2) The power conferred by subsection (1) may be exercised whether
     there is any other fund applicable to the same purpose, or any person
     bound by law to provide for the maintenance or education of the
     infant, or not.
     (3) The power conferred by subsection (1) shall not prejudice or
     affect any prior interest in or charge over the property--
     Provided that where the interest for which the property is held in
     trust for the infant is future or contingent, and the trust for the
     infant would not, apart from the provisions of this section, carry
     the intermediate income, and the same is not expressly or
     specifically disposed of but would pass to some other person in
     virtue only of an interest to which that other person is entitled
     under a residuary or a general gift in the instrument, if any,
     creating the trust, or in the absence of such a gift then as upon
     intestacy or as upon a resulting trust, the trust for the infant
     shall, during the infancy, if the interest of the infant so long
     continues, be deemed to carry the intermediate income, and the
     interest of such person shall not be deemed to be a prior interest
     within the meaning of this subsection.
     (4) During the infancy, if the interest of the infant so long
     continues, the trustee shall accumulate all the residue of the income
     in the way of compound interest by investing the same, and the
     resulting income thereof from time to time on securities on which the
     trustee is by the instrument, if any, creating the trust, or by law
     authorised to invest the trust money.
     (5) During the infancy, if the interest of the infant so long
     continues, the trustee may at any time, if he or she thinks fit,
     apply the accumulations or any part thereof as if the same were
     income arising in the then current year.
     (6) In the following cases the trustee shall hold the accumulations
     absolutely for the infant, that is to say--
          (a) if otherwise than by virtue of this section the infant
          is entitled to the income which has been accumulated, or
          (b) if under the provisions of the instrument, if any,
          creating the trust, the infant is entitled on attaining the
          age of twenty-one years or on the occurrence of some prior
          event to a vested interest, whether absolute or liable to
          be divested, in fee-simple or in full ownership in the
          property from which the income arose, and the infant in
          fact becomes entitled to such vested interest.
     (7) Any accumulations held in trust in accordance with subsection (6)
     shall be so held without prejudice to any provision with respect
     thereto contained in any settlement made by the infant under any
     statute during the infant's infancy.
     (8) Except in the cases mentioned in subsection (6), and
     notwithstanding that the person for whom the property is held in
     trust had a vested interest in the income by virtue of this section,
     the trustee shall hold the accumulations as an accretion to the
     capital of the property from which the accumulations arose, and as
     one fund with such capital for all purposes, and so that if such
     property is a settled estate within the meaning of Part 4 of the
     Conveyancing and Law of Property Act 1898, the accumulations shall be
     held on the same trusts as if the same were capital money arising
     therefrom.
     (9) This section extends to a vested annuity in like manner as if the
     annuity were the income of property held by a trustee in trust to pay
     the income thereof to the annuitant for the same period for which the
     annuity is payable, save that in any case accumulations made during
     the infancy of the annuitant shall be held in trust for the annuitant
     absolutely.
     (9A) This section does not affect such right as an infant may have in
     consequence of the Minors (Property and Contracts) Act 1970 upon
     reaching the age of eighteen years or otherwise, to call for payment
     or transfer of property to which the infant is absolutely entitled.
     (10) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument, and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (11) This section, and the repeal of section 18 of the Trustee Act
     1898 by this Act, apply only where the instrument, if any, creating
     the trust comes into operation after the commencement of this Act.
          Note : This Act repealed all of the provisions of the
          Trustee Act 1898 (
          "the 1898 Act"), other than section 1 (Name of Act) and
          section 18. The above subsection limited the ongoing
          application of section 18 of the 1898 Act to any instrument
          creating a trust where the instrument came into operation
          before 1 March 1926. Section 43A contains provisions
          transferred from section 18 of the 1898 Act by the Statute
          Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2011.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 43A
Maintenance for infant beneficiaries and accumulation--instruments that came
into operation before 1 March 1926
 
 
43A Maintenance for infant beneficiaries and accumulation--instruments that
came into operation before 1 March 1926
     (1) Subsections (2)-(5) re-enact (with minor modification) section 18
     of the Trustee Act 1898 and are transferred provisions to which
     section 30A of the Interpretation Act 1987 applies.
     (2) In all cases where any property is held by trustees in trust for
     an infant, either absolutely or contingently on his or her attaining
     the age of 21 years, or on the occurrence of any event previously to
     his or her attaining that age, such trustees may pay to the guardian
     (if any) of such infant, or may otherwise apply for or towards the
     maintenance or education of such infant, the whole or any part of the
     income to which such infant may be entitled in respect of such
     property, whether there be any other fund applicable to the same
     purpose or any other person bound by law to provide for such
     maintenance or education or not, and such trustees shall accumulate
     all the residue of such income by way of compound interest by
     investing the same, and the resulting income thereof from time to
     time, in proper securities for the benefit of the person who shall
     ultimately become entitled to the property from which such
     accumulation has arisen--
     (3) Provided that such trustees may at any time apply the whole or
     any part of such accumulations as if the same were part of the income
     arising in the then current year.
          Note : Subsections (2) and (3) re-enact section 18 (1) and
          (2) of the Trustee Act 1898 (
          "the 1898 Act") and, as provided by subsection (1), are
          transferred provisions to which section 30A of the
          Interpretation Act 1987 applies. They were transferred by
          the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2011 to
          enable the repeal of the 1898 Act. On the commencement of
          this Act on 1 March 1926, those provisions were repealed by
          the Schedule to this Act, except to the extent provided by
          section 43 (11). As a result they applied only where the
          instrument creating the trust came into operation before
          that date.
     (4) The power conferred by subsection (2) extends to the payment,
     after the commencement of the Minors (Property and Contracts) Act
     1970, of income to an infant who has reached the age of 18 years, but
     this section does not limit the generality of subsection (1).
     (5) This section does not affect such right as an infant may have in
     consequence of the Minors (Property and Contracts) Act 1970, upon
     reaching the age of 18 years or otherwise, to call for payment or
     transfer of property to which he or she is absolutely entitled.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 44
Advancement
 
 
44 Advancement
     (1) Where under a trust a person is entitled to the capital of the
     trust property or any share thereof, the trustee may from time to
     time pay or apply any capital money subject to the trust, not
     exceeding altogether in amount one-half of the value of the property
     or share, for the advancement or benefit of such person or where such
     person is an infant, for the maintenance, education, advancement or
     benefit of such person in such manner as the trustee shall in the
     trustee's absolute discretion think fit.
     (2) The power conferred by this section may be exercised whether the
     person is entitled absolutely or contingently on the person's
     attaining any specified age or on the occurrence of any other event,
     or subject to a gift over on the person's death under any specified
     age or on the occurrence of any other event, and, notwithstanding
     that the interest of the person so entitled is liable to be defeated
     by the exercise of a power of appointment or revocation, or to be
     diminished by the increase of the class to which the person belongs.
     (3) The power conferred by this section may be exercised whether the
     person is so entitled in possession or in remainder or reversion.
     (4) If the person is or becomes absolutely and indefeasibly entitled
     to share in the trust property, the money so paid or applied shall be
     brought into account as part of such share.
     (5) No such payment or application shall be made so as to prejudice
     any person entitled to any prior life or other interest, whether
     vested or contingent, in the money paid or applied unless such person
     is in existence and of the age of eighteen years or upwards and
     consents in writing to the payment or application.
     (6) This section applies only where the trust property consists of
     money or securities or property held upon trust for sale calling in
     and conversion, and the money or securities or the proceeds of the
     sale calling in and conversion are not by statute or in equity
     considered as land, or applicable as capital money for the purposes
     of Part 4 of the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act 1898.
     (7) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (8) From and after the commencement of the Conveyancing, Trustee and
     Probate (Amendment) Act 1938 this section shall apply to trusts
     created before as well as after the commencement of the lastmentioned
     Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 45
Protective trusts
 
 
45 Protective trusts
     (1) Income may be directed to be held "on protective trusts" for the
     benefit of any person (in this section called
     "the principal beneficiary") for the period of the principal
     beneficiary's life or for any less period, and where there is such a
     direction the income shall during the period (in this section called
     "the trust period"), and without prejudice to any prior interest, be
     held upon trust as provided in this section.
     (2) During the trust period, or until the trust of the income fails
     or determines during the subsistence of the trust period, the income
     shall be held upon trust for the principal beneficiary.
     (3) The trust of the income shall fail or determine in any of the
     following cases, as well as on the termination of the trust period,
     whichever first happens, that is to say, if the principal beneficiary
     does or attempts to do or suffers any act or thing or if any event
     happens whereby if the income were payable to the principal
     beneficiary absolutely, the principal beneficiary would be deprived
     of the right to receive the same or any part thereof.
     (4) The trust of the income shall so fail or determine, whether the
     principal beneficiary does or attempts to do or suffers the act or
     thing before or after the termination of any prior interest.
     (5) The trust of the income shall not so fail or determine by reason
     of an advance under any statutory or express power.
     (6) If the trust of the income fails or determines during the
     subsistence of the trust period, the income shall during the residue
     of that period be held upon trust for the application thereof--
          (a) for the maintenance, support, or otherwise for the
          benefit of all or any one or more exclusively of the others
          of the principal beneficiary and his or her spouse, if any,
          and his or her children or more remote issue, if any, as
          the trustee in the trustee's absolute discretion thinks
          fit, or
          (b) if there is no spouse or issue of the principal
          beneficiary in existence, then for the maintenance,
          support, or otherwise for the benefit of all or any one or
          more exclusively of the other or others of the principal
          beneficiary and the persons who would, if the principal
          beneficiary were actually dead, be entitled to the trust
          property or the income thereof or of the annuity fund, if
          any, or arrears of the annuity, as the case may be, as the
          trustee in the trustee's absolute discretion thinks fit.
     (7) This section extends to an annuity or other periodical income
     payment directed to be held on protective trusts.
     (8) Any trusts implied by this section may be set aside in any case
     where an express trust to the same effect might be set aside.
     (9) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (10) This section applies only to trusts created after the
     commencement of this Act.
     (11) In this section--

     "spouse" means--
          (a) the person to whom a person is legally married
          (including the husband or wife of a person), or
          (b) the other party to a de facto relationship in which the
          parties have cohabited for a period of not less than 2
          years,
     but where more than one person would so qualify as a spouse, means
     only the last person so to qualify.
          Note : "De facto relationship" is defined in section 21C of
          the Interpretation Act 1987.
     (11A) In this section, a reference to a child of a person includes,
     if the person is in a de facto relationship, or a domestic
     relationship within the meaning of the Property (Relationships) Act
     1984, a reference to the following--
          (a) a child born as a result of sexual relations between
          the parties to the relationship,
          (b) a child adopted by both parties,
          (c) in the case of a de facto relationship between a man
          and a woman, a child of the woman of whom the man is the
          father or of whom the man is presumed, by virtue of the
          Status of Children Act 1996, to be the father (except where
          the presumption is rebutted),
          (d) in the case of a de facto relationship between 2 women,
          a child of whom both of those women are presumed to be
          parents by virtue of the Status of Children Act 1996,
          (e) a child for whose long-term welfare both parties have
          parental responsibility (within the meaning of the Children
          and Young Persons (Care and Protection) Act 1998).
     (12) Subsection (11) does not apply in relation to a trust created
     before the commencement of the amendments made to this Act by the
     Property (Relationships) Legislation Amendment Act 1999.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 45A
Equitable life tenant--conditions on entry into possession
 
 
45A Equitable life tenant--conditions on entry into possession
     (1) In this section,
     "prescribed trustee" means the NSW Trustee or a trustee company.
     (2) Where the equitable life tenant of land which is comprised in an
     estate committed to the administration or management of a prescribed
     trustee is entitled to the possession of that land or to the receipt
     of the rents and profits of that land, the prescribed trustee may, by
     notice in writing served on that life tenant, require the life tenant
     to comply with such conditions as to--
          (a) the keeping in repair of the buildings and other
          erections upon the land,
          (b) the payment of rents, taxes, rates and other outgoings
          affecting the land that are not of a capital nature, and
          (c) the payment of premiums in respect of policies of
          insurance against the loss of or damage to the buildings
          and other erections upon the land,
     as the prescribed trustee thinks fit.
     (3) If an equitable life tenant of land breaches any condition which
     a prescribed trustee has required the life tenant to comply with
     pursuant to subsection (2), the prescribed trustee may serve a notice
     on the life tenant stating that unless the breach is rectified within
     a reasonable time specified in the notice the prescribed trustee will
     be entitled to enter into possession of the land and to receive the
     rents and profits of the land for the purpose of rectifying the
     breach.
     (4) If a breach of a condition is not rectified within the time
     specified in the notice served on an equitable life tenant of land
     under subsection (3)--
          (a) the prescribed trustee is entitled to enter into
          possession of the land and to receive the rents and profits
          of the land for the purpose of rectifying the breach, and
          (b) the life tenant ceases to be so entitled until the
          breach is rectified.
     (5) Where a prescribed trustee rectifies a breach of condition
     imposed on an equitable life tenant of land, any money received by
     the prescribed trustee pursuant to subsection (4) that was not
     applied for the purpose of rectifying the breach shall be paid to
     that life tenant.
     (6) A prescribed trustee shall not require an equitable life tenant
     of land to comply with any condition pursuant to this section if--
          (a) any instrument by which the estate concerned was
          committed to the administration or management of the
          prescribed trustee--
               (i) expressly prohibits the prescribed trustee
               from exercising the power conferred by this
               section, or
               (ii) expressly excuses the life tenant from
               complying with the condition, or
          (b) the Court so orders.
     (7) A notice under this section may be served either personally or by
     post.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 46
Appropriation
 
 
46 Appropriation
     (1) A trustee may appropriate any part of the property subject to the
     trust or of the real or personal estate of a testator or intestate in
     the actual condition or state of investment thereof in or towards
     satisfaction of a legacy or of any share or interest in the property
     or estate, whether settled or not, as to the trustee may seem just
     and reasonable, according to the respective rights of the persons
     interested in the property or estate, provided that--
          (a) the appropriation shall not be made so as to affect
          prejudicially any specific gift devise or bequest,
          (b) the appropriation shall be made with the consent, if
          any, required by this section,
          (c) in making the appropriation the trustee shall have
          regard to the rights of any person who may thereafter come
          into existence or who cannot be found or ascertained at the
          time of the appropriation or as to whom it is uncertain at
          that time whether he or she is living or dead, and of any
          other person whose consent is not required by this section.
     (2) The power of appropriation conferred by this section shall extend
     and apply to--
          (a) property over which a testator exercises a general
          power of appointment,
          (b) setting apart a fund to answer an annuity by means of
          the income of the fund or otherwise, provided that at the
          time of appropriation the fund would be sufficient, if it
          were invested in Government securities of the Commonwealth
          of Australia at par, to provide an income exceeding the
          annuity by at least fifteen per centum thereof,
          (c) setting apart a sum of money in or towards the
          satisfaction of a legacy share or interest.
     (3) For the purpose of an appropriation under this section the
     trustee may ascertain and fix the value of the respective parts of
     the property or estate and the liabilities to which the property or
     estate is subject as the trustee may think fit, and shall for that
     purpose employ a duly qualified valuer in any case where such
     employment may be necessary.
     (4) An appropriation made pursuant to this section shall bind all
     persons interested in the property or estate, including the persons
     whose consent is not required, and to the extent to which the
     appropriation is made in or towards satisfaction of the legacy share
     or interest, the rights to which any person is entitled in virtue of
     the legacy share or interest shall be restricted to the part of the
     property or estate so appropriated and shall not extend to any other
     part thereof which may be dealt with or disposed of freed from any
     such rights.
     (5) An appropriation of property whether it is or is not an
     investment authorised by law or by the instrument, if any, creating
     the trust for the investment of money subject thereto, shall not,
     except as otherwise provided by this section, be made thereunder for
     the benefit of a person absolutely and beneficially entitled in
     possession, unless the person is of the age of eighteen years or
     upwards and of full capacity and the person consents in writing.
     (6) An appropriation shall not, except as otherwise provided in this
     section, be made thereunder in respect of any settled legacy share or
     interest, unless either the trustee thereof, if any, not being also
     the trustee making the appropriation, or the person who may for the
     time being be entitled to the income, consents in writing.
     (7) If the person whose consent is required under subsection (5) or
     subsection (6), not being the trustee of a settled legacy share or
     interest--
          (a) is a minor, the consent may be given on the person's
          behalf by the person's parents or parent with whom the
          person resides or in whose custody the person is, as the
          case may be, or by the person's testamentary or other
          guardian, or if there is no such parent or guardian, by the
          Court,
          (b) is an insane or incapable person, the consent may be
          given on the person's behalf by the person's committee or
          manager, or if there is no such committee or manager, by
          the Court,
          (c) is an insane patient, the consent may be given on the
          person's behalf either by the Master in Lunacy or by the
          Court,
          (d) is a person who cannot be found or ascertained, or as
          to whom it is uncertain whether he or she is living or
          dead, the consent may be given on the person's behalf by
          the Court.
     (8) If the appropriation is of an investment authorised by law or by
     the instrument, if any, creating the trust for the investment of
     money subject thereto no consent save of the trustee, if any, of a
     settled legacy share or interest shall be required on behalf of--
          (a) a minor, where there is no parent or guardian,
          (b) an insane or incapable person or an insane patient,
          where there is no committee or manager,
          (c) a person who may come into existence after the time of
          appropriation, or who cannot be found or ascertained at
          that time, or as to whom it is uncertain at that time
          whether he or she is living or dead.
     (8A) Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph (b) of
     subsection (1) or in subsection (5) or subsection (7) the consent of
     the annuitant shall not be necessary in any case in which the
     trustee, after having set apart a fund to answer the annuity, which
     fund at the time of appropriation would be sufficient, if it were
     invested in Government securities of the Commonwealth of Australia at
     par, to provide an income exceeding the annuity by at least twenty
     per centum thereof, has actually invested the fund in such
     securities.
     (9) Where an appropriation is made under this section in respect of a
     settled legacy share or interest, the property appropriated shall be
     subject to all trusts for sale and powers of leasing disposition
     management and varying investments which would have been applicable
     thereto or to the legacy share or interest in respect of which the
     appropriation is made, if no such appropriation had been made,
     provided that nothing in this section shall relieve the trustee of
     the settled legacy share or interest, where the trustee is not the
     trustee making the appropriation, from the obligation to obtain
     payment or transfer of the property appropriated, if or when the same
     is so payable or transferable.
     (10) Where the exercise of any power of sale conferred on a legal
     representative by section 153 of the Conveyancing Act 1919 is subject
     to any condition or to the leave of the Court being obtained, the
     legal representative shall not be entitled to appropriate any part of
     the real estate under the powers conferred by this section, except
     with the leave of the Court.
     (11) The trustee may make any conveyance or assent which may be
     necessary for giving effect to an appropriation under this section.
     (12) Any appropriation or disposition of property made in purported
     exercise of the powers conferred by this section shall, in favour of
     a purchaser in good faith, be deemed to have been made in accordance
     with the requirements of this section, and after all requisite
     consents, if any, have been given.
     The protection afforded by this subsection shall extend to the
     Registrar-General Crown Solicitor or other person registering or
     certifying title.
     (13) In this section a
     "settled legacy share or interest" means a legacy share or interest
     settled by the trust instrument, if any, or by any other instrument,
     and includes any legacy share or interest to which a person is not
     absolutely entitled in possession at the date of the appropriation.
     (14) In this section a
     "manager" means the person appointed under the Lunacy Act 1898 to
     undertake the care and management of the property of an incapable
     person, and an
     "insane patient" means an insane patient within the meaning of that
     Act.
     (15) This section shall not prejudice any other power of
     appropriation conferred by law or by the instrument, if any, creating
     the trust, and the powers conferred by this section shall be in
     addition to any such power.
     (16) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (17) This section applies to trusts created either before or after
     the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 47
Payment to the NSW Trustee or a trustee company
 
 
47 Payment to the NSW Trustee or a trustee company
     (1) Where any money is held in trust for a minor, or for a person who
     is unable to give a good discharge or cannot be found, the trustee
     may pay the money to the NSW Trustee or, except where the money is
     held in trust for a person who cannot be found, a trustee company,
     and on such payment shall furnish the NSW Trustee or trustee company,
     as the case may be, with a copy of the trust instrument, or where
     there is no such instrument, then with a statutory declaration
     setting forth the trusts on which the money is held and shall also
     furnish such information as to the disability or identity of the
     person for whom such money is held in trust as the public trustee or
     trustee company, as the case may be, may require.
     (2) The NSW Trustee or trustee company shall hold the money in trust
     for the minor or for such other person in accordance with the trusts
     affecting the same.
     (3) Where the money is held in trust for a minor or an insane or
     incapable person, the NSW Trustee or trustee company may at the NSW
     Trustee's or the trustee company's discretion exercise in respect of
     such money the powers conferred upon the NSW Trustee or trustee
     company, as the case may be, by this or any other Act in respect of
     money held in trust for a minor.
     (4) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 48
Receipts
 
 
48 Receipts
     (1) The receipt in writing of trustees or of a sole trustee for any
     money, securities, or other personal property or effects payable,
     transferable, or deliverable to the trustees or the sole trustee
     under any trust or power shall be a sufficient discharge for the
     same, and shall effectually exonerate the person paying,
     transferring, or delivering the same from seeing to the application
     or being answerable for any loss or misapplication thereof.
     (2) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 49
Compounding
 
 
49 Compounding
     (1) The trustee or the majority acting together, or a sole trustee
     where by the instrument, if any, creating the trust, or by statute, a
     sole trustee is authorised to execute the trusts and powers thereof,
     may, if and as the trustees or the majority, or the sole trustee, may
     think fit--
          (a) accept any property before the time at which it is made
          transferable or payable,
          (aa) sever and apportion any blended trust funds or
          property,
          (b) accept any composition or any security, real or
          personal, for any debt or for any property claimed,
          (c) allow any time for payment for any debt,
          (d) compromise, compound, abandon, submit to arbitration,
          or otherwise settle any debt, account, claim, or thing
          whatever relating to the estate or trust,
          (e) for any of those purposes enter into, give, execute,
          and do such agreements, instruments of composition or
          arrangements, releases, and other things, as to the
          trustees or the majority, or the sole trustee, seem
          expedient.
     (2) An executor or administrator may pay or allow any debt or claim
     on any evidence that the executor or administrator thinks sufficient,
     and may, if and as the executor or administrator may think fit, do
     any of the things mentioned in paragraphs (a) (b) (c) (d) and (e) of
     subsection (1).
     (3) The trustees trustee executor or administrator shall not be
     responsible for any loss occasioned by any act or thing so done by
     the trustees, trustee, executor or administrator in good faith.
     (4) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument, and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (5) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 50
Deposit for safe custody
 
 
50 Deposit for safe custody
     (1) A trustee may deposit any documents held by the trustee relating
     to the trust, or to the trust property, with any bank, building
     society or credit union or with any incorporated company whose
     business it is to undertake the safe custody of documents.
     (2) Any sum payable in respect of the deposit may be paid out of the
     income of the trust property.
     (3) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (4) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 51
Audit
 
 
51 Audit
     (1) A trustee may, in his or her absolute discretion, from time to
     time cause the accounts of the trust property to be examined or
     audited by a person who publicly carries on the business of an
     accountant, and shall for that purpose produce such vouchers and give
     such information to the person as the person shall require.
     (2) The costs of the examination or audit, including the fee of the
     person making the examination or audit, shall be paid out of the
     capital or income of the trust property, or partly in one way and
     partly in the other, as the trustee shall in his or her absolute
     discretion think fit.
     (3) In default of any direction, in any special case, by the trustee
     to the contrary, costs attributable to capital shall be borne by
     capital and those attributable to income by income.
     (4) Where the trustee is the NSW Trustee or an incorporated company,
     nothing in this section shall, except in the case of a business
     forming part of the trust property, authorise any costs or fee to be
     paid out of or borne by the capital or income of the trust property.
     (5) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (6) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 52
Valuation
 
 
52 Valuation
     (1) A trustee may, for the purpose of giving effect to the trust or
     any of the provisions of the instrument, if any, creating the trust
     or of any statute, from time to time, by duly qualified agents,
     ascertain and fix the value of any trust property in such manner as
     the trustee thinks proper.
     (2) Any valuation so made in good faith shall be binding upon all
     persons interested under the trust.
     (3) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (4) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 53
Employment of agents
 
 
53 Employment of agents
     (1) A trustee may, instead of acting personally, employ and pay an
     agent, whether being a bank, building society or credit union or an
     Australian legal practitioner, stockbroker or any other person, to
     transact any business or do any act required to be transacted or done
     in the execution of the trust or in the administration of the estate.
     (2) The trustee shall be entitled to be allowed and paid all charges
     and expenses so incurred.
     (3) The trustee shall not be responsible for the default of any such
     agent if employed in good faith.
     (4) This section extends, in the case of a bank, building society,
     credit union, Australian legal practitioner, stockbroker or real
     estate agent, or in the case of a prescribed person or a person of a
     prescribed class, to the receipt and payment of moneys.
     (5) Nothing in this section shall authorise a trustee to employ an
     agent in any case where a person acting with prudence would not
     employ the agent to transact the business or do the act, if the
     business or act was required to be transacted or done in such
     person's own affairs.
     (6) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (7) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 54
Banks, building societies and credit unions
 
 
54 Banks, building societies and credit unions
     (1) Where there are more than two trustees or where there are two
     trustees one of whom is the NSW Trustee or a trustee company and the
     trustees by writing under their hands authorise a bank, building
     society or credit union--
          (a) to pay bills of exchange drawn upon the banking account
          of the trustees by two or more trustees named in that
          behalf in the authority, or by the NSW Trustee or a trustee
          company if one of the trustees and so named in that behalf
          in the authority, or
          (b) to recognise as a valid endorsement upon any bill of
          exchange or promissory note payable to the order of the
          trustees the indorsement thereon by two or more trustees
          named in that behalf in the authority, or by the NSW
          Trustee or a trustee company if one of the trustees and so
          named in that behalf in the authority, or where the
          indorsement is for collection and credit of any account of
          the trustees with a bank, building society or credit union,
          the indorsement thereon by any one or more of the trustees
          named in that behalf in the authority,
     the bank, building society or credit union acting in pursuance of the
     authority shall not be deemed privy to a breach of trust on the
     ground only of notice that the persons giving the authority were
     trustees, or that the instrument, if any, by which the trust was
     created did not contain any express power to give the authority--
     Provided that the duration of any such authority shall be limited to
     a period not exceeding three months on any one occasion, except
     where--
          (i) the trustee or one of the trustees named in the
          authority is the Public Trustee or a trustee company, or
          (ii) the authority is to indorse for collection and credit
          of any account of the trustees with a bank, building
          society or credit union.
     (2) This section shall not affect any question of the liability of
     any trustee for breach of trust in giving the authority.
     (3) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (4) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 54A
Banker may recognise certain signatures and endorsements
 
 
54A Banker may recognise certain signatures and endorsements
     (1) Where two or more persons in a fiduciary position (other than
     trustees under a will, settlement or like instrument) have deposited
     with a banker moneys which have been received by them as such
     fiduciaries, it shall be lawful for the banker, when so authorised by
     such person--
          (a) to pay cheques drawn on the banker by any one or more
          of them or by any agent authorised by them,
          (b) to recognise as a valid endorsement upon any bill of
          exchange or promissory note payable to the order of such
          persons an endorsement by any one or more of them or any
          agent authorised by them.
     (2) Where any person in a fiduciary position (other than a trustee
     under a will, settlement or like instrument) has deposited with a
     banker moneys which have been received by the person as such
     fiduciary, it shall be lawful for the banker when so authorised by
     such person--
          (a) to pay cheques drawn on the banker by any agent
          authorised by the person,
          (b) to recognise as a valid endorsement on any bill of
          exchange or promissory note payable to the order of such
          person an endorsement by any agent authorised by the
          person.
     (3) Nothing in this section contained shall affect any liability of
     such persons or person to the persons towards whom they are or he or
     she is in a fiduciary position.
     (4) In this section,
     "banker" includes a bank, a building society and a credit union.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 55
Foreign property
 
 
55 Foreign property
     (1) Where any property subject to a trust or forming part of the
     estate of a testator or intestate is in any place outside New South
     Wales, the trustee may appoint any person to act as the trustee's
     agent or attorney for any of the following purposes--
          (a) selling, converting, collecting, getting in, and
          executing and perfecting assurances of, or managing, or
          cultivating, or otherwise administering the property,
          (b) executing or exercising any discretion trust or power
          vested in the trustee in relation to the property.
     (2) The agent or attorney may be so appointed with such ancillary
     powers, and with and subject to such provisions and restrictions as
     the trustee may think fit, including a power to appoint substitutes.
     (3) The trustee shall not by reason only of having made the
     appointment, be responsible for any loss arising thereby.
     (4) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (5) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 56
Undivided interests
 
 
56 Undivided interests
     (1) Where an undivided share in the proceeds of sale of land directed
     to be sold, or in any other property, is subject to a trust or forms
     part of the estate of a testator or intestate, the trustee may,
     without prejudice to the trust for sale affecting the entirety of the
     land and the powers of the trustees for sale in reference thereto,
     execute or exercise any trust or power vested in the trustee in
     relation to such share, in conjunction with the persons entitled to
     or having power in that behalf over the other share or shares.
     (2) This section applies notwithstanding that the trustee may be
     entitled to or interested in any such other share, either in the
     trustee's own right or in a fiduciary capacity.
     (3) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (4) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 57
Two or more trustees
 
 
57 Two or more trustees
     (1) Where a power or trust is given to or vested in two or more
     trustees jointly, then, unless the contrary is expressed in the
     instrument, if any, creating the power or trust, the same may be
     exercised or performed by the survivor or survivors of them for the
     time being.
     (2) This section applies to powers and trusts created either before
     or after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 58
Powers of attorney
 
 
58 Powers of attorney
     (1) A trustee acting or paying money in good faith under or in
     pursuance of any power of attorney shall not be liable for any such
     act or payment by reason of the fact that at the time of the payment
     or act the person who gave the power of attorney was dead or had done
     some act to avoid the power, if this fact was not known to the
     trustee at the time of the trustee's so acting or paying.
     (2) Nothing in this section shall affect the right of any person
     entitled to the money against the person to whom the payment is made.
     (3) The person so entitled shall have the same remedy against the
     person to whom the payment is made as he or she would have had
     against the trustee.
     (4) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 59
Implied indemnity
 
 
59 Implied indemnity
     (1) A trustee shall be chargeable only for money and securities
     actually received by the trustee, notwithstanding the trustee's
     signing any receipt for the sake of conformity.
     (2) A trustee shall be answerable and accountable only for the
     trustee's own acts, receipts, neglects, or defaults, and not for
     those of any other trustee, nor for any banker, broker, or other
     person with whom any trust moneys or securities may be deposited, nor
     for the insufficiency or deficiency of any securities, nor for any
     other loss, unless the same happens through the trustee's own wilful
     neglect or default.
     (3) Nothing in subsections (1) and (2) shall prejudice the provisions
     of the instrument, if any, creating the trust.
     (4) A trustee may reimburse himself or herself, or pay or discharge
     out of the trust property all expenses incurred in or about execution
     of the trustee's trusts or powers.
     (5) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 60
Distribution after notice
 
 
60 Distribution after notice
     (1) Where a trustee intends to convey or distribute any property to
     or among the persons entitled thereto, the trustee may give notice in
     the manner and form prescribed by rules of the Court of the intention
     so to convey or distribute the property.
     (4) At the expiration of the time fixed by the notice the trustee may
     convey or distribute the property or any part thereof to or among the
     persons entitled thereto, having regard only to the claims, formal or
     otherwise, of which the trustee then had notice.
     (5) If the notice has been given the trustee shall not, as respects
     the property conveyed or distributed, be liable to any person of
     whose claim the trustee has not had notice at the time of the
     conveyance or distribution.
     (6) Nothing in this section shall prejudice the right of any person
     to follow the property, or any property representing the same, into
     the hands of any person who may have received the same.
     (7) In relation to a conveyance or distribution of property after the
     commencement of the Children (Equality of Status) Act 1976, a trustee
     referred to in subsection (5) shall be deemed to have notice of the
     claim of any person whose entitlement to the property or to any part
     of it would have become apparent if the trustee had applied for and
     obtained a certificate under section 50 of the Births, Deaths and
     Marriages Registration Act 1995.
     (8) Validation A notice that satisfies this subsection is taken for
     all purposes to be a notice that complies with this section (as in
     force before or after the commencement of this subsection). A notice
     satisfies this subsection if it is given--
          (a) in the case of a trustee who is an executor or
          administrator--in accordance with Rule 91 of Part 78 of the
          Supreme Court Rules 1970 as in force on or after 13 January
          1992, or
          (b) in any other case--in the manner provided for by this
          section as in force at any time.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 61
Distribution where estate comprises leaseholds, and in certain other cases
 
 
61 Distribution where estate comprises leaseholds, and in certain other cases
     (1) Section 94 of the Probate and Administration Act 1898 shall apply
     to an assignment or conveyance executed by a trustee and to the
     distribution of the trust property in like manner as that section
     applies to an assignment or conveyance by a legal representative and
     to the distribution of the estate of a testator or intestate.
     (2) Nothing in this section shall prejudice the right of the lessor
     or grantor and the persons deriving title under the lessor or grantor
     to follow the trust property into the hands of the persons amongst
     whom the same may have been distributed.
     (3) This section applies only to assignments or conveyances executed
     after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 61A
Personal liability of legal representative or trustee
 
 
61A Personal liability of legal representative or trustee
The legal representative or trustee of the will of a deceased person who was
registered as the holder of shares not fully paid up in any incorporated
company may distribute the assets of the estate of such deceased person as soon
as such legal representative or trustee has procured the registration of some
other person as the holder of the shares without reserving any portion of the
estate for the payment of any calls made after the date of such registration
whether made by the company or its directors or by its liquidators in a winding
up, but nothing herein contained shall affect any right which the company or
its liquidator may have to follow the assets of such deceased person into the
hands of any persons amongst whom the same have been distributed or who have
received the same.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 62
Notice
 
 
62 Notice
A trustee acting for the purposes of more than one trust or estate shall not in
the absence of fraud, be affected by notice of any instrument matter fact or
thing in relation to any particular trust or estate if the trustee has obtained
notice thereof merely by reason of the trustee's acting or having acted for the
purposes of another trust or estate.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 63
Advice
 
 
63 Advice
     (1) A trustee may apply to the Court for an opinion advice or
     direction on any question respecting the management or administration
     of the trust property, or respecting the interpretation of the trust
     instrument.
     (2) If the trustee acts in accordance with the opinion advice or
     direction, the trustee shall be deemed, so far as regards the
     trustee's own responsibility, to have discharged the trustee's duty
     as trustee in the subject matter of the application, provided that
     the trustee has not been guilty of any fraud or wilful concealment or
     misrepresentation in obtaining the opinion advice or direction.
     (3) Rules of court may provide for the use, on an application under
     this section, of a written statement signed by the trustee or the
     trustee's Australian legal practitioner, or for the use of other
     material, instead of evidence.
     (4) Unless the rules of court otherwise provide, or the Court
     otherwise directs, it shall not be necessary to serve notice of the
     application on any person, or to adduce evidence by affidavit or
     otherwise in support of the application.
     (8) Where the question is who are the beneficiaries or what are their
     rights as between themselves, the trustee before conveying or
     distributing any property in accordance with the opinion advice or
     direction shall, unless the Court otherwise directs, give notice to
     any person whose rights as beneficiary may be prejudiced by the
     conveyance or distribution.
     (9) The notice shall state shortly the opinion advice or direction,
     and the intention of the trustee to convey or distribute in
     accordance therewith.
     (10) Any person who claims that the person's rights as beneficiary
     will be prejudiced by the conveyance or distribution may within such
     time as may be prescribed by rules of court, or as may be fixed by
     the Court, apply to the Court for such order or directions as the
     circumstances may require, and during such time and while the
     application is pending, the trustee shall abstain from making the
     conveyance or distribution.
     (11) Subject to subsection (10), and subject to any appeal, any
     person on whom notice of any application under this section is
     served, or to whom notice is given in accordance with subsection (8),
     shall be bound by any opinion advice direction or order given or made
     under this section as if the opinion advice direction or order had
     been given or made in proceedings to which the person was a party.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 64
Execution of trust
 
 
64 Execution of trust
     (1) Where a trustee is absent from New South Wales or is about to
     depart therefrom, the trustee may by registered deed delegate the
     execution of the trust.
     (2) A trustee may not so delegate, unless the trustee's co-trustees
     or co-trustee, and such other person, if any, as is empowered to
     appoint trustees, consent by the same or other registered deed to the
     delegation, and the delegation is to the NSW Trustee or to a trustee
     company or to a person residing in New South Wales who is either a
     co-trustee or is capable of being appointed a trustee of the trust.
     (3) The delegation may be made in respect of the whole or any part of
     the trust.
     (3A) A delegation given under the authority of this section by a
     trustee who is the legal representative of a deceased person shall,
     unless the contrary is expressed in the deed of delegation, operate
     to delegate not only the execution of the duties incident to the
     office of legal representative of such deceased person (including the
     exercise and discharge of all the powers, authorities, duties and
     functions of the trustee as such legal representative) but also the
     execution of the trusts which devolve upon such trustee when the
     administration of the estate of such deceased person is completed.
     This subsection shall be deemed to have commenced on the first day of
     March, one thousand nine hundred and twenty-six.
     (4) The delegation shall not operate beyond two years from the date
     of the deed and shall be made on one occasion only, unless after the
     delegation the trustee has returned to New South Wales and is again
     absent or about to depart therefrom, provided that in the event of
     the delegate dying or the delegation being revoked, another
     delegation may be made for the balance of the period of two years.
     (5) The delegation shall not be made, whether to a co-trustee or to
     any other person, unless there will be remaining in New South Wales
     to perform the trust the NSW Trustee or a trustee company or two
     persons whether as trustee or as delegate.
     (6) Two or more trustees may delegate concurrently.
     (7) A trustee who delegates his or her trust shall remain answerable
     for all acts and omissions of the delegate within the scope of the
     delegation as if they were the acts and omissions of the trustee, and
     the delegate shall be subject to the jurisdiction and powers of any
     Court so far as respects the execution of the trust in the same
     manner as if the delegate were the trustee.
     (8) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument, if any, creating the trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained, provided that nothing in this
     subsection shall affect the jurisdiction or powers of any Court.
     (9) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 65
Consent to exercise of trust or power
 
 
65 Consent to exercise of trust or power
     (1) Where a person whose consent is required by any instrument to the
     exercise of a trust or power is absent from New South Wales or is
     about to depart therefrom, the person may by registered deed delegate
     the right to consent to the NSW Trustee, or a trustee company.
     (2) Two or more persons may delegate concurrently.
     (3) The person who delegates and the delegate shall be severally
     liable for an improper exercise of the right to consent.
     (4) This section applies only if and as far as a contrary intention
     is not expressed in the instrument creating the power or trust, and
     shall have effect subject to the terms of that instrument and to the
     provisions therein contained.
     (5) This section applies to trusts or powers created either before or
     after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 66
Persons dealing with delegate
 
 
66 Persons dealing with delegate
     (1) No person dealing in good faith with the delegate under any deed
     of delegation authorised by this Part shall, by reason only that by
     the delegation or any evidence or document in connection therewith it
     appears that the delegate is acting in the execution of any trust, be
     affected for any purpose with notice of the trust.
     (2) This section applies to dealings before as well as after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 67
Power of attorney
 
 
67 Power of attorney
Every delegation under this Part is taken to be a power of attorney within the
meaning of the Powers of Attorney Act 2003 and that Act (with the exception of
Part 3) applies to that delegation, whether the delegation was made before or
after the commencement of that Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 68
Registration
 
 
68 Registration
     (1) Any instrument by which a trust or the right to consent to the
     exercise of a trust or power is delegated may be registered in the
     office of the Registrar-General as prescribed by regulation under the
     Conveyancing Act 1919.
     (2) This section extends to a delegation, whether under this Part or
     under the provisions of the instrument creating the trust or power or
     otherwise, and whether the trust or power does or does not relate to
     land subject to the provisions of the Real Property Act 1900.
     (3) This section extends to a consent to a delegation.
     (4) This section applies to instruments executed either before or
     after the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 70
New trustees
 
 
70 New trustees
     (1) The Court may make an order for the appointment of a new trustee
     or new trustees either in substitution for or in addition to any
     existing trustee or trustees, or although there is no existing
     trustee.
     (2) The appointment may be made whenever it is expedient to appoint a
     new trustee or new trustees, and it is inexpedient difficult or
     impracticable so to do without the assistance of the Court.
     (3) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of any
     other provision of this section, the Court may make an order for the
     appointment of a new trustee in substitution for a trustee who is
     convicted of a serious indictable offence, or is a bankrupt, or being
     a corporation is in liquidation or is dissolved.
     (4) In the case of any trust for a charity the Court may make an
     order for the appointment of a new trustee on such evidence of the
     trust as the Court deems sufficient.
     (5) This section shall be deemed to authorise the Court to make an
     order for the reappointment of the continuing trustees alone as new
     trustees.
     (6) An order under this section, and any consequential vesting order
     or conveyance, shall not operate further or otherwise as a discharge
     to any former or continuing trustee than an appointment of new
     trustees under any power for that purpose contained in any instrument
     would have operated.
     (8) Every trustee appointed under this section shall, as well before
     as after the trust property becomes vested in the trustee, have the
     same powers authorities and discretions, and may in all respects act
     as if the trustee had been originally appointed a trustee by the
     instrument, if any, creating the trust.
     (9) Nothing in this section shall give power to appoint an executor
     or administrator.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 71
Vesting orders
 
 
71 Vesting orders
     (1) The Court may make an order in this Act called a vesting order,
     which shall have effect as provided in section 78.
     (2) A vesting order may be made in any of the following cases,
     namely--
          (a) where the Court appoints or has appointed a new
          trustee,
          (b) where a new trustee has been appointed out of court
          under any statutory or express power,
          (c) where a trustee retires or has retired,
          (d) where a trustee is a minor,
          (e) where a trustee is an insane or an incapable person or
          person of unsound mind,
          (f) where a trustee is out of the jurisdiction of the
          Court,
          (g) where a trustee cannot be found,
          (h) where a trustee being a corporation is dissolved,
          (i) where a trustee neglects or refuses to convey any
          property, or to receive the dividends or income of any
          property, or to sue for or recover any property according
          to the direction of the person absolutely entitled to the
          same for twenty-eight days next after a request in writing
          has been made to the trustee by the person so entitled,
          (j) where it is uncertain who was the survivor of two or
          more trustees jointly entitled to or possessed of any
          property,
          (k) where, as to the last trustee known to have been
          entitled to or possessed of any property, it is uncertain
          whether he or she is living or dead,
          (l) where there is no legal representative of a trustee who
          was entitled to or possessed of any property or where it is
          uncertain who is the legal representative of a trustee who
          was entitled to or possessed of any property,
          (m) where any person neglects or refuses to convey any
          property, or to receive the dividends or income of any
          property, or to sue for or recover any property in
          accordance with the terms of an order of the Court,
          (n) where the Court might have made a vesting order if this
          Act had not been passed,
          (o) where property is vested in a trustee, whether by way
          of mortgage or otherwise, either solely or jointly with any
          other person, and it appears to the Court to be expedient
          to make a vesting order.
     (3) The provisions of paragraphs (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of
     subsection (2) extend to a trustee entitled to or possessed of any
     property either solely or jointly with any other person.
     (4) Where the order is consequential on the appointment of a new
     trustee, the property shall be vested in the persons who, on the
     appointment are the trustees.
     (5) Where the vesting order is consequential on the retirement of one
     or more of a number of trustees, the property may be vested in the
     continuing trustees alone.
     (6) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4), the vesting order
     may vest the property in any such person in any such manner and for
     any such estate or interest as the Court may direct, or may release
     or dispose of any contingent right to such person as the Court may
     direct.
     (7) The fact that the order is founded or purports to be founded on
     an allegation of the existence of any of the matters mentioned or
     referred to in subsection (2), shall be conclusive evidence of the
     matter so alleged in any Court upon any question as to the validity
     of the order.
     (8) This section shall not prevent the Court from directing a
     reconveyance or the payment of costs occasioned by any such order if
     improperly obtained, or from making a further vesting order.
     (9) Where by reason of the dissolution of a corporation either before
     or after the commencement of this Act a legal estate in any property
     has determined, the Court may by order create a corresponding estate
     and vest the same in the person who would have been entitled to the
     estate which determined, had it remained subsisting estate.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 72
Contingent rights of unborn persons
 
 
72 Contingent rights of unborn persons
Where any property is subject to a contingent right in an unborn person or
class of unborn persons, who, on coming into existence, would in respect
thereof become entitled to or possessed of the property on any trust, the Court
may make a vesting order releasing the property from the contingent right, or
vesting in any person the estate or interest to or of which the unborn person
or class of unborn persons would, on coming into existence, be entitled or
possessed in the property.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 74
Minor or insane mortgagee
 
 
74 Minor or insane mortgagee
Where any person entitled to or possessed of property by way of mortgage is a
minor, or is an insane or an incapable person or person of unsound mind, the
Court may make a vesting order vesting or releasing or disposing of the
property, with the right to transfer or call for a transfer of property, or to
receive the dividends or income thereof, or to sue for or recover property or
any interest in respect thereof, in like manner as in the case of a trustee
being a minor, or insane or incapable person, or person of unsound mind.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 75
Deceased mortgagee
 
 
75 Deceased mortgagee
     (1) Where a mortgagee of land has died, the Court may make a vesting
     order vesting the land in such person or persons in such manner and
     for such estate as the Court may direct--
     Provided that where the land is subject to the provisions of the Real
     Property Act 1900 the order may discharge the mortgage.
     (2) The order may only be made if the mortgagee did not enter into
     possession, and the money due in respect of the mortgage has been
     paid to a person entitled to receive the same, or that last-mentioned
     person consents to any order for the reconveyance of the land.
     (3) The order may be made in any of the following cases, namely--
          (a) where the legal representative of the mortgagee is out
          of the jurisdiction of the Court or cannot be found,
          (b) where the legal representative of the mortgagee, on
          demand made by or on behalf of a person entitled to require
          a conveyance of the land has stated in writing that he or
          she will not convey the same or does not convey the same
          for the space of twenty-eight days next after a proper deed
          for conveying the land has been tendered to him or her by
          or on behalf of the person so entitled,
          (c) where it is uncertain as to the legal representative of
          the mortgagee whether he or she is living or dead,
          (d) where there is no legal representative of a mortgagee
          who has died intestate as to the land, or where the
          mortgagee has died and it is uncertain who is the
          mortgagee's legal representative,
          (e) where the Court might have made a vesting order if this
          Act had not been passed.
     (3A) With such modifications as may be necessary, subsections (1A),
     (1B) and (1C) of section 98 of the Conveyancing Act 1919 apply to and
     in respect of an order under this section and the mortgage to which
     it relates and so apply--
          (a) as if a reference in those subsections to a
          determination by the court were a reference to an order
          under this section, and
          (b) as if the words ", except to the extent that it is
          extinguished or reduced by the operation of this section,"
          were omitted from subsection (1C) of that section.
     (4) The fact that the order is founded or purports to be founded on
     an allegation of the existence of any of the matters mentioned or
     referred to in subsection (3) shall be conclusive evidence of the
     matter in any Court upon any question as to the validity of the
     order.
     (5) This section shall not prevent the Court from directing a
     reconveyance or the payment of costs occasioned by any such order if
     improperly obtained, or from making a further vesting order.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 76
Sale or mortgage of land
 
 
76 Sale or mortgage of land
     (1) Where an order is made by the Court directing the sale or
     mortgage of any land, the Court may, if it thinks expedient, make an
     order vesting the land or any part thereof for such estate as the
     Court thinks fit in the purchaser or mortgagee or in any other
     person.
     (2) For the purposes of this section every person who is entitled to
     or possessed of the land, or entitled to a contingent right therein,
     and is a party to the proceedings in which the order is made or is
     otherwise bound by the order, shall be deemed to be so entitled or
     possessed, as the case may be, as a trustee within the meaning of
     this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 77
Specific performance, and other matters
 
 
77 Specific performance, and other matters
     (1) The Court may make a vesting order where an order is made by the
     Court for the specific performance of a contract concerning any land,
     or for the partition or sale in lieu of partition of any land, or for
     the exchange of any land, or for the conveyance of any land, either
     in cases arising out of the doctrine of election or otherwise.
     (2) For the purposes of this section the Court may declare--
          (a) that any of the parties to the suit or other
          proceedings are trustees of the land or any part thereof
          within the meaning of this Act,
          (b) that the interests of unborn persons who might claim
          under any party to the proceedings, or under the will or
          voluntary settlement of any person deceased, who was during
          his or her lifetime a party to the contract or transactions
          concerning which the order is made, are the interests of
          persons who on coming into existence would be trustees
          within the meaning of this Act.
     (3) The vesting order may be made with respect to the rights of those
     persons born and unborn as if they had been trustees.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 78
Effect of vesting order
 
 
78 Effect of vesting order
     (1) In the case of a vesting order consequential on the appointment
     of a new trustee, or the retirement of a trustee, the vesting order
     shall have the same effect as if the persons who before the
     appointment or retirement were the trustees, if any, had duly
     executed all proper conveyances of the property for such estate or
     interest as the Court directs, or if there is no such person, or no
     such person of full capacity, then as if such person had existed and
     been of full capacity, and had duly executed all proper conveyances
     of the property for such estate or interest as the Court directs.
     (2) In every other case the vesting order shall have the same effect
     as if the trustee or other person or description or class of persons
     to whose rights, or supposed rights, the provisions of this Part
     respectively relate, had been an ascertained and existing person of
     full capacity, and had executed a conveyance or release to the effect
     intended by the order.
     (3) In the case of land subject to the provisions of the Real
     Property Act 1900, the land shall not vest until the appropriate
     entries are made in accordance with the provisions of that Act, and
     in the case of any other land, the land shall not vest before the
     order is registered in the office of the Registrar-General as
     prescribed by regulation under the Conveyancing Act 1919.
     (4) In the case of property subject to the provisions of the Closer
     Settlement Acts, the Crown Land Management Act 2016, the Mining Act
     1992 or the Offshore Minerals Act 1999, or any other Act relating to
     Crown lands, the proper officer is hereby authorised, upon the
     vesting order being registered as provided in subsection (3), to make
     all such entries as may be necessary to give effect thereto.
     (5) In the following cases the vesting order shall vest in the person
     named in the order the right to transfer or call for a transfer of
     the property or security, that is to say, in the case of--
          (a) any property that does not come within subsections (3)
          or (4), but a transfer of which is required to be
          registered by or under any Act, whether of this State or
          otherwise,
          (b) any security that is only transferable in books kept by
          a corporation company or other body, or in manner directed
          by or under any Act, whether of this State or otherwise.
     (6) In the case of any security or chose in action the vesting order
     shall vest in the person named in the order the right to receive the
     dividends or income thereof, and to sue for or recover the chose in
     action.
     (7) The person in whom the right to transfer or call for the transfer
     of any property or security is so vested may transfer the property or
     security to himself or herself or any other person according to the
     order, and all corporations companies associations and persons shall
     obey the order.
     (8) After notice in writing of the vesting order it shall not be
     lawful for any company association or person to transfer any property
     or security to which the order relates, or to pay any dividends
     thereon except in accordance with the order.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 79
Appointment of person to convey
 
 
79 Appointment of person to convey
In all cases where a vesting order can be made the Court may, if it is more
convenient, appoint a person to convey the property or release any contingent
right, and a conveyance or release by that person in conformity with the order
shall have the same effect as an order under the appropriate provision.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 80
Trustees of charities
 
 
80 Trustees of charities
The powers conferred by this Act as to vesting orders may be exercised for
vesting any property in any trustee of a charity or society over which the
Court would have jurisdiction in proceedings duly instituted, whether the
appointment of the trustee was made by instrument under a power or by the Court
under its general or statutory jurisdiction.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 81
Advantageous dealings
 
 
81 Advantageous dealings
     (1) Where in the management or administration of any property vested
     in trustees, any sale, lease, mortgage, surrender, release, or
     disposition, or any purchase, investment, acquisition, expenditure,
     or transaction, is in the opinion of the Court expedient, but the
     same cannot be effected by reason of the absence of any power for
     that purpose vested in the trustees by the instrument, if any,
     creating the trust, or by law, the Court--
          (a) may by order confer upon the trustees, either generally
          or in any particular instance, the necessary power for the
          purpose, on such terms, and subject to such provisions and
          conditions, including adjustment of the respective rights
          of the beneficiaries, as the Court may think fit, and
          (b) may direct in what manner any money authorised to be
          expended, and the costs of any transaction, are to be paid
          or borne as between capital and income.
     (2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall be deemed to empower the
     Court, where it is satisfied that an alteration whether by extension
     or otherwise of the trusts or powers conferred on the trustees by the
     trust instrument, if any, creating the trust, or by law is expedient,
     to authorise the trustees to do or abstain from doing any act or
     thing which if done or omitted by them without the authorisation of
     the Court or the consent of the beneficiaries would be a breach of
     trust, and in particular the Court may authorise the trustees--
          (a) to sell trust property, notwithstanding that the terms
          or consideration for the sale may not be within any
          statutory powers of the trustees, or within the terms of
          the instrument, if any, creating the trust, or may be
          forbidden by that instrument,
          (b) to postpone the sale of trust property,
          (c) to carry on any business forming part of the trust
          property during any period for which a sale may be
          postponed,
          (d) to employ capital money subject to the trust in any
          business which the trustees are authorised by the
          instrument, if any, creating the trust or by law to carry
          on.
     (3) The Court may from time to time rescind or vary any order made
     under this section, or may make any new or further order.
     (4) The powers of the Court under this section shall be in addition
     to the powers of the Court under its general administrative
     jurisdiction and under this or any other Act.
     (5) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 82
Improvements and repairs
 
 
82 Improvements and repairs
     (1) Where any leasehold or freehold land is vested in a trustee, the
     Court may authorise the trustee to pay or apply capital money subject
     to the trust for any one or more of the following purposes, as to the
     Court seems fit, that is to say--
          (a) to effect repairs to any existing buildings, dams,
          fences or other erections upon the land,
          (b) to effect improvements of or upon the land, or to
          reconstruct enlarge or improve any existing buildings,
          dams, fences or other erections thereon,
          (c) to erect any new buildings, dams, fences or other
          erections upon the land,
          (d) to erect or join in erecting any give and take fence,
          that is to say, a fence part of which is on the land and
          part on adjoining land,
          (e) to restock the land with sheep, cattle, or horses,
          (f) to replace machinery or implements required for the
          land.
     (2) The trustee may be so authorised where the Court, having due
     regard to the interest of all persons beneficially interested in the
     land, thinks that the proposed expenditure is expedient, although it
     may not be necessary for the purpose of the salvage of the property.
     (3) The amount of capital money that may be so expended shall be
     stated in the order authorising the proposed expenditure.
     (4) The Court may authorise the trustee, as to the Court seems fit--
          (a) to raise the amount by mortgage of the land, or by sale
          of a part thereof,
          (b) to raise the amount by mortgage or sale of any other
          real or personal property held upon the same trusts,
          (c) to pay the amount out of any moneys under the control
          of the trustee and held by the trustee upon the same
          trusts,
          (d) to provide the amount partly in one and partly in
          another of those modes,
          (e) to provide a sinking fund out of income.
     (5) Where the amount is authorised to be raised by mortgage the Court
     may give directions to the trustee how the principal and interest are
     to be paid.
     (6) The Court may require such provision for a sinking fund as the
     Court thinks proper.
     (7) The Court shall give such directions as appear necessary and
     proper, so as to throw upon the respective interests of the persons
     beneficially interested their proper proportion of the moneys to be
     expended.
     (8) No purchaser or mortgagee paying or advancing money upon any sale
     or mortgage authorised by the Court under this section shall be
     required to see to the application of the purchase money or mortgage
     money, and the protection given by this subsection shall extend to
     the Registrar-General Crown Solicitor or other person registering or
     certifying title.
     (9) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 82A
Improvement and repairs without the approval of the Court
 
 
82A Improvement and repairs without the approval of the Court
     (1) Where any leasehold or freehold land is vested in a trustee and
     in the opinion of the trustee it is expedient in the interest of all
     persons beneficially interested in the land to expend capital moneys
     subject to the trust for any one or more of the purposes specified in
     paragraphs (a) to (f) both inclusive of subsection (1) of section 82
     the trustee may, without the authority of the Court, expend on all or
     any of such purposes capital moneys subject to the trust not
     exceeding in all the prescribed amount.
     (1A) For the purpose of subsection (1), the prescribed amount is--
          (a) in the case of a trustee other than the NSW Trustee or
          a trustee company--$50,000 or 30% of the value of the land,
          whichever is the greater, or
          (b) in the case of the NSW Trustee or a trustee company--
               (i) $50,000 (or such other amount as may be
               prescribed by the regulations) or 30% of the
               value of the land, whichever is the greater, or
               (ii) if all the persons beneficially interested
               in the land are able to give a good discharge, an
               amount agreed upon between the NSW Trustee or the
               trustee company and all those persons,
          whichever is the greater.
     (2) Where in the opinion of the trustee it is expedient to exercise
     the power conferred by subsection (1) the trustee may without the
     authority of the Court exercise any of the powers specified in
     subsection (4) of section 82, and the trustee shall throw upon the
     respective interests of the persons beneficially interested a proper
     proportion of the moneys so expended.
     (3) Subsection (8) of section 82 shall apply mutatis mutandis to any
     sale or mortgage made by a trustee in exercise of the powers
     conferred by this section.
     (4) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of the Conveyancing, Trustee and Probate (Amendment) Act
     1938.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 84
Sale of minor's property
 
 
84 Sale of minor's property
     (1) Where any property is held in trust for a minor, the Court may
     authorise the trustee to sell the whole or any part of the property.
     (2) The authority shall be given on such terms and subject to such
     provisions and conditions as the Court may think fit.
     (3) The Court may confer upon the trustee such powers as appear
     necessary or proper for the purpose, including power to concur with
     any other person.
     (4) This section applies whether the trust is for the minor solely or
     together with any other person, and whether the interest of the minor
     is or is not in possession.
     (5) This section applies to trusts created either before or after the
     commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 85
Excusable breaches of trust
 
 
85 Excusable breaches of trust
     (1) Where a trustee is or may be personally liable for any breach of
     trust, the Court may relieve the trustee either wholly or partly from
     personal liability for the breach.
     (2) The relief may not be given unless it appears to the Court that
     the trustee has acted honestly and reasonably, and ought fairly to be
     excused for the breach of trust and for omitting to obtain the
     direction of the Court in the matter in which the trustee committed
     the breach.
     (4) This section applies whether the transaction alleged to be a
     breach of trust occurred before or after the commencement of this
     Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 86
Indemnity for breach of trust
 
 
86 Indemnity for breach of trust
     (1) Where a trustee commits a breach of trust at the instigation or
     request or with the written consent of a beneficiary, the Court may,
     if it thinks fit, make such order as to the Court seems just for
     impounding all or any part of the interest of the beneficiary in the
     trust estate by way of indemnity to the trustee or person claiming
     through the trustee.
     (2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall be deemed to empower the
     Court to impound all or any part of the interest of any beneficiary
     who receives any pecuniary benefit from the breach of trust.
     (3) This section applies notwithstanding that the beneficiary may be
     a married woman entitled for her separate use and restrained from
     anticipation.
     (4) This section applies to breaches of trust committed as well
     before as after the commencement of this Act, but shall not prejudice
     any question in any suit or other proceeding instituted before and
     pending at the commencement of this Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 86A
Court order to approve arrangement
 
 
86A Court order to approve arrangement
     (1) If property is held in trust under any instrument creating the
     trust, the Court may, if it thinks fit, by order approve any
     arrangement to--
          (a) vary or revoke all or any of the trust, or
          (b) enlarge the powers of the trustees for the purpose of
          managing or administering any of the property subject to
          the purpose of the trust.
     (2) An order under this section may be made by the Court only on
     behalf of--
          (a) any person under the trust having an interest directly
          or indirectly, or vested or contingent, who by reason of
          being a minor or other incapacity is incapable of
          assenting, or
          (b) any person who may become entitled, directly or
          indirectly, to an interest under the trust, and the
          entitlement is contingent on a future date or event that
          has not occurred at the time of application for an order
          under this section, or
          (c) any unborn person, or
          (d) any person in respect of any discretionary interest of
          the person under protective trusts where the interest of
          the principal beneficiary has not failed or determined.
     (3) This section--
          (a) extends to a trust created before the commencement of
          this section, and
          (b) does not apply to trusts affecting property created by
          another Act, and
          (c) does not limit the operation of section 81.
     (4) In this section--

     "discretionary interest", in relation to protective trusts, means an
     interest arising under section 45(6).

     "principal beneficiary" has the same meaning as in section 45.

     "protective trusts" has the same meaning as in section 45.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 86B
Court order to benefit person subject to application
 
 
86B Court order to benefit person subject to application
     (1) The Court must not approve an arrangement on behalf of any person
     under section 86A unless the carrying out of the order would be for
     the benefit of that person.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to an approval of an arrangement
     under 86A(2)(d).
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 86C
Court may direct notice of application to certain persons
 
 
86C Court may direct notice of application to certain persons
Notice of an application to the Court for an order under section 86A must be
given to any persons as the Court may direct.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 87
Division of chattels
 
 
87 Division of chattels
     (1) Where any chattels are vested in a trustee for persons in
     undivided shares, any person interested in a moiety or upwards may
     apply to the Court for an order for division of the chattels or any
     of them, according to a valuation or otherwise.
     (2) The Court may make such order and give any consequential
     directions as it thinks fit.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 88
Order in absence of a trustee
 
 
88 Order in absence of a trustee
Where in any proceedings the Court is satisfied that diligent search has been
made for any person who, in the character of trustee, is made a defendant
thereto to serve the person with a process of the Court and that the person
cannot be found, the Court may hear and determine the proceedings and make an
order therein against that person in his or her character of a trustee as if he
or she had been duly served or had entered an appearance in the proceedings,
and had also appeared by his or her Australian legal practitioner at the
hearing, but without prejudice to any interest he or she may have in the
matters in question in the proceedings in any other character.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 89
Proceedings under Mental Health Act 1958
 
 
89 Proceedings under Mental Health Act 1958
Where an application is made under this Part concerning a person of unsound
mind, the Court may direct an application to be made to the Court under the
Mental Health Act 1958 for the purpose of having such person declared an insane
or an incapable person, and may postpone making any order until that
application has been heard.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 90
Court may take into account investment strategy in action for breach of trust
 
 
90 Court may take into account investment strategy in action for breach of
trust
In proceedings against a trustee for a breach of trust in respect of a duty
under Division 2 of Part 2 relating to the trustee's power of investment, the
Court may, when considering the question of the trustee's liability, take into
account the following--
     (a) the nature and purpose of the trust,
     (b) whether the trustee had regard to the matters set out in section
     14C so far as is appropriate to the circumstances of the trust,
     (c) whether the trust investments have been made pursuant to an
     investment strategy formulated in accordance with the duty of a
     trustee under Division 2 of Part 2,
     (d) the extent the trustee acted on the independent and impartial
     advice of a person competent (or apparently competent) to give the
     advice.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 90A
Power of Court to set off gains and losses arising from investment
 
 
90A Power of Court to set off gains and losses arising from investment
     (1) The Court may, when considering an action for breach of trust
     arising out of or in respect of an investment by a trustee where a
     loss has been or is expected to be sustained by the trust, set off
     all or part of the loss resulting from that investment against all or
     part of the gain resulting from any other investment whether in
     breach of trust or not.
     (2) The power of set off conferred by subsection (1) is in addition
     to any other power or entitlement to set off all or part of any loss
     against any property.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 91
Defendants
 
 
91 Defendants
     (1) In proceedings in the Court under this Act, the plaintiff shall
     join as defendants such persons, if any, as the Court thinks fit.
     (2) If in proceedings in the Court under this Act any person who has
     been or ought to be made a defendant cannot be found in New South
     Wales, or if it is uncertain whether the person is living or dead, or
     if service cannot be effected on the person without expense
     disproportionate to the value of the person's interest, the Court may
     direct that the person be removed as a defendant or may dispense with
     service on the person, and may order that the person be deemed to
     have submitted the person's rights and interests to be dealt with by
     the Court.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 92
Persons entitled to apply
 
 
92 Persons entitled to apply
     (1) An order under this Act for the appointment of a new trustee or
     concerning any property subject to a trust may be made on the
     application of any person interested in the property, whether under
     disability or not, or of any person duly appointed trustee thereof.
     (2) An order under this Act concerning any property subject to a
     mortgage may be made on the application of any person interested in
     the equity of redemption, whether under disability or not, or of any
     person interested in the money secured by the mortgage.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 93
Costs
 
 
93 Costs
     (2) The Court may order the costs charges and expenses of and
     incident to any application or any order under this Act to be paid or
     to be raised by sale or mortgage out of the property in respect
     whereof the same is made or out of the income thereof, or to be borne
     and paid in such manner and by such persons as to the Court may seem
     just.
     (3) In any proceedings with respect to the management or
     administration of any property subject to a trust or forming part of
     the estate of a testator or intestate, or with respect to the
     interpretation of the trust instrument, the Court may, if it thinks
     fit, order any costs to be paid out of such part of the property as
     in the opinion of the Court is the real subject matter of the
     proceedings.
     (4) This section shall extend to any direction opinion or advice, any
     payment into or out of court, and any conveyance or transfer in
     pursuance of an order.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 95
Trustees
 
 
95 Trustees
     (1) Where trustees, or the majority of trustees, have in their hands
     or under their control money or securities belonging to a trust, they
     may pay the same into court.
     (2) Where any money or securities are vested in any persons as
     trustees, and the majority are desirous of paying the same into
     court, but the concurrence of the other or others cannot be obtained,
     the Court may order the payment into court to be made by the majority
     without the concurrence of the other or others.
     (3) Where any such money or securities are deposited with any banker
     broker or other depositary, the Court may order transfer payment or
     delivery of the money or securities to the majority of the trustees
     for the purpose of payment into court.
     (4) Every transfer payment and delivery made in pursuance of any such
     order shall be valid and take effect as if the same had been made on
     the authority or by the act of all the persons entitled to the money
     or securities so transferred paid or delivered.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 96
Person liable to minor or person of unsound mind
 
 
96 Person liable to minor or person of unsound mind
Where a minor or person of unsound mind is entitled to any money payable in
discharge of land stock or chose in action conveyed under this Act, the person
by whom the money is payable may pay the money into court.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 97
Life assurance companies
 
 
97 Life assurance companies
     (1) Where any money is payable by any life assurance company under a
     life policy in respect of which, in the opinion of the board of
     directors, no sufficient discharge can otherwise be obtained, the
     company may pay the money into court.
     (2) Where in the opinion of the Court the payment in was made without
     reasonable grounds, the Court may order all costs occasioned thereby
     to be paid by the company.
     (3) In this section
     "life assurance company" means any corporation, company, or society
     carrying on the business of life assurance, not being a friendly
     society; and
     "life policy" includes any policy not foreign to the business of life
     assurance.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 98
Money or securities
 
 
98 Money or securities
     (1) The payment of money or securities into court shall be subject to
     rules of court.
     (2) The receipt or certificate of a registrar of the Court or other
     proper officer shall be a sufficient discharge to any trustee person
     or company for money or securities paid into court.
     (3) Money or securities paid into court shall, subject to rules of
     court, be dealt with according to the orders of the Court.
     (4) The Court may make such order as it thinks fit as to the
     investment payment or distribution of money or securities paid into
     court, or the dividends or income thereof.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 99
Trustee
 
 
99 Trustee
In this Part
"trustee" includes every implied or constructive trustee without any exception.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 100
Escheat
 
 
100 Escheat
     (1) Property vested in any person upon any trust or by way of
     mortgage shall not escheat or be forfeited to the Crown by reason of
     the attainder or conviction for any offence of the trustee or
     mortgagee.
     (2) Property so vested shall remain in the trustee or mortgagee or
     survive to his or her co-trustee, or vest in his or her legal
     representative as if the attainder or conviction had not taken place.
     (3) This section shall not prevent the escheat or forfeiture of any
     property vested in any trustee or mortgagee so far as relates to any
     beneficial interest therein of the trustee or mortgagee, but the
     property, so far as relates to any such beneficial interest, shall be
     recoverable in the same manner as if this Act had not been passed.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 100A
Limitation of liability of beneficiaries in respect of trustees
 
 
100A Limitation of liability of beneficiaries in respect of trustees
     (1) The rule of equity known as the rule in Hardoon v Belilios is
     abolished.
          Note : The rule is considered to have originated in the
          decision of the Privy Council in Hardoon v Belilios[1901
          [#93] AC 118. The NSW Law Reform Commission recommended the
          abolition of the rule in Report 144 (2018): Laws relating
          to beneficiaries of trusts. This section gives effect to
          Recommendation 2.1 of that Report.
     (2) Accordingly, a beneficiary under a trust (whether created before,
     on or after the commencement day) is not liable to indemnify the
     trustee or make any other payment to the trustee or any other person
     for any act, default, obligation or liability of the trustee arising
     on or after the commencement day unless--
          (a) the beneficiary has agreed in writing to be liable, or
          (b) subsection (3) applies.
     (3) This section does not prevent a trustee of an investment trust
     from recovering any amount that a beneficiary under the trust is
     liable to pay for a right, interest or other entitlement to profits,
     income or other returns generated by the trust.
     (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect any liability that a
     beneficiary under a trust may have in a capacity other than as a
     beneficiary.
     (5) In this section--

     "commencement day" means the day on which this section commenced.

     "investment trust" means any trust (however described) created for
     the purpose of generating profits, income or other returns for its
     beneficiaries using funds provided by them, and includes a unit trust
     scheme within the meaning of the Duties Act 1997.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 101
Property vested in the NSW Trustee
 
 
101 Property vested in the NSW Trustee
Where any new trustee is appointed under or in pursuance of the powers
conferred by any instrument creating a trust, or by this or any other Act, all
the property which for the time being is vested in the NSW Trustee by virtue of
the Probate and Administration Act 1898 and is subject to the trust in respect
of which the new trustee is appointed, shall, on registration of the order or
deed appointing the new trustee, and without other assurance in the law, become
and be legally and effectually vested in the new trustee either solely or
jointly with any surviving or continuing trustee, as the case may require.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 102
Account by fiduciary
 
 
102 Account by fiduciary
Where any guardian, manager, receiver, trustee or other fiduciary appointed by
the Court has been or is (whether by Act, by rule of court or by order in any
proceedings) directed to account from time to time to the Court, or to file any
report or account in any registry of the Court, the Court may order compliance
with the direction, on the application of any party interested or of its own
motion.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 103
Indemnity
 
 
103 Indemnity
     (1) This Act and every order purporting to be made under this Act
     shall be a complete indemnity to all companies associations and
     persons for any acts done pursuant thereto.
     (2) It shall not be necessary for any company association or person
     to inquire concerning the propriety of the order or whether the Court
     had jurisdiction to make the same.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 104
Rules of Court
 
 
104 Rules of Court
     (1) Rules of Court may be made under the Supreme Court Act 1970 for
     better carrying the provisions and objects of this Act into effect.
     (2) Subsection (1) does not limit the rule-making powers conferred by
     the Supreme Court Act 1970.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 104A
Regulations
 
 
104A Regulations
     (1) The Governor may make regulations, not inconsistent with this
     Act, prescribing all matters which by this Act are required or
     permitted to be prescribed by regulation.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SECT 107
Savings and transitional provisions
 
 
107 Savings and transitional provisions
Schedule 2 has effect.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SCHEDULE 1
 
 
SCHEDULE 1 - Repeals
 _____________________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|1898 No 4       |Trustee Act 1898             |Sections 2 to 17 inclusive,   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                |                             |Section 18, except as         |
|1898 No 4       |Trustee Act 1898             |otherwise provided by section |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|1898 No 13      |Wills, Probate and           |Section 96.                   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|1902 No 98      |Trustee Act Amendment Act    |The whole Act.                |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|1915 No 31      |Trustees Delegation of Powers|The whole Act, except sections|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- SCHEDULE 2
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 - Savings and transitional provisions
(Section 107)
Part 1 - Preliminary 1 Regulations
     (1) The regulations may contain provisions of a savings or
     transitional nature consequent on the enactment of the following
     Acts--
          Trustee Amendment (Discretionary Investments) Act 1997
          any other Act that amends this Act
     (2) Any such provision may, if the regulations so provide, take
     effect from the date of assent to the Act concerned or a later date.
     (3) To the extent to which any such provision takes effect from a
     date that is earlier than the date of its publication in the Gazette,
     the provision does not operate so as--
          (a) to affect, in a manner prejudicial to any person (other
          than the State or an authority of the State), the rights of
          that person existing before the date of its publication, or
          (b) to impose liabilities on any person (other than the
          State or an authority of the State) in respect of anything
          done or omitted to be done before the date of its
          publication.
Part 2 - Provisions consequent on enactment of Trustee Amendment (Discretionary
Investments) Act 1997 2 Definition
In this Part,
"amending Act" means the Trustee Amendment (Discretionary Investments) Act
1997.
3 Application of sections 14-14DB
Sections 14-14DB apply to trusts created before or after the commencement of
Schedule 1 [2[#93] to the amending Act.
4 Transitional provision
     (1) A trustee, or a person empowered or required by a provision
     (however expressed) of any other Act or any instrument to invest
     money in investments authorised by this Act, may invest, or maintain
     an investment, in any security authorised by section 14A (2) of this
     Act as in force immediately before the commencement of Schedule 1 [2
     [#93] to the amending Act for a period of up to 2 years (or such
     other period as may be prescribed by the regulations) after that
     commencement.
     (2) Subclause (1) applies to a trustee if the trustee is not
     expressly forbidden from investing in such a security by the
     instrument (if any) creating the trust or any provision of or made
     under this or any other Act.
5 Trustee not liable
A trustee who continues to invest money in securities in accordance with clause
4 (1) is taken to have complied with section 14A as inserted by the amending
Act.
Part 3 - Provision consequent on enactment of Courts and Crimes Legislation
Amendment Act 2010 6 Saving of existing regulation
A regulation made for the purposes of section 18 (3) of the Act that is in
force on the commencement of this clause is taken to be a regulation made for
the purposes of section 18 (7) of the Act.
 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- NOTES
 

Reprint history (since 1972)--
Reprint No 1   14 January 1975  

Reprint No 2   19 September 1977  

Reprint No 3   26 March 1979  

Reprint No 4   28 May 1980  

Reprint No 5   5 July 1983  

Reprint No 6   3 March 1987  

Reprint No 7   20 October 1988  

Reprint No 8   6 April 1992  

Reprint No 9   6 September 1993  

Reprint No 10   3 February 1997  

Reprint No 11   18 May 1999  

Reprint No 12   23 December 2003  

Reprint No 13   10 November 2009  

 

TRUSTEE ACT 1925
- NOTES
 

Historical notes
The following abbreviations are used in the Historical notes:

 _____________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________|
This Act is reprinted with the omission of all amending provisions authorised
to be omitted under sec 6 of the Reprints
Act 1972. Table of amending instrumentsTrustee Act 1925
No
14. Assented to 8.12.1925. Date of commencement, 1.3.1926, sec 1 (2). This Act
has been amended as follows--

 _____________________________________________________________________________
|    |      |Trustee (Amendment)                                              |
|1929|No 60 |Act                                                              |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law Revision                                             |
|1937|No 35 |Act                                                              |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Conveyancing, Trustee and Probate (Amendment)                    |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|1938|No 30 |1938. Assented to 14.12.1938.                                    |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 1.1.1939, sec 1 (2) and GG No 188 of       |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Trustee and Wills                                                |
|1940|No 32 |(Emergency                                                       |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Public Trustee (Amendment)                                       |
|1942|No 26 |Act                                                              |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Decimal Currency                                                 |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|    |      |1965. Assented to 20.12.1965.                                    |
|1965|No 33 |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of sec 4, 14.2.1966, secs 1 (3), 2 (1) and  |
|    |      |the Currency Act                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Limitation Act                                                   |
|    |      |1969. Assented to 9.4.1969.                                      |
|1969|No 31 |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 1.1.1971, sec 1 (2) and GG No 106 of       |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Supreme Court                                                    |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|    |      |1970. Assented to 14.10.1970.                                    |
|1970|No 52 |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, Pt 9 excepted, 1.7.1972, sec 2 and GG No 59|
|    |      |of 2.6.1972, p 2018. Amended by Supreme Court (Amendment) Act    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Minors (Property and Contracts)                                  |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|    |No 60 |1970. Assented to 13.11.1970.                                    |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 1.7.1971, sec 1 (2) and GG No 60 of        |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Conveyancing (Amendment)                                         |
|1972|No 17 |Act                                                              |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Reprints                                                         |
|    |No 48 |Act                                                              |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Coal Mining Act 1973. Assented to 20.12.1973.                    |
|1973|No 81 |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Fourth Sch, 29.3.1974, sec 1 (2) and GG  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Children (Equality of Status) Act                                |
|    |      |1976. Assented to 17.12.1976.                                    |
|1976|No 97 |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1, 1.7.1977, sec 2 (2) and GG No 68  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Trustee (Amendment)                                              |
|1979|No 189|Act                                                              |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (Crown Land Titles) Amendment                 |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|1980|No 196|1980. Assented to 22.12.1980.                                    |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1 (except as provided in sec 2 (4)-  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (State Bank) Repeal and Amendment             |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|1981|No 90 |1981. Assented to 10.6.1981.                                     |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1, 2.11.1981, sec 2 (2) and GG No 168|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Miscellaneous Acts (Companies) Amendment                         |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|    |No 123|1981. Assented to 30.12.1981.                                    |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 8 (except as provided in sec 2 (6)   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Trustee (Investment Powers) Amendment Act                        |
|    |      |1982. Assented to 5.5.1982.                                      |
|1982|No 35 |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1, 17.5.1982, sec 2 (2) and GG No 65 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Liquor (Repeals and Savings)                                     |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|    |No 148|1982. Assented to 21.12.1982.                                    |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2, 1.7.1983, sec 2 (3) and GG No 74  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Trustee (Powers of Attorney) Amendment Act                       |
|1983|No 28 |1983. Assented to 22.4.1983.                                     |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Trustee (Investment) Amendment                                   |
|    |No 204|Act                                                              |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Perpetuities Act                                                 |
|    |      |1984. Assented to 13.6.1984.                                     |
|1984|No 43 |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1, 31.10.1984, sec 2 (2) and GG No   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Trustee (Amendment) Act 1984. Assented to 14.12.1984.            |
|    |No 169|                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1, 1.7.1985, sec 2 (2) and GG No 98  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Trustee (Trustees'                                               |
|1985|No 89 |Agents)                                                          |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No                   |
|    |      |1)                                                               |
|1987|No 48 |1987. Assented to 28.5.1987.                                     |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 32, except as provided by sec 2 (13),|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Trustee (Amendment) Act 1987. Assented to 16.6.1987.             |
|    |No 139|                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 1.8.1987, sec 2 (2) and GG No 126 of       |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No                   |
|    |      |2)                                                               |
|    |No 209|1987. Assented to 9.12.1987.                                     |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No                   |
|    |      |3)                                                               |
|1988|No 131|1988. Assented to 30.12.1988.                                    |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 25, 16.6.1989, sec 2 (2) and GG No 73|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law                                                      |
|    |      |(Miscellaneous                                                   |
|    |      |Provisions) Act (No 3) 1989. Assented to 21.12.1989. The         |
|    |      |provision of Sch 1 relating to the Trustee                       |
|1989|No 226|Act                                                              |
|    |      |1925 was not commenced and was repealed by the Statute Law       |
|    |      |(Miscellaneous                                                   |
|    |      |Provisions) Act 1994 No                                          |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Mining Act                                                       |
|    |      |1992. Assented to 18.5.1992.                                     |
|1992|No 29 |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 21.8.1992, sec 2 and GG No 101 of          |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act                       |
|    |      |1992. Assented to 18.5.1992.                                     |
|    |No 34 |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of the provisions of Sch 1 relating to the  |
|    |      |Trustee Act 1925, 15.1.1993, Sch 1 and GG No 5 of 15.1.1993, p   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Financial Institutions (New South Wales)                         |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|    |No 46 |1992. Assented to 30.6.1992.                                     |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 30.6.1992, sec 2 and GG No 80 of 30.6.1992,|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Trustee (Amendment) Act 1993. Assented to 18.5.1993.             |
|1993|No 18 |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 1.8.1993, sec 2 and GG No 82 of 23.7.1993, |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act                       |
|    |      |1993. Assented to 15.6.1993.                                     |
|    |No 46 |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of the provision of Sch 1 relating to the   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law Revision (Local Government)                          |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|1995|No 11 |1995. Assented to 9.6.1995.                                      |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1.137, 23.6.1995, sec 2 (1) and GG No|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Births, Deaths and                                               |
|    |      |Marriages                                                        |
|    |No 62 |Registration Act 1995. Assented to 12.12.1995.                   |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 1.1.1996, sec 2 and GG No 156 of           |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No                   |
|    |      |2)                                                               |
|    |No 99 |1995. Assented to 21.12.1995.                                    |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Financial Institutions (Miscellaneous Amendments)                |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|1996|No 24 |1996. Assented to 21.6.1996.                                     |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 12.7.1996, sec 2 and GG No 84 of 12.7.1996,|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Trustee Amendment Act 1996. Assented to 26.11.1996.              |
|    |No 100|                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Strata Schemes Management (Miscellaneous Amendments)             |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|    |No 139|1996. Assented to 16.12.1996.                                    |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 1.7.1997, sec 2 and GG No 68 of 27.6.1997, |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Friendly Societies (New South Wales) Act                         |
|    |      |1997. Assented to 21.5.1997.                                     |
|1997|No 11 |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 1.10.1997, sec 2 and GG No 104 of          |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Trustee Amendment (Discretionary Investments)                    |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|    |No 102|1997. Assented to 25.11.1997.                                    |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 13.3.1998, sec 2 and GG No 52 of 13.3.1998,|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Property (Relationships)                                         |
|    |      |Legislation                                                      |
|1999|No 4  |Amendment Act 1999. Assented to 7.6.1999.                        |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2.24, 28.6.1999, sec 2 and GG No 72  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                       |
|    |      |Provisions)                                                      |
|    |No 31 |Act 1999. Assented to 7.7.1999.                                  |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Offshore Minerals                                                |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|    |No 42 |1999. Assented to 8.7.1999.                                      |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 31.3.2000, sec 2 and GG No 42 of 31.3.2000,|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Crimes Legislation Amendment (Sentencing)                        |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|    |No 94 |1999. Assented to 8.12.1999.                                     |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 4.168, 1.1.2000, sec 2 (1) and GG No |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Corporations                                                     |
|    |      |(Consequential                                                   |
|2001|No 34 |Amendments) Act 2001. Assented to 28.6.2001.                     |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 2.55, 15.7.2001, sec 2 (1) and       |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Valuers Act                                                      |
|    |      |2003. Assented to 28.5.2003.                                     |
|2003|No 4  |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1.13, 31.3.2005, sec 2 (1) and GG No |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Powers of Attorney                                               |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|    |No 53 |2003. Assented to 23.10.2003.                                    |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 16.2.2004, sec 2 and GG No 35 of 13.2.2004,|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                       |
|    |      |Provisions)                                                      |
|2006|No 58 |Act 2006. Assented to 20.6.2006.                                 |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Succession Act                                                   |
|    |      |2006. Assented to 27.10.2006.                                    |
|    |No 80 |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement, 1.3.2008, sec 2 and GG No 16 of 15.2.2008, |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law                                                      |
|    |      |(Miscellaneous                                                   |
|    |No 120|Provisions) Act (No 2) 2006. Assented to 4.12.2006.              |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |NSW Trustee and Guardian                                         |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|2009|No 49 |2009. Assented to 26.6.2009.                                     |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law                                                      |
|    |      |(Miscellaneous                                                   |
|    |No 106|Provisions) Act (No 2) 2009. Assented to 14.12.2009.             |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Relationships Register                                           |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|2010|No 19 |2010. Assented to 19.5.2010.                                     |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Courts and Crimes                                                |
|    |      |Legislation                                                      |
|    |No 88 |Amendment Act 2010. Assented to 1.11.2010.                       |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                       |
|    |      |Provisions)                                                      |
|2011|No 27 |Act 2011. Assented to 27.6.2011.                                 |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Statute Law (Miscellaneous                                       |
|    |      |Provisions)                                                      |
|    |No 62 |Act (No 2) 2011. Assented to 16.11.2011.                         |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Regulatory Reform and                                            |
|    |      |Other                                                            |
|2015|No 48 |Legislative Repeals Act 2015. Assented to 5.11.2015.             |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 1, 1.3.2016, sec 2 (2) and 2015 (798)|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Crown Land Legislation Amendment                                 |
|    |      |Act                                                              |
|2017|No 17 |2017. Assented to 17.5.2017.                                     |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 4, 1.7.2018, sec 2 (1) and 2018 (225)|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Miscellaneous Acts                                               |
|    |      |Amendment                                                        |
|2018|No 28 |(Marriages) Act 2018. Assented to 15.6.2018.                     |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Government Sector Finance                                        |
|    |      |Legislation                                                      |
|    |No 70 |(Repeal and Amendment) Act 2018. Assented to 22.11.2018.         |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|    |      |Date of commencement of Sch 3, 1.12.2018, sec 2 (1) and 2018     |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Justice Legislation Amendment                                    |
|    |      |Act (No                                                          |
|2019|No 20 |2) 2019. Assented to 22.11.2019.                                 |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|    |      |Stronger Communities Legislation Amendment (Courts               |
|    |      |and Civil)                                                       |
|2020|No 24 |Act 2020. Assented to 28.9.2020.                                 |
|    |      |                                                                 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
This Act has also been amended pursuant to an order under secs 8 (2) and 9 (3)
of the Reprints
Act
1972 (formerly Acts Reprinting Act
1972). Order dated 2.1.1975 and published in Gazette No 12 of 10.1.1975, p 84,
declaring that the Trustee Act
1925 is an enactment to which sec 8 (2) and sec 9 (3) of the Acts Reprinting
Act
1972 applies. Table of amendmentsNo reference is made to certain amendments
made by the Decimal Currency Act
1965, the Reprints
Act 1972, and Schedule 3 (amendments replacing gender-specific language) to the
Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No
2)
1995.

 _____________________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 4                          |Rep 1987 No 48, Sch 32. Ins 1997 No 102, Sch |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,    |
|Sec 5                          |Second Sch); 1970 No 60, First Sch; 1979 No  |
|                               |189, Sch 1 (1); 2006 No 80, Sch 3.15 [1[#93];|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1940 No 32, sec 11 (a); 1970 No 60, First |
|Sec 6                          |Sch; 1979 No 189, Sch 1 (2); 2009 No 49, Sch |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 7                          |Am 1979 No 189, Sch 1 (3); 2009 No 49, Sch   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1938 No 30, sec 5 (a); 1973 No 81, Fourth |
|Sec 9                          |Sch; 1992 No 29, Sch 5; 1999 No 42, Sch 3.17 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1938 No 30, sec 5 (b); 1970 No 52, Second |
|Sec 10                         |Sch (am 1972 No 41, Second Sch); 1979 No 189,|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1938 No 30, sec 5 (c); 1980 No 196, Sch 1;|
|                               |1981 No 90, Sch 1; 1982 No 35, Sch 1 (1);    |
|Sec 14                         |1983 No 204, Sch 1 (1); 1984 No 169, Sch 1;  |
|                               |1985 No 89, Sch 1 (1). Subst 1987 No 139, Sch|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Ins 1983 No 204, Sch 1 (2). Subst 1987 No    |
|                               |139, Sch 1 (1). Am 1987 No 209, Sch 37 (1);  |
|Sec 14A                        |1992 No 46, Sch 1; 1995 No 11, Sch 1.137;    |
|                               |1996 No 24, Sch 1.115 [1[#93]-[6[#93]; 1996  |
|                               |No 139, Sch 2.33. Subst 1997 No 102, Sch 1 [2|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 14B                        |Ins 1987 No 139, Sch 1 (1). Subst 1997 No    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Ins 1987 No 139, Sch 1 (1). Am 1996 No 24,   |
|Sec 14C                        |Sch 1.115 [7[#93] [8[#93]. Subst 1997 No 102,|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 14D                        |Ins 1987 No 139, Sch 1 (1). Am 1987 No 209,  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 14E                        |Ins 1987 No 139, Sch 1 (1). Am 1988 No 131,  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1983 No 204, Sch 1 (3); 1987 No 139, Sch 1|
|Sec 15                         |(2); 1996 No 24, Sch 1.115 [9[#93]. Rep 1997 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 16                         |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1987 No 139, Sch 1 (3); 2003 No 4, Sch    |
|Sec 18                         |1.13; 2010 No 88, Sch 5 [1[#93]; 2015 No 48, |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Ins 1982 No 35, Sch 1 (2). Am 1987 No 139,   |
|Sec 21A                        |Sch 1 (4); 1992 No 46, Sch 1; 1996 No 24, Sch|
|                               |1.115 [10[#93] [11[#93]; 1997 No 102, Sch 1  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 22                         |Am 1938 No 30, sec 5 (e); 1981 No 123, Sch 8;|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 24                         |Am 1983 No 204, Sch 1 (4); 1987 No 139, Sch 1|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 28                         |Am 1938 No 30, sec 5 (g); 1970 No 52, Second |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1970 No 60, First Sch; 2011 No 27, Sch    |
|Sec 43                         |3.15 [1[#93] [2[#93]; 2020 No 24, Sch 1.14[2 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 43A                        |Ins 2011 No 27, Sch 3.15 [3[#93]. Am 2020 No |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1938 No 30, sec 5 (l) (ii); 1970 No 60,   |
|Sec 44                         |First Sch; 1979 No 189, Sch 1 (6); 2020 No   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1937 No 35, Second Sch; 1999 No 4, Sch    |
|Sec 45                         |2.24 [1[#93]-[3[#93]; 2010 No 19, Sch 3.116  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 45A                        |Ins 1979 No 189, Sch 1 (7). Am 2009 No 49,   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 46                         |Am 1938 No 30, sec 5 (m); 1970 No 60, First  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1942 No 26, sec 8 (1); 1970 No 60, First  |
|Sec 47                         |Sch; 1979 No 189, Sch 1 (9) (b)-(f); 2009 No |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1985 No 89, Sch 1 (2); 1996 No 24, Sch    |
|Sec 53                         |1.115 [13[#93] [14[#93]; 2006 No 58, Sch 3.19|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1938 No 30, sec 5 (o); 1996 No 24, Sch    |
|Sec 54                         |1.115 [15[#93]-[18[#93]; 2009 No 49, Sch 2.59|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 54A                        |Ins 1938 No 30, sec 5 (p). Am 1996 No 24, Sch|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 60                         |Am 1976 No 97, Sch 1; 1992 No 34, Sch 1; 1993|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 63                         |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 64                         |Am 1938 No 30, sec 5 (r); 1940 No 32, sec 11 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 67                         |Am 1983 No 28, Sch 1 (1). Subst 2003 No 53,  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 70                         |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Secs 76, 77                    |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1983 No 28, Sch 1 (2); 1992 No 29, Sch 5; |
|Sec 78                         |1999 No 42, Sch 3.17 [2[#93]; 2017 No 17, Sch|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 80                         |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 82                         |Am 1970 No 60, First Sch; 1979 No 189, Sch 1 |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Ins 1938 No 30, sec 5 (s). Am 1970 No 60,    |
|Sec 82A                        |First Sch; 1979 No 189, Sch 1 (11); 1996 No  |
|                               |100, Sch 1 [1[#93] [2[#93]; 2009 No 49, Sch  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,    |
|Sec 83                         |Second Sch); 1970 No 60, Sch 1; 1979 No 189, |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 84                         |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 85                         |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 88                         |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 89                         |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 90                         |Rep 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 91                         |Subst 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41, |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 93                         |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 94                         |Rep 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 98                         |Am 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41,    |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 101                        |Am 1937 No 35, Second Sch; 2006 No 80, Sch   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Secs 102, 104                  |Subst 1970 No 52, Second Sch (am 1972 No 41, |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|Sec 104A                       |Ins 1979 No 189, Sch 1 (13). Am 1987 No 48,  |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Ins 1997 No 102, Sch 1 [15[#93]. Am 2010 No  |
|Sch 2                          |88, Sch 5 [2[#93]; 2015 No 48, Sch 1.30 [3   |
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
|                               |Am 1999 No 31, Sch 5.110 [1[#93] (each       |
|The whole Act                  |heading that is not a Part heading, Div      |
|                               |heading, sec heading, Sch heading, cl heading|
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
